Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H5733
Vol. 166 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2020 No. 194
House of Representatives
The House met at 2 p.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. GOMEZ).
f
DESIGNATION OF THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
November 16, 2020.
I hereby appoint the Honorable JIMMY
GOMEZ to act as Speaker pro tempore on this
day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Loving and gracious God, we give
You thanks for giving us another day.
As the Members of the people’s House
regather after our quadrennial elec-
tions, may Your spirit of peace descend
upon them. As the 116th Congress
moves toward a close, may all here at-
tend to the business at hand, providing
what is needed for the benefit of our
Nation.
May all Members, regardless of the
outcome of the election, trust that
their future service, be it in the House
or not, will be imbued with Your grace.
May they be confident that Americans
of good will are grateful for their serv-
ice in the past and wish them well into
the future.
Throughout our Nation the
coronavirus continues to spread dan-
gerously. Continue to bless those who
attend to those who are suffering and
their families. We thank You for the
advances that are taking place in de-
veloping effective vaccines to address
the plague.
Bless us all this day and all days to
come. And may all that is done this
day be for Your greater honor and
glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to section 4(a) of House Resolution
967, the Journal of the last day’s pro-
ceedings is approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentlewoman from California (Ms. LEE)
come forward and lead the House in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
Ms. LEE of California led the Pledge
of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, November 12, 2020.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on No-
vember 12, 2020, at 10:22 a.m.:
That the Senate passed without amend-
ment H.R. 8247.
That the Senate passed without amend-
ment H.R. 8276.
With best wishes, I am,
Sincerely,
CHERYL L. JOHNSON,
Clerk.
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, November 12, 2020.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on No-
vember 12, 2020, at 4:46 p.m.:
That the Senate passed without amend-
ment H.R. 1773.
That the Senate passed without amend-
ment H.R. 8472.
With best wishes, I am,
Sincerely,
CHERYL L. JOHNSON,
Clerk.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM STAFF AS-
SISTANT, THE HONORABLE
NANCY PELOSI, MEMBER OF
CONGRESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from Elizabeth Beltran, Staff
Assistant, the Honorable NANCY
PELOSI, Member of Congress:
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, November 13, 2020.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: This is to notify
you formally, pursuant to Rule VIII of the
rules of the House of Representatives, that I,
Elizabeth Beltran, have been served with
subpoenas for testimony issued by the
United States District Court for the Middle
District of Florida.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:08 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.000 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5734 November 16, 2020
After consultation with the Office of Gen-
eral Counsel, I have determined that compli-
ance with the subpoenas is consistent with
the privileges and rights of the House.
Sincerely,
ELIZABETH BELTRAN,
Staff Assistant.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
SERGEANT AT ARMS
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Sergeant at Arms of
the House of Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE SERGEANT AT ARMS,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, November 13, 2020.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to section
1(b)(2) of House Resolution 965, following
consultation with the Office of Attending
Physician, I write to provide you further no-
tification that the public health emergency
due to the novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 re-
mains in effect.
Sincerely,
PAUL D. IRVING,
Sergeant at Arms.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair announces the Speaker’s further
extension, pursuant to section 1(b)(2) of
House Resolution 965, effective Novem-
ber 17, 2020, of the ‘‘covered period’’
designated on May 20, 2020.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will entertain up to 15 requests
for 1-minute speeches on each side of
the aisle.
f
HONORING PRESIDENT JERRY
RAWLINGS OF GHANA
(Ms. LEE of California asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker, I
rise in sympathy with the people of
Ghana at the passing of former Presi-
dent Jerry Rawlings. I offer my sin-
cerest condolences and prayers to his
family, friends, and loved ones.
Personally, I have known President
Rawlings and his beautiful family since
around 1994. I most recently visited
President Rawlings and his family last
year when Speaker PELOSI and Chair-
woman BASS led a Congressional dele-
gation to Ghana commemorating 400
years since the brutal institution of
slavery began in America. It was such
a wonderful meeting and visit. He re-
affirmed his commitment to strength-
en the ties between Ghanaians, the
country of Ghana, African Americans,
and the United States.
President Rawlings’ leadership con-
tributed to steady development, a tran-
sition to democracy and peaceful trans-
fer of power.
Today, Ghana is one of the strongest
democracies in Africa, a strong partner
of the United States, and a respected
actor on the world’s stage.
My deepest sympathy and love goes
out to Mrs. Rawlings, the entire
Rawlings family, to the citizens of
Ghana, and the entire continent of my
motherland of Africa. We stand in soli-
darity as the people of Ghana continue
building a stronger and more inclusive
and prosperous country. May President
Rawlings’ soul rest in peace.
f
THE PROMISE OF AMERICAN
INNOVATION
(Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today to showcase the
promise of American innovation. Just
this morning, Moderna announced that
its COVID–19 vaccine is nearly 95 per-
cent effective. Last week, Pfizer re-
ported that its coronavirus vaccine is
more than 90 percent effective.
Today, less than a year after the
coronavirus reached our shores, this is
an incredible achievement. It is a tes-
tament to the excellence of American
scientists and researchers.
Thanks to these heroes and to the
historic private-public partnership
spurred by Operation Warp Speed, our
Nation is positioned to distribute a
safe and effective vaccine more effi-
ciently than any other country in the
world.
Now more than ever, as cases of
COVID–19 rise across our Nation, we
must stand firm against this invisible
enemy. And thanks to American inno-
vation, there is hope on the horizon.
f
HONORING SCIENTISTS AND
RESEARCHERS
(Mr. SCHNEIDER asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to thank the frontline heroes, es-
pecially our healthcare workers who
are working tirelessly under unbear-
able stresses to save lives.
I thank the researchers and sci-
entists who are developing COVID vac-
cines. But I also want to plead with my
fellow citizens to act responsibly to
protect each other in this battle
against a deadly virus.
Today, Moderna announced remark-
able results for a second vaccine on the
heels of Pfizer’s recent announcement.
There is light at the end of the tun-
nel, but the tunnel is long, and the
road back is still many months away.
We can’t afford to let our guard down
or millions of Americans will get sick
and thousands, tens of thousands of our
fellow citizens, our neighbors, and our
family members will needlessly die.
As I speak, America’s hospitals, espe-
cially in rural and underserved commu-
nities, are at capacity. They are air-
lifting patients to bigger cities. We
have reports of growing shortfalls of
medical supplies and staff. Our front-
line healthcare workers desperately
need our help.
As we enter the holiday season, I am
begging Americans to stay vigilant.
Wear a mask, watch your distance, and
wash your hands. If you must gather,
do so outside, even though it is cold. I
know that you want to see your fami-
lies. I want to see mine. I know that
the sacrifice will not be easy, but I also
know that there is pain.
We can do this. We can beat back this
virus, but only if we do it together. If
we don’t people will die, and God forbid
you or your loved one is the last to die
before a vaccine.
f
DO NOT UNDERESTIMATE
REPUBLICAN WOMEN
(Ms. FOXX of North Carolina asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, the mainstream media will
never acknowledge that 2020 is the year
of the Republican women.
They wrote us off on countless occa-
sions, and yet, we proved them wrong
time and time again.
Across the country, the American
people made their voices heard in vot-
ing booths, and they chose numerous
Republican women candidates to be
their voice in Washington.
To conservative women who aspire
for public office, people will work to
discredit you, they will claim your pri-
orities are misplaced, and they will do
everything they can to undermine your
hard work.
But what they won’t acknowledge is
that you represent the best of the val-
ues of the American people. That is
what truly matters.
f
COMMEMORATING THE FALL OF
THE BERLIN WALL
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today as co-chair of
the bipartisan German-American Cau-
cus to commemorate the fall of the
Berlin Wall.
Last week, November 9, marked 31
years since the Iron Curtain fell and
the Cold War began to crumble.
For nearly three decades, the Berlin
Wall stood as a growing reminder of
the evils of communism and the ongo-
ing threat of the Cold War.
In 1987, President Ronald Reagan fa-
mously shouted, ‘‘Mr. Gorbachev, tear
down this wall.’’ Two years later, the
wall finally came down. East and West
Berliners celebrated together at Bran-
denburg Gate.
The following year, on October 3,
1990, East and West Germany reunited
as one.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:08 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.004 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5735
November 16, 2020
This historic moment was the begin-
ning of the end for the Cold War, and
today we are still celebrating this
iconic moment in world history as an
international symbol of freedom.
I join our German friends in cele-
brating this milestone and would like
to remind all of us that freedom is al-
ways worth fighting for.
f
CONGRATULATING RAQUEL
SALTER
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to congratulate Raquel
Salter for being selected for promotion
from lieutenant commander to com-
mander in the U.S. Coast Guard Re-
serves.
Commander Salter is a 29-year vet-
eran of the U.S. Coast Guard and
served about one-third of her time in
Georgia’s First Congressional District.
Throughout her service, she has al-
ways gone above and beyond to self-
lessly defend our Nation and advocate
for the Coast Guard, especially service-
women.
Over her 29 years of service, Com-
mander Salter has been activated to
Key West for the Cuban Raft Crisis, to
Savannah to assist with the Olympic
sailing security, to Charleston for Op-
eration Iraqi Freedom, and to Savan-
nah again for 9/11 and to help assist
with the G8 summit security.
This year, Commander Salter was
chosen as part of a select group to help
with COVID–19 response in Miami. I
can’t thank her enough for her stead-
fast commitment to serving our coun-
try and countless Americans, and I
wish her the best in her new position.
f
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE HAVE A
RIGHT TO KNOW
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, many
in the media or in opposition are call-
ing for President Trump to concede,
but just as many are supporting his
pursuit of legitimate legal challenges.
A lack of transparency in the moni-
toring and vote counting process has
raised flags for many Americans, and if
left unchecked, will undermine the
faith in our electoral process, an im-
portant integrity to all Americans.
The President’s team has hundreds of
sworn affidavits from election workers,
postal employees, and election observ-
ers everywhere about questionable ac-
tivities in key States.
These workers do not have built-in
safety guarantees like members of the
Washington swamp. They are regular
Americans putting their livelihoods on
the line to speak up and protect our
elections.
After 4 years of scare tactics, of fake
impeachment, fraudulent dossiers, and
Russia witch hunts, the American peo-
ple have a right to know that every
legal vote has been counted and all il-
legal votes removed. Americans must
have all questions surrounding the out-
come of this election answered before
we can move forward so we do have
election integrity that we can count
on.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 4 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 2 o’clock and 14 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1600
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. KENNEDY) at 4 p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which the yeas and nays are or-
dered.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
LUMBEE TRIBE OF NORTH
CAROLINA RECOGNITION ACT
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 1964) to provide for the recogni-
tion of the Lumbee Tribe of North
Carolina, and for other purposes, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1964
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Lumbee
Tribe of North Carolina Recognition Act’’.
SEC. 2. FEDERAL RECOGNITION.
The Act of June 7, 1956 (70 Stat. 254, chap-
ter 375), is amended—
(1) by striking section 2;
(2) in the first sentence of the first section,
by striking ‘‘That the Indians’’ and inserting
the following:
‘‘SEC. 3. DESIGNATION OF LUMBEE INDIANS.
‘‘The Indians’’;
(3) in the preamble—
(A) by inserting before the first undesig-
nated clause the following:
‘‘SECTION 1. FINDINGS.
‘‘Congress finds that—’’;
(B) by designating the undesignated
clauses as paragraphs (1) through (4), respec-
tively, and indenting appropriately;
(C) by striking ‘‘Whereas’’ each place it ap-
pears;
(D) by striking ‘‘and’’ after the semicolon
at the end of each of paragraphs (1) and (2)
(as so designated); and
(E) in paragraph (4) (as so designated), by
striking ‘‘: Now, therefore,’’ and inserting a
period;
(4) by moving the enacting clause so as to
appear before section 1 (as so designated);
(5) by striking the last sentence of section
3 (as designated by paragraph (2));
(6) by inserting before section 3 (as des-
ignated by paragraph (2)) the following:
‘‘SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
‘‘In this Act:
‘‘(1) SECRETARY.—The term ‘Secretary’
means the Secretary of the Interior.
‘‘(2) TRIBE.—The term ‘Tribe’ means the
Lumbee Tribe of North Carolina or the
Lumbee Indians of North Carolina.’’; and
(7) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 4. FEDERAL RECOGNITION.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Federal recognition is
extended to the Tribe (as designated as peti-
tioner number 65 by the Office of Federal Ac-
knowledgment).
‘‘(b) APPLICABILITY OF LAWS.—All laws and
regulations of the United States of general
application to Indians and Indian tribes shall
apply to the Tribe and its members.
‘‘(c) PETITION FOR ACKNOWLEDGMENT.—Not-
withstanding section 3, any group of Indians
in Robeson and adjoining counties, North
Carolina, whose members are not enrolled in
the Tribe (as determined under section 5(d))
may petition under part 83 of title 25 of the
Code of Federal Regulations for acknowledg-
ment of tribal existence.
‘‘SEC. 5. ELIGIBILITY FOR FEDERAL SERVICES.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Tribe and its mem-
bers shall be eligible for all services and ben-
efits provided by the Federal Government to
federally recognized Indian tribes.
‘‘(b) SERVICE AREA.—For the purpose of the
delivery of Federal services and benefits de-
scribed in subsection (a), those members of
the Tribe residing in Robeson, Cumberland,
Hoke, and Scotland counties in North Caro-
lina shall be deemed to be residing on or near
an Indian reservation.
‘‘(c) DETERMINATION OF NEEDS.—On
verification by the Secretary of a tribal roll
under subsection (d), the Secretary and the
Secretary of Health and Human Services
shall—
‘‘(1) develop, in consultation with the
Tribe, a determination of needs to provide
the services for which members of the Tribe
are eligible; and
‘‘(2) after the tribal roll is verified, each
submit to Congress a written statement of
those needs.
‘‘(d) TRIBAL ROLL.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—For purpose of the deliv-
ery of Federal services and benefits described
in subsection (a), the tribal roll in effect on
the date of enactment of this section shall,
subject to verification by the Secretary, de-
fine the service population of the Tribe.
‘‘(2) VERIFICATION LIMITATION AND DEAD-
LINE.—The verification by the Secretary
under paragraph (1) shall—
‘‘(A) be limited to confirming documentary
proof of compliance with the membership
criteria set out in the constitution of the
Tribe adopted on November 16, 2001; and
‘‘(B) be completed not later than 2 years
after the submission of a digitized roll with
supporting documentary proof by the Tribe
to the Secretary.
‘‘SEC. 6. AUTHORIZATION TO TAKE LAND INTO
TRUST.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, the Secretary is here-
by authorized to take land into trust for the
benefit of the Tribe.
‘‘(b) TREATMENT OF CERTAIN LAND.—An ap-
plication to take into trust land located
within Robeson County, North Carolina,
under this section shall be treated by the
Secretary as an ‘on reservation’ trust acqui-
sition under part 151 of title 25, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations (or a successor regulation).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:08 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16NO7.007 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5736 November 16, 2020
‘‘SEC. 7. JURISDICTION OF STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—With respect to land lo-
cated within the State of North Carolina
that is owned by, or held in trust by the
United States for the benefit of, the Tribe, or
any dependent Indian community of the
Tribe, the State of North Carolina shall exer-
cise jurisdiction over—
‘‘(1) all criminal offenses that are com-
mitted; and
‘‘(2) all civil actions that arise.
‘‘(b) TRANSFER OF JURISDICTION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
the Secretary may accept on behalf of the
United States, after consulting with the At-
torney General of the United States, any
transfer by the State of North Carolina to
the United States of any portion of the juris-
diction of the State of North Carolina de-
scribed in subsection (a) over Indian country
occupied by the Tribe pursuant to an agree-
ment between the Tribe and the State of
North Carolina.
‘‘(2) RESTRICTION.—A transfer of jurisdic-
tion described in paragraph (1) may not take
effect until 2 years after the effective date of
the agreement described in that paragraph.
‘‘(c) EFFECT.—Nothing in this section af-
fects the application of section 109 of the In-
dian Child Welfare Act of 1978 (25 U.S.C.
1919).
‘‘SEC. 8. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
‘‘There are authorized to be appropriated
such sums as are necessary to carry out this
Act.
‘‘SEC. 9. SHORT TITLE.
‘‘This Act may be cited as the ‘Lumbee
Tribe of North Carolina Recognition Act’.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. HUFFMAN) and the gen-
tleman from Utah (Mr. BISHOP) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days to revise
and extend their remarks and include
extraneous material on the measure
under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
H.R. 1964, the Lumbee Recognition
Act, introduced by our colleague from
North Carolina, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, will
finally extend recognition to the
Lumbee Tribe of North Carolina.
The Lumbee Tribe resides primarily
in Robeson, Hoke, Cumberland, and
Scotland Counties of that State and
has approximately 60,000 members.
That means it is the largest Tribe in
North Carolina, the largest Tribe east
of the Mississippi River, and the ninth
largest Tribe in America.
In 1885, this Tribe was recognized by
the State of North Carolina. It then
sought Federal recognition from the
United States in 1889, and they have
been seeking that recognition ever
since.
Over the past 130 years, numerous
bills have been introduced in Congress
to federally recognize the Lumbee peo-
ple, resulting in a record of hearing
transcripts and committee reports. In
addition, numerous academic studies
have been undertaken on Lumbee an-
cestry, and reports have been requested
and filed by the Department of the In-
terior on the Tribe’s validity.
All of these documents consistently
conclude one thing: The Lumbee people
are indeed a distinct, self-governing In-
dian community that has been continu-
ously and undeniably present in the
Robeson County area.
In 1955, the Lumbee Tribe sought
Federal recognition. Unfortunately,
this was during the era known as the
termination era, when the United
States sought to terminate relation-
ships with Tribal governments and
force the assimilation of indigenous
people into mainstream American soci-
ety.
To that end, the Department of the
Interior recommended that Congress
amend the legislation to deny eligi-
bility for the benefits and services
available to the Tribe recognized under
the bill.
Congress then enacted this amended
legislation in 1956, giving it the dubi-
ous effect of simultaneously federally
recognizing the Lumbee Tribe and then
effectively terminating that recogni-
tion.
In 1987, the Lumbee Tribe again at-
tempted to restore their Federal rec-
ognition, this time through the newly
created Federal acknowledgment proc-
ess at Interior. However, the Depart-
ment determined that the Tribe was in-
eligible to participate in that process
because Congress, pursuant to that 1956
act, had terminated the relationship
with the Tribe and, therefore, only
Congress could restore the relation-
ship. That is exactly what enactment
of this bill will accomplish.
Federal recognition is the formal es-
tablishment of a government-to-gov-
ernment relationship between the
United States and a Tribal nation. Its
importance to Tribes cannot be over-
stated.
Federal recognition allows a Tribe to
establish a homeland and to put land
into trust to protect future genera-
tions. This, in turn, allows the Tribe to
manage its own resources and gives
them control over local jurisdiction
and taxation issues.
Recognition also entitles Tribal peo-
ple to distinctive benefits, including
eligibility to participate in many Fed-
eral programs, including healthcare
and education.
That is why enactment of this bill is
so vital to the Lumbee people and why
they have been seeking Federal rec-
ognition for so very long.
Other Tribes that were terminated by
congressional action have come before
Congress, and they have had their rela-
tionship reestablished through legisla-
tion. It is finally time that we act on
that prerogative and extend Federal
recognition to the Lumbee Tribe.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative
BUTTERFIELD for being a champion of
this bipartisan legislation, and I urge
its quick adoption.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I
yield such time as he may consume to
the gentleman from North Carolina
(Mr. BISHOP), who has the proper last
name, if not the correct first name.
Mr. BISHOP of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the ranking member
for yielding.
Since 1885, the State of North Caro-
lina has recognized the Lumbee Indians
of North Carolina, but today marks the
first time in U.S. history since the
Lumbee first sought Federal recogni-
tion in 1885 that legislation for full and
bona fide recognition will pass the U.S.
House while a companion bill awaits
action in the U.S. Senate strongly fa-
vored by two North Carolina Senators
and with the President of the United
States having promised to sign the leg-
islation that will result.
For 64 years, the 66,000-strong
Lumbee have existed in a kind of offi-
cial limbo that reflects the worst of
our Federal Government.
In 1956, Congress passed a law simul-
taneously granting recognition of the
Tribe and terminating it, according to
the movement of that era. ‘‘Nothing in
this Act,’’ said the legislation, ‘‘shall
make such Indians eligible for any
services performed by the United
States for Indians because of their sta-
tus as Indians, and none of the statutes
of the United States which affect Indi-
ans because of their status as Indians
shall be applicable to the Lumbee Indi-
ans.’’
One wonders if they had heard about
equal protection.
For the opponents of Lumbee rec-
ognition, including other Tribes, it has
always been about the money. Of
course, there have been fellow travelers
motivated by racial prejudice or ne-
glect.
It cannot be disputed, though, that
the Lumbee have been, for three cen-
turies, a cohesive and distinct commu-
nity of aboriginal origins and durable
institutions, especially schools, living
near the Lumber River, which was
known until 1809 by the unfortunate
but accurate name Drowning Creek.
Although the Lumbee have also been
known by other names—the Croatan,
the Cheraw of Robeson, the Siouan In-
dian Community of Lumber River—
they are the continuously present and
vital people shown on a map drawn in
1725 whose common modern surnames
appear on a document written in 1771,
such as Locklear, Chavis, Dees, Sweat,
and Groom. They are the Lumbee who
were living in Long Swamp in the
1730s, the community now known as
Prospect, where I visited just weeks
ago.
My maternal forebears were Kinlaws
in Bladen County, adjacent to Robeson.
We also trace a genealogy to the early
1700s, and our family name evolved,
like the Lumbee’s did. We were once
McKinlaws and, before that,
McKinlochs, desperately poor but inde-
pendent Scots-Irish from the border-
lands of the English Civil Wars.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:08 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.007 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5737
November 16, 2020
I can only imagine what it would
mean to me to have been singled out by
the United States Government for cen-
turies of official disregard and denial of
my very identity. That is the long-
standing injustice that we are cor-
recting today, and the happy ending is
already being written by the Lumbee
themselves.
I know the Lumbee. I know the War-
rior’s Ball and Lumbee Homecoming,
UNC-Pembroke and Old Main, the
Lumbee Cultural Center and even the
Cozy Corner.
The Lumbee are supremely patriotic
Americans, God-fearing and washed in
the blood, devoted to the liberating
cause of education and to civic involve-
ment, proud of their community, lov-
ing and welcoming to strangers.
They are the best of America, and
the only honorable course for the
United States Congress is to accord
them their due recognition at long
last.
Mr. Speaker, I give my thanks to
Representatives BUTTERFIELD, HUDSON,
and GRIJALVA, and to Ranking Member
ROB BISHOP, staunch supporters of the
Lumbee’s pursuit of justice, and also to
President Trump. When I had the right
moment to bring this to the Presi-
dent’s attention, in characteristic
practice, he made no promises other
than to give it a close look. When he
decided to throw his support behind
recognition, he did it all the way, in-
cluding traveling to Lumberton to tell
the Lumbee himself.
Today is a gratifying capstone for my
first partial term in the U.S. House.
Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to
unanimously pass the Lumbee Recogni-
tion Act.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
such time as he may consume to the
gentleman from North Carolina (Mr.
BUTTERFIELD).
Mr. BUTTERFIELD. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman very much for
yielding time this afternoon.
I rise, Mr. Speaker, in strong support
of H.R. 1964, the Lumbee Recognition
Act, and I urge my colleagues to vote
for its passage.
Mr. Speaker, let me just take a mo-
ment to thank the chairman of the
committee—he is not here today—Mr.
GRIJALVA. I thank him so very much
for his friendship and for his leadership
on this issue. I thank Mr. HUFFMAN for
managing the floor today and recog-
nizing me for just a few moments. And
to the ranking member, Mr. BISHOP
from Utah, I thank him so very much.
He is the ranking member of the com-
mittee, and I thank him for his leader-
ship as well.
Mr. Speaker, I particularly want to
thank Mr. HUDSON—I don’t see Mr.
HUDSON on the floor, but I know he is
very close by—and my friend, Mr.
BISHOP from North Carolina. I thank
both of them for their unwavering sup-
port for this legislation.
I might say that Robeson County—
someone mentioned ‘‘Robeson County’’
a few moments ago; it is actually
‘‘Robeson County’’—is a part of Mr.
BISHOP’s Ninth Congressional District.
This bill, Mr. Speaker, will finally
extend full Federal recognition to the
Lumbee Tribe of North Carolina, mak-
ing its members eligible for the same
services and benefits provided to mem-
bers of other federally recognized
Tribes. Most importantly, the bill will
establish once and for all the Lumbee
Tribe as an independent and sovereign
entity under Federal law.
North Carolina, as Mr. BISHOP, I be-
lieve, or Mr. HUFFMAN mentioned a mo-
ment ago, has recognized the Lumbee
Tribe since 1885. This body even recog-
nized the Lumbees in the 1950s, but
during the dark days of the termi-
nation era, they refused to allow the
Lumbee Tribe access to federally fund-
ed services and benefits.
Almost all the Tribes that were ter-
minated in this troubling era have
since been restored to Federal recogni-
tion. We are long overdue in delivering
the same justice to the Lumbee Tribe.
This legislation, Mr. Speaker, has
tremendous bipartisan support, as you
can see today, tremendous bipartisan
support that has only accelerated over
the past few months.
At the end of September, under
Chairman GRIJALVA’s leadership, the
Natural Resources Committee passed
this bill by a voice vote. It was non-
controversial. Shortly thereafter,
Democratic Leader STENY HOYER an-
nounced his support for full Federal
recognition for the Lumbee Nation and
his intention to bring the bill to the
floor.
Mr. HOYER told me, and he told
Chairman Godwin in a telephone call a
few weeks ago, that he would bring this
bill, H.R. 1964, to the floor on Novem-
ber 16. Today is November 16.
b 1615
During the Presidential campaign,
Joe Biden gave his unconditional sup-
port to this legislation, and President
Trump, as Mr. BISHOP said, did so as
well.
Now is the time for the House to get
this done. When this legislation passes,
it is my fervent hope that our Senate
colleagues from both parties will sup-
port passage and send it to the Presi-
dent’s desk for his immediate signa-
ture.
In closing, Mr. Speaker, let me re-
mind the House that this legislation
has been before this body many times
over the years since I have been in Con-
gress. I recall Democratic Congressman
Mike McIntyre repeatedly introducing
this legislation. In the 110th and the
111th Congress, the House passed this
legislation, but it never ever saw the
light in the other body.
It appears that the legislation now
has the support of Senators BURR and
TILLIS. I am not suggesting that they
didn’t support it previously. It was an-
other time and another Congress, but
it appears that the legislation has the
support of Senator BURR and Senator
TILLIS and it should be favorably con-
sidered in the Senate.
Therefore, I respectfully ask my col-
leagues to extend a hand of friendship
to the 66,000 members of the Lumbee
Nation and grant them their long over-
due full Federal recognition.
Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to
vote ‘‘aye’’ on H.R. 1964.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I in-
clude in the RECORD an email from the
CBO. While we do not have an official
CBO score, we do have this email today
confirming that the bill will not affect
direct spending or revenues.
From: Jon Sperl
Sent: Monday, November 16, 2020 12:06 PM
To: Lim, Sarah
Cc: Urbina, Luis
Subject: RE: HR 1964 (Lumbee Recognition)
MORNING SARAH: My manager has informed
me that she won’t be able to get to the
Lumbee bill today.
For your purposes: HR 1964 would increase
discretionary spending. The legislation
would not affect direct spending or revenues.
Cheers,
JON.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, this longstanding issue
has been one that has been before
many Congresses, so I appreciate Mr.
BUTTERFIELD for his efforts and Mr.
BISHOP—both of them North Carolina
Representatives—for bringing their
State together and coming up with a
cooperative way of doing it.
The issue with the Lumbees goes
back to 1956, as has been mentioned,
but also had, starting in 1988 and 1989
and finishing in the last administra-
tion, conflicting opinions from solici-
tors of the Interior Department that
have caused this problem regarding the
Lumbee Tribe on what they may or
may not pursue as far as administra-
tive recognition or other issues that
are dealt with.
So the proper way when there are
conflicting opinions, especially coming
from the executive branch, is for Con-
gress to stand up and do its responsi-
bility and its duty, and that is what
H.R. 1964—which was a wonderful year
for me; I remember it very well—does
is allow Congress to do its responsi-
bility by taking these conflicting opin-
ions and stating what is the purpose
and intent of Congress. This is the
right way of doing things.
Far too often have we tried to use ad-
ministrative shortcuts when, in es-
sence, we find out that it produces
long-term problems for us. So I com-
mend Representative BISHOP from
North Carolina, not only for a great
name, but also for the fact that he is
representing his constituency ex-
tremely well, and he is doing it in the
proper way in bringing a piece of legis-
lation to us through markup.
I appreciate, also, the letter that was
mentioned by Mr. HUFFMAN as well, be-
cause it is significant. One of the
things the majority party still has to
do is make sure there is a CBO score
attached to this bill, perhaps, before it
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:08 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16NO7.011 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5738 November 16, 2020
goes all the way through, but we have
overlooked those in the past. We don’t
need to necessarily overlook them in
the future going through there.
But I appreciate what the gentlemen
are doing with this process. It is a posi-
tive thing, and I urge all of the Mem-
bers who are here or who are not here
to pass this one in the affirmative be-
cause it is something that needs to be
done. I applaud those who have worked
so hard to get unity within the delega-
tion from North Carolina and move for-
ward with it.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I re-
quest an ‘‘aye’’ vote, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
HUFFMAN) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1964, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
PROPER AND REIMBURSED CARE
FOR NATIVE VETERANS ACT
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 6237) to amend the Indian Health
Care Improvement Act to clarify the
requirement of the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs and the Department of
Defense to reimburse the Indian Health
Service for certain health care serv-
ices, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 6237
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Proper and
Reimbursed Care for Native Veterans Act’’
or the ‘‘PRC for Native Veterans Act’’.
SEC. 2. CLARIFICATION OF REQUIREMENT OF DE-
PARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
AND DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TO
REIMBURSE INDIAN HEALTH SERV-
ICE FOR CERTAIN HEALTH CARE
SERVICES.
Section 405(c) of the Indian Health Care
Improvement Act (25 U.S.C. 1645) is amended
by inserting before the period at the end the
following: ‘‘, regardless of whether such serv-
ices are provided directly by the Service, an
Indian tribe, or tribal organization, through
purchased/referred care, or through a con-
tract for travel described in section 213(b)’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. HUFFMAN) and the gen-
tleman from Utah (Mr. BISHOP) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and to
include any extraneous material on the
measure under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, the bill before us, H.R.
6237, is the PRC for Native Veterans
Act, introduced by our colleague from
Arizona, Representative GALLEGO. This
bill will ensure that Native veterans
can access high-quality healthcare re-
gardless of the system where they
choose to seek it.
Providing for the healthcare of our
veterans should be one of our top prior-
ities, including the care of approxi-
mately 150,000 Native veterans who
have served our country.
By law, a Native veteran is eligible
to receive services under both the VA
and Indian Health Service. They can
choose which one of those to use at any
given time.
In instances where a Native veteran
is eligible for a particular healthcare
service from both the VA and IHS, the
VA is considered the primary payer. As
such, the VA reimburses IHS and Trib-
al facilities for any direct care they
provide.
Here is the problem that sometimes
arises: It is with the Purchased/Re-
ferred Care Program, known as PRC.
IHS and Tribal facilities are not always
able to directly provide all of the nec-
essary health services a Tribal member
may need, and in order to bridge that
gap, the PRC program was created. It
authorizes the purchase of services
from a network of private providers
when care is not available at IHS or
Tribal facilities.
During the permanent reauthoriza-
tion of the Indian Health Care Im-
provement Act, Congress amended sec-
tion 405(c) of that law to require the
VA to reimburse IHS and Tribes for
health services provided under that
PRC program.
But the VA now claims that this lan-
guage does not statutorily require
them to reimburse specialty and refer-
ral services through IHS or Tribal fa-
cilities. The VA, instead, insists that
the referral must come from them.
That creates problems. It means that
the Native veterans who arrive at IHS
or Tribal facilities needing specialty
care are often forced to travel extreme
distances to the nearest VA just to get
a redundant primary care visit and a
referral.
These extra steps cause significant
hardship for many Native veterans and
can delay critical care. The result is
that many IHS and Tribal facilities are
referring Native veterans out for spe-
cialty care and then just paying for it
themselves with their already meager
PRC fund so that the patient can be
treated in a timely and competent
manner.
This bill clarifies that the VA is re-
sponsible for reimbursing IHS and
Tribes for any specialty care provided
through a referral by an IHS or Tribal
facility.
I think we can all agree our Native
veterans should have timely access to
the quality of care they need no matter
where they choose to access it.
I want to thank Representative
GALLEGO for championing this bipar-
tisan legislation on behalf of all Native
veterans, and I urge its quick adoption.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I, too, wish to support
H.R. 6237, which is officially the Proper
and Reimbursed Care for Native Ameri-
cans Act. Over the last century, Native
Americans have served in the U.S.
armed services at a higher per capita
rate than any other ethnicity, and with
Veterans Day occurring last week at
the same time as the opening of the
Native American Veterans Memorial, I
thank those who have served and con-
tinue to serve in this capacity.
Under current law, the Department
of Veterans Affairs or the Department
of Defense reimburses the Indian
Health Services for any health-related
services provided to Native Americans.
Unfortunately, not all Indian Health
Services or Tribally operated facilities
can provide every level of care, and
some patients must be referred. For
these situations, the VA or the DOD
cannot reimburse the Indian Health
Service or Tribal facility for certain
services.
H.R. 6237 would amend the Indian
Health Care Improvement Act to fix
this problem and ensure that the Vet-
erans Administration or the Depart-
ment of Defense has authority to pay
for the care Native veterans receive re-
gardless of where those services are
provided.
So I have to thank subcommittee
Chairman GALLEGO, who is, himself, a
marine veteran, for his service and en-
suring that Native Americans receive
proper care.
I urge adoption of this measure, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I re-
quest an ‘‘aye’’ vote, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
HUFFMAN) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 6237, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
WOUNDED VETERANS RECREATION
ACT
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(S. 327) to amend the Federal Lands
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:08 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16NO7.013 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5739
November 16, 2020
Recreation Enhancement Act to pro-
vide for a lifetime National Rec-
reational Pass for any veteran with a
service-connected disability.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
S. 327
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Wounded
Veterans Recreation Act’’.
SEC. 2. NATIONAL RECREATIONAL PASSES FOR
DISABLED VETERANS.
Section 805(b) of the Federal Lands Recre-
ation Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 6804(b)) is
amended by striking paragraph (2) and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(2) DISABILITY DISCOUNT.—The Secretary
shall make the National Parks and Federal
Recreational Lands Pass available, without
charge and for the lifetime of the passholder,
to the following:
‘‘(A) Any United States citizen or person
domiciled in the United States who has been
medically determined to be permanently dis-
abled, within the meaning of the term ‘dis-
ability’ under section 3 of the Americans
with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12102),
if the citizen or person provides adequate
proof of the disability and such citizenship
or residency.
‘‘(B) Any veteran who has been found to
have a service-connected disability under
title 38, United States Code.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. HUFFMAN) and the gen-
tleman from Utah (Mr. BISHOP) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and to
include any extraneous material on the
measure under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I am proud to support
this bill to provide wounded veterans
with free access to our national parks
and our public lands. This clearly is a
bipartisan priority, and thanks to the
leadership and hard work of my col-
league, Senator SHAHEEN from New
Hampshire, it cleared the Senate with
unanimous support.
I also know that my good friend,
RAUL RUIZ from California, the House
sponsor of the bill, worked very hard
and cares very deeply about the impact
this bill will have on the veteran com-
munity.
The Department of the Interior and
the Forest Service currently waive fees
for all disabled Americans, and this bill
will make this a permanent and stand-
ard feature for all veterans with a serv-
ice-related disability, ensuring that
there are no barriers to access to the
lands and waters these brave Ameri-
cans have sacrificed so much to pro-
tect.
Sending this bill to the White House
for the President’s signature less than
a week after Veterans Day is also fit-
ting. It is a meaningful action that will
impact the lives of wounded veterans
and recognize their important con-
tribution and sacrifice. In the Natural
Resources Committee, we have heard
numerous stories about the healing and
restorative powers of our public lands
for countless veterans.
Again, I want to thank the sponsors
of this legislation for their attention to
this issue. I strongly urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, this bill, S. 327, requires
the Department of the Interior and the
Department of Agriculture to make
available, free of charge, a lifetime na-
tional parks and Federal recreation
land pass to any veteran who has been
found to have service-connected dis-
abilities.
This builds upon the Secretary of the
Interior’s, Mr. Bernhardt’s, recent Sec-
retarial order which provided free park
and public land passes to all U.S. vet-
erans and Gold Star families. Providing
free access to our Nation’s veterans
connects them to the treasured lands
that they fought to protect.
Each year thousands of veterans will
benefit by recreating on these public
lands, and providing a park pass is a
small token of gratitude to our Na-
tion’s cherished servicemen and
-women. So I urge adoption of this
measure, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
b 1630
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
HUFFMAN) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, S. 327.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, on that
I demand the yeas and nays.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to section 3 of House Resolution
965, the yeas and nays are ordered.
Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, fur-
ther proceedings on this motion will be
postponed.
f
DIGITAL COAST ACT
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(S. 1069) to require the Secretary of
Commerce, acting through the Admin-
istrator of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration, to estab-
lish a constituent-driven program to
provide a digital information platform
capable of efficiently integrating
coastal data with decision-support
tools, training, and best practices and
to support collection of priority coast-
al geospatial data to inform and im-
prove local, State, regional, and Fed-
eral capacities to manage the coastal
region, and for other purposes, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
S. 1069
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Digital
Coast Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress makes the following findings:
(1) The Digital Coast is a model approach
for effective Federal partnerships with State
and local government, nongovernmental or-
ganizations, and the private sector.
(2) Access to current, accurate, uniform,
and standards-based geospatial information,
tools, and training to characterize the
United States coastal region is critical for
public safety and for the environment, infra-
structure, and economy of the United States.
(3) More than half of all people of the
United States (153,000,000) currently live on
or near a coast and an additional 12,000,000
are expected in the next decade.
(4) Coastal counties in the United States
average 300 persons per square mile, com-
pared with the national average of 98.
(5) On a typical day, more than 1,540 per-
mits for construction of single-family homes
are issued in coastal counties, combined with
other commercial, retail, and institutional
construction to support this population.
(6) Over half of the economic productivity
of the United States is located within coast-
al regions.
(7) Highly accurate, high-resolution remote
sensing and other geospatial data play an in-
creasingly important role in decision mak-
ing and management of the coastal zone and
economy, including for—
(A) flood and coastal storm surge pre-
diction;
(B) hazard risk and vulnerability assess-
ment;
(C) emergency response and recovery plan-
ning;
(D) community resilience to longer range
coastal change;
(E) local planning and permitting;
(F) habitat and ecosystem health assess-
ments; and
(G) landscape change detection.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) COASTAL REGION.—The term ‘‘coastal re-
gion’’ means the area of United States
waters extending inland from the shoreline
to include coastal watersheds and seaward to
the territorial sea.
(2) COASTAL STATE.—The term ‘‘coastal
State’’ has the meaning given the term
‘‘coastal state’’ in section 304 of the Coastal
Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C.
1453).
(3) FEDERAL GEOGRAPHIC DATA COM-
MITTEE.—The term ‘‘Federal Geographic
Data Committee’’ means the interagency
committee that promotes the coordinated
development, use, sharing, and dissemina-
tion of geospatial data on a national basis.
(4) REMOTE SENSING AND OTHER
GEOSPATIAL.—The term ‘‘remote sensing and
other geospatial’’ means collecting, storing,
retrieving, or disseminating graphical or dig-
ital data depicting natural or manmade
physical features, phenomena, or boundaries
of the Earth and any information related
thereto, including surveys, maps, charts, sat-
ellite and airborne remote sensing data, im-
ages, LiDAR, and services performed by pro-
fessionals such as surveyors,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:08 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16NO7.016 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5740 November 16, 2020
photogrammetrists, hydrographers, geode-
sists, cartographers, and other such services.
(5) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Commerce, acting
through the Administrator of the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
SEC. 4. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DIGITAL COAST.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall estab-
lish a program for the provision of an ena-
bling platform that integrates geospatial
data, decision-support tools, training, and
best practices to address coastal manage-
ment issues and needs. Under the program,
the Secretary shall strive to enhance resil-
ient communities, ecosystem values, and
coastal economic growth and development
by helping communities address their issues,
needs, and challenges through cost-effective
and participatory solutions.
(2) DESIGNATION.—The program established
under paragraph (1) shall be known as the
‘‘Digital Coast’’ (in this section referred to
as the ‘‘program’’).
(b) PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS.—In carrying
out the program, the Secretary shall ensure
that the program provides data integration,
tool development, training, documentation,
dissemination, and archive by—
(1) making data and resulting integrated
products developed under this section read-
ily accessible via the Digital Coast internet
website of the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration, the GeoPlatform.gov
and data.gov internet websites, and such
other information distribution technologies
as the Secretary considers appropriate;
(2) developing decision-support tools that
use and display resulting integrated data and
provide training on use of such tools;
(3) documenting such data to Federal Geo-
graphic Data Committee standards; and
(4) archiving all raw data acquired under
this Act at the appropriate National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration data center
or such other Federal data center as the Sec-
retary considers appropriate.
(c) COORDINATION.—The Secretary shall co-
ordinate the activities carried out under the
program to optimize data collection, shar-
ing, and integration, and to minimize dupli-
cation by—
(1) consulting with coastal managers and
decision makers concerning coastal issues,
and sharing information and best practices,
as the Secretary considers appropriate,
with—
(A) coastal States;
(B) local governments; and
(C) representatives of academia, the pri-
vate sector, and nongovernmental organiza-
tions;
(2) consulting with other Federal agencies,
including interagency committees, on rel-
evant Federal activities, including activities
carried out under the Ocean and Coastal
Mapping Integration Act (33 U.S.C. 3501 et
seq.), the Coastal Zone Management Act of
1972 (16 U.S.C. 1451 et seq.), the Integrated
Coastal and Ocean Observation System Act
of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3601 et seq.), and the Hydro-
graphic Services Improvement Act of 1998 (33
U.S.C. 892 et seq.);
(3) participating, pursuant to section 216 of
the E-Government Act of 2002 (Public Law
107–347; 44 U.S.C. 3501 note), in the establish-
ment of such standards and common proto-
cols as the Secretary considers necessary to
assure the interoperability of remote sensing
and other geospatial data with all users of
such information within—
(A) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration;
(B) other Federal agencies;
(C) State and local government; and
(D) the private sector;
(4) coordinating with, seeking assistance
and cooperation of, and providing liaison to
the Federal Geographic Data Committee
pursuant to Office of Management and Budg-
et Circular A–16 and Executive Order 12906 of
April 11, 1994 (59 Fed. Reg. 17671), as amended
by Executive Order 13286 of February 28, 2003
(68 Fed. Reg. 10619); and
(5) developing and maintaining a best prac-
tices document that sets out the best prac-
tices used by the Secretary in carrying out
the program and providing such document to
the United States Geological Survey, the
Corps of Engineers, and other relevant Fed-
eral agencies.
(d) FILLING NEEDS AND GAPS.—In carrying
out the program, the Secretary shall—
(1) maximize the use of remote sensing and
other geospatial data collection activities
conducted for other purposes and under
other authorities;
(2) focus on filling data needs and gaps for
coastal management issues, including with
respect to areas that, as of the date of the
enactment of this Act, were underserved by
coastal data and the areas of the Arctic that
are under the jurisdiction of the United
States;
(3) pursuant to the Ocean and Coastal Map-
ping Integration Act (33 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.),
support continue improvement in existing
efforts to coordinate the acquisition and in-
tegration of key data sets needed for coastal
management and other purposes, including—
(A) coastal elevation data;
(B) land use and land cover data;
(C) socioeconomic and human use data;
(D) critical infrastructure data;
(E) structures data;
(F) living resources and habitat data;
(G) cadastral data; and
(H) aerial imagery; and
(4) integrate the priority supporting data
set forth under paragraph (3) with other
available data for the benefit of the broadest
measure of coastal resource management
constituents and applications.
(e) FINANCIAL AGREEMENTS AND CON-
TRACTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In carrying out the pro-
gram, the Secretary—
(A) may enter into financial agreements to
carry out the program, including—
(i) support to non-Federal entities that
participate in implementing the program;
and
(ii) grants, cooperative agreements, inter-
agency agreements, contracts, or any other
agreement on a reimbursable or non-reim-
bursable basis, with other Federal, tribal,
State, and local governmental and non-
governmental entities; and
(B) may, to the maximum extent prac-
ticable, enter into such contracts with pri-
vate sector entities for such products and
services as the Secretary determines may be
necessary to collect, process, and provide re-
mote sensing and other geospatial data and
products for purposes of the program.
(2) FEES.—
(A) ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION.—The Sec-
retary may, to the extent provided in ad-
vance in appropriations Acts, assess and col-
lect fees for the conduct of any training,
workshop, or conference that advances the
purposes of the program.
(B) AMOUNTS.—The amount of a fee under
this paragraph may not exceed the sum of
costs incurred, or expected to be incurred, by
the Secretary as a direct result of the con-
duct of the training, workshop, or con-
ference, including for subsistence expenses
incidental to the training, workshop, or con-
ference, as applicable.
(C) USE OF FEES.—Amounts collected by
the Secretary in the form of fees under this
paragraph shall be available to the extent
and in such amounts as are provided in ad-
vance in appropriations Acts for—
(i) the costs incurred for conducting an ac-
tivity described in subparagraph (A); or
(ii) the expenses described in subparagraph
(B).
(3) SURVEY AND MAPPING.—Contracts en-
tered into under paragraph (1)(B) shall be
considered ‘‘surveying and mapping’’ serv-
ices as such term is used in and as such con-
tracts are awarded by the Secretary in ac-
cordance with the selection procedures in
chapter 11 of title 40, United States Code.
(f) OCEAN ECONOMY.—The Secretary may
establish publically available tools that
track ocean and Great Lakes economy data
for each coastal State.
(g) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to the
Secretary $4,000,000 for each fiscal year 2021
through 2025 to carry out the program.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. HUFFMAN) and the gen-
tleman from Utah (Mr. BISHOP) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and include extra-
neous material on the measure under
consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, the Digital Coast Act,
which passed the Senate by unanimous
consent, is an important piece of legis-
lation, one which we passed here in the
House as part of the Coastal and Great
Lakes Communities Enhancement Act
back in December of 2019.
The importance of data in today’s
world can’t be overstated, nor can the
role of the climate crisis. NOAA’s Dig-
ital Coast Partnership supports coastal
managers with the data they need to
confront today’s challenges with inten-
sifying storms, coastal flooding, sea
level rise, and coastal economic devel-
opment.
Digital Coast is a web-based platform
containing data, tools, and training re-
sources to support our coastal man-
agers. This includes economic data,
satellite imagery, visualization tools,
and predictive tools gathered from
hundreds of sources across academia,
non-governmental, Federal, State,
Tribal, and county partners. The Dig-
ital Coast Partnership also provides
coastal managers with collaborative
events like conferences, workshops,
and meetings where these managers
can focus on important issues like
coastal resilience, ocean planning, and
habitat protection.
This commonsense, good governance
legislation would formally authorize a
program that has been proven to work.
The National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration estimates that the Dig-
ital Coast Partnership currently pro-
duces a 3:1 benefit-to-cost ratio, and
they predict that this ratio will in-
crease to over 5:1 by fiscal year 2028.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:08 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.010 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5741
November 16, 2020
Let’s continue to support this amaz-
ing program and make the Digital
Coast Act into public law.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I
yield such time as she may consume to
the gentlewoman from Puerto Rico
(Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN), who will ex-
plain and introduce this particular bill.
The gentlewoman is someone on our
committee who clearly understands the
significance of mapping, especially for
storm preparations and flood manage-
ment and everything else.
I wish to congratulate Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN because she is the
only one of us on the floor who just re-
cently was returned here for a 4-year
term.
Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico. Mr. Speaker, I thank Ranking
Member BISHOP for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong
support of S. 1069. This legislation au-
thorizes NOAA’s Digital Coast Pro-
gram and ensures coastal communities
have up-to-date data and tools to pre-
pare for storms, manage floods, restore
shorelines, and plan for long-term
coastal resilience.
NOAA’s Digital Coast Program has
been extremely valuable for jurisdic-
tions like Puerto Rico, where we have
799 miles of coastline and 62 percent of
our population lives in coastal munici-
palities. For instance, after Hurricane
Maria devastated the island with pow-
erful storm surge and flash floods, Dig-
ital Coast staffers updated their Coast-
al Flood Exposure Mapper to incor-
porate high-resolution flood maps for
the territory. They also held training
sessions on flood mapping and resilient
infrastructure, allowing officials to
visualize storm surge, high tide flood-
ing, sea level rise, and tsunami sce-
narios in order to increase our pre-
paredness for such events.
This bill would build upon this work,
authorizing NOAA to continue pro-
viding comprehensive mapping infor-
mation that allows planners and coast-
al managers across the Nation to make
accurate decisions and smart invest-
ments. This bill will also require NOAA
to focus additional data collection ef-
forts on underserved coastal areas.
As Puerto Rico’s sole representative
in Congress, I know firsthand the im-
portance of having reliable coastal
data to help respond to emergencies, to
build resilience, and manage water re-
sources. Therefore, I strongly urge my
colleagues to support S. 1069.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
3 minutes to the gentleman from Mary-
land (Mr. RUPPERSBERGER) to speak on
this bill.
(Mr. RUPPERSBERGER asked and
was given permission to revise and ex-
tend his remarks.)
Mr. RUPPERSBERGER. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise in support of the Digital Coast
Act, a bipartisan and bicameral bill
that I have put forth for consideration
by this Chamber the last 10 years. I
have spent a decade pushing this legis-
lation because, while it is critical to
coastal communities like mine in the
Chesapeake Bay watershed, we all have
a stake in protecting America’s shore-
lines. But it is not just about pro-
tecting our environment, it is about
protecting our economy. Our country’s
95,000 miles of shoreline are home to
more than 42 percent of our country’s
population and millions of businesses
that supply most of our gross domestic
product.
This bill’s Republican House cospon-
sor, Mr. DON YOUNG, represents Alaska,
a State with 44,000 miles of coastline.
The fishing industry is their largest
private-sector employer.
Every day, planners in our home-
towns are asking questions such as:
What is the storm surge in this com-
munity?
Or: How much is this bluff going to
erode?
Or: What are the water level trends
at the marina where we want to build
a new dock?
Unfortunately, the current coastal
maps and geospatial data they are rely-
ing on for answers are woefully inac-
curate, outdated, and nonexistent. The
Digital Coast Act will allow profes-
sionals at the National Oceanic and At-
mospheric Administration to begin a
comprehensive mapping process of our
Nation’s fragile shorelines.
Coastal communities will be able to
use the data to better prepare for
storms, manage floods, restore eco-
systems, and plan smarter develop-
ments near America’s coasts, harbors,
ports, and shorelines. In Alaska, better
mapping will improve search and res-
cue operations.
Also, NOAA will train decision mak-
ers at the local and State level on how
to use the data sets to answer ques-
tions about storm surge, erosion, and
water level trends. The data will also
be available on NOAA’s website for free
and easy public access so that every
citizen can leverage the expertise of
the Federal Government.
This bill is more important now than
it was a decade ago when I first intro-
duced it. We are seeing more storms
that are stronger, and sea level rise is
accelerating. We can’t wait any longer.
In addition to Congressman DON
YOUNG, I thank Chairman GRIJALVA
and Ranking Member BISHOP for their
work in bringing this bill to the floor.
Finally, I thank Senators TAMMY
BALDWIN and LISA MURKOWSKI for
championing this bill in the Senate.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues
to support this bipartisan, common-
sense investment in our Nation’s coast-
al communities.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
The Digital Coast Act will enhance
Federal, State, Tribal, and local au-
thorities’ decisionmaking regarding
coastal resiliency, mapping, and infra-
structure planning. It is one of these
good measures that we need to support.
I truly support it. It deals with the en-
tire coast of the Nation. It deals with
the coasts in other areas that are not
yet part of the 50 States—yet—and it
deals with the Great Salt Lake. I am
sorry, it deals with the Great Lakes.
What I am saying is the only way you
could improve this stupid thing is if
you added the Great Salt Lake into it
as well. But as part of the Inter-
mountain West, I’m used to being ig-
nored by the rest of Congress as they
go merrily on their way, not realizing
the kind of value that we have in the
Intermountain West.
So despite that flaw in this par-
ticular piece of legislation, I support it
wholeheartedly and I urge my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘yes’’ on this par-
ticular piece.
Mr. Speaker, I inquire of the gen-
tleman from California if he has any
further speakers.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I have
no further speakers.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I re-
quest an ‘‘aye’’ vote, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
HUFFMAN) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, S. 1069, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
NATIONAL SEA GRANT COLLEGE
PROGRAM AMENDMENTS ACT OF
2020
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(S. 910) to reauthorize and amend the
National Sea Grant College Program
Act, and for other purposes, as amend-
ed.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
S. 910
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘National
Sea Grant College Program Amendments Act
of 2020’’.
SEC. 2. REFERENCES TO THE NATIONAL SEA
GRANT COLLEGE PROGRAM ACT.
Except as otherwise expressly provided,
wherever in this Act an amendment or repeal
is expressed in terms of an amendment to, or
repeal of, a section or other provision, the
reference shall be considered to be made to a
section or other provision of the National
Sea Grant College Program Act (33 U.S.C.
1121 et seq.).
SEC. 3. MODIFICATION OF DEAN JOHN A. KNAUSS
MARINE POLICY FELLOWSHIP.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 208(b) (33 U.S.C.
1127(b)) is amended by striking ‘‘may’’ and
inserting ‘‘shall’’.
(b) PLACEMENTS IN CONGRESS.—Such sec-
tion is further amended—
(1) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘The
Secretary’’ and inserting the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:08 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16NO7.020 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5742 November 16, 2020
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary’’; and
(2) in paragraph (1), as designated by para-
graph (1), in the second sentence, by striking
‘‘A fellowship’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(2) PLACEMENT PRIORITIES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In each year in which
the Secretary awards a legislative fellowship
under this subsection, when considering the
placement of fellows, the Secretary shall
prioritize placement of fellows in the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(i) Positions in offices of, or with Mem-
bers on, committees of Congress that have
jurisdiction over the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration.
‘‘(ii) Positions in offices of Members of
Congress that have a demonstrated interest
in ocean, coastal, or Great Lakes resources.
‘‘(B) EQUITABLE DISTRIBUTION.—In placing
fellows in offices described in subparagraph
(A), the Secretary shall ensure that place-
ments are equitably distributed among the
political parties.
‘‘(3) DURATION.—A fellowship’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply with respect
to the first calendar year beginning after the
date of the enactment of this Act.
(d) SENSE OF CONGRESS CONCERNING FED-
ERAL HIRING OF FORMER FELLOWS.—It is the
sense of Congress that in recognition of the
competitive nature of the fellowship under
section 208(b) of the National Sea Grant Col-
lege Program Act (33 U.S.C. 1127(b)), and of
the exceptional qualifications of fellowship
awardees, the Secretary of Commerce, acting
through the Under Secretary of Commerce
for Oceans and Atmosphere, should encour-
age participating Federal agencies to con-
sider opportunities for fellowship awardees
at the conclusion of their fellowships for
workforce positions appropriate for their
education and experience.
SEC. 4. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY OF SEC-
RETARY OF COMMERCE TO ACCEPT
DONATIONS FOR NATIONAL SEA
GRANT COLLEGE PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 204(c)(4)(E) (33
U.S.C. 1123(c)(4)(E)) is amended to read as
follows:
‘‘(E) accept donations of money and, not-
withstanding section 1342 of title 31, United
States Code, of voluntary and uncompen-
sated services;’’.
(b) PRIORITIES.—The Secretary of Com-
merce, acting through the Under Secretary
of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere,
shall establish priorities for the use of dona-
tions accepted under section 204(c)(4)(E) of
the National Sea Grant College Program Act
(33 U.S.C. 1123(c)(4)(E)), and shall consider
among those priorities the possibility of ex-
panding the Dean John A. Knauss Marine
Policy Fellowship’s placement of additional
fellows in relevant legislative offices under
section 208(b) of that Act (33 U.S.C. 1127(b)),
in accordance with the recommendations
under subsection (c) of this section.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director of the National Sea Grant College
Program, in consultation with the National
Sea Grant Advisory Board and the Sea Grant
Association, shall—
(1) develop recommendations for the opti-
mal use of any donations accepted under sec-
tion 204(c)(4)(E) of the National Sea Grant
College Program Act (33 U.S.C. 1123(c)(4)(E));
and
(2) submit to Congress a report on the rec-
ommendations developed under paragraph
(1).
(d) CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this section
shall be construed to limit or otherwise af-
fect any other amounts available for marine
policy fellowships under section 208(b) of the
National Sea Grant College Program Act (33
U.S.C. 1127(b)), including amounts—
(1) accepted under section 204(c)(4)(F) of
that Act (33 U.S.C. 1123(c)(4)(F)); or
(2) appropriated pursuant to the authoriza-
tion of appropriations under section 212 of
that Act (33 U.S.C. 1131).
SEC. 5. REDUCTION IN FREQUENCY REQUIRED
FOR NATIONAL SEA GRANT ADVI-
SORY BOARD REPORT.
Section 209(b)(2) (33 U.S.C. 1128(b)(2)) is
amended—
(1) in the paragraph heading, by striking
‘‘BIENNIAL’’ and inserting ‘‘PERIODIC’’;
(2) by striking the first sentence and in-
serting the following: ‘‘The Board shall re-
port to Congress at least once every four
years on the state of the national sea grant
college program and shall notify Congress of
any significant changes to the state of the
program not later than two years after the
submission of such a report.’’; and
(3) in the second sentence, by adding before
the end period the following: ‘‘and provide a
summary of research conducted under the
program’’.
SEC. 6. MODIFICATION OF ELEMENTS OF NA-
TIONAL SEA GRANT COLLEGE PRO-
GRAM.
Section 204(b) (33 U.S.C. 1123(b)) is amend-
ed, in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by
inserting ‘‘for research, education, exten-
sion, training, technology transfer, and pub-
lic service’’ after ‘‘financial assistance’’.
SEC. 7. DESIGNATION OF NEW NATIONAL SEA
GRANT COLLEGES AND SEA GRANT
INSTITUTES.
Section 207(b) (33 U.S.C. 1126(b)) is amend-
ed—
(1) in the subsection heading, by striking
‘‘EXISTING DESIGNEES’’ and inserting ‘‘ADDI-
TIONAL DESIGNATIONS’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘Any institution’’ and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(1) NOTIFICATION TO CONGRESS OF DESIGNA-
TIONS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Not less than 30 days be-
fore designating an institution, or an asso-
ciation or alliance of two or more such insti-
tutions, as a sea grant college or sea grant
institute under subsection (a), the Secretary
shall notify Congress in writing of the pro-
posed designation. The notification shall in-
clude an evaluation and justification for the
designation.
‘‘(B) EFFECT OF JOINT RESOLUTION OF DIS-
APPROVAL.—The Secretary may not des-
ignate an institution, or an association or al-
liance of two or more such institutions, as a
sea grant college or sea grant institute under
subsection (a) if, before the end of the 30-day
period described in subparagraph (A), a joint
resolution disapproving the designation is
enacted.
‘‘(2) EXISTING DESIGNEES.—Any institu-
tion’’.
SEC. 8. DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY; DEAN JOHN A.
KNAUSS MARINE POLICY FELLOW-
SHIP.
(a) IN GENERAL.—During fiscal year 2021
and any fiscal year thereafter, the head of
any Federal agency may appoint, without re-
gard to the provisions of subchapter I of
chapter 33 of title 5, United States Code,
other than sections 3303 and 3328 of that
title, a qualified candidate described in sub-
section (b) directly to a position with the
Federal agency for which the candidate
meets Office of Personnel Management qual-
ification standards.
(b) DEAN JOHN A. KNAUSS MARINE POLICY
FELLOWSHIP.—Subsection (a) applies with re-
spect to a former recipient of a Dean John A.
Knauss Marine Policy Fellowship under sec-
tion 208(b) of the National Sea Grant College
Program Act (33 U.S.C. 1127(b)) who—
(1) earned a graduate or post-graduate de-
gree in a field related to ocean, coastal, and
Great Lakes resources or policy from an ac-
credited institution of higher education; and
(2) successfully fulfilled the requirements
of the fellowship within the executive or leg-
islative branch of the United States Govern-
ment.
(c) LIMITATION.—The direct hire authority
under this section shall be exercised with re-
spect to a specific qualified candidate not
later than 2 years after the date that the
candidate completed the fellowship described
in subsection (b).
SEC. 9. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
FOR NATIONAL SEA GRANT COL-
LEGE PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 212(a) (33 U.S.C.
1131(a)) is amended—
(1) by amending paragraph (1) to read as
follows:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—There are authorized to
be appropriated to the Secretary to carry
out this title—
‘‘(A) $87,520,000 for fiscal year 2021;
‘‘(B) $91,900,000 for fiscal year 2022;
‘‘(C) $96,500,000 for fiscal year 2023;
‘‘(D) $101,325,000 for fiscal year 2024; and
‘‘(E) $105,700,000 for fiscal year 2025.’’; and
(2) by amending paragraph (2) to read as
follows:
‘‘(2) PRIORITY ACTIVITIES FOR FISCAL YEARS
2021 THROUGH 2025.—In addition to the
amounts authorized to be appropriated under
paragraph (1), there are authorized to be ap-
propriated $6,000,000 for each of fiscal years
2021 through 2025 for competitive grants for
the following:
‘‘(A) University research on the biology,
prevention, and control of aquatic nonnative
species.
‘‘(B) University research on oyster dis-
eases, oyster restoration, and oyster-related
human health risks.
‘‘(C) University research on the biology,
prevention, and forecasting of harmful algal
blooms.
‘‘(D) University research, education, train-
ing, and extension services and activities fo-
cused on coastal resilience and United States
working waterfronts and other regional or
national priority issues identified in the
strategic plan under section 204(c)(1).
‘‘(E) University research and extension on
sustainable aquaculture techniques and tech-
nologies.
‘‘(F) Fishery research and extension activi-
ties conducted by sea grant colleges or sea
grant institutes to enhance, and not sup-
plant, existing core program funding.’’.
(b) MODIFICATION OF LIMITATIONS ON
AMOUNTS FOR ADMINISTRATION.—Paragraph
(1) of section 212(b) (33 U.S.C. 1131(b)) is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘(1) ADMINISTRATION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—There may not be used
for administration of programs under this
title in a fiscal year more than 5.5 percent of
the lesser of—
‘‘(i) the amount authorized to be appro-
priated under this title for the fiscal year; or
‘‘(ii) the amount appropriated under this
title for the fiscal year.
‘‘(B) CRITICAL STAFFING REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Director shall use
the authority under subchapter VI of chapter
33 of title 5, United States Code, and under
section 210 of this title, to meet any critical
staffing requirement while carrying out the
activities authorized under this title.
‘‘(ii) EXCEPTION FROM CAP.—For purposes of
subparagraph (A), any costs incurred as a re-
sult of an exercise of authority as described
in clause (i) shall not be considered an
amount used for administration of programs
under this title in a fiscal year.’’.
(c) ALLOCATION OF FUNDING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 204(d)(3) (33 U.S.C.
1123(d)(3)) is amended—
(A) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by striking ‘‘With respect to sea grant
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:08 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.011 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5743
November 16, 2020
colleges and sea grant institutes’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘With respect to sea grant colleges, sea
grant institutes, sea grant programs, and sea
grant projects’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (B), in the matter pre-
ceding clause (i), by striking ‘‘funding
among sea grant colleges and sea grant insti-
tutes’’ and inserting ‘‘funding among sea
grant colleges, sea grant institutes, sea
grant programs, and sea grant projects’’.
(2) REPEAL OF REQUIREMENTS CONCERNING
DISTRIBUTION OF EXCESS AMOUNTS.—Section
212 (33 U.S.C. 1131) is amended—
(A) by striking subsection (c); and
(B) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e)
as subsections (c) and (d), respectively.
SEC. 10. REPEAL OF REQUIREMENT FOR REPORT
ON COORDINATION OF OCEANS AND
COASTAL RESEARCH ACTIVITIES.
Section 9 of the National Sea Grant Col-
lege Program Act Amendments of 2002 (33
U.S.C. 857–20) is repealed.
SEC. 11. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.
The National Sea Grant College Program
Act (33 U.S.C. 1121 et seq.) is amended—
(1) in section 204(d)(3)(B) (33 U.S.C.
1123(d)(3)(B)), by moving clause (vi) 2 ems to
the right; and
(2) in section 209(b)(2) (33 U.S.C. 1128(b)(2)),
as amended by section 5, in the third sen-
tence, by striking ‘‘The Secretary shall’’ and
inserting the following:
‘‘(3) AVAILABILITY OF RESOURCES OF DE-
PARTMENT OF COMMERCE.—The Secretary
shall’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. HUFFMAN) and the gen-
tleman from Utah (Mr. BISHOP) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the meas-
ure under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I am a proud supporter
of the Sea Grant College Program. In
fact, I am the lead author of H.R. 2405
to reauthorize Sea Grant in the House.
Today, I am proud of the bipartisan-
ship this bill has garnered, and I am
happy to stand in support of S. 910, the
National Sea Grant College Program
Amendments Act championed by the
chair of the Senate Commerce Com-
mittee, Senator WICKER. The Senate
passed this bill by unanimous consent
in September. The Senate overwhelm-
ingly supports this bill on both sides of
the aisle.
The House passed my legislation as
part of the Coastal and Great Lakes
Communities Enhancement Act back
in December 2019, again, a great piece
of legislation that for some reason
didn’t include the Great Salt Lake, but
we can keep working on that. My hope
is that we, once again, vote in support
of this legislation today. This is an ex-
citing day, as we have never been this
close to getting the Sea Grant College
Program reauthorized.
The Sea Grant College Program sup-
ports our oceans, coasts, and Great
Lakes through grants and contracts
with 33 State-level programs. These
programs support research, education,
and advisory services that are crucial
for our coastal communities. Sea Grant
is incredibly efficient, too. For every
Federal dollar appropriated, Sea Grant
leverages nearly $3 from partnerships
among State universities, State and
local governments, and coastal com-
munities and businesses.
In 2017 alone, after being appro-
priated $63 million, it is estimated that
Sea Grant Programs helped regenerate
$579 million in economic impacts, cre-
ated or supported 12,500 jobs, assisted
462 communities to improve their resil-
ience, restored or protected over 700,000
acres of coastal ecosystems, worked
with 1,300 industry and private sector,
local, State, and regional partners and
supported the education and training
of over 1,800 undergraduate and grad-
uate students.
In addition to reauthorizing and up-
dating the Sea Grant College Program,
this bill also makes important updates
to the program’s Knauss Marine Policy
Fellowship, which fosters our next gen-
eration of ocean and coastal policy
managers.
The legislation also identifies Sea
Grant spending priorities for the next 5
years, which include aquatic invasive
species, oyster disease and restoration,
harmful algal blooms, coastal resil-
ience, sustainable aquaculture, and
fishery research and extension.
My colleague on the other side of the
aisle will likely have one main com-
plaint about Sea Grant, and that is the
decades-old fellowship program. Some-
how I think my colleague across the
aisle may believe the fellowship is a
handout to Democratic offices. The
truth is that Sea Grant, which has been
around since 1979, focuses on training
the next generation of ocean scientists
and policy makers, and fellows end up
in the offices where they can best pre-
pare for future careers in marine
science and policy. Sea Grant fellows
have gone on to prominent positions in
both Democratic and Republican ad-
ministrations. In fact, the Trump ad-
ministration’s former Chief of Staff at
NOAA is a fellowship alumni.
Further, this legislation will actually
help level the playing field for Repub-
lican and Democratic offices vying for
fellows by directing that NOAA ensure
equitable distribution among political
parties.
b 1645
I would hope that my colleagues on
the Committee on Natural Resources
would take a step back and listen to
the many Republicans representing
coastal areas who strongly support this
legislation. I thank Senator WICKER
and all the cosponsors of my bill in the
House for their support and their work
on this important legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this program and vote in favor
of the bill, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Puerto Rico (Miss GONZÁLEZ-
COLÓN) on this particular bill.
Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico. Mr. Speaker, I thank Ranking
Member BISHOP.
Mr. Speaker, I express my support for
S. 910 to reauthorize the National Sea
Grant College Program, which is a net-
work of 34 university-based programs
that support coastal States and terri-
tories, as well.
In 2019, the Sea Grant program gen-
erated over $400 million in economic
benefits and supported more than 10,000
jobs. In my district, the program, based
at the University of Puerto Rico, has
produced vital research to address ero-
sion, has developed strategies for the
sustainable use of fisheries, and has
contributed to the island’s tourism-
based economy through its coral reef
restoration efforts.
Puerto Rico’s Sea Grant is also a
critical source of funding for research
projects that provide data for the de-
velopment of sound management plans
for our marine resources.
Mr. Speaker, I believe it is crucial
that we reauthorize and support the
Sea Grant program, and I urge my col-
leagues to vote in favor of it.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ZELDIN).
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of S. 910, the National
Sea Grant College Program Amend-
ments Act of 2020, which would author-
ize roughly $513 million over 5 years for
NOAA’s National Sea Grant College
Program.
Mr. Speaker, representing a district
almost completely surrounded by
water in New York’s First Congres-
sional District, Sea Grant has worked
to support our local fishermen and oys-
ter growers, protect our beaches, and
support marine science research that is
essential for our local economy and en-
vironment.
Leading some of the largest bipar-
tisan coalitions of lawmakers to ever
support Sea Grant, with my Demo-
cratic colleague, Congressman JOE
COURTNEY from Connecticut, we have
helped secure critical funding over the
years for Sea Grant through the appro-
priations process.
With imported seafood making up the
vast majority of American’s seafood
consumption, this critical program will
help strengthen local seafood busi-
nesses on Long Island and across the
country.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this important bipartisan leg-
islation.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume, as now we come to some of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:08 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.011 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5744 November 16, 2020
realities of this particular bill and the
procedures.
Mr. Speaker, it would be nice if we
actually dealt with the good of the
body and recognize that reauthoriza-
tions are important so that we can re-
evaluate what kinds of programs actu-
ally exist and if they are still nec-
essary. We don’t do a very good job in
Congress of doing that. We allow reau-
thorizations to lapse, and then we sim-
ply go on automatic pilot, unfortu-
nately.
This is the situation with this par-
ticular program because the Sea Grant
College Program expired in 2014 and
has never been reauthorized by Con-
gress since that time. The appropri-
ators still put money into it, even
though they are not supposed to do it.
But once again, when we, as a Con-
gress, fail to do the reauthorization in-
vestigation and hearings and prioritize,
then we make major mistakes in what
we are attempting to do. We certainly
don’t have the priorities that we
should when these programs were origi-
nally started to make sure that they
are doing what we originally intended
them to do, or if, indeed, there needs to
be a change, like including the Great
Salt Lake in many of its provisions so
that you actually do something posi-
tive for the rest of the world.
Mr. Speaker, Congress in the last
year, fiscal year 2019, even though this
was not an authorized program, still
spent $72 million to do that, even
though it was eliminated from the ad-
ministration’s budget. The House in
this fiscal year appropriated in the 2020
bill only $71 million for this program.
There is, of course, a glitch in that
appropriation, which simply means
that unlike other Senate bills that are
coming here to the floor, this one will
not go directly to the President’s desk.
It has to go back to the Senate for
some kind of a revote and reanalysis
with it. But this is not simply a reau-
thorization of a program. This is a re-
authorization that changes things, in-
cluding of which is a much higher
amount with that program.
So, beginning with this bill, this
would change it not only from $70 mil-
lion; it would take it to the $87.5 mil-
lion for fiscal year 2020 and add a gen-
erous 5 percent increase to each year
through 2024. In addition, it funds an
additional $30 million for six specific
research and extension activities.
Now, once again, whether those are
justifiable or not—it would be nice—
that should be part of the discussion in
a reauthorization program before you
actually come up with these kinds of
numbers that go into that. The in-
creases won’t necessarily result in
more Sea Grant marine research or
outreach because it also increases the
percentage of funds that can be used by
program administration.
Now, the CBO score of this bill is at
$513 million. A half-billion dollars for
any program is simply a big deal if it is
not considered in the context of the
other priorities that this government
should have, and that is one of the pro-
grams and processes that should be
done.
So, this bill, like its House com-
panion bill, goes beyond simple reau-
thorization. It adds new priorities. It
adds new programs that benefit certain
offices more than others. I am not just
going to contend that this has a dis-
proportionate influence on certain bod-
ies, but let’s just say this provides for
free office work, fellows that are placed
in offices year after year.
In the latest list of congressional
placements and their opportunities,
out of 29 total spots in both the House
and the Senate, only five were put in
Republican offices. Maybe there is a
reason for that. Maybe there is simply
a process that we are not looking at in
the reauthorization and the way this
program is managed, which, once
again, should be considered before you
go through the reauthorization ap-
proach to it.
The problem is that some of these po-
sitions now go in there, and it should
not be that Congress provides itself its
own free staff, but that is exactly what
this is attempting to do. Those free
staffs are involved in drafting legisla-
tion that benefits the Sea Grant pro-
gram, which is, of course, a built-in
conflict of interest.
With those other conflicts of inter-
ests, there is another advantage that
has now been built-in for these fellows
that I don’t think is appropriate and
something we should actually think
about properly before we even go for-
ward with that and decide if these
kinds of programs need to be done at
taxpayer expense. The Sea Grant bill
also gives preferential access to Fed-
eral jobs. This bill allows the direct
hire of fellows by any Federal agency,
regardless of if there are better quali-
fied candidates.
So, fellows already receive a unique
educational professional experience
that provides advancement in opportu-
nities that others in the same field
may not have. Yet, they are now being
asked to reduce the competition to get
a job in the Federal workforce to help
a select few in this program.
I am sorry, that is a process that is
simply not in the best interest of good
government. It is that process that
needs to be revisited, that should be re-
visited.
Actually, this also eliminates some
of the transparency. Right now, this
program needs to report to Congress on
a yearly basis. By this bill, the advi-
sory board will have to report every
other year to Congress.
I understand that the Sea Grant pro-
gram is popular among some States,
especially coastal States. Even as a
representative from an inland State, I
have to applaud the efforts for research
and outreach that are conducted by
Sea Grant universities and institu-
tions, and I also don’t object to fellows
at all who are placed in the executive
branch. But I have grave concerns re-
garding the politicized nature of this
program, the fellowship program. I
have problems with the direct-hire in-
centives and authorities that are given
in this particular program, also, with-
out actually having some rationale for
it, just the mandatory increase in
spending that goes along with this type
of program.
Therefore, I cannot vote for this par-
ticular piece of legislation. Obviously,
for me, I will vote ‘‘no’’ and urge the
rejection of this.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Speaker, if
the gentleman has no other speakers, I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I am grateful for the
broad bipartisan support for this bill
and its House companion bill, and I
urge an ‘‘aye’’ vote.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
HUFFMAN) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, S. 910, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AF-
FAIRS WEBSITE ACCESSIBILITY
ACT OF 2019
Mrs. LURIA. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill (S.
3587) to require the Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs to conduct a study on the
accessibility of websites of the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs to individuals
with disabilities, and for other pur-
poses.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
S. 3587
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Department
of Veterans Affairs Website Accessibility Act
of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. STUDY ON THE ACCESSIBILITY OF
WEBSITES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
VETERANS AFFAIRS TO INDIVID-
UALS WITH DISABILITIES.
(a) STUDY.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall conduct a
study of all websites of the Department of
Veterans Affairs to determine whether such
websites are accessible to individuals with
disabilities in accordance with section 508 of
the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C.
794d).
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after
completing the study under subsection (a),
the Secretary shall submit to the Committee
on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House
of Representatives a report on such study.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:08 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16NO7.024 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5745
November 16, 2020
(c) ELEMENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (b) shall include the following:
(1) A list of each website described in sub-
section (a) that is not accessible to individ-
uals with disabilities in accordance with sec-
tion 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29
U.S.C. 794d).
(2) For each website identified in the list
under paragraph (1)—
(A) the plan of the Secretary to bring the
website into compliance with the require-
ments of section 508 of the Rehabilitation
Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d); and
(B) a description of the barriers to bringing
the website into compliance with the re-
quirements of such section, including any
barriers relating to vacant positions at the
Department of Veterans Affairs.
(d) WEBSITE DEFINED.—In this section, the
term ‘‘website’’ includes the following:
(1) A file attached to a website.
(2) A web-based application.
(3) A kiosk at a medical facility of the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs, the use of
which is required to check in for scheduled
appointments.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Virginia (Mrs. LURIA) and the gen-
tleman from Florida (Mr. BILIRAKIS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Virginia.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mrs. LURIA. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
sert extraneous materials to S. 3587.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Virginia?
There was no objection.
Mrs. LURIA. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, S. 3587 will require the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to con-
duct a study on the accessibility of VA
websites to our veterans and VA em-
ployees with disabilities and to ensure
that these websites comply with the
accessibility standards established by
section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of
1973.
Section 508 ensures that disabled
Americans have equal access to elec-
tronic and information technology. As
it stands today, the VA has not
brought all of its online services into
compliance with this existing law. This
bill forces the VA to take a closer look
at all of its websites and electronic
services, identify the ones that are not
legally compliant, and develop a cor-
rectional plan to make those services
functional for the disabled. This will be
particularly helpful to our blind vet-
erans.
According to a 2018 study conducted
by the Veterans Health Administra-
tion, our country has an estimated
131,500 legally blind veterans, though
that number is projected to grow in the
coming decades. Because these individ-
uals depend on screen readers and mag-
nification software when using
websites, apps, kiosks, and telehealth
tools, it is imperative that all VA pro-
grams be compatible with accessible
communications technologies. That
way, every veteran has equal access to
the essential information and services
that the Department provides.
b 1700
Mr. Speaker, not only will this legis-
lation better assist veterans seeking
care and benefits from the VA, it will
also assist the Department’s own dis-
abled employees. Far too often, the VA
utilizes inaccessible PDF formats when
conducting internal operations, hin-
dering its own employees who rely on
screen readers in their work and in
their service to our veterans. This leg-
islation will identify and improve these
barriers for services to the public.
Last year, I met with a group of
blinded veterans, and they explained
the structure of the VA websites and
how it makes it difficult for them to
learn about treatments and schedule
doctor appointments. To remedy this
problem, I introduced the House com-
panion to this bill, H.R. 1199, the VA
Website Accessibility Act.
Blinded veterans deserve equal access
to all VA services, and I am honored to
champion their cause. Our heroes
should not have to wait a day longer.
Today, we can help thousands of vet-
erans receive better access to
healthcare resources. I urge support of
the VA Website Accessibility Act.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of S. 3587, the Department of Veterans
Affairs Website Accessibility Act of
2019. This bill will require the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs to conduct a
study of all VA websites, apps, and
electronic forms; determine which are
inaccessible to veterans with disabil-
ities; and develop a plan to make each
of them accessible and compliant with
section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of
1973.
Although the VA has taken steps to
improve the accessibility of its
website, the committee has heard con-
cerns from Blinded Veterans of Amer-
ica that ‘‘a web page that was easily
accessed one day cannot be read or
even located during the next visit to
the site.’’ Of course that is unaccept-
able as far as I am concerned.
Moreover, visually impaired vet-
erans, in particular, often face barriers
to accessing information from VA be-
cause they are directed to forms or
pages that are incompatible with
screen readers.
Given that over 4.9 million veterans
have at least one service-connected dis-
ability, it is unacceptable that the
VA’s delivery of information falls short
of disabled veterans’ needs. This bill
will require the VA to take systematic
action to address these issues.
I applaud Senator BOB CASEY and
Congresswoman ELAINE LURIA, who
does an outstanding job on the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs, for their
leadership on this particular bill and
their efforts to ensure that all veterans
are able to access the information they
need from the VA.
I will be supporting this bill today,
and I urge my colleagues to join me.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mrs. LURIA. Mr. Speaker, I have no
further speakers, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Virginia (Mrs.
LURIA) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, S. 3587.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
TRAVIS W. ATKINS DEPARTMENT
OF VETERANS AFFAIRS CLINIC
Mrs. LURIA. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill (S.
900) to designate the community-based
outpatient clinic of the Department of
Veterans Affairs in Bozeman, Montana,
as the ‘‘Travis W. Atkins Department
of Veterans Affairs Clinic’’, as amend-
ed.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
S. 900
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. DESIGNATION OF TRAVIS W. ATKINS
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AF-
FAIRS CLINIC IN BOZEMAN, MON-
TANA.
(a) DESIGNATION.—The community-based
outpatient clinic of the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs located in Bozeman, Montana,
shall after the date of the enactment of this
Act be known and designated as the ‘‘Travis
W. Atkins Department of Veterans Affairs
Clinic’’ or the ‘‘Travis W. Atkins VA Clinic’’.
(b) REFERENCE.—Any reference in any law,
regulation, map, document, paper, or other
record of the United States to the commu-
nity-based outpatient clinic referred to in
subsection (a) shall be considered to be a ref-
erence to the Travis W. Atkins Department
of Veterans Affairs Clinic.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Virginia (Mrs. LURIA) and the gen-
tleman from Florida (Mr. BILIRAKIS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Virginia.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mrs. LURIA. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and to
insert extraneous materials on S. 900,
as amended.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Virginia?
There was no objection.
Mrs. LURIA. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to remember the
life of Army Staff Sergeant Travis At-
kins, who was killed in Iraq on June 1,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:08 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.012 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5746 November 16, 2020
2007. I thank my colleague, Mr.
GIANFORTE from Montana, for bringing
this bill before us so we may all pay
tribute to a selfless public servant.
Travis was born on December 9, 1975,
to parents Jack and Elaine. Growing
up in Bozeman, Montana, he was an ac-
tive outdoorsman, spending most of his
time fishing, hunting, and
snowmobiling. After high school, he
worked as a painting and concrete con-
tractor but soon felt called to serve.
On November 9, 2000, 24-year-old
Travis joined the Army. He deployed to
Kuwait with the 101st Airborne Divi-
sion in March of 2003 and was an infan-
try team leader during the invasion of
Iraq later that month.
After that deployment, he decided to
pursue college and was honorably dis-
charged in December of 2003. But as his
father put it, the civilian life just
didn’t do it for him, and he rejoined the
Army in December of 2005 as part of
the 10th Mountain Division and was
again deployed to Iraq.
Mr. Speaker, on June 1, 2007, during a
route clearance in a town outside of
Baghdad, Atkins’ unit noticed two men
trying to cross a road that they were
securing. Atkins asked the men to
stop. When trying to search one of the
men, a fight broke out. Realizing the
man was wearing a suicide vest, he
fought to keep him from finding the
trigger. Eventually, he did. Without
hesitating, Staff Sergeant Atkins bear-
hugged the insurgent, threw him to the
ground and pinned him there, shielding
his fellow soldiers only a few feet away.
Staff Sergeant Atkins saved three men
that day.
In every account of his character
from his battle buddies, the word most
used to describe him was a ‘‘leader,’’
and a fine leader he was, right up until
his final moments.
Surviving Sergeant Atkins are his
parents and his son, Trevor. Trevor
said that he wants his father to be re-
membered as the best dad and the best
soldier that anyone could ask for. At
the White House, on March 27, 2019,
Trevor accepted his father’s Medal of
Honor.
The legacy of Staff Sergeant At-
kins—of loyalty, of dedication, of lead-
ership—must never be forgotten. As
the citizens he protected, we honor him
by trying to live by his example to care
deeply and lead well.
While we will never be able to fully
convey the depth of our gratitude to
the Atkins family, I hope that this bill,
the naming of the clinic in his home-
town, will offer some fraction of that
comfort.
Mr. Speaker, I wholeheartedly sup-
port this bill and I urge my colleagues
to do the same.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of S. 900, as amended, a bill to name
the Department of Veterans Affairs
community-based outpatient clinic in
Bozeman, Montana, the Travis W. At-
kins Department of Veterans Affairs
Clinic.
Staff Sergeant Travis Atkins was a
Montana native and Army veteran. He
was killed in action in Iraq in 2007 dur-
ing an encounter with two enemy in-
surgents when he put himself between
a suicide bomber and his fellow sol-
diers.
Staff Sergeant Atkins’ quick and
selfless actions saved the lives of those
three soldiers and led to him being
posthumously awarded the Medal of
Honor. By naming the VA clinic in
Bozeman after him today, we will fur-
ther ensure that his life and legacy is
forever remembered.
This bill was sponsored in the Senate
by Senator STEVE DAINES and in the
House by my friend and colleague Con-
gressman GREG GIANFORTE, who will be
the Governor of Montana very soon. It
is also strongly supported by the other
member of Montana’s congressional
delegation, the ranking member of the
Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee
and another good friend of mine, Sen-
ator JON TESTER.
I am grateful to Senator DAINES,
Congressman GIANFORTE, Ranking
Member TESTER, and the many Mon-
tana veteran service organizations that
sent in letters of support for this bill,
for their efforts to honor Staff Ser-
geant Atkins’ service and sacrifice
through this legislation. These are the
true heroes, Mr. Speaker. I know you
know that.
Staff Sergeant Atkins was just 32
years old when he died. He left behind
many loved ones, including his then 11-
year-old son, Trevor. I send my prayers
to Trevor and to all of Staff Sergeant
Atkins’ friends and family members
who, I know, are still grieving his loss
today.
I hope that it is a small comfort to
them to know that, with the passage of
this bill, Mr. Speaker, Staff Sergeant
Atkins’ memory will live on and serve
as an inspiration to all the veterans
who seek hope and healing in the clinic
that will now bear his name.
I am proud to support this bill, Mr.
Speaker, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mrs. LURIA. Mr. Speaker, I ask my
colleagues to join me in passing S. 900,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Virginia (Mrs.
LURIA) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, S. 900, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
IMPROVING SAFETY AND SECU-
RITY FOR VETERANS ACT OF
2019
Mrs. LURIA. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill (S.
3147) to require the Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs to submit to Congress re-
ports on patient safety and quality of
care at medical centers of the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs, and for other
purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
S. 3147
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Improving
Safety and Security for Veterans Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS RE-
PORTS ON PATIENT SAFETY AND
QUALITY OF CARE.
(a) REPORT ON PATIENT SAFETY AND QUAL-
ITY OF CARE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall sub-
mit to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of
the Senate and the Committee on Veterans’
Affairs of the House of Representatives a re-
port regarding the policies and procedures of
the Department relating to patient safety
and quality of care and the steps that the
Department has taken to make improve-
ments in patient safety and quality of care
at medical centers of the Department.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The report required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) A description of the policies and proce-
dures of the Department and improvements
made by the Department with respect to the
following:
(i) How often the Department reviews or
inspects patient safety at medical centers of
the Department.
(ii) What triggers the aggregated review
process at medical centers of the Depart-
ment.
(iii) What controls the Department has in
place for controlled and other high-risk sub-
stances, including the following:
(I) Access to such substances by staff.
(II) What medications are dispensed via au-
tomation.
(III) What systems are in place to ensure
proper matching of the correct medication
to the correct patient.
(IV) Controls of items such as medication
carts and pill bottles and vials.
(V) Monitoring of the dispensing of medi-
cation within medical centers of the Depart-
ment, including monitoring of unauthorized
dispensing.
(iv) How the Department monitors contact
between patients and employees of the De-
partment, including how employees are mon-
itored and tracked at medical centers of the
Department when entering and exiting the
room of a patient.
(v) How comprehensively the Department
uses video monitoring systems in medical
centers of the Department to enhance pa-
tient safety, security, and quality of care.
(vi) How the Department tracks and re-
ports deaths at medical centers of the De-
partment at the local level, Veterans Inte-
grated Service Network level, and national
level.
(vii) The procedures of the Department to
alert local, regional, and Department-wide
leadership when there is a statistically ab-
normal number of deaths at a medical center
of the Department, including—
(I) the manner and frequency in which such
alerts are made; and
(II) what is included in such an alert, such
as the nature of death and where within the
medical center the death occurred.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:08 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16NO7.030 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5747
November 16, 2020
(viii) The use of root cause analyses with
respect to patient deaths in medical centers
of the Department, including—
(I) what threshold triggers a root cause
analysis for a patient death;
(II) who conducts the root cause analysis;
and
(III) how root cause analyses determine
whether a patient death is suspicious or not.
(ix) What triggers a patient safety alert,
including how many suspicious deaths cause
a patient safety alert to be triggered.
(x) The situations in which an autopsy re-
port is ordered for deaths at hospitals of the
Department, including an identification of—
(I) when the medical examiner is called to
review a patient death; and
(II) the official or officials that decide such
a review is necessary.
(xi) The method for family members of a
patient who died at a medical center of the
Department to request an investigation into
that death.
(xii) The opportunities that exist for fam-
ily members of a patient who died at a med-
ical center of the Department to request an
autopsy for that death.
(xiii) The methods in place for employees
of the Department to report suspicious
deaths at medical centers of the Department.
(xiv) The steps taken by the Department if
an employee of the Department is suspected
to be implicated in a suspicious death at a
medical center of the Department, includ-
ing—
(I) actions to remove or suspend that indi-
vidual from patient care or temporarily reas-
sign that individual and the speed at which
that action occurs; and
(II) steps taken to ensure that other med-
ical centers of the Department and other
non-Department medical centers are aware
of the suspected role of the individual in a
suspicious death.
(xv) In the case of the suspicious death of
an individual while under care at a medical
center of the Department, the methods used
by the Department to inform the family
members of that individual.
(xvi) The policy of the Department for
communicating to the public when a sus-
picious death occurs at a medical center of
the Department.
(B) A description of any additional au-
thorities or resources needed from Congress
to implement any of the actions, changes to
policy, or other matters included in the re-
port required under paragraph (1)
(b) REPORT ON DEATHS AT LOUIS A. JOHNSON
MEDICAL CENTER.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 60 days
after the date on which the Attorney Gen-
eral indicates that any investigation or trial
related to the suspicious deaths of veterans
at the Louis A. Johnson VA Medical Center
in Clarksburg, West Virginia, (in this sub-
section referred to as the ‘‘Facility’’) that
occurred during 2017 and 2018 has sufficiently
concluded, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
shall submit to the Committee on Veterans’
Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representa-
tives a report describing—
(A) the events that occurred during that
period related to those suspicious deaths;
and
(B) actions taken at the Facility and
throughout the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs to prevent any similar reoccurrence of
the issues that contributed to those sus-
picious deaths.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The report required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) A timeline of events that occurred at
the Facility relating to the suspicious deaths
described in paragraph (1) beginning the mo-
ment those deaths were first determined to
be suspicious, including any notifications
to—
(i) leadership of the Facility;
(ii) leadership of the Veterans Integrated
Service Network in which the Facility is lo-
cated;
(iii) leadership at the central office of the
Department; and
(iv) the Office of the Inspector General of
the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(B) A description of the actions taken by
leadership of the Facility, the Veterans Inte-
grated Service Network in which the Facil-
ity is located, and the central office of the
Department in response to the suspicious
deaths, including responses to notifications
under subparagraph (A).
(C) A description of the actions, including
root cause analyses, autopsies, or other ac-
tivities that were conducted after each of the
suspicious deaths.
(D) A description of the changes made by
the Department since the suspicious deaths
to procedures to control access within med-
ical centers of the Department to controlled
and non-controlled substances to prevent
harm to patients.
(E) A description of the changes made by
the Department to its nationwide controlled
substance and non-controlled substance poli-
cies as a result of the suspicious deaths.
(F) A description of the changes planned or
made by the Department to its video surveil-
lance at medical centers of the Department
to improve patient safety and quality of care
in response to the suspicious deaths.
(G) An analysis of the review of sentinel
events conducted at the Facility in response
to the suspicious deaths and whether that re-
view was conducted consistent with policies
and procedures of the Department.
(H) A description of the steps the Depart-
ment has taken or will take to improve the
monitoring of the credentials of employees
of the Department to ensure the validity of
those credentials, including all employees
that interact with patients in the provision
of medical care.
(I) A description of the steps the Depart-
ment has taken or will take to monitor and
mitigate the behavior of employee bad ac-
tors, including those who attempt to conceal
their mistreatment of veteran patients.
(J) A description of the steps the Depart-
ment has taken or will take to enhance or
create new monitoring systems that—
(i) automatically collect and analyze data
from medical centers of the Department and
monitor for warnings signs or unusual health
patterns that may indicate a health safety
or quality problem at a particular medical
center; and
(ii) automatically share those warnings
with other medical centers of the Depart-
ment, relevant Veterans Integrated Service
Networks, and officials of the central office
of the Department.
(K) A description of the accountability ac-
tions that have been taken at the Facility to
remove or discipline employees who signifi-
cantly participated in the actions that con-
tributed to the suspicious deaths.
(L) A description of the system-wide re-
porting process that the Department will or
has implemented to ensure that relevant em-
ployees are properly reported, when applica-
ble, to the National Practitioner Data Bank
of the Department of Health and Human
Services, the applicable State licensing
boards, the Drug Enforcement Administra-
tion, and other relevant entities.
(M) A description of any additional au-
thorities or resources needed from Congress
to implement any of the recommendations
or findings included in the report required
under paragraph (1).
(N) Such other matters as the Secretary
considers necessary.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Virginia (Mrs. LURIA) and the gen-
tleman from Florida (Mr. BILIRAKIS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Virginia.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mrs. LURIA. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and to
insert extraneous materials on S. 3147.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Virginia?
There was no objection.
Mrs. LURIA. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of S.
3147, the Improving Safety and Secu-
rity for Veterans Act, introduced by
Senator MANCHIN and Senator CAPITO
of West Virginia. Representative
MCKINLEY introduced a companion
measure, H.R. 5616, here in the House.
This bipartisan bill requires the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs to submit
to Congress two critical reports relat-
ing to patient safety and quality of
care at its medical facilities.
This bill was introduced in the wake
of a disturbingly tragic series of pa-
tient deaths that occurred in 2017 and
2018 at the Clarksburg, West Virginia,
VA Medical Center.
This past July, a nursing assistant
who worked at the Clarksburg VA Med-
ical Center pleaded guilty to seven
counts of second-degree murder and
one count of assault to commit murder
after unnecessarily injecting several
veteran patients with insulin with the
intent to cause death.
There are no words to adequately ex-
press the sorrow we feel for the fami-
lies of veterans whose lives were trag-
ically cut short in Clarksburg. There
are countless questions about how this
could have happened and what the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs is doing
to better protect veteran patients in
the future, not only in Clarksburg, but
in other VA facilities nationwide.
The first report outlined in this bill
and mandated by S. 3147, which is due
within 30 days of enactment, requires
the VA to outline the Department’s
policies and procedures related to mon-
itoring patient safety and suspicious
deaths, ensuring proper storage and ac-
cess controls for high-risk substances,
trafficking employees’ contact with
veteran patients, and removing from
patient care employees who are impli-
cated in suspicious deaths.
b 1715
The Improving Safety and Security
for Veterans Act also requires the VA
to submit to Congress an after-action
report on the events that occurred in
Clarksburg. Among other things, the
report will detail the timeline of
events at Clarksburg and the actions
taken at the facility level and through-
out the Department of Veterans Affairs
in response to these tragic and sus-
picious deaths.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:08 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.014 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5748 November 16, 2020
We can only hope that S. 3147, the
Improving Safety and Security for Vet-
erans Act, will serve as a first step to-
ward better understanding what gaps
in VA management existed and what
actions the Department still needs to
take to protect our veterans.
We also hope that this measure will
serve as a foundation for helping to re-
store veterans’ confidence in the safe-
ty, security, and quality of the care de-
livered at VA medical facilities.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of S. 3147, the Improving Safety and Se-
curity for Veterans Act of 2019.
This bill was drafted in response to a
tragic incident at the Department of
Veterans Affairs Medical Center in
Clarksburg, West Virginia, where a
former VA nursing assistant killed at
least seven veteran patients by inject-
ing them with lethal doses of insulin
while they were under her care.
As a member of the House Veterans’
Affairs Committee, I personally
grieved the loss of those veterans. I
cannot fathom the pain that their
loved ones must feel. My heart is with
them, especially during this holiday
season.
Congress must act to ensure that no
other veteran, family, or community
experiences such tragedy ever again.
Passing S. 3147 today will help us do
that, Mr. Speaker. The bill would re-
quire VA to report to Congress on the
Department’s efforts to assess, mon-
itor, and improve patient safety and
quality of care throughout the VA
healthcare system. It would also re-
quire the VA to report to Congress on
the series of events surrounding the
Clarksburg murders and the actions
taken in Clarksburg and nationwide,
for that matter.
We need to ensure that we learn from
this tragedy and that it never, ever is
repeated.
This bill is sponsored by Senator JOE
MANCHIN from West Virginia and is the
companion to a House bill in the House
by my good friend, a great member of
the Energy and Commerce Committee,
and I know he supports veterans, DAVID
MCKINLEY, who I will yield to in a sec-
ond. DAVID is from West Virginia.
I appreciate Senator MANCHIN’s and
Congressman MCKINLEY’s efforts to en-
sure that veterans in West Virginia and
across the country receive care that is
timely, safe, and of the very highest
quality. Again, we have to thank them
for their service to our country, and
they are entitled to this quality of
care, Mr. Speaker.
Every veteran deserves to feel con-
fident that they will be well cared for
when they walk through VA’s doors.
While nothing can bring back the vet-
erans who were ruthlessly murdered in
Clarksburg, I hope that the passage of
this bill today will restore some of the
trust that has been lost due to this
heartbreaking chapter in VA’s history
and ease other veterans’ fears that
they may have about their own safety
seeking care through the VA
healthcare system.
Mr. Speaker, I urge every one of my
colleagues to join me in supporting
this bill today. I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mrs. LURIA. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
such time as he may consume to the
gentleman from West Virginia (Mr.
MCKINLEY).
Mr. MCKINLEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise
in support of S. 3147, the Improving
Safety and Security for Veterans Act
of 2019.
The bill is indeed the companion to
H.R. 5616, which I introduced in Janu-
ary of this year following the death of
seven veterans at our Clarksburg VA
Medical Center.
A former nursing assistant at the
hospital has now pled guilty to mur-
dering these veterans by intentionally
and inappropriately injecting them
with insulin. Her actions are beyond
the pale. Congress must do everything
it can to ensure that this never hap-
pens again.
This bill was just the first step to-
ward that goal. It will, indeed, as you
heard the chairman say, provide trans-
parency and accountability at our VA
medical facilities by requiring the VA
to submit to Congress detailed reports
on patient safety and quality of care at
those hospitals.
It will also ensure that the public is
well-informed as to what occurred in
Clarksburg. The public was kept in the
dark for far too long during the course
of this investigation.
Our veterans have sacrificed so much
for our country, and they deserve the
best possible care and should feel safe
when they come to one of our facilities.
Congress now has the opportunity to
restore the public’s confidence in our
Veterans Affairs system and ensure
that our veterans are receiving the
care they deserve.
I join with the chairman, Mr. Speak-
er, in saying that I urge all of our col-
leagues to join unanimously in sup-
porting this bill.
Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mrs. LURIA. Mr. Speaker, I have no
further speakers, and I am prepared to
close. I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, I ask all of my col-
leagues to join me in passing S. 3147.
I want to thank Mr. MCKINLEY for in-
troducing this bill in the House and
Senator MANCHIN for working very dili-
gently in the Senate to bring this legis-
lation before us today because, as Mr.
MCKINLEY said, we do need to provide
assurance to our veterans about their
safety in our VA health centers, both
in Clarksburg and across the country.
I also want to thank Mr. BILIRAKIS,
my colleague on the Veterans’ Affairs
Committee, for his work on this and all
the bills that we have reviewed today.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in passing S. 3147, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Virginia (Mrs.
LURIA) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, S. 3147.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mrs. LURIA. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to section 3 of House Resolution
965, the yeas and nays are ordered.
Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, fur-
ther proceedings on this motion will be
postponed.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 6:30 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 5 o’clock and 23 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1830
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. CUELLAR) at 6 o’clock and
30 minutes p.m.
f
WOUNDED VETERANS RECREATION
ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (S. 327) to amend the Federal Lands
Recreation Enhancement Act to pro-
vide for a lifetime National Rec-
reational Pass for any veteran with a
service-connected disability, on which
the yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
HUFFMAN) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 401, nays 0,
not voting 28, as follows:
[Roll No. 219]
YEAS—401
Adams
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:08 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16NO7.033 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5749
November 16, 2020
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcia (CA)
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jacobs
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Mfume
Miller
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Tiffany
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yarmuth
Yoho
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—28
Abraham
Aderholt
Amodei
Brooks (IN)
Calvert
Collins (GA)
Gianforte
Huizenga
King (IA)
Lamborn
Lesko
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
McHenry
Mitchell
Olson
Richmond
Roby
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (WA)
Thornberry
Walberg
Waltz
Wright
Young
b 1925
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
MEMBERS RECORDED PURSUANT TO HOUSE
RESOLUTION 965, 116TH CONGRESS
Barragán (Beyer)
Blumenauer
(Beyer)
Bonamici (Clark
(MA))
Boyle, Brendan
F. (Jeffries)
Brownley (CA)
(Clark (MA))
Bustos (Kuster
(NH))
Carson (IN)
(Cleaver)
Castro (TX)
(Garcia (TX))
Clay (Cleaver)
Cohen (Beyer)
Costa (Cooper)
DeGette (Blunt
Rochester)
DeSaulnier
(Matsui)
Doggett (Raskin)
Escobar (Garcia
(TX))
Evans (Brown
(MD))
Frankel (Clark
(MA))
Garamendi
(Sherman)
Gonzalez (TX)
(Gomez)
Grijalva (Garcı́a
(IL))
Hastings
(Wasserman
Schultz)
Higgins (NY)
(Sánchez)
Jayapal (Raskin)
Johnson (TX)
(Jeffries)
Keating (Kuster
(NH))
Khanna (Gomez)
Kind (Beyer)
Kirkpatrick
(Stanton)
Langevin
(Courtney)
Lawrence
(Kildee)
Lawson (FL)
(Demings)
Lieu, Ted (Beyer)
Lipinski (Cooper)
Lofgren (Jeffries)
Lowenthal
(Beyer)
Lowey (Tonko)
Lynch
(McGovern)
McEachin
(Wexton)
Meng (Kuster
(NH))
Moore (Beyer)
Nadler (Jeffries)
Napolitano
(Correa)
Payne
(Wasserman
Schultz)
Peterson
(McCollum)
Pingree, (Kuster
(NH))
Pocan (Raskin)
Porter (Wexton)
Price (NC)
(Butterfield)
Rose (NY)
(Golden)
Roybal-Allard
(Bass)
Ruiz (Dingell)
Rush
(Underwood)
Ryan (Kildee)
Schrier (Kilmer)
Serrano
(Jeffries)
Speier (Scanlon)
Takano (Chu,
Judy)
Titus (Connolly)
Vargas (Correa)
Watson Coleman
(Pallone)
Welch
(McGovern)
Wilson (FL)
(Hayes)
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess for a pe-
riod of less than 15 minutes.
Accordingly (at 7 o’clock and 26 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1936
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. CUELLAR) at 7 o’clock and
36 minutes p.m.
f
IMPROVING SAFETY AND SECU-
RITY FOR VETERANS ACT OF
2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (S. 3147) to require the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to submit to Congress
reports on patient safety and quality of
care at medical centers of the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs, and for other
purposes, on which the yeas and nays
were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Virginia (Mrs.
LURIA) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 394, nays 0,
not voting 35, as follows:
[Roll No. 220]
YEAS—394
Adams
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Garamendi
Garcia (CA)
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jacobs
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:08 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.015 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5750 November 16, 2020
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Mfume
Miller
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Tiffany
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yarmuth
Yoho
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—35
Abraham
Aderholt
Amodei
Bishop (NC)
Blunt Rochester
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Calvert
Cleaver
Collins (GA)
Gallego
Gianforte
Holding
Huizenga
King (IA)
Lamborn
Lesko
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Massie
McHenry
Mitchell
Olson
Richmond
Roby
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (WA)
Thornberry
Walberg
Waltz
Wright
Young
b 2007
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
MEMBERS RECORDED PURSUANT TO HOUSE
RESOLUTION 965, 116TH CONGRESS
Barragán (Beyer)
Blumenauer
(Beyer)
Bonamici (Clark
(MA))
Boyle, Brendan
F. (Jeffries)
Brownley (CA)
(Clark (MA))
Bustos (Kuster
(NH))
Carson (IN)
(Cleaver)
Castro (TX)
(Garcia (TX))
Clay (Cleaver)
Cohen (Beyer)
Costa (Cooper)
DeGette (Blunt
Rochester)
DeSaulnier
(Matsui)
Doggett (Raskin)
Escobar (Garcia
(TX))
Evans (Brown
(MD))
Frankel (Clark
(MA))
Garamendi
(Sherman)
Gonzalez (TX)
(Gomez)
Grijalva (Garcı́a
(IL))
Hastings
(Wasserman
Schultz)
Higgins (NY)
(Sánchez)
Jayapal (Raskin)
Johnson (TX)
(Jeffries)
Keating (Kuster
(NH))
Khanna (Gomez)
Kind (Beyer)
Kirkpatrick
(Stanton)
Langevin
(Courtney)
Lawrence
(Kildee)
Lawson (FL)
(Demings)
Lieu, Ted (Beyer)
Lipinski (Cooper)
Lofgren (Jeffries)
Lowenthal
(Beyer)
Lowey Tonko)
Lynch
(McGovern)
McEachin
(Wexton)
Meng (Kuster
(NH))
Moore (Beyer)
Nadler (Jeffries)
Napolitano
(Correa)
Payne
(Wasserman
Schultz)
Peterson
(McCollum)
Pingree (Kuster
(NH))
Pocan (Raskin)
Porter (Wexton)
Price (NC)
(Butterfield)
Rose (NY)
(Golden)
Roybal-Allard
(Bass)
Ruiz (Dingell)
Rush
(Underwood)
Ryan (Kildee)
Schrier (Kilmer)
Serrano
(Jeffries)
Speier (Scanlon)
Takano (Chu,
Judy)
Titus (Connolly)
Vargas (Correa)
Watson Coleman
(Pallone)
Welch
(McGovern)
Wilson (FL)
(Hayes)
f
HONORING KOREAN WAR
VETERANS
(Mr. KELLER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. KELLER. Mr. Speaker, last week
I had the honor of presenting Korean
Ambassador of Peace Medals to Korean
war veterans and their families in
Towanda, Pennsylvania. The Korean
Ambassador of Peace Medal is an honor
from the Embassy of the Republic of
Korea for American veterans who
served in the Korean war.
One of the greatest parts of rep-
resenting Pennsylvania’s 12th Congres-
sional District is hearing our veterans’
stories of service and sacrifice for our
Nation. As the names of these heroes
are read on the House floor, it is my
hope that their legacies echo through
these Halls and across America for gen-
erations to come:
Glen Ellis, United States Navy;
Silas Mills, United States Army;
Charles Miller, United States Army;
Kent Edsell, United States Marine
Corps;
Nicholas Williams, United States
Navy;
Edward Moritz, United States Army;
Earl Mayo, United States Army;
Carlton Repsher, Jr., United States
Army; and
Keith Haight, Sr., United States Ma-
rine Corps.
It is incumbent upon us to honor
these individuals and reflect on their
heroism in the name of liberty and our
American way of life.
f
RECOGNIZING THE RETIREMENT
OF LARSEN JAY
(Mr. BURCHETT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BURCHETT. Mr. Speaker, during
the coronavirus pandemic, community
organizations in east Tennessee
stepped up to help our neighbors in
need. I rise today to highlight the ef-
forts of Random Acts of Flowers, which
recently delivered its 500,000th bou-
quet; and to recognize the retirement
of its founder, my good friend, Larsen
Jay.
In 2007, Larsen Jay was in the hos-
pital recovering from an accident, and
he noticed many patients weren’t re-
ceiving visitors or flowers. He reflected
on the amount of support he received
and wanted others to have that encour-
agement, too. Larsen founded Random
Acts of Flowers in 2008 to deliver
repurposed flowers to local hospital pa-
tients and seniors in nursing homes.
The nonprofit recycles arrangements
donated from events like weddings and
makes them into beautiful floral bou-
quets. Since opening its doors in Knox-
ville, the nonprofit has grown to serve
folks in Indianapolis and Tampa Bay,
Florida.
Random Acts of Flowers has safely
resumed operations after a pause dur-
ing the coronavirus pandemic. Isola-
tion continues to be a serious problem
for seniors and those in poor health
during this crisis, but outstanding or-
ganizations like Random Acts of Flow-
ers are here to let our neighbors know
they are loved and supported.
Mr. Speaker, after reaching the mile-
stone of delivering half a million bou-
quets, Larsen Jay announced his re-
tirement from Random Acts of Flow-
ers. He has long been active in commu-
nity service, currently serving as
chairman of the Knox County Commis-
sion.
I know he will continue to find ways
to make an impact in our community.
I thank him for his efforts to make
Random Acts of Flowers a successful
and meaningful organization in east
Tennessee and I congratulate the non-
profit on its 500,000th delivery.
f
b 2015
CORONAVIRUS’ IMPACT ON
MINORITY COMMUNITIES
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
CASTEN of Illinois). Under the Speak-
er’s announced policy of January 3,
2019, the gentlewoman from California
(Ms. LEE) is recognized for 60 minutes
as the designee of the majority leader.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days in
which to revise and extend their re-
marks and include extraneous material
on the subject of our Special Order to-
night.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:08 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.016 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5751
November 16, 2020
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker,
first, I thank the chair of our Congres-
sional Black Caucus. I thank Chair-
woman BASS, who has helped us orga-
nize this tonight, for her leadership of
the Congressional Black Caucus.
I join with my colleagues to speak on
the impact of COVID–19, the pandemic
which has had an especially disparate
impact on communities of color.
First, again, let me thank Chair-
woman BASS, Chairwoman CHU, and
Congressman CASTRO of the Tri-Cau-
cus, as well as Representatives KELLY,
HAALAND, and DAVIDS, for working to-
gether to ensure that we address the
disproportionate effects of the COVID–
19 pandemic on communities of color—
also, Congresswoman SYLVIA GARCIA.
It is really very imperative that our
strategy to crush COVID intentionally
includes provisions to support the spe-
cific needs of our communities.
I also want to take a moment to
thank Speaker PELOSI and Chairman
PALLONE for negotiating some of the
provisions of our COVID Community
Care Act, that is H.R. 8192, in our He-
roes bill, which further strengthens ef-
forts to engage medically underserved
communities in the latest version,
again, of the Heroes bill.
I thank Chairman SCOTT and, of
course, our subcommittee chair, ROSA
DELAURO, for their support, their
input, and their assistance in getting
this bill, the COVID Community Care
Act, really very targeted, very focused,
and something that all of us could sup-
port as a Tri-Caucus, also—and, of
course, Speaker PELOSI, again, for her
steadfast understanding and support
for this issue.
Now, millions of people have suffered
incomprehensible grief and hardship
due to the COVID pandemic. Just in
the United States, we now have over
10.3 million cases of COVID–19 and over
240,000 deaths. That is mind-boggling.
We are here today to insist that any
coronavirus response addresses the
needs of people of color. This is because
the impacts of the pandemic and the
economic fallout have had a dispropor-
tionate impact on African Americans,
Latinx, Indigenous, Asian Pacific Is-
lander, and immigrant communities.
We have witnessed the horrific result
of how longstanding inequities stem-
ming from structural racism has exac-
erbated COVID’s threats to people of
color.
Black people are dying at more than
twice the rate of White people in the
United States. Indigenous and Latinx
people are both 50 percent more likely
to die from COVID than White Ameri-
cans. Between January and July, the
AAPI death rate rose 35 percent com-
pared to an increase of 9 percent for
White Americans.
The Federal Government must ad-
dress the vicious cycle of disparities
that drive these unequal impacts on
communities of color, especially during
the COVID–19 crisis. That is why we in-
troduced, together, H.R. 8192, the
COVID Community Care Act, legisla-
tion to ensure that any effort to fight
the pandemic engages local commu-
nities as partners in crushing the virus.
This bill, supported by our Tri-Cau-
cus colleagues, ensures that any test-
ing and tracing efforts engage commu-
nities of color where they live with
trusted messengers who speak their
language and know their unique chal-
lenges.
Speaker PELOSI and Chairman PAL-
LONE worked with us to add language
to Chairman PALLONE’s $75 billion
CONTACT plan. This is included in the
revised version of the Heroes Act
passed October 1, which will further
strengthen efforts to engage commu-
nities of color.
The strengthened CONTACT plan
mandates that community-based orga-
nizations and nonprofits in medically
underserved communities play an im-
portant role to reach those commu-
nities that public health agencies have
difficulty engaging. It ensures the peo-
ple hired to conduct the outreach have
experience and relationships with peo-
ple living in the communities that they
serve.
Turning a blind eye to the American
people’s desperate need for culturally
rooted contact tracing and testing will
result in increased deaths and illnesses
that we could have prevented.
We must build a relief package that
addresses the needs of millions, espe-
cially Black and Brown people, who are
suffering disproportionately from this
virus.
Mr. Speaker, we thank our Speaker
for her persistence, leadership, and
fighting spirit to ensure that law-
makers acknowledge and respond to
the racial and ethnic disparities that
have plagued our Nation for centuries.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentle-
woman from Texas (Ms. GARCIA), who
played an important role in making
sure that the Latinx community and
all the Hispanic issues, as it relates to
COVID, were included as a part of this
bill.
Ms. GARCIA of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
thank Representative LEE and the cau-
cuses involved for putting this Special
Order together.
Today in America, there is not one
State that has the pandemic under con-
trol. My own State of Texas became
the first State to surpass 1 million
cases.
Let me repeat that: 1 million cases.
These cases represent many of our
neighbors, our friends, and our own
family. I personally have self-quar-
antined once and have already been
tested four times for different times I
have been exposed to someone with the
virus.
Thank God all tests have come back
positive—I am sorry, negative. I meant
to say, ‘‘not come back positive.’’ Lit-
tle misspeaking there.
Mr. Speaker, this pandemic is affect-
ing everyone, but it is not affecting ev-
eryone in the same way. Black and
Latino communities are bearing the
weight of this pandemic. While Black
and Latino people are being hospital-
ized and dying at higher rates than
White people, they are also the ones
most likely to be working jobs that put
them more at risk.
They have always been essential
workers. Now more than ever, this is
sadly more true. They are meatpacking
workers, farmworkers, sanitation
workers, custodians, restaurant work-
ers, grocery clerks, postal workers, po-
lice officers, firefighters, longshore-
men. These aren’t jobs you can do from
home. If you don’t show up, you just
don’t get paid.
Black and Latino families have had
to go into work even when it meant
they may get sick. And many of them
have gotten sick. Even worse, many in-
fected a loved one with the virus.
America depends on these workers to
put food on our tables and keep us safe.
Because our leaders didn’t take any
steps to prepare us for this pandemic,
we can’t even offer the protective gear
needed to keep essential frontline
workers safe.
So while we are asking these commu-
nities to go to work every day without
the proper protections, we also know
that Latino and Black Americans are
more likely to have health conditions,
like asthma and diabetes, that make
the virus even more dangerous.
Nationwide, Latinos make up 55 per-
cent of the COVID cases and 24 percent
of the overall deaths. Yet, we are only
18.5 percent of the total U.S. popu-
lation. In Texas, Latinos are about 40
percent of the population, but we are
nearly 55 percent of the deaths—more
than half, Mr. Speaker. In Houston,
sadly, Latinos account for 54 percent of
the deaths caused by this virus—again,
more than half.
My district, which is nearly 80 per-
cent Latino, was one of the hardest hit
areas in the Houston region. But de-
spite these numbers, many of my con-
stituents are still scared of getting
tested or even seeing the doctor. Many
don’t have health insurance. Others
don’t trust our healthcare system.
Many more are undocumented and fear
deportation.
Mr. Speaker, now, I am optimistic
about the future, given some of the
news about vaccine trials. However, we
must make sure, once we have a safe
and effective vaccine, that it is distrib-
uted fairly and equitably and that no
one is left behind.
We do not need to repeat the dis-
parate mistakes of the past. As elected
officials, we must work together to
keep all of our constituents safe.
Right now, with the virus rapidly
spreading, we are losing precious time
if we don’t act. People will get sick,
and even more people will die, if we
wait any longer.
Legislation like the Heroes Act pro-
vides protections that working families
and frontline workers need now. It
would provide rent relief for families
who are afraid of losing their homes. It
would help our schools keep kids
healthy and safe for in-person learning.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:08 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16NO7.041 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5752 November 16, 2020
It would give local and State govern-
ments much-needed relief to retain
frontline workers on payroll. It would
give hardworking families another
stimulus check. It would also reinstate
the supplemental weekly $600 in unem-
ployment benefits, a lifeline that
helped many families stay afloat.
Lastly, we need to earn the trust of
these communities and let them know
that, yes, they are a part of us. People
of color know and must know that we
are working for them. We cannot save
the economy if we don’t save people
first.
Saving many lives must be our top
priority. It will take all of us to crush
this virus, but I know that we will get
together to make sure that we are all
working together to get past this pan-
demic, and if we do, it will be for all of
us. Todos juntos.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentle-
woman for this Special Order.
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker, I
thank Congresswoman GARCIA very
much for her input in helping to write
the COVID Community Care Act.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentle-
woman from Connecticut (Ms.
DELAURO), my good friend, the chair of
the Subcommittee on Labor, Health
and Human Services, Education, and
Related Agencies of the House Appro-
priations Committee.
Ms. DELAURO. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my colleague for yielding to me this
evening and being here with other col-
leagues because we know, and we have
said over and over again, that we face
public health and economic crises un-
like any that our country has seen in a
generation.
More than 245,000 Americans have
died of COVID–19. Tens of millions are
out of work. And we know how commu-
nities of color have suffered acutely
and disproportionately.
While we have known about some of
these issues in the past, about the in-
equities in our healthcare system, in
our economy, this virus has exposed
and shone a light on the depths of the
injustices and inequities that exist for
communities of color. While we need to
fight the virus, we need to fight the
virus of injustice.
In my home State of Connecticut, as
of last Thursday, Black people ac-
counted for more than 14.5 percent of
Connecticut’s COVID-related deaths
when they are just 12 percent of the
population.
Mr. Speaker, 18 percent of COVID
cases are Hispanic, outpacing the 17
percent they make up of our State’s
population.
Yet, this data is not perfect, which is
why I have been so proud to work with
my friend and my colleague, Congress-
woman BARBARA LEE, to require the
Health and Human Services agency and
the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention to provide Congress with
the data on which communities are
bearing the worst impacts so that we
can make sure that testing—once we
have an administration that takes
testing strategy seriously—is focused
on those communities and that they
get the resources they need going for-
ward.
My colleague from California, Con-
gresswoman LEE, has been indefati-
gable in questioning the issue of the
data that we have on communities of
color, and she did this long before we
probably could spell ‘‘coronavirus.’’ To
be frank, it is frustrating that we even
had to put this requirement into law.
The CDC is complying with the re-
porting, but we keep a vigilant eye on
that information. We have more work
to do to ensure that we have complete
data.
Through November 12, 47 percent of
cases had unknown race and ethnicity
in the CDC’s surveillance system. That
is just not good enough. This moment
demands the boldest possible efforts to
secure affordable healthcare, to ad-
dress the deep racial disparities ex-
posed by this virus, to help families.
I am proud to chair this sub-
committee, which has been central to
our response to this pandemic and the
disparities that it has exposed. To-
gether, my colleagues on the com-
mittee and on this subcommittee, we
have appropriated $280 billion in emer-
gency funding for education, for
health, for working people throughout
the pandemic. Through the good offices
of my colleagues, Congresswoman LEE
and Congresswoman BASS, we inserted
language that would focus on the issue
of disparities and how we address them.
We could add $400 million in the latest
iteration of The Heroes Act.
b 2030
Yet the United States Senate has re-
fused to do anything to help struggling
Americans and get us to a place where
we can test everyone, that we can do
contact tracing, and that we can pro-
vide treatment.
We know more is needed. So, as I
mentioned, the House has passed two
additional relief packages, and we
looked at boosting SNAP benefits by 15
percent; expanding access to paid leave
and paid sick days; and expanding and
improving the child tax credit for one-
third of our children, which includes
half of Black and Hispanic children,
who are currently left behind because
their families earn too little. If we do
not address the virus, we will not be
able to do anything about turning our
economy around.
Let me say a thank-you to Congress-
woman BARBARA LEE, who has been a
tireless champion for communities of
color, for organizing this Special Order.
She and I, along with others, are com-
mitted to bringing to bear the full
weight of the Federal Government for
the communities of color, not only in
my district, but around the country,
because together we can and we must
do better. People’s lives are depending
on it.
We know what we need to do to save
lives. It is incomprehensible that we
can’t get to a protocol which allows us
to save people’s lives and those in com-
munities of color, which are affected
the most.
Ms. LEE of California. Thank you,
Chairwoman DELAURO, for your state-
ment and for reminding us that we
have to address the health and eco-
nomic impacts at the same time. One
does not supersede the other. Thank
you for helping us move our COVID
Community Care Act forward with
your leadership on the subcommittee.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentle-
woman from California (Ms. JUDY CHU),
the chair of the Congressional Asian
Pacific American Caucus, someone who
contributed to crafting our COVID
Community Care Act but also whom I
have had the pleasure to serve with as
co-chair of the Healthcare Task Force
for CAPAC, a true leader on so many
issues.
Ms. JUDY CHU of California. Mr.
Speaker, as chair of the Congressional
Asian Pacific American Caucus, I am
here to say that we have reached an-
other terrible milestone. Just yester-
day, the number of COVID–19 cases in
our country surpassed 11 million. One
million of those cases came in just the
last week alone.
The coronavirus is spreading at a
rapid rate, and while hospitals and
healthcare providers in all 50 States
are overwhelmed, there is still no plan
to contain it. The failure to contain
the coronavirus has let it spread within
every State and community.
Almost one-third of Americans know
someone who has died from COVID–19,
and yet we are still hearing false
claims, including from some of my col-
leagues on the other side of this Cham-
ber, that masks don’t work and that
gathering in large groups indoors is
safe.
The message that we can or should
live with this virus is a denial of the
hundreds of thousands of Americans
who are sick or who have died from
this virus already, and it is con-
demning thousands more to die as well.
But not everyone is impacted equal-
ly. While all of us are susceptible to
the virus, communities of color have
been disproportionately impacted by
the Trump administration’s inaction.
Now that we know more about this
virus, we can see who is paying more
for it.
Native Hawaiians and Pacific Island-
ers have seen cases surge in their com-
munities and continue to face some of
the highest COVID–19 infection and
mortality rates out of any of the racial
groups in several States, including in
my own State of California.
And new data shows that Asian
Americans are also dying from COVID–
19 at a disproportionate rate, with
deaths in the Asian-American commu-
nity nationwide increasing by 35 per-
cent this year compared with the aver-
age over the last 5 years. This is com-
pared to a 9 percent increase in deaths
for White Americans.
For other communities of color,
there are equally high rates: for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:08 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16NO7.042 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5753
November 16, 2020
Blacks, a 31 percent increase compared
to 5 years ago; 44 percent for Hispanics;
and a 22 percent increase for Native
Americans.
Downplaying this virus is also
downplaying the reality of healthcare
inequality and minority health dispari-
ties in this country. That is why we
crafted an urgently needed COVID–19
response bill: to make us sure we can
combat the disproportionate effects of
coronavirus on communities of color.
That is precisely what the House did
in May, with the passage of The Heroes
Act, and again in October, with the up-
dated Heroes Act, which ensured that
we collect disaggregated race and eth-
nicity data related to COVID–19 and
that we restore Medicaid coverage for
citizens of the Freely Associated
States of the Pacific islands and in-
clude provisions like Congressmember
BARBARA LEE’s COVID–19 Community
Care Act.
It is so important because it would
provide targeted COVID–19 testing,
treatment, and contact tracing for
communities of color that have been
devastated by the pandemic. What is so
crucial is that it would include cul-
turally and linguistically competent
outreach for contact tracing that is so
critical to the AAPI community.
Communities of color cannot wait
any longer. Americans cannot wait any
longer. We need the outgoing President
and Republicans in Congress to stop
playing games with American lives. We
can’t ignore the fact that Americans
are dying and the economy is strug-
gling because of a refusal to take this
virus seriously. It is time to face facts
and work together to pass a
coronavirus relief package now.
Ms. LEE of California. Thank you
very much, Chairwoman CHU, and
thank you for being with us tonight,
but also for your consistently sounding
the alarm to all of us about the neces-
sity for culturally and linguistically
appropriate services, testing, contact
tracing, as well as the importance of
disaggregating the data based on race
and ethnicity. Thank you for input
into helping to write this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentle-
woman from Illinois (Ms. KELLY), who
is the chair of the Congressional Black
Caucus’ Health Braintrust, someone
who is a member of the House Energy
and Commerce Committee and also a
member of the Oversight and Reform
Subcommittee on National Security
and Subcommittee on Civil Rights and
Civil Liberties.
Congresswoman ROBIN KELLY has
helped put together this bill and helped
make sure that we put provisions in for
data collection and all of the informa-
tion that we know we need to be able
to target these resources.
So thank you, Congresswoman ROBIN
KELLY, for being here tonight and for
helping us.
Ms. KELLY of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to challenge this Congress to
act to end the shocking health dispari-
ties that COVID–19 has put on display.
To date, nearly 250,000 Americans have
lost their lives to COVID–19 and more
than 10 million have been infected. And
these numbers are still rising.
Shocking, but not surprisingly, a dis-
proportionate number, as you have
heard, of those who fought and those
who fought and lost battles with
COVID–19 have been people of color.
Once again, another public health cri-
sis has taken an oversized toll on Black
Americans, Latinx Americans, Asian
and Pacific Americans, and Native
Americans.
COVID–19 is simply the latest in a
long list of diseases, including cancer,
addiction, HIV/AIDS, maternal mor-
tality, diabetes, cardiovascular condi-
tions, and on and on and on, with a dis-
proportionate impact on communities
of color.
Why does this continue to be the case
in America, the greatest, richest, most
powerful country in the history of our
world?
The answer is simple: health dispari-
ties.
In America, despite all of our tech-
nology and pledges to equity, the ZIP
Code in which you are born is nearly
inescapable as a determinant of your
life, your health, and, yes, even your
death.
In Chicago, part of my district, life
expectancy varies up to 30 years by
neighborhood. The pattern is the same
across most American communities.
But what are the social determinants
of health, or, as I like to say, the social
determinants of life?
In short, they are all of the nonmed-
ical factors that impact your health,
the things you don’t necessarily see a
doctor for, such as not having ample
fresh food and vegetables in your diet
because there aren’t any grocery stores
in your community; missing routine
preventive care, such as cancer
screenings, because seeing the doctor
means getting up at 4 a.m., taking two
buses, and missing a day of work or
school.
It means worrying about manganese
or lead poisoning in the air you
breathe, the water you drink, or the
playground where your child plays.
It means dealing with stress, anxiety,
and depression from housing insta-
bility on top of a recession and pan-
demic.
All of these factors decide our lives,
our health, and, tragically, again, our
death. So many of these factors are out
of one’s individual control, including
environmental factors, the location of
medical facilities, discriminatory hous-
ing policy, and discrimination and so
forth.
We all know these factors have been
with us for a long time. They have been
undermining our health and the health
of generations of Americans for cen-
turies.
As we work on these issues, I am con-
tinuously reminded of a quote from Dr.
King: ‘‘Of all of the forms of inequality,
injustice in healthcare is the most
shocking and inhumane.’’
Despite 70 years passing and amazing
technological and societal advance-
ment since he spoke these words, injus-
tice in healthcare, of all of the forms of
inequality, still remains the most
shocking and inhumane.
Right now, we are seeing parallel
COVID–19 pandemics: one in wealthier,
whiter communities, and a much
harsher one in vulnerable communities
of color.
But this is America. There shouldn’t
be a two-tiered system, because when
it comes to public health, we are all in
this together.
The only solution is to root out
health disparities at their source. We
must end systemic racism and a lack of
opportunities for low-income and mi-
nority communities.
To address these issues in healthcare,
my colleague and mentor, Congress-
woman BARBARA LEE, has introduced
the COVID Community Care Act, H.R.
8192. This legislation, which I am proud
to support and my office helped de-
velop, will provide grants for commu-
nity-based organizations and non-
profits to conduct testing, tracing, and
outreach activities in communities.
Given the number and rates of
COVID–19, we know that these re-
sources are most urgently needed in
communities of color. I believe this
legislation is central to making health
equity a cornerstone of our Nation’s
immediate pandemic response. I am
proud to be an original cosponsor of
this important and immediate-acting
legislation.
Additionally, I have introduced the
Ending Health Disparities During
COVID–19 Act, H.R. 8200, which pro-
vides a sweeping approach to address-
ing the widening health disparities
from COVID–19. It tackles the imme-
diate-term needs of testing, tracing,
and public awareness from COVID–19.
But just as crucially, the bill makes
long-term investments to build a
stronger system to reduce and elimi-
nate health inequities in the future via
investments in the social determinants
of health, technology, research, work-
force diversity, and community health
centers and workers.
Lastly, H.R. 8200 makes our govern-
ment accountable for progress on
health equity by creating a Federal
task force with oversight over health
disparities during COVID–19 and be-
yond and protects the Office of Minor-
ity Health. That is a long list to do,
but it is all desperately needed.
I truly feel that this long-term ap-
proach, combined with strict account-
ability for health disparities, is exactly
what this moment calls for. For the
first time, many Americans are waking
up to the reality faced by communities
of color, a reality that the Tri-Caucus
and our fellow Members of Congress,
such as champions like Representative
BARBARA LEE, are working to address.
We need to harness this rightful out-
rage and catalyze it into action. We
need to make this the last pandemic to
have a disproportionate impact on any
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:08 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16NO7.044 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5754 November 16, 2020
American community, because the fact
is Americans deserve a public health
system that works for all Americans.
We deserve to live in one America, not
an unequal America with worse health
outcomes for Black and Brown people.
We all deserve healthcare because
healthcare is a human right, yet it is
not easily won. It must be fought for.
As Frederick Douglass taught us:
‘‘Power concedes nothing without a de-
mand. It never did and it never will.’’
The only path forward is for us to de-
mand it.
b 2045
We demand action to end health dis-
parities once and for all. We must do
this by passing the COVID Community
Care Act, H.R. 8192; and Ending Health
Disparities during the COVID–19 Act,
H.R. 8200.
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker, I
thank Congresswoman KELLY for lay-
ing out actually what the social deter-
minants of healthcare are. Oftentimes,
we see that as separate from
healthcare, but you laid it out per-
fectly, so thank you for educating us
tonight.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentle-
woman from Texas (Ms. JACKSON LEE),
who is a member of the Judiciary Com-
mittee, but also is a member of the
Congressional Black Caucus and the
Congressional Native American Cau-
cus. I know Congresswoman JACKSON
LEE’s district in Texas is ravaged by
this COVID pandemic, so I want to
thank her for helping us with our
COVID Community Care Act and for
being here tonight.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank very much the distinguished
manager, the honorable BARBARA LEE.
I am most grateful for her yielding to
me. Also, let me acknowledge the very
important work that she has done over
the years in disparities and racial eq-
uity. I thank her for being my partner
in H.R. 40, and me her partner in H.
Res. 100, that really also speaks to the
pain and the issues of disparities.
We look forward to reconciliation
and we look forward to repair with
those two initiatives. Let me also ac-
knowledge the chair of the Congres-
sional Black Caucus for gathering us
all together, and my colleagues that
are here, and my colleague that has
just joined us, Congresswoman ADAMS.
Let me try to address where we are
nationwide and how disparities weaves
its way into this phenomenon of the
transfer of power—the peaceful trans-
fer of power—and how the President’s
status of the President-elect and Vice
President-elect is interwoven in how to
best respond to one of the disparities in
healthcare, and that is COVID–19.
Mr. Speaker, first to take note of the
fact that the stability of the United
States electoral system is remarkable,
it first involved the election of 1800,
which marked the first time in United
States history that power was trans-
ferred. The second was the 1876 elec-
tion, which the President was chosen,
who won neither the absolute majority
popular vote nor the necessary elec-
toral votes, but it was resolved by the
infamous Hayes-Tilden Compromise.
The third instance involved the 2000
election, which sought the Supreme
Court effectively deciding the Presi-
dency. But in each of those moments
there was an end. In each of those mo-
ments there was a transfer of power.
We find ourselves now in a quandary.
Believe it or not, there are people who
are on ventilators. There are people in
El Paso and Dallas who are in hos-
pitals, who are being negatively im-
pacted by the idea of the lack of peace-
ful engagement, specifically because
the President-elect and Vice President-
elect definitively need to be able to se-
cure information to have their COVID–
19 task force speak with the White
House task force to understand pro-
spectively how vaccines will be trans-
ferred or implemented throughout the
Nation.
So as people are languishing on hos-
pital beds, as loved ones are saying
goodbye over telephones, we have this
inability to transfer power. Our history
has shown the transfer of power in the
Nation. It was designed as a benefit. It
can be harmed when the transition is
not smooth and transparent, which can
be invariably attributed to one or more
of the following reasons.
The outgoing President is still en-
gaged in the building of his or her leg-
acy in the final months of the adminis-
tration; two, there are sharp dif-
ferences in philosophy or style between
the outgoing and incoming administra-
tion; or the current or future President
actively makes trouble for his or her
successor.
In this timeframe, I hope my col-
leagues, Republicans and Democrats,
will find a way, as we come back to
Washington, to be able to look to the
transition of Dwight D. Eisenhower
and John F. Kennedy, for example, and
speak to the idea of how this should go;
or maybe even from Lyndon Baines
Johnson and Richard Nixon, opposite
parties, but yet they found a way to
come together in the wake of the im-
portance of the Constitution and de-
mocracy.
Why would I start a health dispari-
ties discussion on the transfer of
power?
As I indicated, it is very important
for the work that is going to be part of
containing COVID–19 to really start
now, to really start now with a new at-
titude about wearing masks, socially
distance, washing your hands, and yes,
testing, testing, testing.
That is what I have found as a chair
of the bipartisan Congressional COVID
Task Force where we have been work-
ing on doing the work of implementing
and talking about the diagnostic test-
ing and all its gradations over the past
couple of months.
Our first testing site in Houston was
opened on March 19. We have opened 41
test sites. The most recent was this
past Saturday. We open the 42nd on
this coming Saturday. The question in
disparities is very, very real. The
pandemics dealing with racial dispari-
ties indicates that there are 74 Black
or African-American persons out of
100,000 impacted by COVID; Alaska Na-
tive and American Indian, 40; Hispanic
or Latino, 40; Asian, 31; White, 30; Na-
tive Hawaiian, 29; others, 29.
We can see that there are large num-
bers of African Americans, Hispanic,
and American Indian. We just heard
that the Navajo community will be
shutting down for a period of time.
That is how devastating COVID–19 is.
That is how much the disparities in
healthcare are evident.
Let me share with you this question
of disparities and underlying condi-
tions. Those are numbers of the num-
ber of deaths. So the number of deaths
is much higher among African Ameri-
cans and Hispanics.
Why?
Thirty percent more likely to die of
CVD—that is cardiovascular disease—
that is Black Americans. Latin Ameri-
cans, 40 percent more likely to die from
stroke. And then it goes on. Two times
as likely to die as an infant, two times
more likely to die of asthma, three
times more likely to develop ESRD,
two times more likely to die from pros-
tate cancer, two times on cervical can-
cer, three times in pregnancy. There is
still a high level of maternal mortality
among African Americans.
As it relates to Latin Americans and
Hispanics, two times more likely to die
of liver cancer, two times more likely
to die of asthma, 1.7 more times to
have diabetes, and two times more
likely to die of HIV-AIDS. Which is
why we see this increasing number of
those on that ethnic backgrounds, Afri-
can Americans, Hispanics and, of
course, Native Americans and Alas-
kans, because of the underlying condi-
tions and the lack of access to
healthcare.
We are on this floor today because, as
members of the Tri-Caucus, we have
made it our constructive business,
starting from the Affordable Care Act,
to deal with the question of health dis-
parities. As a Member of Congress
many years back, I authored legisla-
tion to create an Office of Health Dis-
parities in the Health and Human Serv-
ices Department, knowing that there
was a lack of recognition of different
clinicals that African Americans were
not participating in, men and women.
Hispanic men and women were not par-
ticipating in those as well.
In the course of the work that we are
doing right now, we are seeing a high
number of deaths. Texas hit 1 million
cases on November 6. We were the first
State to hit 1 million cases. Now, in
Dallas and El Paso, my sister cities,
my colleagues who are there working
very hard, our hospitals are being over-
saturated. The same thing that hap-
pened to Houston, Texas, in July of
2020.
And so it is crucial to do three
things: One, we must pass the Heroes
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:08 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16NO7.046 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5755
November 16, 2020
Act. We are desperate for that money
in testing, desperate for PPPs, des-
perate for PPEs. We are now running
out of PPEs in some of these saturated
towns. We are desperate, as I said, for
testing. We are desperate for economic
dollars that are needed.
Every testing site that I have had—
most of them, let me clarify that, we
have had full distribution by our Hous-
ton Food Bank, because people need
food. And as evidenced with lines in my
sister State, just a day or two ago in
Los Angeles, we saw cars and cars and
cars of individuals recognizing that
testing was crucial.
I believe that we cannot ignore any-
more. There must be cooperation with
our Republican friends, I will call
them, to deal with providing this finan-
cial relief to our cities and to all of our
constituents who are desperately in
need. We must acknowledge the health
disparities. It is important both in the
White House task force, we know that
it is happening in the COVID task force
under the President-elect and Vice
President-elect, that health disparities
can kill.
And we can see that the lack of a
transition of power right at this time,
the continued denial of who has been
the victor, so that the General Services
Administration can stop violating the
administrative procedure code in not
allowing the resources necessary for
the team that is now in place looking
to transition to power with the exist-
ing Presidency being stopped, not by
law, not by any determination that you
did not meet the standard of victory in
terms of the Electoral College, but by
an individual administrator who indi-
cates that they refuse to certify and to
allow that transfer of funds for them to
work on.
So I thank the gentlewoman for al-
lowing me to present today, to speak
both on the disparities and the needs
for response, but also on the dev-
astating impact of COVID–19 impacting
now several States.
Mr. Speaker, I want to close on this.
I want to say it to America. We are
coming on our holidays, and many dif-
ferent faiths celebrate their holidays
during this time, from Thanksgiving
to, in the Christian faith, Christmas,
but many different faiths. I am not
here to judge how and which faith will
be celebrating this very special time of
the year. We beg of you, on the basis of
science, to realize that because some-
one is your family member does not
mean that they are immune or that
they cannot transfer COVID to you, or
they are not asymptomatic. My mes-
sage is that we must test, test, test.
Today, I had a press conference in
Houston, and I want to read these
words as I close. I would encourage all
cities and States to follow what was
utilized in Los Angeles. It was effec-
tive. And that is a public safety alert.
A public safety alert that is simple,
that goes out to the text of all citizens.
COVID–19 cases are increasing.
Please wear a mask and social dis-
tance. Get tested if you have symptoms
or might have been exposed. I would
add to that, get tested because you
may be asymptomatic. That simple
note to the text of people in that State
allowed thousands of individuals to see
the importance of getting tested, and
they went to the testing sites. That is
going to help contain and stop the
community spread.
So my message is, as you get into
Thanksgiving, please do your events
outside. If you are inside, doing them
10 or less. Please ask all of your rel-
atives and loved ones to get tested,
tested, tested, so that we can contain
this preceding the vaccine, which we
know is coming, but is not coming as
soon as we would like.
We also know that we will be ad-
dressing the question of implementa-
tion and distribution as it relates to
people of color and those who suffer
disparities, along with the elderly and
those underlying conditions.
You will not get a vaccine tomorrow.
While we are waiting for that process,
we need to do what is right. And that
is to continue to social distance, wear-
ing the mask and getting tested.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentle-
woman for her kindness and her leader-
ship.
Mr. Speaker, today I rise to join my col-
leagues during this Special Order to shed light
on the impact of COVID–19 on communities of
color.
I want to recognize and thank Congress-
woman KAREN BASS and the Congressional
Black Caucus for hosting this hour, so that we
may not only speak about the disproportionate
impact of the coronavirus on communities of
color but also call upon the federal govern-
ment to address these devastating inequities.
Mr. Speaker, before addressing the dev-
astating impact of the COVID–19 crisis on
communities of color, I wish to speak briefly
on the important subject of presidential transi-
tions and the peaceful transfer of power for
which the United States is justly celebrated
around the world.
The stability of the United States electoral
system is remarkable, but this does not mean
it has never been tested; it has—three times—
and weathered each crisis.
The first involved the election of 1800,
which marked the first time in United States
history that power had transferred peacefully
between political parties.
The second involved the 1876 election, in
which a president was chosen who won nei-
ther the absolute majority popular vote nor the
necessary number of electoral votes and was
resolved by the infamous ‘Hayes-Tilden Com-
promise,’ which effectively ended Reconstruc-
tion.
The third instance involved the 2000 elec-
tion which saw the Supreme Court effectively
decide the presidency by ordering the ces-
sation of ballot counting in the state of Florida.
Mr. Speaker, what enabled the country to
weather these crises is that all parties, includ-
ing the victor and the vanquished, understood
and accepted the primacy of the rule of law
and the bedrock democratic value that power
is only legitimately conveyed by the people
through their votes and is held in trust and to
be used exclusively to protect and advance
the national interest.
A peaceful transfer of power implies also a
smooth and seamless transition from outgoing
administration to the incoming one, which has
usually but not always been the case.
Our history has shown how the transfer of
power, and the nation it was designed to ben-
efit, can be harmed when the transition is not
smooth and transparent, which can invariably
be attributed to one or more of the following
reasons: (1) the outgoing president is still en-
gaged in the business of building his or her
legacy in the final months of the administra-
tion; (2) there are sharp differences in philos-
ophy or style between the outgoing and in-
coming administrations; or (3) the current or
future president actively makes trouble for his
successor or predecessor.
The transition between President Dwight D.
Eisenhower and the newly elected John F.
Kennedy is an example of the dangers of
presidential legacy building post-election be-
cause Eisenhower authorized covert programs
for regime change in what is today the Demo-
cratic Republic of the Congo, in the Dominican
Republic, and, most famously, against Fidel
Castro’s Cuba but none of these programs
were completed by the time Kennedy took the
oath of office.
The second form of trouble can come from
the soon-to-be-powerful people on the receiv-
ing end of a transition, as when incoming
President George W. Bush failed to pay due
heed to the warnings received from then
President Bill Clinton about the dangers of
Osama Bin Laden and Al Qaeda.
But far the most serious harm to be avoided
stems from the failure of the outgoing adminis-
tration to prioritize and expedite the sharing of
vital information and resources with the incom-
ing administration.
This is the danger we currently face in the
aftermath of President-elect Biden’s resound-
ing victory in the Electoral College and the
popular vote.
Mr. Speaker, the federal government is per-
haps the most complex organization in the
world because it involves a $5 trillion-plus
budget, four million person workforce, includ-
ing the military and reservists, who are sta-
tioned all over the globe, and two million ca-
reer civil servants in hundreds of operating
units of the Executive Branch, not to mention
the 4,000 political appointments made by the
President.
So, a presidential transition of this enter-
prise is a massive operation that requires a lot
of work, time, and cooperation in three impor-
tant areas.
The first is access to the agencies them-
selves—there are over 100 operating in the
government—and the incoming team needs to
understand what’s happening inside them be-
cause each and every one of them have dif-
ferent urgent issues that they are addressing
and deciding, including for example, the ap-
proval and distribution of any vaccine for
COVID–19 and dealing with the economic
damage caused by the pandemic.
The second area is the processing of per-
sonnel, 1,200 of whom require Senate con-
firmation and who will need security clear-
ances and financial agreements with the Of-
fice of Government Ethics to make sure there
are no conflicts.
Third, the incoming President must have ac-
cess to the President’s Daily Brief, to ensure
it has awareness and understanding of the
most current threats and challenges facing our
nation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:08 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K16NO7.048 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5756 November 16, 2020
The final area is providing funding needed
to pay the salaries and expenses of the in-
coming administration’s transition personnel.
I call upon the current President to honor
his oath of office to defend, protect, and pre-
serve the Constitution and America’s sacred
tradition of peaceful transfers of power and
begin the full and seamless transition to the
Biden Administration.
Turning to the immediate subject at hand,
we must recognize the impact of COVID–19
on people of color and its devastating con-
sequences on the communities we represent.
As a Founding Member of the Bipartisan
Congressional Coronavirus Task Force, I call
upon my fellow Members of Congress to not
only recognize the disproportionate impact of
this virus on communities of color but also to
come together to redress this reality.
I first saw news reports on the rapid spread
of the coronavirus in early January.
As the numbers of infected increased, I
knew this was not something to be taken light-
ly, so I began to monitor the situation more
closely.
On February 10, 2020, I held the first press
conference on the issue of the novel
coronavirus at Houston Intercontinental Air-
port, where I was joined by public health offi-
cials, local unions, and advocates to raise
awareness regarding the virus, the implica-
tions it might have for travel to the United
States from China, and the need to combat
early signs of discrimination targeting Asian
businesses in the United States.
From the onset of this pandemic, I have ac-
tively worked to address the negative and un-
equal affects of this disease on people of
color.
I have facilitated the opening of 41 COVID–
19 testing sites, which have collectively pro-
vided over 200,000 tests to residents in Harris
County, one of the most diverse counties in
the state of Texas.
Across the United States, Black individuals
comprise thirteen percent of the population.
Yet, we experience a higher rate of incar-
ceration and health disparities, are more vul-
nerable to economic slowdowns, and are even
more likely to get COVID–19 and face signifi-
cantly worse health outcomes from the dis-
ease.
Disparities tell the story of living while Black
in America, and there are disparities in every
aspect of African American life and death.
Right now, Black people are dying at 2.2
times the rate and Latinx people at two times
the rate of white people.
Whereas American Indian and Alaska Na-
tive people are 5.3 times more likely than
white people to be hospitalized due to
COVID–19.
My district of Harris County has reported
over 175,000 total cases of coronavirus, of
which over 17,300 identify as Black and over
37,700 identify as Hispanic or Latinx.
From a high prevalence of preexisting con-
ditions to limited employment opportunities to
additional structural inequities that are the re-
sult of implicit bias and racial discrimination,
there are several factors at play for why com-
munities of color are disproportionately af-
fected by the coronavirus,
For example, the African American commu-
nity is known to be highly affected by pre-
existing conditions, such as diabetes, heart
disease, hypertension, lung disease, and obe-
sity.
With these underlying health conditions,
many African Americans suffer from an im-
paired immune system, thereby dramatically
increasing the risk of being infected with and
the fatality of the coronavirus.
Limited employment opportunities also play
a role in understanding why people of color
are most affected by this disease.
According to the Center for Economic and
Policy Research, Black workers make up
about one in nine workers overall, but they
represent about one in six front-line-industry
workers, further increasing the dispropor-
tionate likelihood of being exposed to and con-
tracting the virus.
These disparities cannot be separated from
the history of enslavement of Black people
and subsequent periods of segregation,
racialized violence, pervasive racial discrimina-
tion and their ongoing impacts.
With that in mind, I urge my colleagues to
support my bill, H.R. 40, the Commission to
Study and Develop Reparation Proposals for
African-Americans Act, as it is the most com-
prehensive legislative solution to begin repair-
ing the legacy of systemic racism and ac-
counting for the harms of past and present.
Mr. Speaker, it is abundantly clear that peo-
ple across the United States are struggling in
the face of this epidemic.
As Members of Congress, we have a duty
to our constituents to address this vicious
cycle of socioeconomic disparities that further
the inequities facing communities of color, es-
pecially during the COVID–19 crisis.
We must come together to ensure that
COVID–19 relief extends to all members of
our communities.
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman from Texas for
using this opportunity to deliver a very
powerful public health message also. I
also would just note a personal privi-
lege. I was born and raised in El Paso,
Texas, and my heart goes out to all of
those who are suffering from this ter-
rible deadly pandemic.
Mr. Speaker, I want to salute our col-
league, Congresswoman VERONICA
ESCOBAR, for being such a tremendous
leader in El Paso in trying to help on
the ground with taking care of people
and preventing the transition of the
virus.
I thank Congresswoman JACKSON LEE
again.
Mr. Speaker, I now yield to the gen-
tlewoman from North Carolina (Ms.
ADAMS), a member of the Committee
on Education and Labor, whose mission
in life, I think, is to make sure that
our young people are educated and re-
ceive the best quality education
through the Historically Black Col-
leges and Universities, and at the same
time make sure that their health and
safety is a top priority issue for their
health and their safety.
b 2100
Ms. ADAMS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentlewoman for yielding and for
her leadership. I thank, as well, the
Chair of the Congressional Black Cau-
cus for getting us together tonight.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today as the
founder and co-chair of the Black Ma-
ternal Health Caucus.
I want to take this time to speak
briefly about the impact of COVID–19
on the Black community, communities
of color, and pregnant women.
For the past 8 months, our country
has been battling this incredibly dead-
ly virus. It is a national public health
crisis unlike any we have experienced.
And it has highlighted the existing ra-
cial health disparities that our commu-
nities were already facing.
The data does not lie. We know that
people of color are experiencing signifi-
cantly higher rates of infections and
deaths compared to White individuals.
Black people are more than twice as
likely to die from COVID–19 as White
people, and the mortality rate for Na-
tive Americans is nearly two times
that of White persons.
Researchers have also found that
Black and Hispanic people are nearly
three times as likely to contract
COVID–19 and nearly two times as like-
ly to die from COVID–19.
This month, a CDC morbidity and
mortality weekly report found that
pregnant women are at increased risk
for severe illness from COVID–19.
Since January 22, more than 38,000
pregnant women have been diagnosed
with COVID–19 in the United States, of
which 51 have died.
The study found that pregnant
women are more likely to be admitted
to the intensive care unit, receive
invasive ventilation, and are at in-
creased risk of death compared to
White, nonpregnant women.
But much remains unknown.
But what we do know is that before
the pandemic Black and Brown moth-
ers were already dying at alarming and
unacceptable rates.
In particular, Black women from all
walks of life were three and four times
more likely to die from pregnancy-re-
lated complications than White
women.
According to the CDC data, Latina
women account for nearly 50 percent of
COVID–19 cases among pregnant
women.
And these numbers indicate the dev-
astating effects of the pandemic on the
minority community.
A recent study also showed that
Black and Latina women in Philadel-
phia who are pregnant were five times
more likely to be exposed to the new
coronavirus than White pregnant
women.
Physicians in Washington, DC, said
that anecdotally they were also seeing
similar patterns, according to an Au-
gust report in the Washington Post.
As Congresswoman LEE and I have
continued to say since the start of the
pandemic, we are facing a crisis within
a crisis. And that is why I have been
working closely with healthcare pro-
viders, stakeholders, to provide a com-
prehensive plan for eliminating these
racial health disparities, especially
during the pandemic.
We must improve access to screening
and treatment for women at risk for
preterm birth;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:08 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.019 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5757
November 16, 2020
Ensure that all women have access to
high quality maternity care, no matter
where they live;
And provide access to midwives or
doulas that can advocate for families’
needs throughout pregnancy, labor,
and delivery.
This summer I introduced the
COVID–19 Bias and Anti-Racism Train-
ing Act to provide grants for hospitals
and healthcare providers for implicit
bias training, particularly in light of
COVID–19.
We all have our unconscious bias, and
it is important for our healthcare pro-
viders to be more aware of those issues
as they are providing care to patients
during the pandemic.
We need to invest in programs that
help families meet their basic needs,
including nutrition assistance, housing
assistance, and other social supports.
Last, but certainly not least, we
must improve the quality of the data
being collected and ensure diversity
among stakeholders that serve on mor-
tality review committees.
If we don’t stand together to address
these inequities, Black and Brown
mothers, our families, our friends, and
our communities will continue to suf-
fer.
I hope this Congress will stand to-
gether to ensure that our communities,
our mothers, our babies have the re-
sources they need—not only to survive
this pandemic, but to thrive and truly
build back stronger.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentle-
woman from California for her leader-
ship.
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker, I
thank Congresswoman ALMA ADAMS for
that very clear statement and I thank
her for outlining the interconnection
and the intersection between systemic
racism and the social determinants of
healthcare and how they impact the
underlying conditions and exacerbate
it now as seen in COVID–19. I thank
Congresswoman ADAMS again for her
leadership.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentle-
woman from Pennsylvania (Ms. SCAN-
LON), who certainly knows the serious
and devastating impact of this COVID
pandemic in her district. I visited her
district and understand how close she
is to her nonprofits and her commu-
nity-based organizations who are doing
phenomenal work.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Congresswoman
SCANLON very much for being here.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentlewoman for arranging this
Special Order hour.
I stand before you today frustrated
by the lack of Federal relief as COVID–
19 surges across the country. With each
day that we don’t have relief for fami-
lies, businesses, our frontline workers,
and the State and local governments
that have borne the brunt of the pan-
demic response, its impact grows that
much more disastrous—and dispropor-
tionately so for our communities of
color.
More than a quarter of my constitu-
ents are Black, and we now know that
Black individuals are almost three
times as likely to become infected with
COVID–19 as White individuals and
twice as likely to die of the virus. So
over the past 9 months my district has
seen families and neighborhoods dev-
astated by this virus.
My district is also home to our Na-
tion’s poorest and hungriest major
city. When you live paycheck to pay-
check, one missed shift or even missing
an hour’s worth of work forces families
to make impossible decisions between
putting food on the table or keeping a
roof overhead, and it makes quaran-
tining impossible.
For the most part these are not new
challenges caused by COVID–19, these
are challenges that have been plaguing
our most marginalized communities
and communities of color for decades.
But the pandemic has exacerbated and
laid bare these inequities for all who
care enough to see. It is why we must
provide relief to help our communities
survive the pandemic and commit to
closing the gaps preexisting the pan-
demic that have been holding families
back for far too long.
Our families are in crisis. They need
stimulus checks to pay their rent and
mortgages. They need access to free
testing to protect themselves and their
families. They also need food and
childcare and access to equitable edu-
cation, housing, healthcare, and wages.
This pandemic has shown us there is
a roadmap to improving the lives of
millions of Americans, especially our
communities of color, but we must
have the courage to follow it.
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker, I
thank Congresswoman SCANLON for
joining us tonight with our Tri-Caucus
and Congressional Black Caucus, be-
cause so many of the issues that you
are talking about in your district as it
relates to COVID and health disparities
and the social determinants we all are
dealing with in our districts, and so
thank you for your leadership and for
continuing to help us get this Heroes
Act passed so that we can do some of
the things that you laid out that our
communities deserve.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
the following statements from the
Leadership Conference on Civil and
Human Rights, the National Indian
Health Board, the Asian Health Serv-
ices, and UnidosUS.
STATEMENT FOR THE RECORD: LEADERSHIP
CONFERENCE ON CIVIL AND HUMAN RIGHTS
On behalf of the Leadership Conference on
Civil and Human Rights, I submit this testi-
mony for the record.
No matter what we look like, where we
live, or what is in our wallets, getting sick
reminds us that at our core we are all the
same. But we cannot ignore the pandemic’s
disproportionate and devastating impact on
Black and Brown people, Native Americans,
low-income people, people with disabilities,
the elderly, women, and immigrant commu-
nities. Through health and education dis-
parities, income inequality, discrimination
in voting and housing, unequal treatment
within the legal system, and the digital di-
vide, communities of color have been rou-
tinely locked out and left behind—and sadly,
as we have seen in increased hate violence
and in far worse health outcomes for people
of color, this pandemic is no different.
This pandemic calls for the enactment of
policies and sufficient funding to protect
low- and moderate-income people from eco-
nomic disaster and to meet the urgent needs
of the most vulnerable people in our nation.
Communities that have already been
marginalized by structural barriers to equal
opportunities and who have low levels of
wealth are particularly vulnerable during
this current emergency. While many work-
ing people have been sidelined, many others
are still providing essential services during
the crisis—working at our grocery stores, de-
livering mail and packages, and providing
care to vulnerable people—putting their
lives at risk, often at reduced hours and
wages, to keep our country running. The on-
going crisis has laid bare the structural rac-
ism and barriers to opportunity that are en-
trenched in our society, and our collective
actions now must not worsen them.
STATEMENT FOR THE RECORD: NATIONAL
INDIAN HEALTH BOARD
On behalf of the National Indian Health
Board (NIHB) and the 574 sovereign Tribal
Nations we serve, I submit this testimony
for the record.
American Indian and Alaska Native (AI/
AN) Tribal communities have been dis-
proportionately impacted by the COVID–19
pandemic. No sector of Tribal economies or
health systems have been spared from the
devastation this crisis has unleashed. We are
now, as of this writing, seven months in the
throes of an unparalleled pandemic. While
we may not have been able to prevent the
outbreak of COVID–19, we absolutely could
have mitigated the worst of its impacts—es-
pecially in Indian Country. But unfortu-
nately, our Tribes are, once again, battling a
catastrophic, unprecedented, once-in-a-life-
time disease without the necessary federal
relief funds and resources to protect and pre-
serve life.
Since June of this year alone, NIHB has
submitted seventeen letters to Congress urg-
ing immediate action and passage of emer-
gency stimulus funds for the Indian health
system to better respond to COVID–19. We
solemnly await congressional action. We
have consistently urged long-term reauthor-
ization of the Special Diabetes Program for
Indians (SDPI), vital to Tribal efforts to
mitigate the spread of COVID–19 by pre-
venting, treating, and managing one of the
strongest risk factors for a more serious
COVID–19 illness: type II diabetes. We sol-
emnly await congressional action. We have
demanded that Congress work to fulfill Trea-
ty obligations to Tribal Nations and Native
people by ensuring congressional COVID–19
relief funds are on par with the recommenda-
tions outlined by Tribal leaders and health
experts. We solemnly await congressional ac-
tion. We have urged that burdensome admin-
istrative requirements for accessing federal
grants and programs be eliminated to ensure
expeditious delivery of relief resources. We
solemnly await congressional action. We
have urged that Congress not subject the In-
dian health system to a destabilizing con-
tinuing resolution (CR) as it continues to
combat against an unparalleled pandemic; or
to, at the least, attach emergency COVID–19
appropriations for IHS to the CR to mitigate
the pain and disruption. Again, we solemnly
await congressional action.
To be clear, we continue to appreciate the
commitment and leadership of members of
Congress in working to advance Tribal
health priorities in response to COVID–19.
But the Tribes require action from all of
Congress on those commitments. On Sep-
tember 10, NIHB was joined by the National
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:08 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16NO7.050 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5758 November 16, 2020
Congress of American Indians and the Na-
tional Council of Urban Indian Health in a
letter to congressional leadership urging im-
mediate action on the priorities listed below.
These priorities have remained intact since
early summer, as Indian Country continues
to bear the brunt of this extraordinary cri-
sis. In short, these priorities have not
changed because the situation in Indian
Country remains just as dire. Once again, we
solemnly await congressional action.
TRIBAL COVID–19 PRIORITIES
Minimum $2 billion in emergency funds to
IHS for immediate distribution to I/T/U sys-
tem.
$1.7 billion to replenish lost 3rd party reim-
bursements across the I/T/U system.
Prioritize equitable distribution of a safe
and effective COVID–19 vaccine across Indian
Country, including a minimum 5 percent set-
aside in vaccine funds for the I/T/U system.
Minimum $1 billion for water and sanita-
tion systems across IHS and Tribal commu-
nities.
Long-term reauthorization (5 years), high-
er funding, and expansion of self-determina-
tion and self-governance for the Special Dia-
betes Program for Indians.
COVID–19 UPDATES
The last time NIHB appeared before this
Subcommittee was June 10, 2020. Since that
time, the number of AI/AN COVID–19 case in-
fections reported by IHS have nearly quad-
rupled. Similarly, the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention (CDC) reported a
roughly 22 percent increase in COVID–19 hos-
pitalization rates among AI/ANs—increasing
from a rate of 272 per 100,000 in mid-July to
347.7 per 100,000 as of September 12, 2020.
Rates of death from COVID–19 among AI/ANs
have more than doubled since the last time
NIHB testified before the Subcommittee—
from a rate of 36 per 100,000 on June 9 to 81.9
per 100,000 as of September 15.
In August, the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention (CDC) reported that across 23
states, cumulative incidence rates of lab-
confirmed COVID–19 cases among AI/ANs are
3.5 times higher than for non-Hispanic
Whites. Also, according to CDC, age-adjusted
rates of COVID–19 hospitalization among AI/
ANs from March 1, 2020, through August 22,
2020, were 4.7 times higher than for non-His-
panic Whites. Without sufficient additional
congressional relief sent directly to I/T/U
systems, these shocking upward trends will
more than likely continue as COVID–19 re-
strictions are eased, schools and businesses
reopen, and the potential threat of a more
severe flu season coincides with this pan-
demic. State-specific data further dem-
onstrate the vast inequities in COVID–19
deaths between AI/ANs and the general popu-
lation. Below are a few examples of these
state-specific disparities based on NIHB’s
analysis of state-specific data.
In Arizona, AI/ANs account for 5.5 percent
of the population, but 13.4 percent of COVID–
19 deaths.
In New Mexico, AI/ANs account for 10.7
percent of the population, but nearly 57 per-
cent of COVID–19 deaths.
In Montana, AI/ANs account for 8.2 percent
of the population, but 27 percent of COVID–
19 deaths.
In South Dakota, AI/ANs account for 10.4
percent of the population, but nearly 23 per-
cent of COVID–19 deaths.
In North Dakota, AI/ANs account for 6.5
percent of the population, but 13.3 percent of
COVID–19 deaths.
In Mississippi, AI/ANs account for less
than 1 percent of the population, but 3 per-
cent of COVID–19 deaths.
Even more alarming is the lack of com-
plete data on COVID–19 outcomes among AI/
ANs. Available COVID–19 data already high-
light significant disparities between AI/ANs
and the general population; shockingly, true
estimates of disease burden and death result-
ing from COVID–19 in Indian Country are
likely much higher. In CDC’s own August
2020 report on COVID–19 in Indian Country,
the authors noted the following:
This analysis represents an underestimate
of the actual COVID–19 incidence among AI/
AN persons for several reasons. Reporting of
detailed case data to CDC by states is known
to be incomplete; therefore, this analysis
was restricted to 23 states with more com-
plete reporting of race and ethnicity. As a
result, the analysis included only one half of
reported laboratory-confirmed COVID–19
cases among AI/AN persons nationwide, and
the examined states represent approximately
one third of the national AI/AN population.
In addition, AI/AN persons are commonly
misclassified as non-AI/AN races and
ethnicities in epidemiologic and administra-
tive data sets, leading to an underestimation
of AI/AN morbidity and mortality.
Indeed, there are multiple states that still
have a significant percentage of COVID–19
cases missing critical demographic data. In
California for instance, a whopping 31 per-
cent of cases are still missing race and eth-
nicity. The State of New York has failed to
report AI/AN data altogether—listing only
Hispanic, Black, White, Asian, or Other on
their COVID–19 data dashboards.
Meanwhile, the Special Diabetes Program
for Indians (SDPI)—instrumental for COVID–
19 response efforts in Indian Country because
it is focused on prevention, treatment, and
management of diabetes, one of the most sig-
nificant risk factors for a more serious
COVID–19 illness—has endured four short-
term extensions since last September, plac-
ing immense and undue strain on program
operations. Under the House-passed CR for
FY 2021 H.R. 8337, SDPI is extended for a
mere eleven days—its shortest reauthoriza-
tion on record. A national survey of SDPI
grantees conducted by NIHB found that
nearly 1 in 5 Tribal SDPI grantees reported
employee furloughs, including for healthcare
providers, with 81 percent of SDPI furloughs
directly linked to the economic impacts of
COVID–19 in Tribal communities. Roughly 1
in 4 programs have reported delaying essen-
tial purchases of medical equipment to treat
and monitor diabetes due to funding uncer-
tainty, and nearly half of all programs are
experiencing or anticipating cutbacks in the
availability of diabetes program services—all
under the backdrop of a pandemic that con-
tinues to overwhelm the Indian health sys-
tem.
Now, with the inevitability of a continuing
resolution (CR) through at least December
11, 2020—and the possibility of another CR
thereafter—it is even more imperative that
Congress provide emergency appropriations
to better stabilize the Indian health system.
This Subcommittee knows full well that IHS
is the only federal healthcare system that is
subject to government shutdowns and CRs.
This Subcommittee is also acutely aware of
the devastating impacts that endless CRs
have had, and will continue to have, on the
Indian health system. We commend Chair
McCollum’s leadership in introducing H.R.
1128 and Ranking Member Joyce’s strong
support for H.R. 1135—both of which would
authorize advance appropriations for IHS
and permanently insulate it from the vola-
tility of the annual appropriations process.
But in the interim, Congress must ensure a
funding fix that protects and preserves life in
Indian Country and delivers critical pan-
demic relief in recognition of federal Treaty
obligations. If Congress fails to provide suffi-
cient emergency appropriations for the In-
dian health system, a stopgap measure will
force a healthcare system serving roughly 2.6
million AI/ANs to operate during a pandemic
without an enacted budget or even adjust-
ments for rising medical and non-medical in-
flation. In short, that is a recipe for even
more disaster, death, and despair.
We patiently remind you that federal Trea-
ty obligations for healthcare to Tribal Na-
tions and AI/AN Peoples exist in perpetuity
and must be fully honored, especially in
light of the current pandemic and its unpar-
alleled toll in Indian Country. While we ap-
preciate the roughly $1 billion to IHS under
the CARES Act and the $750 million testing
set-aside under the Paycheck Protection
Program and Health Care Enhancement Act;
these investments have been necessary but
woefully insufficient to stem the tide of the
pandemic in Tribal communities.
We thank you for your continued commit-
ment to Indian Country, and as always,
stand ready to work with you in a bipartisan
fashion to advance the health of all AI/AN
people.
Sincerely,
NATIONAL INDIAN HEALTH BOARD.
STATEMENT FOR THE RECORD: ASIAN HEALTH
SERVICES
On behalf of the One Nation Commission,
Co-Chairs Sherry Hirota, CEO of Asian
Health Services, and former Congressman
Mike Honda, I submit this testimony for the
record.
The information shared, is documented in
the One Nation Commission 2020 Report: One
Nation AAPIs Rising to Fight Dual
Pandemics COVID–19 and Racism, which was
delivered to every member of Congress and
the Senate in October 2020.
The COVID–19 pandemic has hit commu-
nities of color, including AAPIs, the hardest.
In the 13th Congressional District, Alameda
County in California, AAPIs are the largest
population subgroup, comprising a diverse
and varied population, spanning every eco-
nomic stratum; essential workers and cor-
porate CEOs, Nobel Laureates and students
on the broken side of the digital divide, re-
searchers and doctors, janitors and food serv-
ers, and new immigrants all contributing to
society in this time of crisis.
By the time COVID–19 was declared a glob-
al pandemic and national emergency, the
Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI)
Community had already gone underground.
Fear of the virus was compounded by a sud-
den and virulent rise in hate and violence
against Asians. Racist taunting by our coun-
try’s top leader calling Covid–19 ‘‘Kung Flu,’’
and ‘‘China Virus,’’ used the pandemic and
its economic destruction to scapegoat Asian
Americans across the country. Congress-
woman Lee’s own staffer was called,
‘‘COVID’’ and pelted with rocks while riding
his bike through Rock Creek Park in D.C.
Despite calls from every sector of the AAPI
Community for the president to retract his
dangerous words, the hate speak continued.
The result was a tsunami of attacks on Asian
Americans.
As COVID–19 cases spiked around the coun-
try, AAPIs were not only blamed but ap-
peared missing from the news coverage, data,
and charts. The twenty-five-year-old health
advocacy battle to ‘‘disaggregate data’’
reared its ugly head again and was now a
matter of life and death. Lumping together
information about ethnic and language
groups obstructs effective epidemiology and
care. In the big picture, the absence of data
ensures invisibility for AAPIs as a whole,
and each subpopulation within that designa-
tion. Missing are the number of AAPIs who
have been tested, how many tested positive,
how many are sick, or hospitalized, or have
died. We must expand the frame—to ask,
what is the impact of COVID–19 on AAPI
communities? To fill the gap a self-organized
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:08 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.023 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5759
November 16, 2020
work group of nationally renowned AAPI re-
searchers pulled data from multiple cities
and states revealing higher death rates
among Asian Americans who were Covid
positive.
Nine months into the dual pandemic of
COVID–19 and racism, the AAPI community
is fighting back against being both blamed
and ignored. The One Nation Commission is
honored to join forces with Congresswoman
Barbara Lee, Congresswoman Karen Bass,
and the Congressional Black Caucus, Con-
gressional Asian Pacific Islander American
Caucus, and individuals and organizations to
defeat COVID–19, bring back our commu-
nities stronger and healthier, combat hate
crimes against AAPIs, and work in solidarity
with the Black, Latinx and Indigenous Peo-
ple to fight systemic racism.
Hidden disparities undermine effective and
just health policy and outcomes. COVID vac-
cine allocation, for example, based
prioritization in part on inaccurate informa-
tion of disparities and vulnerabilities. Re-
cently the National Academy of Sciences re-
leased recommendations on vaccine alloca-
tion but did not name Asian Americans as a
vulnerable group. This must be immediately
rectified.
Critical to health, justice, equity, and the
opportunity for our communities to emerge
stronger than before from these dual
pandemics:
(1) Mandate disaggregated data collection
and reporting;
(2) Require linguistically and culturally
competent outreach and care;
(3) Strengthen and resource the commu-
nity health center and nonprofit safety net;
and
(4) Reverse unfair and un-American anti-
immigrant policies that endanger the public
health and public good, including Public
Charge.
Immediate next steps:
(1) Protecting and further investing in
trusted community-based organizations to
implement new programs and preserve prov-
en programs,
COVID community testing,
COVID contact tracing,
Cultural and linguistic competency,
Addressing misinformation that creates
fear and chilling effects (e.g., public charge
rule change).
(2) Expanding beyond COVID–19 outcomes
(cases and deaths) to understand full impacts
Anti-Asian hate crimes à physical and
mental health,
Mental health,
Immigration status affecting access and
utilization of services (e.g., public charge
rule change),
Other social determinants of health (occu-
pation/essential workers, living conditions,
language barriers).
(3) Data disaggregation is paramount to
identifying and addressing hidden dispari-
ties. Encourage immediate disaggregated
data collection at the local levels—testing,
cases, comorbidities, deaths,
Do not let the perfect be the enemy of the
good: Reinforce disaggregated data reporting
in public communications to create this par-
adigm shift, even with small numbers,
An example of hidden disparities: Filipinos
having even more striking death rates. In
the U.S., Filipino nurses make up 4 percent
of workforce but nearly 31.5 percent of
deaths among registered nurses.
STATEMENT FOR THE RECORD: UNIDOSUS
On behalf of UnidosUS, I submit this testi-
mony for the record.
Communities of color are putting life and
limb on the line every day to help our nation
through the COVID–19 crisis yet continue to
be overwhelmingly and disproportionately
impacted by the dire health and economic
repercussions of this pandemic.
These unprecedented and devastating
times continue to expose the appalling and
deeply unjust fault lines in our nation’s
health care system and labor force. Despite
the fact that Latinos are overrepresented in
‘‘essential’’ occupations where they are most
at risk of exposure to the coronavirus infec-
tion and are also bearing the brunt of the
economic fallout from the pandemic, they
have been consistently excluded from much
needed COVID–19 relief legislation.
Any further delay in COVID–19 relief legis-
lation will be particularly devastating to the
health and well-being of our nation’s 58 mil-
lion Latinos, far too many of whom have
been left out of the four coronavirus relief
packages enacted so far. Failure to respond
urgently to the human suffering we are wit-
nessing is deeply objectionable and, from a
public health and economic perspective,
wholly indefensible.
Latinos have long suffered from health dis-
parities—being more likely to develop chron-
ic health conditions such as diabetes, heart
disease, and obesity. Another disparity is
emerging, Latinos are contracting and dying
from COVID–19 disproportionately and are
nearly three times more likely to die com-
pared to non-Hispanic Whites.
These disparities are a result of multiple
preexisting structural and societal factors,
including a health care system that leaves
coverage out of reach of millions of Latinos.
Before the pandemic, more than 10 million
Latinos (including 1.6 million Latino chil-
dren) were uninsured, and preliminary data
now show that the Latino uninsured rate in-
creased over the course of 2020. Latinos have
also long struggled with food insecurity and
increased stressors and mental health issues,
and the pandemic has only exacerbated these
challenges.
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker,
let me take a moment to thank all of
our colleagues who joined us this
evening laying out the pandemic upon
pandemic upon pandemic in commu-
nities of color.
In all past public health crises one
recurring lesson stands out: That is,
success depends on the willingness of
people to trust the health information
that they are getting. We learned this
from the HIV and AIDS pandemic,
Ebola, H1N1, and now we are learning
it again during COVID. So this is espe-
cially true for communities of color.
This year millions of Americans have
taken to the streets to demand racial
justice. This is because the system that
exists today has failed them. We must
acknowledge the centuries old racial
and ethnic disparities, and inten-
tionally build culturally and commu-
nity-minded policies to move forward
for a stronger and unified country.
We must act swiftly. The longer com-
munities suffer from COVID–19, the
greater the long-term impact and dis-
parities. States project that their
shortfall for 2021-fiscal year will be
much deeper than the shortfalls faced
in any year of the Great Recession.
Federal Reserve economists project
that unemployment will be at 6.5 per-
cent at the end of 2021. Of course, it is
higher in communities of color. The
Congressional Budget Office projects
an even higher rate at 6.7 percent;
again, for communities of color more
than likely it is double that.
Our Nation’s workforce is dispropor-
tionately composed of communities of
color and some of the most
marginalized communities and groups.
Many are essential workers. These
workers and their families are being
put at greater risk during the
coronavirus pandemic due to the condi-
tions of their jobs and their socio-
economic realities and, mind you, the
lack of Federal response. We must pass
a COVID relief bill.
I am proud to stand before you joined
by my colleagues because I know that
this change is on the horizon. From the
sidewalks to the ballot boxes, people
are fully engaged and are courageously
advocating to be heard. It is our job
that every community is ensured
coronavirus relief and that we nego-
tiate what is needed, including funding
to provide relief for every community
and with community stakeholders.
Our bill, H.R. 8192, the COVID Com-
munity Care Act, does just that. We
cannot afford to leave anyone behind.
Mr. Speaker, once again, I thank our
Speaker; Chairwoman BASS, for shar-
ing this CBC Special Order hour; and I
thank our Tri-Caucus chairs, Congress-
woman CHU and Representative CAS-
TRO, Representatives HAALAND, DAVIDS,
of course, Representative GARCÍA. And
I thank all of our colleagues for being
here tonight to really sound the alarm.
This is an emergency in the entire
country. It is a deep and broad emer-
gency pandemic as it relates to COVID–
19, and we need relief right away.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to speak on the impact of the
coronavirus (COVID–19) pandemic on our
communities of color across this nation. This
virus has deeply impacted every segment of
our society, but the harms that have befallen
certain populations have been disproportionate
and devastating.
For our Black, Latino, Indigenous, Asian,
and immigrant families, COVID–19 has exac-
erbated longstanding inequities in our health
care and economic systems, and our commu-
nities of color have been burdened with higher
rates of comorbidities, more barriers in ac-
cessing medical care, and worse health out-
comes due to this virus. This has been dev-
astating to observe, as many of these same
communities have also been dealing with sig-
nificant economic turmoil in these recent
months.
Never has our society faced a challenge
such as this. These are truly unprecedented
times, and it merits our relentless efforts to
lessen the damages of this pandemic, which is
expected to worsen during this upcoming win-
ter season. It is our responsibility as members
of this chamber to prevent the imminent dis-
parate harms of COVID–19 on communities of
color. We must also address the systematic
issues of structural racism in our society,
which affects the health and economic
wellbeing of our families.
Everyday, our nation sees the need for fur-
ther action to combat this public
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:44 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.022 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5760 November 16, 2020
health crisis. I urge my colleagues to join me
in supporting additional federal assistance to
fight this pandemic and protecting our commu-
nities of color.
Mr. CARSON of Indiana. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of the Tri-Caucus’ Special
Order to highlight the disproportionate impact
of COVID–19 on communities of color. Our
nation is currently overwhelmed by unprece-
dented numbers of COVID–19 cases, hos-
pitalizations and deaths. After more than eight
months of suffering, the COVID–19 pandemic
continues to ravage our communities, creating
incalculable pain, massive economic disrup-
tion, and immense strain on our public health
system. As of this moment, more than
246,000 Americans have lost their lives from
this deadly disease. More than eleven million
have been infected, and nearly 70,000 are
currently hospitalized with severe cases of
COVID–19. While all Americans are suffering
from this pandemic, communities of color are
experiencing acute and disproportionate pain.
From the beginning of this pandemic, it was
clear that the phrase ‘‘when white America
catches a cold, Black America gets pneu-
monia’’ would be particularly true with COVID–
19’s devastating consequences. In fact, the
COVID–19 pandemic disproportionately harms
Black and Brown communities with dramati-
cally unequal infection rates, hospitalizations,
and deaths. Specifically, Black people are
three times more likely to become infected
with COVID–19 than whites. Moreover, Black
people die from COVID–19 at around twice
the rate of white people. These aren’t just sta-
tistics. They represent our friends, neighbors,
and loved ones. They are people like my
cousin who died from COVID–19 earlier this
year, and so many others who are no longer
with us.
Like past disease outbreaks and natural dis-
asters, the COVID–19 pandemic lays bare the
consequences of systemic injustices suffered
by communities of color. Institutional racism,
compounded by environmental and economic
injustices, have resulted in severe health dis-
parities for communities of color which make
the COVID–19 pandemic so uniquely dev-
astating. Despite the disproportionate harm
the COVID–19 pandemic has caused among
communities of color, many states still do not
provide transparency regarding racial and eth-
nic demographic data for COVID–19 cases
and deaths. For example, in my state of Indi-
ana, the State only provides an aggregate
breakdown of the racial and ethnic demo-
graphics for cases and deaths during the en-
tire pandemic. This results in a profoundly in-
complete picture of the disproportionate sick-
ness, death, fear and tragedy this virus is in-
flicting on communities of color.
As Congress considers much-needed, addi-
tional measures to combat COVID–19 and
provide relief for businesses, hospitals and
workers, one thing is clear: Communities of
color must receive substantial relief and sup-
port that matches the devastation they’ve suf-
fered from this pandemic. In addition, states
and public health departments must provide
updated and daily demographic information,
including a racial and ethnic breakdown, for
the daily numbers of COVID–19 cases and
deaths. This data transparency is essential to
fully understand how the pandemic is affecting
different communities and how we can best
respond. With this data, we can better target
our COVID–19 relief funds and support to en-
sure that communities of color get all the help
we need to weather the storm of this pan-
demic and combat the underlying inequities in
our health care system that this pandemic has
exacerbated.
I am committed to work with my colleagues
on both sides of the aisle to act now and to
act boldly to implement a national plan that
will save lives from this terrible disease.
f
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
By unanimous consent, leave of ab-
sence was granted to:
Mr. ADERHOLT (at the request of Mr.
MCCARTHY) for today and the balance
of the week on account of quarantining
as precautionary measure as rec-
ommended by the Office of Attending
Physician.
f
CERTIFICATION SUBMITTED PUR-
SUANT TO SECTION 5(a) OF
HOUSE RESOLUTION 965, 116TH
CONGRESS
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON HOUSE ADMINISTRATION,
Washington, DC, November 10, 2020.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, of the House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to section
5(a) of House Resolution 965, following con-
sultation with the Ranking Minority Mem-
ber, I write to notify you that that operable
and secure technology exists to conduct re-
mote voting in the House of Representatives.
Sincerely,
ZOE LOFGREN,
Chairperson.
f
NOTICE OF PROPOSED
RULEMAKING
U.S. CONGRESS,
OFFICE OF CONGRESSIONAL
WORKPLACE RIGHTS,
Washington, DC, November 16, 2020.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Section 202(d) of
the Congressional Accountability Act (CAA),
2 U.S.C. 1312(d), requires the Board of Direc-
tors of the Office of Congressional Workplace
Rights (‘‘the Board’’) to issue regulations
implementing Section 202 of the CAA relat-
ing to sections 101 through 105 of the Family
and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (‘‘FMLA’’), 29
U.S.C. 2611 through 2615, made applicable to
the legislative branch by the CAA. 2 U.S.C.
1312(a)(1).
Section 304(b)(1) of the CAA, 2 U.S.C.
1384(b)(1), requires that the Board issue a
general notice of proposed rulemaking by
transmitting ‘‘such notice to the Speaker of
the House of Representatives and the Presi-
dent Pro Tempore of the Senate for publica-
tion in the Congressional Record on the first
day of which both Houses are in session fol-
lowing such transmittal.’’
On behalf of the Board, I am hereby trans-
mitting the attached notice of proposed rule-
making to the Speaker of the House of Rep-
resentatives. I request that this notice be
published in the House section of the Con-
gressional Record on the first day on which
both Houses are in session following receipt
of this transmittal. In compliance with Sec-
tion 304(b)(2) of the CAA, a comment period
of 30 days after the publication of this notice
of proposed rulemaking is being provided be-
fore adoption of the rules.
Any inquiries regarding this notice should
be addressed to Susan Tsui Grundmann, Ex-
ecutive Director of the Office of Congres-
sional Workplace Rights, Room LA–200, 110
Second Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20540–
1999; 202–724–9250.
Sincerely,
BARBARA CHILDS WALLACE,
Chair of the Board of Directors,
Office of Congressional Workplace Rights.
Attachment.
NOTICE OF PROPOSED RULEMAKING
FROM THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF
THE OFFICE OF CONGRESSIONAL
WORKPLACE RIGHTS AND REQUEST
FOR COMMENTS FROM INTERESTED
PARTIES.
MODIFICATIONS TO THE RIGHTS AND PROTEC-
TIONS UNDER THE FAMILY AND MEDICAL
LEAVE ACT OF 1993 (FMLA), NOTICE OF PRO-
POSED RULEMAKING, AS REQUIRED BY 2 U.S.C.
1312, CONGRESSIONAL ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF
1995, AS AMENDED (CAA).
Background:
The purpose of this Notice is to propose
modifications to the existing legislative
branch FMLA substantive regulations under
section 202 of the CAA (2 U.S.C. 1302 et seq.),
which applies the rights and protections of
sections 101 through 105 of the FMLA to cov-
ered employees. On December 20, 2019, Con-
gress enacted the Federal Employee Paid
Leave Act (subtitle A of title LXXVI of divi-
sion F of the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2020, Public Law 116–92,
December 20, 2019) (FEPLA). FEPLA amend-
ed the FMLA to allow most civilian Federal
employees, including eligible employees in
the legislative branch, to substitute up to 12
weeks of paid parental leave (PPL) for un-
paid FMLA leave granted in connection with
the birth of an employee’s son or daughter or
for the placement of a son or daughter with
an employee for adoption or foster care.
These modifications are necessary in order
to bring existing legislative branch FMLA
regulations (issued April 19, 1996) in line with
these recent statutory changes.
What is the authority under the CAA for
these proposed substantive regulations?
Section 202(a) of the CAA provides that the
rights and protections established by sec-
tions 101 through 105 of the FMLA (29 U.S.C.
2611–2615) shall apply to covered employees
in the legislative branch. Section 202(d)(1)
and (2) of the CAA require that the Office of
Congressional Workplace Rights Board of Di-
rectors (the Board), pursuant to section 304
of the CAA, issue regulations implementing
the rights and protections of the FMLA and
that those regulations shall be ‘‘the same as
substantive regulations promulgated by the
Secretary of Labor to implement the statu-
tory provisions referred to in the subsection
(a) [of section 202 of the CAA] except insofar
as the Board may determine, for good cause
shown . . . that a modification of such regu-
lations would be more effective for the im-
plementation of the rights and protections
under this section.’’ The modifications to the
regulations proposed by the Board herein are
on all matters for which section 202 of the
CAA requires regulations to be issued.
Are there currently FMLA regulations in ef-
fect?
Yes. On January 22, 1996, the OCWR Board
adopted and submitted for publication in the
Congressional Record the original FMLA
final regulations implementing section 202 of
the CAA, which applies certain rights and
protections of the FMLA. On April 15, 1996,
pursuant to section 304(c) of the CAA, the
House and the Senate passed resolutions ap-
proving the final regulations. Specifically,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:44 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 8472 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.024 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5761
November 16, 2020
the Senate passed S. Res. 242, providing for
approval of the final regulations applicable
to the Senate and the employees of the Sen-
ate; the House passed H. Res. 400 providing
for approval of the final regulations applica-
ble to the House and the employees of the
House; and the House and the Senate passed
S. Con. Res. 51, providing for approval of the
final regulations applicable to employing of-
fices and employees other than those offices
and employees of the House and the Senate.
After the Senate and the House passed these
resolutions, the OCWR Board formally issued
the FMLA regulations on April 19, 1996.
Note: On June 22, 2016, the Board adopted
and submitted for publication in the Con-
gressional Record additional amendments to
its substantive regulations regarding the
FMLA. 162 Cong. Rec. H4128–H4168, S4475–
S4516 (daily ed. June 22, 2016). The 2016
amendments provide needed clarity on cer-
tain aspects of the FMLA. First, they add
the military leave provisions of the FMLA,
enacted under the National Defense Author-
ization Acts for Fiscal Years 2008 and 2010,
Pub. L. 110–181, Div. A, Title V 585(a)(2),
(3)(A)–(D) and Pub. L. 111–84, Div. A, Title V
565(a)(1)(B) and (4), which extend the avail-
ability of FMLA leave to family members of
the Regular Armed Forces for qualifying ex-
igencies arising out of a service member’s
deployment. They also define those deploy-
ments covered under these provisions, extend
FMLA military caregiver leave for family
members of current service members to in-
clude an injury or illness that existed prior
to service and was aggravated in the line of
duty on active duty, and extend FMLA mili-
tary caregiver leave to family members of
certain veterans with serious injuries or ill-
nesses. Second, the amendments set forth
the revised definition of ‘‘spouse’’ under the
FMLA in light of the Department of Labor’s
February 25, 2015 Final Rule on the defini-
tion of spouse, and the United States Su-
preme Court’s decision in Obergefell, et al., v.
Hodges, 135 S. Ct. 2584 (2015), which requires a
state to license a marriage between two peo-
ple of the same sex and to recognize a mar-
riage between two people of the same sex
when their marriage was lawfully licensed
and performed out-of-state. Because Con-
gress has not acted on the Board’s request
for approval of these amendments, the Board
will resubmit them for congressional ap-
proval when it submits its request for ap-
proval of its FEPLA amendments to its sub-
stantive FMLA regulations.
What does the FMLA provide?
In general, the FMLA provides eligible em-
ployees the right to take a total of 12 work-
weeks of unpaid leave during any 12–month
period for specified family and medical rea-
sons and for specified circumstances relating
to a family member’s military service. Em-
ploying offices in the legislative branch cov-
ered by FMLA provisions of the CAA must
provide unpaid leave to eligible employees:
(1) for the birth of a son or daughter and to
care for the newborn son or daughter; or (2)
for placement with the employee of a son or
daughter for adoption or foster care; (3) to
care for the employee’s spouse, son, daugh-
ter, or parent with a serious health condi-
tion; (4) because of a serious health condition
that makes the employee unable to perform
the functions of the employee’s job; (5) be-
cause of any qualifying exigency arising out
of the fact that the employee’s spouse, son,
daughter, or parent is a military member on
covered active duty status; and (6) to care
for a covered servicemember with a serious
injury or illness if the employee is the
spouse, son, daughter, parent, or next of kin
of the covered servicemember.
How do the FEPLA amendments affect the
FMLA as applied to the legislative
branch?
The FEPLA amendments to the FMLA in-
clude provisions expressly applicable to the
legislative branch that both: (1) change the
eligibility rules for employees to take pro-
tected leave for births or placements under
the FMLA; and (2) permit employees to sub-
stitute PPL and other paid accrued leave for
unpaid FMLA leave for such births or place-
ments. The FEPLA amendments are summa-
rized below.
For purposes of FMLA leave with respect
to any birth or placement, all covered em-
ployees in the legislative branch are eligible
for job-protected leave under the FMLA im-
mediately upon commencement of employ-
ment. ‘‘Covered employee’’ means any em-
ployee of: (1) the House of Representatives;
(2) the Senate; (3) the Office of Congressional
Accessibility Services; (4) the Capitol Police;
(5) the Congressional Budget Office; (6) the
Office of the Architect of the Capitol; (7) the
Office of the Attending Physician; (8) the Of-
fice of Congressional Workplace Rights; (9)
the Office of Technology Assessment; (10) the
Library of Congress; (11) the Stennis Center
for Public Service; (12) the China Review
Commission; (13) the Congressional Execu-
tive China Commission; or (14) the Helsinki
Commission. See 2 U.S.C. 1301(a)(3).
Generally, FMLA leave is unpaid leave.
However, under certain circumstances, the
FEPLA amendments to the FMLA, as made
applicable by the CAA, permit an eligible
employee to choose to substitute PPL and
accrued paid leave (such as paid annual, va-
cation, personal, family, medical, or sick
leave) for unpaid FMLA leave. The term
‘‘substitute’’ means that paid leave will run
concurrently with the unpaid FMLA leave.
Accordingly, the employee receives pay dur-
ing the period of otherwise unpaid FMLA
leave. For leave taken for a birth or place-
ment, an employee may elect to substitute
for unpaid FMLA leave—(1) up to 12 work-
weeks of PPL in connection with the occur-
rence of a birth or placement; and (2) any ad-
ditional paid annual, vacation, personal,
family, medical, or sick leave provided by
the employing office to such employee. Paid
parental leave may be used only ‘‘in connec-
tion with the birth or placement involved.’’
See 2 U.S.C. 1312(d)(2)(A).
By law, unpaid FMLA leave is generally
limited to a total of 12 weeks in any 12-
month period. Accordingly, any use of un-
paid FMLA leave for a purpose other than
birth or placement may reduce an employ-
ee’s ability to substitute PPL for a birth or
placement. Thus, for example, if an em-
ployee has used 3 weeks of unpaid FMLA
leave before the birth or placement, that em-
ployee’s entitlement to 12 weeks of PPL may
be reduced to 9 weeks.
Paid parental leave may be used no later
than the end of the 12-month period begin-
ning on the date of the birth or placement
involved. There are no carryover provisions
for unused PPL. An employee may not be
paid for unused or expired PPL. Paid paren-
tal leave may not be considered annual leave
for purposes of making a lump-sum payment
for annual leave or for any other purpose.
FEPLA expressly provides that legislative
branch employees using parental leave under
the FMLA are not subject to the limitations
that apply in the executive branch whereby
employees may be required to agree in writ-
ing to work for the executive branch agency
for at least 12 weeks after returning from
leave. FEPLA also expressly provides that
PPL applies to covered employees in the leg-
islative branch without regard to the limita-
tions that may apply in the executive
branch, state and local governments, and
private sector, whereby an employer may re-
cover the premiums for maintaining cov-
erage under a group health plan if the em-
ployee fails to return from PPL.
When are the Paid Parental Leave provisions
of FEPLA effective?
FEPLA provides that the amendments to
the CAA concerning PPL are not effective
with respect to any birth or placement for
adoption or foster care occurring before Oc-
tober 1, 2020. Thus, by law, PPL will be avail-
able to covered employees only in connec-
tion with a birth or placement that occurs
on or after October 1, 2020.
How does FEPLA address active duty service
in the National Guard or Reserves?
Effective December 20, 2019, FEPLA
amended the general eligibility provisions of
the FMLA (as applied by the CAA) to provide
that, for purposes of determining whether a
covered employee has been employed by any
employing office for at least 12 months and
for at least 1,250 hours of service during the
12-month period immediately preceding the
commencement of the leave, any service on
active duty (as defined in 29 U.S.C. 2611(14))
by a member of the National Guard or Re-
serves shall be counted as time during which
such employee has been employed by an em-
ploying office.
Why are these changes to the FMLA regula-
tions necessary?
The CAA requires that the FMLA regula-
tions applicable to the legislative branch and
promulgated by the OCWR be the same as
substantive regulations promulgated by the
Secretary of Labor to implement FMLA title
I, except insofar as the Board may deter-
mine, for good cause shown and stated to-
gether with the regulation, that a modifica-
tion of such regulations would be more effec-
tive for the implementation of the rights and
protections under the CAA. 2 U.S.C. 1312(e).
FMLA title I covers employees of most pri-
vate sector employers, state and local gov-
ernments, and certain quasi-governmental
entities, such as the U.S. Postal Service.
These employees are governed by Depart-
ment of Labor regulations at 29 C.F.R. 601
and part 825. The Secretary of Labor will not
be promulgating FEPLA regulations because
FEPLA does not extend PPL to private sec-
tor employees or other employees directly
covered by FMLA title I. The Board has de-
termined that these circumstances con-
stitute good cause for modification of its
substantive FMLA regulations in order to ef-
fectively implement FEPLA’s rights and
protections to Federal civilian employees in
the legislative branch.
Procedural Summary:
How are substantive regulations proposed
and approved under the CAA?
Pursuant to section 304 of the CAA, 2
U.S.C. 1384, the procedure for proposing and
approving substantive regulations provides
that:
(1) the Board of Directors proposes sub-
stantive regulations and publishes a general
notice of proposed rulemaking in the Con-
gressional Record;
(2) there be a comment period of at least 30
days after the date of publication of the gen-
eral notice of proposed rulemaking;
(3) after consideration of comments by the
Board of Directors, the Board adopts regula-
tions and transmits notice of such action
(together with the regulations and a rec-
ommendation regarding the method for con-
gressional approval of the regulations) to the
Speaker of the House and President Pro
Tempore of the Senate for publication in the
Congressional Record;
(4) there be committee referral and action
on the proposed regulations by resolution in
each House, concurrent resolution, or by
joint resolution; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:08 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5762 November 16, 2020
(5) there be final publication of the ap-
proved regulations in the Congressional
Record, with an effective date prescribed in
the final publication. For more detail, please
reference the text of 2 U.S.C. 1384.
What is the approach taken by these pro-
posed substantive regulations?
The Board will follow the procedures as
enumerated above and as required by stat-
ute. This Notice of Proposed Rulemaking is
step (1) of the outline set forth above. The
Board will review and respond to any com-
ments received under step (2) of the outline
above, and make any changes necessary to
ensure that the regulations fully implement
section 202 of the CAA and reflect the prac-
tices and policies particular to the legisla-
tive branch.
Are there substantive differences in the pro-
posed regulations for the House of Rep-
resentatives, the Senate and other em-
ploying offices?
No. The Board of Directors has identified
no ‘‘good cause’’ for varying the text of these
regulations. Therefore, if these regulations
are approved as proposed, there will be one
text applicable to all employing offices and
covered employees. See 2 U.S.C. 1312(e)(2).
Are these proposed regulations also rec-
ommended by the OCWR’s Executive Di-
rector, the Deputy Executive Director for
the Senate, and the Deputy Executive Di-
rector for the House of Representatives?
As required by section 304(b)(1) of the CAA,
2 U.S.C. 1384(b)(1), these proposed regulations
are also recommended by the Executive Di-
rector, the Deputy Executive Director for
the Senate and the Deputy Executive Direc-
tor for the House of Representatives.
Are these proposed substantive regulations
available to persons with disabilities in
an alternate format?
In addition to being posted on the OCWR’s
website (www.ocwr.gov), this Notice is also
available in alternative formats. Requests
for this Notice in an alternative format
should be made to the Office of Congres-
sional Workplace Rights, at 202–724–9250
(voice).
How long do I have to submit comments re-
garding the proposed regulations?
Comments regarding the OCWR’s proposed
regulations set forth in this Notice are in-
vited for a period of thirty (30) days fol-
lowing the date of the appearance of this No-
tice in the Congressional Record.
How do I submit comments?
Submission of comments must be made in
writing to the Executive Director, Office of
Congressional Workplace Rights, 110 Second
Street, S.E., Room LA–200, Washington, D.C.
20540–1999. It is requested, but not required,
that an electronic version of any comments
be provided via e-mail to: Alexander
Ruvinsky, Alexander.Ruvinsky@ocwr.gov.
Comments may also be submitted by fac-
simile to the Executive Director at 202–426–
1913 (a non toll-free number). Those wishing
to receive confirmation of the receipt of
their comments are requested to provide a
self-addressed, stamped post card with their
submission.
Am I allowed to view copies of comments
submitted by others?
Yes. Copies of submitted comments will be
available for review on the OCWR’s public
website at www.ocwr.gov.
Summary:
The Congressional Accountability Act of
1995 (CAA), PL 104–1, was enacted into law on
January 23, 1995. The CAA, as amended, ap-
plies the rights and protections of 13 federal
labor and employment statutes to covered
employees and employing offices within the
legislative branch of the federal government.
Section 202 of the CAA applies to employees
covered by the CAA, the rights and protec-
tions established by sections 101 through 105
of the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993
(FMLA), 29 U.S.C. 2611–2615. The above provi-
sions of section 202 became effective on Jan-
uary 1, 1997. 2 U.S.C. 1312. The Board of Di-
rectors of the Office of Congressional Work-
place Rights (OCWR) is now publishing pro-
posed amended regulations to implement
section 202 of the CAA, 2 U.S.C. 1301–1438, as
applied to covered employees of the House of
Representatives, the Senate, and certain
congressional instrumentalities listed below.
The purpose of these amended regulations
is to implement section 202 of the CAA. In
this Notice of Proposed Rulemaking the
Board proposes that virtually identical regu-
lations be adopted for the Senate, the House
of Representatives, and certain congres-
sional instrumentalities. Accordingly:
(1) Senate. It is proposed that the amended
regulations as described in this Notice be in-
cluded in the body of regulations that shall
apply to entities within the Senate, and this
proposal regarding the Senate entities is rec-
ommended by the OCWR’s Deputy Executive
Director for the Senate.
(2) House of Representatives. It is further
proposed that the amended regulations as de-
scribed in this Notice be included in the body
of regulations that shall apply to entities
within the House of Representatives, and
this proposal regarding the House of Rep-
resentatives entities is recommended by the
OCWR’s Deputy Executive Director for the
House of Representatives.
(3) Certain congressional instrumentalities. It
is further proposed that the amended regula-
tions as described in this Notice be included
in the body of regulations that shall apply to
the Office of Congressional Accessibility
Services; the Capitol Police; the Congres-
sional Budget Office; the Office of the Archi-
tect of the Capitol; the Office of the Attend-
ing Physician; the Office of Congressional
Workplace Rights; the Office of Technology
Assessment; the Library of Congress; the
Stennis Center for Public Service; the China
Review Commission; the Congressional Exec-
utive China Commission; and the Helsinki
Commission; and this proposal regarding
these congressional instrumentalities is rec-
ommended by the OCWR Executive Director.
Dates: Comments are due within 30 days
after the date of publication of this Notice in
the Congressional Record.
Section-by-Section Discussion of Proposed
Changes to the FMLA Regulations
The following is a section-by-section dis-
cussion of the proposed revisions to the
Board’s substantive FMLA regulations that
it adopted and submitted for publication in
the Congressional Record on June 22, 2016.
162 Cong. Rec. H4128–H4168, S4475–4516 (daily
ed. June 22, 2016). As noted above, because
Congress has not acted on the Board’s re-
quest for approval of its 2016 amendments,
the Board will resubmit them for congres-
sional approval when it submits its request
for approval of its FEPLA amendments to its
substantive FMLA regulations. Because the
Board’s 2016 amendments were adopted pur-
suant to the procedures for proposing and ap-
proving substantive regulations in section
304 of the CAA, 2 U.S.C. 1384, including pro-
viding a comment period of 60 days after
publication of the proposed amendments in
the Congressional Record, the Board is not
soliciting additional comments on those
adopted amendments, except as indicated
below.
The Board’s proposed amendments to its
substantive FMLA regulations will provide
more detail regarding the implementation of
the statutory provisions summarized above.
In order to implement FEPLA, the Board
proposes to amend part 825 of its substantive
regulations (Family and Medical Leave) by
amending subparts A–C and adding a new
subpart E (Paid Parental Leave). The Board
is making changes in subparts A–C to estab-
lish how the FMLA provisions will now oper-
ate, since the appropriate substitution of
paid parental leave for unpaid FMLA leave
hinges on the standards for granting unpaid
FMLA leave. Below we provide a section-by-
section explanation of the proposed changes
in subparts A–C and the proposed provisions
in the new subpart E.
Part 825—Family and Medical Leave
825.1 Purpose and Scope.
The Board proposes to amend 825.1 to in-
sert a new paragraph (c), which describes the
FEPLA amendments to the FMLA provisions
of the CAA; states that the Board is amend-
ing its substantive FMLA regulations pursu-
ant to the CAA rulemaking procedures set
forth at sections 202(d) and 304 of the CAA;
and further states that because the Sec-
retary of Labor has not promulgated FEPLA
regulations under FMLA title I, the Board
has determined that these circumstances
constitute good cause for modification of its
substantive FMLA regulations in order to ef-
fectively implement FEPLA’s rights and
protections to Federal civilian employees in
the legislative branch.
SUBPART A—COVERAGE UNDER THE FAM-
ILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE ACT
825.100 The Family and Medical Leave Act.
The Board proposes to amend paragraph (b)
of 825.100 to clarify that the authority of an
employing office, disbursing or other finan-
cial office to recover the premiums for main-
taining coverage under a group health plan
is subject to 825.504, which provides that paid
parental leave applies to covered employees
in the legislative branch without regard to
such limitations.
825.102 Definitions.
The Board proposes to amend 825.102 to: (1)
add definitions of birth, family and medical
leave, and placement; and (2) amend the defi-
nitions of covered employee and eligible
employee. The new definition of placement
clarifies that it refers to a new placement.
Thus, the term excludes the adoption of
a stepchild or a foster child who has already
been a member of the employee’s household
and has an existing parent-child relationship
with an adopting parent. This definition
of placement is consistent with Department
of Labor FMLA guidance at
https://www.dol.gov/sites/dolgov/files/WHD/
legacy/files/2005_08_26_1A_FMLA.pdf. If a fos-
ter child is later adopted, the placement has
already occurred; there is no new placement
with a family that would warrant another
use of FMLA leave for the same child. The
proposed definitions of birth and placement
clarify that the terms may refer to an antici-
pated birth or placement. This aligns with
825.120 and 825.121, which provide that unpaid
FMLA leave based on birth or placement of
a child may be used prior to the actual birth
or placement. The revised definition of fam-
ily and medical leave includes new language
addressing leave to care for covered
servicemembers.
The amended definition of covered employee
includes any employee of the Library of Con-
gress; the Stennis Center for Public Service;
the China Review Commission; the Congres-
sional Executive China Commission; or the
Helsinki Commission. The amended defini-
tion of eligible employee adds a new paragraph
(1), which clarifies that for purposes of births
or placements, an eligible employee is any
covered employee as defined in the CAA, ir-
respective of whether the employee meets
the length of service requirements in para-
graph (2). Paragraph (3) of that definition,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:08 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5763
November 16, 2020
which concerns eligibility for unpaid FMLA
leave for reasons other than births or place-
ments, is amended to clarify that, for pur-
poses of determining whether a covered em-
ployee has been employed by any employing
office for at least 12 months and for at least
1,250 hours of service during the 12-month pe-
riod immediately preceding the commence-
ment of the leave, any service on active duty
by a member of the National Guard or Re-
serves shall be counted as time during which
such employee has been employed by an em-
ploying office.
825.104 Covered employing offices.
The Board proposes to amend 825.104 to: (1)
designate paragraphs (1)–(4) as paragraphs
(a)–(d); and (2) amend paragraph (d) to in-
clude the Library of Congress; the Stennis
Center for Public Service; the China Review
Commission; the Congressional Executive
China Commission; or the Helsinki Commis-
sion.
825.110 Eligible employee, general rule.
825.111 Eligible employee, birth or placement.
The Board proposes to: (1) amend 825.110 to
create a general rule for eligibility for un-
paid FMLA leave for reasons other than
births or placements; and (2) add a new
825.111 to create a rule for eligibility for un-
paid FMLA leave for births or placements.
The amendments to 825.110 clarify that its
provisions are subject to the exceptions set
forth at 825.111; and they provide that for
purposes of determining whether a covered
employee has been employed by any employ-
ing office for at least 12 months and for at
least 1,250 hours of service during the 12-
month period immediately preceding the
commencement of the leave, any service on
active duty by a member of the National
Guard or Reserves shall be counted as time
during which such employee has been em-
ployed by an employing office.
The new 825.111 clarifies that, for purposes
of births or placements, an eligible employee
is any covered employee as defined in the
CAA, irrespective of whether the employee
meets the length or hours of service require-
ments in the general rule at 825.110.
825.112 Qualifying reasons for leave, general
rule.
The Board proposes to amend subpara-
graph (a)(2) of 825.112 to clarify that employ-
ing offices are required to grant leave to eli-
gible employees for the placement of a son or
daughter with the employee for adoption or
foster care, including the care of such son or
daughter.
825.120 Leave for pregnancy or birth.
The Board proposes to amend subpara-
graph (a)(1) of 825.120 to clarify that FMLA
leave for pregnancy or the birth of a son or
daughter includes leave for the care of the
newborn child. The Board proposes to amend
subparagraph (a)(2) to add a sentence stating
that leave for a birth or placement must be
concluded by the expiration of the 12-month
period beginning on the date of birth. Fi-
nally, the Board proposes to add a new sub-
paragraph (7) stating that leave taken be-
cause of a birth includes leave necessary for
an employee who is the birth mother to re-
cover from giving birth, or for an employee
who is the other parent to care for the birth
mother during her recovery period, even if
the employee is not involved in caring for
the son or daughter during portions of that
recovery period.
825.121 Leave for adoption or foster care.
The Board proposes to amend paragraph (a)
of 825.121 to clarify that FMLA leave for
placement with the employee of a son or
daughter for adoption or foster care includes
leave to care for the newly placed child.
SUBPART B—EMPLOYEE LEAVE ENTITLE-
MENTS UNDER THE FAMILY AND MED-
ICAL LEAVE ACT, AS MADE APPLICABLE
BY THE CONGRESSIONAL ACCOUNT-
ABILITY ACT
825.207 Substitution of paid leave, generally.
825.208 Substitution of paid leave—special rule
for paid parental leave.
The Board proposes to: (1) amend 825.207 to
create a general rule for substitution of paid
leave for unpaid FMLA leave for reasons
other than births or placements; and (2) add
a new 825.208 to create a rule for substitution
of paid leave for unpaid FMLA leave for
births or placements. The amendments to
825.207 clarify that its provisions are subject
to the exceptions set forth at 825.208.
The new paid leave substitution rules,
which concern birth events and the place-
ment of a child for adoption or foster care,
are now addressed in a new 825.208. 825.208
provides that paid parental leave may be
substituted for unpaid FMLA leave based on
a birth or placement event as provided in the
new subpart E.
Paragraph (b) of 825.208 addresses the possi-
bility of substituting paid annual, vacation,
personal, family, medical, or sick leave for
unpaid FMLA leave based on a birth or
placement. If an employee has not already
(before birth or placement) begun a 12-month
FMLA period (as established under 825.200),
the employee could have no more than 12
weeks of unpaid FMLA leave between the
date of birth or placement and the date that
is 12 months after the date of birth or place-
ment. Thus, using the 12 weeks of paid pa-
rental leave would completely replace any
unpaid FMLA leave for birth or placement
purposes, and there would be no opportunity
to substitute paid annual, vacation, per-
sonal, family, medical, or sick leave. How-
ever, if an employee has a 12-month FMLA
period in progress at the time of birth or
placement, that 12-month FMLA period
would end after birth or placement but be-
fore the date that is 12 months after the
birth or placement. When that 12-month
FMLA period ends, the employee will be eli-
gible to start a new 12-month FMLA period,
and the employee will be able to use up to 12
weeks of unpaid FMLA leave during that pe-
riod. If that new FMLA period begins during
the 12-month period following the birth or
placement, it would be possible for the em-
ployee to use more than 12 weeks of unpaid
FMLA leave for birth or placement purposes
before the date that is 12 months after the
date of birth or placement. In that case, a
maximum of 12 weeks of paid parental leave
may be substituted for unpaid FMLA leave
taken in either FMLA period, since FEPLA
provides for only 12 weeks of paid parental
leave in connection with any given birth or
placement. However, an employee would be
able to substitute available paid annual, va-
cation, personal, family, medical, or sick
leave, as appropriate, for any remaining un-
paid FMLA leave.
Paragraph (c) of 825.208 sets forth various
general rules related to an employee’s enti-
tlement to substitute paid leave. An em-
ployee is entitled to elect whether or not to
substitute paid leave for unpaid FMLA leave,
subject to applicable law and regulation.
Thus, an employing office may not deny an
employee’s election to make a substitution
permitted under this section. Nor may an
employing office require an employee to sub-
stitute paid leave for FMLA leave without
pay. Subparagraph (c)(4) adds a statement,
not previously included in the FMLA regula-
tions, indicating that an employee may re-
quest to use annual leave or sick leave with-
out invoking family and medical leave, and,
in that case, the agency exercises its normal
authority with respect to approving or dis-
approving the timing of when the leave may
be used. In general, an employing office has
the right to deny the scheduling of an em-
ployee’s leave requested outside of an FMLA
request, but if the employee’s scheduling of
FMLA leave is approved, the employee’s re-
quest to substitute annual leave for FMLA
leave without pay may not be denied.
Paragraph (d) of 825.208 addresses an em-
ployee’s obligation to generally give advance
notice of the employee’s election to sub-
stitute paid leave for unpaid FMLA leave.
The general rule is that retroactive substi-
tution is not allowed. However, subpara-
graphs (d)(2) through (d)(4) set forth limited
exceptions. Paragraph (d)(4) addresses the
retroactive substitution of paid parental
leave and links to 825.505, which allows retro-
active substitution only if an employee is
physically or mentally incapacitated.
825.213 Employing office recovery of benefit
costs.
The Board proposes to amend paragraph (a)
of 825.213 to clarify that the authority of an
employing office, disbursing or other finan-
cial office to recover the premiums for main-
taining coverage under a group health plan
is subject to 825.504, which provides that paid
parental leave applies to covered employees
in the legislative branch without regard to
such limitations.
SUBPART C—EMPLOYEE AND EMPLOYING
OFFICE RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS
UNDER THE FMLA, AS MADE APPLICA-
BLE BY THE CAA
825.300 Employing office notice requirements.
The Board proposes to amend subpara-
graph (c)(iii) of 825.300 to add a requirement
that the employing office’s rights and re-
sponsibilities notice to the employee in-
clude, where applicable, notice of the em-
ployee’s right to substitute paid parental
leave for unpaid FMLA leave for a birth or
placement.
The Board also proposes to amend subpara-
graph (d)(6) of 825.300 to clarify that the em-
ploying office must notify the employee of
the amount of leave counted against the em-
ployee’s FMLA leave entitlement, and, if ap-
plicable, the employee’s paid parental leave
entitlement.
SUBPART D—ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESS
825.400 Administrative process, general rules.
The Board proposes to amend 825.400 to
omit obsolete references to the OCWR’s ad-
ministrative dispute resolution procedures,
which were significantly amended by the
CAA of 1995 Reform Act of 2018, Pub. L. No.
115–397. The revised 825.400 refers to the
Board’s revised Procedural Rules, which
apply to matters filed with the OCWR on or
after June 19, 2019.
SUBPART E—PAID PARENTAL LEAVE
The Board proposes to amend part 825 of its
substantive FMLA regulations to add a new
subpart E.
825.500 Purpose, applicability, and employing
office responsibilities.
Paragraph (a) of 825.500 addresses the pur-
pose of the new subpart E.
Subparagraph (b)(1) of 825.500 provides that
subpart E applies to employees to whom sub-
part B (Employee Leave Entitlements under
the Family and Medical Leave Act, as made
Applicable By The Congressional Account-
ability Act) applies. Subparagraph (b)(2) pro-
vides that the OCWR will defer to supple-
mental regulations on PPL issued by the Li-
brary of Congress pursuant to the authority
in 29 USC 2617, provided those supplemental
regulations are consistent with the regula-
tions herein. Subparagraph (b)(3) clarifies
that the PPL provisions of the FMLA apply
to births or placements occurring on or after
October 1, 2020.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:08 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5764 November 16, 2020
Paragraph (c) of 825.500 clarifies that the
head of an employing office is responsible for
the proper administration of subpart E, in-
cluding the responsibility of informing em-
ployees of their entitlements and obliga-
tions.
825.501 Definitions.
Paragraph (a) of 825.501 provides that the
definitions in the FMLA regulations in sub-
part B are applicable in subpart E, except
that, to the extent any definitions of terms
have been further revised in paragraph (b),
the provisions of that paragraph shall apply
for purposes of subpart E.
Paragraph (b) provides definitions of addi-
tional terms used in subpart E—employing of-
fice, child, paid parental leave, and unpaid
FMLA leave. The definition of paid parental
leave makes clear that paid parental leave is
a type of leave that is used when an em-
ployee has a ‘‘parental’’ role. A parent who
does not maintain a continuing parental role
with respect to a newly born or placed child
would not be eligible for paid parental leave
once the parental role has ended.
825.502 Leave entitlement.
825.502 sets forth various rules related to
the entitlement to paid parental leave. Para-
graph (a) provides that an employee may
elect to substitute available paid parental
leave for any unpaid FMLA leave granted
based on the occurrence of a birth or place-
ment.
Paragraph (b) of 825.502 states that the paid
parental leave that is available for substi-
tution is 12 administrative workweeks in
connection with the birth or placement in-
volved. In other words, an employee can re-
ceive up to 12 administrative workweeks of
paid parental leave for each birth or place-
ment event. Paid parental leave continues to
be available only as long as the employee has
a continuing parental role with respect to
the newly born or placed child. Because paid
parental leave is substituting for unpaid
FMLA leave, use of paid parental leave is
constrained by the use of unpaid FMLA
leave, which is limited to 12 weeks in any 12-
month FMLA period (as established under
825.200). Paragraph (b) explains that, with re-
spect to FMLA leave under 825.200(a) that is
limited to a total of 12 weeks in any 12-
month period, any use of unpaid FMLA leave
for a purpose other than birth or placement
may affect an employee’s ability to use the
full 12 weeks of paid parental leave during
the 12-month period following a birth or
placement. In other words, an employee will
be able to use the full amount of paid paren-
tal leave only to the extent that there are 12
weeks of available unpaid FMLA leave
granted based on birth or placement. For ex-
ample, if an employee uses 6 consecutive
weeks of unpaid FMLA leave based on the
employee’s own serious health condition, the
employee could only use 6 weeks of unpaid
FMLA leave based on birth or placement (for
which paid parental leave could be sub-
stituted) during the 12-month period that
began when the employee commenced using
unpaid FMLA leave based on the employee’s
serious health condition.
We note that the 12-week entitlement to
paid parental leave under FEPLA is applied
on a per-employee basis without regard to
movements between different employing of-
fices during the 12-month period following a
birth or placement. As long as the employee
is covered by the FMLA provisions of the
CAA while serving in different employing of-
fices, the employee would be limited to a
total of 12 weeks of paid parental leave per
qualifying birth or placement. However, if an
employee has received paid parental leave
benefits in connection with a given birth or
placement under a different paid parental
leave authority applicable to Federal em-
ployees (e.g., the paid parental leave benefit
for executive branch employees in 5 USC
6382) and moves to a position covered by the
title II paid parental leave authority during
the 12-month period following birth or place-
ment, there is no basis for limiting or offset-
ting title II paid parental leave benefits
based on receipt of leave benefits under an-
other authority.
Subparagraph (c)(1) of 825.502 provides that
an employing office may not require an em-
ployee to use annual leave or sick leave for
a birth or placement before allowing the em-
ployee to use paid parental leave. Subpara-
graph (c)(1) also clarifies that an employee
may request to use annual leave or sick
leave without invoking unpaid FMLA leave
for a birth or placement under subpart B. As
discussed earlier in connection with 825.208,
if a request to use paid annual, vacation, per-
sonal, family, medical, or sick leave without
invoking FMLA leave is granted by the em-
ploying office, an employee can preserve en-
titlement to use unpaid FMLA leave at an-
other time and to substitute paid parental
leave for that unpaid FMLA leave. If the re-
quest is granted, the employing office exer-
cises its normal authority with respect to
approving or disapproving the timing of
when the leave may be used. Subparagraph
(c)(2) clarifies that an employee with a sea-
sonal work schedule may not use PPL during
the off-season period designated by the em-
ploying office—the period during which the
employee is scheduled to be released from
work and placed in nonpay status. In other
words, paid parental leave cannot be used as
a basis for extending a seasonal employee’s
work season.
Paragraph (d) of 825.502 provides that, if an
employee has any unused balance of paid pa-
rental leave remaining at the end of the 12-
month period following the birth or place-
ment involved, the entitlement to the un-
used leave expires at that time. The unused
leave may not be rolled over for use in a fu-
ture period, nor may a payment be made to
the employee for unused paid parental leave
that has expired. Paid parental leave may
not be considered annual leave for purposes
of making a lump-sum payment for annual
leave or for any other purpose.
825.503 Pay during leave.
Paragraph (a) of 825.503 provides that the
pay an employee receives when using paid
parental leave shall be the same pay the em-
ployee would receive if the employee were
using annual leave. In other words, agency
payroll systems will apply the same rules
they apply in determining what pay con-
tinues during annual leave.
Paragraph (b) provides that the pay re-
ceived during paid parental leave may not
include Sunday premium pay. This is con-
sistent with the statutory bar in section 624
of the Treasury and General Government Ap-
propriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105–277,
div. A, § 101(h), October 21, 1998).
825.504 Work obligation.
Paragraph (a) of 825.504 clarifies that under
FEPLA, legislative branch employees using
PPL are not subject to the limitations that
apply in the executive branch whereby em-
ployees may be required to agree in writing
to work for the executive branch agency for
at least 12 weeks after returning from leave.
Paragraph (b) clarifies that under FEPLA,
PPL applies to covered employees in the leg-
islative branch without regard to the limita-
tions that may apply in the executive
branch, state and local governments, and
private sector, whereby an employer may re-
cover the premiums for maintaining cov-
erage under a group health plan if the em-
ployee fails to return from PPL.
825.505 Cases of employee incapacitation.
825.505 provides that the application of paid
parental leave in cases where an employee is
incapacitated at the time the use of paid pa-
rental leave would be permissible. Paragraph
(a) allows the employee to retroactively use
paid parental leave. This provision allows for
the retroactive election to use paid parental
leave under the FMLA if the employing of-
fice determines that an otherwise eligible
employee who could have made an election
during a past period to substitute paid pa-
rental leave was physically or mentally in-
capable of doing so during that past period.
Upon this determination, the employing of-
fice must allow the employee, when no
longer incapacitated, to make an election to
substitute paid parental leave for applicable
unpaid FMLA leave. The employee must
make this election within 5 workdays of re-
turning to work.
Paragraph (b) allows an employee’s per-
sonal representative to elect, on behalf of
the employee, to substitute paid parental
leave for applicable unpaid FMLA leave (i.e.,
approved FMLA leave based on birth or
placement of a child). If an employing office
determines that an otherwise eligible em-
ployee is physically or mentally incapable of
making an election to substitute paid paren-
tal leave, the employing office must, upon
the request of the employee’s personal rep-
resentative, provide conditional approval of
substitution of paid parental leave for appli-
cable unpaid FMLA leave on a prospective
basis.
825.506 Cases of multiple children born or placed
in the same time period.
825.506 addresses the application of paid pa-
rental leave in cases in which an employee
has multiple children newly born or placed
in the same time period. Paragraph (a) pro-
vides that if an employee has multiple chil-
dren born or placed on the same day, that
event will be treated as a single event trig-
gering a single entitlement of up to 12 weeks
of paid parental leave during the 12-month
period following the event.
Paragraph (b) provides that, if an employee
has one or more births or placements during
the 12-month period following the date of an
earlier birth or placement, each subsequent
birth or placement event will result in a 12-
month period commencing on the date of
birth or placement with its own 12-week
limit. Any use of paid parental leave during
a given 12-month period will count toward
that period’s 12-week limit. Thus, when such
12-month periods overlap, any use of paid pa-
rental leave during the overlap will count to-
ward each affected 12-month period’s 12-week
limit. For example, if an employee has a
child born on June 1 and another child
placed for adoption on October 1 of the same
year, each event would generate entitlement
to substitute up to 12 weeks of paid parental
leave during the separate 12-month periods
beginning on the date of the birth and on the
date of the placement. Those two 12-month
periods would be June 1–May 31 and October
1–September 30, respectively. The overlap pe-
riod for these two 12-month periods would be
October 1–May 31. If the employee sub-
stitutes paid parental leave during that over-
lap period, that amount of paid parental
leave would count towards both the 12-week
limit associated with the birth event and the
12-week limit associated with the placement
event.
825.507 Records and reports.
825.507 provides that an employing office
must maintain an accurate record of an em-
ployee’s usage of paid parental leave.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:37 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 8472 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5765
November 16, 2020
SUBPART G—EFFECT OF OTHER LAWS,
EMPLOYING OFFICE PRACTICES, AND
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS
ON EMPLOYEE RIGHTS UNDER THE
FMLA, AS MADE APPLICABLE BY THE
CAA.
825.702 Interaction with anti-discrimination
laws, as applied by section 201 of the CAA.
The Board proposes to amend paragraph (f)
of 825.702 to delete the parenthetical phrase
‘‘(and, therefore, not an ‘‘eligible’’ employee
under FMLA, as made applicable by the
CAA).’’ It remains the case that under Title
VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amend-
ed by the Pregnancy Discrimination Act, and
as made applicable by the CAA, an employ-
ing office should provide the same benefits
for women who are pregnant as the employ-
ing office provides to other employees with
short-term disabilities, as stated in para-
graph (f). However, as a result of FEPLA, an
employee employed for less than 12 months
is now an ‘‘eligible’’ employee for purposes of
unpaid FMLA leave for births and place-
ments. See 825.111.
REGULATIONS PROPOSED BY THE BOARD OF DI-
RECTORS OF THE OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE EX-
TENDING RIGHTS AND PROTECTIONS UNDER
THE FAMILY AND MEDICAL ACT OF 1996, AS
AMENDED
Part 825—Family and Medical Leave
825.1 Purpose and Scope.
SUBPART A—COVERAGE UNDER THE FAM-
ILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE ACT, AS MADE
APPLICABLE BY THE CONGRESSIONAL
ACCOUNTABILITY ACT
825.100 The Family and Medical Leave Act.
825.101 Purpose of the FMLA.
825.102 Definitions.
825.103 [Reserved]
825.104 Covered employing offices.
825.105 [Reserved]
825.106 Joint employer coverage.
825.107–825.109 [Reserved]
825.110 Eligible employee, general rule.
825.111 Eligible employee, birth or place-
ment.
825.112 Qualifying reasons for leave, general
rule.
825.113 Serious health condition.
825.114 Inpatient care.
825.115 Continuing treatment.
825.116–825.118 [Reserved]
825.119 Leave for treatment of substance
abuse.
825.120 Leave for pregnancy or birth.
825.121 Leave for adoption or foster care.
825.122 Definitions of covered servicemem-
ber, spouse, parent, son or daughter, next
of kin of a covered servicemember, adop-
tion, foster care, son or daughter on cov-
ered active duty or call to covered active
duty status, son or daughter of a covered
servicemember, and parent of a covered
servicemember.
825.123 Unable to perform the functions of
the position.
825.124 Needed to care for a family member
or covered servicemember.
825.125 Definition of health care provider.
825.126 Leave because of a qualifying exi-
gency.
825.127 Leave to care for a covered service-
member with a serious injury or illness
(military caregiver leave).
SUBPART B—EMPLOYEE LEAVE ENTITLE-
MENTS UNDER THE FAMILY AND MED-
ICAL LEAVE ACT, AS MADE APPLICABLE
BY THE CONGRESSIONAL ACCOUNT-
ABILITY ACT
825.200 Amount of leave.
825.201 Leave to care for a parent.
825.202 Intermittent leave or reduced leave
schedule.
825.203 Scheduling of intermittent or re-
duced schedule leave.
825.204 Transfer of an employee to an alter-
native position during intermittent leave
or reduced schedule leave.
825.205 Increments of FMLA leave for inter-
mittent or reduced schedule leave.
825.206 Interaction with the FLSA.
825.207 Substitution of paid leave—leave for
reasons other than birth or placement.
825.208 Substitution of paid leave—leave con-
nected to birth or placement.
825.209 Maintenance of employee benefits.
825.210 Employee payment of group health
benefit premiums.
825.211 Maintenance of benefits under multi-
employer health plans.
825.212 Employee failure to pay health plan
premium payments.
825.213 Employing office recovery of benefit
costs.
825.214 Employee right to reinstatement.
825.215 Equivalent position.
825.216 Limitations on an employee’s right to
reinstatement.
825.217 Key employee, general rule.
825.218 Substantial and grievous economic
injury.
825.219 Rights of a key employee.
825.220 Protection for employees who request
leave or otherwise assert FMLA rights.
SUBPART C—EMPLOYEE AND EMPLOYING
OFFICE RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS
UNDER THE FMLA, AS MADE APPLICA-
BLE BY THE CAA.
825.300 Employing office notice require-
ments.
825.301 Designation of FMLA leave.
825.302 Employee notice requirements for
foreseeable FMLA leave.
825.303 Employee notice requirements for un-
foreseeable FMLA leave.
825.304 Employee failure to provide notice.
825.305 Certification, general rule.
825.306 Content of medical certification for
leave taken because of an employee’s own
serious health condition or the serious
health condition of a family member.
825.307 Authentication and clarification of
medical certification for leave taken be-
cause of an employee’s own serious
health condition or the serious health
condition of a family member; second and
third opinions.
825.308 Recertifications for leave taken be-
cause of an employee’s own serious
health condition or the serious health
condition of a family member.
825.309 Certification for leave taken because
of a qualifying exigency.
825.310 Certification for leave taken to care
for a covered servicemember (military
caregiver leave).
825.311 Intent to return to work.
825.312 Fitness-for-duty certification.
825.313 Failure to provide certification.
SUBPART D—ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESS
825.400 Administrative process, general rules.
825.401–825.404 [Reserved]
SUBPART E—PAID PARENTAL LEAVE
825.500 Purpose, applicability, and employing
office responsibilities.
825.501 Definitions.
825.502 Leave entitlement.
825.503 Pay during leave.
825.504 Work Obligations.
825.505 Cases of employee incapacitation.
825.506 Cases of multiple children born or
placed in the same time period.
825.507 Records.
825.508 [Reserved]
SUBPART F—SPECIAL RULES APPLICABLE
TO EMPLOYEES OF SCHOOLS
825.600 Special rules for school employees,
definitions.
825.601 Special rules for school employees,
limitations on intermittent leave.
825.602 Special rules for school employees,
limitations on leave near the end of an
academic term.
825.603 Special rules for school employees,
duration of FMLA leave.
825.604 Special rules for school employees,
restoration to an equivalent position.
SUBPART G—EFFECT OF OTHER LAWS,
EMPLOYING OFFICE PRACTICES, AND
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREE-
MENTS ON EMPLOYEE RIGHTS UNDER
THE FMLA, AS MADE APPLICABLE BY
THE CAA
825.700 Interaction with employing office’s
policies.
825.701 [Reserved]
825.702 Interaction with anti-discrimination
laws as applied by section 201 of the CAA.
SUBPART H—[Reserved]
FORMS
Form A: Certification of Health Care Pro-
vider for Employee’s Serious Health Con-
dition;
Form B: Certification of Health Care Pro-
vider for Family Member’s Serious Health
Condition;
Form C: Notice of Eligibility and Rights &
Responsibilities;
Form D: Designation Notice to Employee of
FMLA Leave;
Form E: Certification of Qualifying Exigency
for Military Family Leave;
Form F: Certification for Serious Injury or
Illness of Covered Servicemember for
Military Family Leave;
Form G: Certification for Serious Injury or
Illness of a Veteran for Military Care-
giver Leave.
825.1 Purpose and scope.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:37 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 8472 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5766 November 16, 2020
(a) Section 202 of the Congressional Ac-
countability Act (CAA) (2 U.S.C. 1312) applies
the rights and protections of sections 101
through 105 of the Family and Medical Leave
Act of 1993 (FMLA) (29 U.S.C. 2611–2615) to
covered employees. (The term ‘‘covered em-
ployee’’ is defined in section 101(3) of the
CAA (2 U.S.C. 1301(3)). See 825.102 of these
regulations for that definition.) The purpose
of this part is to set forth the regulations to
carry out the provisions of section 202 of the
CAA.
(b) These regulations are issued by the
Board of Directors (Board) of the Office of
Congressional Workplace Rights, pursuant to
sections 202(d) and 304 of the CAA, which di-
rect the Board to promulgate regulations im-
plementing section 202 that are ‘‘the same as
substantive regulations promulgated by the
Secretary of Labor to implement the statu-
tory provisions referred to in subsection (a)
[of section 202 of the CAA] except insofar as
the Board may determine, for good cause
shown . . . that a modification of such regu-
lations would be more effective for the im-
plementation of the rights and protections
under this section.’’ The regulations issued
by the Board herein are on all matters for
which section 202 of the CAA requires regula-
tions to be issued. Specifically, it is the
Board’s considered judgment, based on the
information available to it at the time of the
promulgation of these regulations, that,
with the exception of regulations adopted
and set forth herein, there are no other ‘‘sub-
stantive regulations promulgated by the Sec-
retary of Labor to implement the statutory
provisions referred to in subsection (a) [of
section 202 of the CAA].’’
(c) On December 20, 2019, Congress enacted
the Federal Employee Paid Leave Act (sub-
title A of title LXXVI of division F of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2020, Public Law 116–92, December
20, 2019) (FEPLA). FEPLA amended the
FMLA to allow most civilian Federal em-
ployees, including eligible employees in the
legislative branch, to substitute up to 12
weeks of paid parental leave (PPL) for un-
paid FMLA leave granted in connection with
the birth of an employee’s son or daughter or
for the placement of a son or daughter with
an employee for adoption or foster care.
In order to implement FEPLA in the legis-
lative branch, the Board is amending its sub-
stantive FMLA regulations pursuant to the
CAA rulemaking procedures set forth at sec-
tions 202(d) and 304 of the CAA. The Sec-
retary of Labor has not promulgated FEPLA
regulations, however, because FEPLA does
not extend PPL to private sector employees
or other employees directly covered by
FMLA title I. The Board has determined
that these circumstances constitute good
cause for modification of its substantive
FMLA regulations in order to effectively im-
plement FEPLA’s rights and protections to
Federal civilian employees in the legislative
branch.
(d) In promulgating these regulations, the
Board has made certain technical and no-
menclature changes to the regulations as
promulgated by the Secretary. Such changes
are intended to make the provisions adopted
accord more naturally to situations in the
legislative branch. However, by making
these changes, the Board does not intend a
substantive difference between these regula-
tions and those of the Secretary from which
they are derived. Moreover, such changes, in
and of themselves, are not intended to con-
stitute an interpretation of the regulation or
of the statutory provisions of the CAA upon
which they are based.
(e) Pursuant to section 304(b)(4) of the
CAA, 2 U.S.C. 1384(b)(4), the Board of Direc-
tors is required to recommend to Congress a
method of approval for these regulations. As
the Board has adopted the same regulations
for the Senate, the House of Representatives,
and the other covered entities and facilities,
it therefore recommends that the adopted
regulations be approved by concurrent reso-
lution of the Congress.
SUBPART A—COVERAGE UNDER THE FAM-
ILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE ACT, AS MADE
APPLICABLE BY THE CONGRESSIONAL
ACCOUNTABILITY ACT
825.100 The Family and Medical Leave Act.
(a) The Family and Medical Leave Act of
1993 (FMLA), as made applicable by the Con-
gressional Accountability Act (CAA), allows
eligible employees of an employing office to
take job-protected, unpaid leave, or to sub-
stitute appropriate paid leave if the em-
ployee has earned or accrued it, for up to a
total of 12 workweeks in any 12 months (See
825.200(b)) because of the birth of a child and
to care for the newborn child, because of the
placement of a child with the employee for
adoption or foster care, because the em-
ployee is needed to care for a family member
(child, spouse, or parent) with a serious
health condition, because the employee’s
own serious health condition makes the em-
ployee unable to perform the functions of his
or her job, or because of any qualifying exi-
gency arising out of the fact that the em-
ployee’s spouse, son, daughter, or parent is a
military member on active duty or call to
covered active duty status (or has been noti-
fied of an impending call or order to covered
active duty). In addition, eligible employees
of a covered employing office may take job-
protected, unpaid leave, or substitute appro-
priate paid leave if the employee has earned
or accrued it, for up to a total of 26 work-
weeks in a single 12-month period to care for
a covered servicemember with a serious in-
jury or illness. In certain cases, FMLA leave
may be taken on an intermittent basis rath-
er than all at once, or the employee may
work a part-time schedule.
(b) An employee on FMLA leave is also en-
titled to have health benefits maintained
while on leave as if the employee had contin-
ued to work instead of taking the leave. If an
employee was paying all or part of the pre-
mium payments prior to leave, the employee
would continue to pay his or her share dur-
ing the leave period. Subject to 825.504, the
employing office or a disbursing or other fi-
nancial office may recover its share only if
the employee does not return to work for a
reason other than the serious health condi-
tion of the employee or the employee’s cov-
ered family member, the serious injury or
illness of a covered servicemember, or an-
other reason beyond the employee’s control.
(c) An employee generally has a right to
return to the same position or an equivalent
position with equivalent pay, benefits, and
working conditions at the conclusion of the
leave. The taking of FMLA leave cannot re-
sult in the loss of any benefit that accrued
prior to the start of the leave.
(d) The employing office generally has a
right to advance notice from the employee.
In addition, the employing office may re-
quire an employee to submit certification to
substantiate that the leave is due to the seri-
ous health condition of the employee or the
employee’s covered family member, due to
the serious injury or illness of a covered
servicemember, or because of a qualifying
exigency. Failure to comply with these re-
quirements may result in a delay in the start
of FMLA leave. Pursuant to a uniformly ap-
plied policy, the employing office may also
require that an employee present a certifi-
cation of fitness to return to work when the
absence was caused by the employee’s seri-
ous health condition (See 825.312 and 825.313)).
The employing office may delay restoring
the employee to employment without such
certificate relating to the health condition
which caused the employee’s absence.
825.101 Purpose of the FMLA.
(a) FMLA is intended to allow employees
to balance their work and family life by tak-
ing reasonable unpaid leave for medical rea-
sons, for the birth or adoption of a child, for
the care of a child, spouse, or parent who has
a serious health condition, for the care of a
covered servicemember with a serious injury
or illness, or because of a qualifying exi-
gency arising out of the fact that the em-
ployee’s spouse, son, daughter, or parent is a
military member on covered active duty or
call to covered active duty status. The
FMLA is intended to balance the demands of
the workplace with the needs of families, to
promote the stability and economic security
of families, and to promote national inter-
ests in preserving family integrity. It was in-
tended that the FMLA accomplish these pur-
poses in a manner that accommodates the le-
gitimate interests of employing offices, and
in a manner consistent with the Equal Pro-
tection Clause of the Fourteenth Amend-
ment in minimizing the potential for em-
ployment discrimination on the basis of sex,
while promoting equal employment oppor-
tunity for men and women.
(b) The FMLA was predicated on two fun-
damental concerns—the needs of the Amer-
ican workforce, and the development of high-
performance organizations. Increasingly,
America’s children and elderly are dependent
upon family members who must spend long
hours at work. When a family emergency
arises, requiring workers to attend to seri-
ously-ill children or parents, or to newly-
born or adopted infants, or even to their own
serious illness, workers need reassurance
that they will not be asked to choose be-
tween continuing their employment, and
meeting their personal and family obliga-
tions or tending to vital needs at home.
(c) The FMLA is both intended and ex-
pected to benefit employing offices as well as
their employees. A direct correlation exists
between stability in the family and produc-
tivity in the workplace. FMLA will encour-
age the development of high-performance or-
ganizations. When workers can count on du-
rable links to their workplace they are able
to make their own full commitments to their
jobs. The record of hearings on family and
medical leave indicate the powerful produc-
tive advantages of stable workplace relation-
ships, and the comparatively small costs of
guaranteeing that those relationships will
not be dissolved while workers attend to
pressing family health obligations or their
own serious illness.
825.102 Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
ADA means the Americans with Disabil-
ities Act (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq., as amended),
as made applicable by the Congressional Ac-
countability Act.
Birth means the delivery of a child. When
the term ‘‘birth’’ under this subpart is used
in connection with the use of leave before
birth, it refers to an anticipated birth.
CAA means the Congressional Account-
ability Act of 1995 (Pub. Law 104–1, 109 Stat.
3, 2 U.S.C. 1301 et seq., as amended).
COBRA means the continuation coverage
requirements of Title X of the Consolidated
Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1986
(Pub. Law 99–272, title X, section 10002; 100
Stat. 227; 29 U.S.C. 1161–1168).
Contingency operation means a military op-
eration that:
(1) Is designated by the Secretary of De-
fense as an operation in which members of
the Armed Forces are or may become in-
volved in military actions, operations, or
hostilities against an enemy of the United
States or against an opposing military force;
or
(2) Results in the call or order to, or reten-
tion on, active duty of members of the uni-
formed services under section 688, 12301(a),
12302, 12304, 12305, or 12406 of Title 10 of the
United States Code, chapter 15 of Title 10 of
the United States Code, or any other provi-
sion of law during a war or during a national
emergency declared by the President or Con-
gress. See also 825.126(a)(2).
Continuing treatment by a health care pro-
vider means any one of the following:
(1) Incapacity and treatment. A period of in-
capacity of more than three consecutive, full
calendar days, and any subsequent treat-
ment or period of incapacity relating to the
same condition, that also involves:
(i) Treatment two or more times, within 30
days of the first day of incapacity, unless ex-
tenuating circumstances exist, by a health
care provider, by a nurse under direct super-
vision of a health care provider, or by a pro-
vider of health care services (e.g., physical
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5767
November 16, 2020
therapist) under orders of, or on referral by,
a health care provider; or
(ii) Treatment by a health care provider on
at least one occasion, which results in a regi-
men of continuing treatment under the su-
pervision of the health care provider.
(iii) The requirement in paragraphs (i) and
(ii) of this definition for treatment by a
health care provider means an in-person visit
to a health care provider. The first in-person
treatment visit must take place within seven
days of the first day of incapacity.
(iv) Whether additional treatment visits or
a regimen of continuing treatment is nec-
essary within the 30-day period shall be de-
termined by the health care provider.
(v) The term ‘‘extenuating circumstances’’
in paragraph (i) means circumstances beyond
the employee’s control that prevent the fol-
low-up visit from occurring as planned by
the health care provider. Whether a given set
of circumstances are extenuating depends on
the facts. See also 825.115(a)(5).
(2) Pregnancy or prenatal care. Any period of
incapacity due to pregnancy, or for prenatal
care. 825.120.
(3) Chronic conditions. Any period of inca-
pacity or treatment for such incapacity due
to a chronic serious health condition. A
chronic serious health condition is one
which:
(i) Requires periodic visits (defined as at
least twice a year) for treatment by a health
care provider, or by a nurse under direct su-
pervision of a health care provider;
(ii) Continues over an extended period of
time (including recurring episodes of a single
underlying condition); and
(iii) May cause episodic rather than a con-
tinuing period of incapacity (e.g., asthma,
diabetes, epilepsy, etc.).
(4) Permanent or long-term conditions. A pe-
riod of incapacity which is permanent or
long-term due to a condition for which treat-
ment may not be effective. The employee or
family member must be under the con-
tinuing supervision of, but need not be re-
ceiving active treatment by, a health care
provider. Examples include Alzheimer’s, a
severe stroke, or the terminal stages of a dis-
ease.
(5) Conditions requiring multiple treatments.
Any period of absence to receive multiple
treatments (including any period of recovery
therefrom) by a health care provider or by a
provider of health care services under orders
of, or on referral by, a health care provider,
for:
(i) Restorative surgery after an accident or
other injury; or
(ii) A condition that would likely result in
a period of incapacity of more than three
consecutive full calendar days in the absence
of medical intervention or treatment, such
as cancer (chemotherapy, radiation, etc.), se-
vere arthritis (physical therapy), kidney dis-
ease (dialysis).
(6) Absences attributable to incapacity
under paragraphs (2) or (3) of this definition
qualify for FMLA leave even though the em-
ployee or the covered family member does
not receive treatment from a health care
provider during the absence, and even if the
absence does not last more than three con-
secutive, full calendar days. For example, an
employee with asthma may be unable to re-
port for work due to the onset of an asthma
attack or because the employee’s health care
provider has advised the employee to stay
home when the pollen count exceeds a cer-
tain level. An employee who is pregnant may
be unable to report to work because of severe
morning sickness.
Covered active duty or call to covered active
duty status means:
(1) In the case of a member of the Regular
Armed Forces, duty during the deployment
of the member with the Armed Forces to a
foreign country; and,
(2) In the case of a member of the Reserve
components of the Armed Forces, duty dur-
ing the deployment of the member with the
Armed Forces to a foreign country under a
Federal call or order to active duty in sup-
port of a contingency operation pursuant to:
Section 688 of Title 10 of the United States
Code, which authorizes ordering to active
duty retired members of the Regular Armed
Forces and members of the retired Reserve
who retired after completing at least 20
years of active service; Section 12301(a) of
Title 10 of the United States Code, which au-
thorizes ordering all reserve component
members to active duty in the case of war or
national emergency; Section 12302 of Title 10
of the United States Code, which authorizes
ordering any unit or unassigned member of
the Ready Reserve to active duty; Section
12304 of Title 10 of the United States Code,
which authorizes ordering any unit or unas-
signed member of the Selected Reserve and
certain members of the Individual Ready Re-
serve to active duty; Section 12305 of Title 10
of the United States Code, which authorizes
the suspension of promotion, retirement or
separation rules for certain Reserve compo-
nents; Section 12406 of Title 10 of the United
States Code, which authorizes calling the
National Guard into Federal service in cer-
tain circumstances; chapter 15 of Title 10 of
the United States Code, which authorizes
calling the National Guard and state mili-
tary into Federal service in the case of insur-
rections and national emergencies; or any
other provision of law during a war or during
a national emergency declared by the Presi-
dent or Congress so long as it is in support of
a contingency operation. See 10 U.S.C.
101(a)(13)(B). See also 825.126(a).
Covered employee as defined in the CAA,
means any employee of—(1) the House of
Representatives; (2) the Senate; (3) the Office
of Congressional Accessibility Services; (4)
the Capitol Police; (5) the Congressional
Budget Office; (6) the Office of the Architect
of the Capitol; (7) the Office of the Attending
Physician; (8) the Office of Congressional
Workplace Rights; (9) the Library of Con-
gress; (10) the Stennis Center for Public
Service; (11) the Office of Technology Assess-
ment; (12) the China Review Commission; (13)
the Congressional Executive China Commis-
sion; or (14) the Helsinki Commission.
Covered servicemember means:
(1) A current member of the Armed Forces,
including a member of the National Guard or
Reserves, who is undergoing medical treat-
ment, recuperation, or therapy, is otherwise
in outpatient status, or is otherwise on the
temporary disability retired list, for a seri-
ous injury or illness, or
(2) A covered veteran who is undergoing
medical treatment, recuperation, or therapy
for a serious injury or illness.
Covered veteran means an individual who
was a member of the Armed Forces (includ-
ing a member of the National Guard or Re-
serves), and was discharged or released under
conditions other than dishonorable at any
time during the five-year period prior to the
first date the eligible employee takes FMLA
leave to care for the covered veteran. See
825.127(b)(2).
Eligible employee as defined in the CAA,
means:
(1) For purposes of leave under subpara-
graphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of section 85.112 [or sub-
sections (A) or (B) of section 102(a)(1) of the
FMLA], a covered employee as defined in the
CAA.
(2) For purposes of leave under subpara-
graphs (a)(3)–(6) of section 825.112 [or sub-
sections (C)–(F) of section 102(a)(1) of the
FMLA], a covered employee who has been
employed for a total of at least 12 months in
any employing office on the date on which
any FMLA leave is to commence, except that
an employing office need not consider any
period of previous employment that occurred
more than seven years before the date of the
most recent hiring of the employee, unless:
(i) The break in service is occasioned by
the fulfillment of the employee’s Uniformed
Services Employment and Reemployment
Rights Act (USERRA), 38 U.S.C. 4301, et seq.,
covered service obligation (the period of ab-
sence from work due to or necessitated by
USERRA-covered service must be also count-
ed in determining whether the employee has
been employed for at least 12 months by any
employing office, but this section does not
provide any greater entitlement to the em-
ployee than would be available under the
USERRA, as made applicable by the CAA);
or
(ii) A written agreement, including a col-
lective bargaining agreement, exists con-
cerning the employing office’s intention to
rehire the employee after the break in serv-
ice (e.g., for purposes of the employee fur-
thering his or her education or for
childrearing purposes); and
(3) Who, on the date on which any FMLA
leave is to commence, has met the hours of
service requirement by having been em-
ployed for at least 1,250 hours of service with
an employing office during the previous 12-
month period, except that:
(i) An employee returning from fulfilling
his or her USERRA-covered service obliga-
tion shall be credited with the hours of serv-
ice that would have been performed but for
the period of absence from work due to or ne-
cessitated by USERRA-covered service in de-
termining whether the employee met the
hours of service requirement (accordingly, a
person reemployed following absence from
work due to or necessitated by USERRA-cov-
ered service has the hours that would have
been worked for the employing office added
to any hours actually worked during the pre-
vious 12-month period to meet the hours of
service requirement);
(ii) To determine the hours that would
have been worked during the period of ab-
sence from work due to or necessitated by
USERRA-covered service, the employee’s
pre-service work schedule can generally be
used for calculations; and
(iii) Any service on active duty (as defined
in 29 U.S.C. 2611(14)) by a covered employee
who is a member of the National Guard or
Reserves shall be counted as time during
which such employee has been employed in
an employing office for purposes of para-
graph (3) of this section.
Employ means to suffer or permit to work.
Employee means an employee as defined by
the CAA and includes an applicant for em-
ployment and a former employee.
Employee employed in an instructional capac-
ity. See the definition of Teacher in this sec-
tion.
Employee of the Capitol Police means any
member or officer of the Capitol Police.
Employee of the House of Representatives
means an individual occupying a position the
pay for which is disbursed by the Clerk of
the House of Representatives, or another of-
ficial designated by the House of Representa-
tives, or any employment position in an en-
tity that is paid with funds derived from the
clerk-hire allowance of the House of Rep-
resentatives but not any such individual em-
ployed by any entity listed in subparagraphs
(3) through (9) under the definition of cov-
ered employee above.
Employee of the Office of the Architect of the
Capitol means any employee of the Office of
the Architect of the Capitol or the Botanic
Garden.
Employee of the Senate means any employee
whose pay is disbursed by the Secretary of
the Senate, but not any such individual em-
ployed by any entity listed in subparagraphs
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5768 November 16, 2020
(3) through (9) under the definition of cov-
ered employee above.
Employing Office, as defined by the CAA,
means:
(1) The personal office of a Member of the
House of Representatives or of a Senator;
(2) A committee of the House of Represent-
atives or the Senate or a joint committee;
(3) Any other office headed by a person
with the final authority to appoint, hire, dis-
charge, and set the terms, conditions, or
privileges of the employment of an employee
of the House of Representatives or the Sen-
ate; or
(4) The Office of Congressional Accessi-
bility Services, the United States Capitol
Police, the Congressional Budget Office, the
Office of the Architect of the Capitol, the Of-
fice of the Attending Physician, the Office of
Congressional Workplace Rights, the Library
of Congress, the Stennis Center for Public
Service, the Office of Technology Assess-
ment, the China Review Commission, the
Congressional Executive China Commission,
and the Helsinki Commission.
Employment benefits means all benefits pro-
vided or made available to employees by an
employing office, including group life insur-
ance, health insurance, disability insurance,
sick leave, annual leave, educational bene-
fits, and pensions, regardless of whether such
benefits are provided by a practice or written
policy of an employing office or through an
employee benefit plan. The term does not in-
clude non-employment related obligations
paid by employees through voluntary deduc-
tions such as supplemental insurance cov-
erage. See also 825.209(a).
Family and medical leave means an employ-
ee’s entitlement to 12 workweeks (or 26
workweeks in the case of leave under 825.127)
of unpaid leave for certain family and med-
ical needs, as prescribed under the FMLA, as
made applicable by the CAA.
FLSA means the Fair Labor Standards Act
(29 U.S.C. 201 et seq.), as made applicable by
the CAA.
FMLA means the Family and Medical
Leave Act of 1993, Public Law 103–3 (Feb-
ruary 5, 1993), 107 Stat. 6 (29 U.S.C. 2601 et
seq., as amended), as made applicable by the
CAA.
Group health plan means the Federal Em-
ployees Health Benefits Program and any
other plan of, or contributed to by, an em-
ploying office (including a self-insured plan)
to provide health care (directly or otherwise)
to the employing office’s employees, former
employees, or the families of such employees
or former employees. For purposes of FMLA,
as made applicable by the CAA, the term
group health plan shall not include an insur-
ance program providing health coverage
under which employees purchase individual
policies from insurers provided that:
(1) No contributions are made by the em-
ploying office;
(2) Participation in the program is com-
pletely voluntary for employees;
(3) The sole functions of the employing of-
fice with respect to the program are, without
endorsing the program, to permit the insurer
to publicize the program to employees, to
collect premiums through payroll deductions
and to remit them to the insurer;
(4) The employing office receives no con-
sideration in the form of cash or otherwise in
connection with the program, other than
reasonable compensation, excluding any
profit, for administrative services actually
rendered in connection with payroll deduc-
tion; and,
(5) The premium charged with respect to
such coverage does not increase in the event
the employment relationship terminates.
Health care provider means:
(1) The FMLA, as made applicable by the
CAA, defines health care provider as:
(i) A doctor of medicine or osteopathy who
is authorized to practice medicine or surgery
(as appropriate) by the State in which the
doctor practices; or
(ii) Any other person determined by the
Department of Labor to be capable of pro-
viding health care services.
(2) Others ‘‘capable of providing health
care services’’ include only:
(i) Podiatrists, dentists, clinical psycholo-
gists, optometrists, and chiropractors (lim-
ited to treatment consisting of manual ma-
nipulation of the spine to correct a sub-
luxation as demonstrated by X-ray to exist)
authorized to practice in the State and per-
forming within the scope of their practice as
defined under State law;
(ii) Nurse practitioners, nurse-midwives
and clinical social workers and physician as-
sistants who are authorized to practice
under State law and who are performing
within the scope of their practice as defined
under State law;
(iii) Christian Science practitioners listed
with the First Church of Christ, Scientist in
Boston, Massachusetts. Where an employee
or family member is receiving treatment
from a Christian Science practitioner, an
employee may not object to any requirement
from an employing office that the employee
or family member submit to examination
(though not treatment) to obtain a second or
third certification from a health care pro-
vider other than a Christian Science practi-
tioner except as otherwise provided under
applicable State or local law or collective
bargaining agreement;
(iv) Any health care provider from whom
an employing office or a group health plan’s
benefits manager will accept certification of
the existence of a serious health condition to
substantiate a claim for benefits; and
(v) A health care provider listed above who
practices in a country other than the United
States, who is authorized to practice in ac-
cordance with the law of that country, and
who is performing within the scope of his or
her practice as defined under such law.
(3) The phrase ‘‘authorized to practice in
the State’’ as used in this section means that
the provider must be authorized to diagnose
and treat physical or mental health condi-
tions.
Incapable of self-care means that the indi-
vidual requires active assistance or super-
vision to provide daily self-care in several of
the ‘‘activities of daily living’’ (ADLs) or
‘‘instrumental activities of daily living’’
(IADLs). Activities of daily living include
adaptive activities such as caring appro-
priately for one’s grooming and hygiene,
bathing, dressing and eating. Instrumental
activities of daily living include cooking,
cleaning, shopping, taking public transpor-
tation, paying bills, maintaining a residence,
using telephones and directories, using a
post office, etc.
Instructional employee: See the definition of
Teacher in this section.
Intermittent leave means leave taken in sep-
arate periods of time due to a single illness
or injury, rather than for one continuous pe-
riod of time, and may include leave of peri-
ods from an hour or more to several weeks.
Examples of intermittent leave would in-
clude leave taken on an occasional basis for
medical appointments, or leave taken sev-
eral days at a time spread over a period of
six months, such as for chemotherapy.
Invitational travel authorization (ITA) or In-
vitational travel order (ITO) mean orders
issued by the Armed Forces to a family
member to join an injured or ill servicemem-
ber at his or her bedside. See also 825.310(e).
Key employee means a salaried FMLA-eligi-
ble employee who is among the highest paid
10 percent of all the employees employed by
the employing office within 75 miles of the
employee’s worksite. See also 825.217.
Mental disability: See the definition of
Physical or mental disability in this section.
Military caregiver leave means leave taken
to care for a covered servicemember with a
serious injury or illness under the Family
and Medical Leave Act of 1993. See also
825.127.
Next of kin of a covered servicemember means
the nearest blood relative other than the
covered servicemember’s spouse, parent, son,
or daughter, in the following order of pri-
ority: blood relatives who have been granted
legal custody of the covered servicemember
by court decree or statutory provisions,
brothers and sisters, grandparents, aunts and
uncles, and first cousins, unless the covered
servicemember has specifically designated in
writing another blood relative as his or her
nearest blood relative for purposes of mili-
tary caregiver leave under the FMLA. When
no such designation is made, and there are
multiple family members with the same
level of relationship to the covered service-
member, all such family members shall be
considered the covered servicemember’s next
of kin and may take FMLA leave to provide
care to the covered servicemember, either
consecutively or simultaneously. When such
designation has been made, the designated
individual shall be deemed to be the covered
servicemember’s only next of kin. See also
825.127(d)(3).
Office of Congressional Workplace Rights
means the independent office established in
the legislative branch under section 301 of
the CAA (2 U.S.C. 1381).
Outpatient status means, with respect to a
covered servicemember who is a current
member of the Armed Forces, the status of a
member of the Armed Forces assigned to ei-
ther a military medical treatment facility as
an outpatient; or a unit established for the
purpose of providing command and control of
members of the Armed Forces receiving med-
ical care as outpatients. See also 825.127(b)(1).
Parent means a biological, adoptive, step
or foster father or mother or any other indi-
vidual who stood in loco parentis to the em-
ployee when the employee was a son or
daughter as defined below. This term does
not include parents ‘‘in law.’’
Parent of a covered servicemember means a
covered servicemember’s biological, adop-
tive, step or foster father or mother, or any
other individual who stood in loco parentis
to the covered servicemember. This term
does not include parents ‘‘in law.’’ See also
825.127(d)(2).
Physical or mental disability means a phys-
ical or mental impairment that substan-
tially limits one or more of the major life ac-
tivities of an individual. Regulations at 29
CFR part 1630, issued by the Equal Employ-
ment Opportunity Commission under the
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), 42
U.S.C. 12101 et seq., as amended, provide
guidance for these terms.
Placement means a new placement of a son
or daughter with an employee for adoption
or foster care. For example, this excludes the
adoption of a stepchild or a foster child who
has already been a member of the employee’s
household and has an existing parent-child
relationship with an adopting parent. When
the term ‘‘placement’’ is used under this sub-
part in connection with the use of leave be-
fore placement has occurred, it refers to a
planned or anticipated placement.
Reduced leave schedule means a leave sched-
ule that reduces the usual number of hours
per workweek, or hours per workday, of an
employee.
Reserve components of the Armed Forces, for
purposes of qualifying exigency leave, in-
clude the Army National Guard of the
United States, Army Reserve, Navy Reserve,
Marine Corps Reserve, Air National Guard of
the United States, Air Force Reserve, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5769
November 16, 2020
Coast Guard Reserve, and retired members of
the Regular Armed Forces or Reserves who
are called up in support of a contingency op-
eration. See also 825.126(a)(2)(i).
Secretary means the Secretary of Labor or
authorized representative.
Serious health condition means an illness,
injury, impairment, or physical or mental
condition that involves inpatient care as de-
fined in 825.114 or continuing treatment by a
health care provider as defined in 825.115.
Conditions for which cosmetic treatments
are administered (such as most treatments
for acne or plastic surgery) are not serious
health conditions unless inpatient hospital
care is required or unless complications de-
velop. Restorative dental or plastic surgery
after an injury or removal of cancerous
growths are serious health conditions pro-
vided all the other conditions of this regula-
tion are met. Mental illness or allergies may
be serious health conditions, but only if all
the conditions of 825.113 are met.
Serious injury or illness means:
(1) In the case of a current member of the
Armed Forces, including a member of the
National Guard or Reserves, an injury or ill-
ness that was incurred by the covered serv-
icemember in the line of duty on active duty
in the Armed Forces or that existed before
the beginning of the member’s active duty
and was aggravated by service in the line of
duty on active duty in the Armed Forces and
that may render the servicemember medi-
cally unfit to perform the duties of the mem-
ber’s office, grade, rank, or rating; and
(2) In the case of a covered veteran, an in-
jury or illness that was incurred by the
member in the line of duty on active duty in
the Armed Forces (or existed before the be-
ginning of the member’s active duty and was
aggravated by service in the line of duty on
active duty in the Armed Forces) and mani-
fested itself before or after the member be-
came a veteran, and is:
(i) A continuation of a serious injury or ill-
ness that was incurred or aggravated when
the covered veteran was a member of the
Armed Forces and rendered the servicemem-
ber unable to perform the duties of the
servicemember’s office, grade, rank, or rat-
ing; or
(ii) A physical or mental condition for
which the covered veteran has received a
U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Service-
Related Disability Rating (VASRD) of 50 per-
cent or greater, and such VASRD rating is
based, in whole or in part, on the condition
precipitating the need for military caregiver
leave; or
(iii) A physical or mental condition that
substantially impairs the covered veteran’s
ability to secure or follow a substantially
gainful occupation by reason of a disability
or disabilities related to military service, or
would do so absent treatment; or
(iv) An injury, including a psychological
injury, on the basis of which the covered vet-
eran has been enrolled in the Department of
Veterans Affairs Program of Comprehensive
Assistance for Family Caregivers. See also
825.127(c).
Son or daughter means a biological, adopt-
ed, or foster child, a stepchild, a legal ward,
or a child of a person standing in loco
parentis, who is either under age 18, or age 18
or older and ‘‘incapable of self-care because
of a mental or physical disability’’ at the
time that FMLA leave is to commence.
Son or daughter of a covered servicemember
means a covered servicemember’s biological,
adopted, or foster child, stepchild, legal
ward, or a child for whom the covered serv-
icemember stood in loco parentis, and who is
of any age. See also 825.127(d)(1).
Son or daughter on covered active duty or call
to covered active duty status means the em-
ployee’s biological, adopted, or foster child,
stepchild, legal ward, or a child for whom the
employee stood in loco parentis, who is on
covered active duty or call to covered active
duty status, and who is of any age. See also
825.126(a)(5).
Spouse means a husband or wife. For pur-
poses of this definition, husband or wife re-
fers to the other person with whom an indi-
vidual entered into marriage as defined or
recognized under state law for purposes of
marriage in the State in which the marriage
was entered into or, in the case of a marriage
entered into outside of any State, if the mar-
riage is valid in the place where entered into
and could have been entered into in at least
one State. This definition includes an indi-
vidual in a same-sex or common law mar-
riage that either:
(1) Was entered into in a State that recog-
nizes such marriages; or
(2) If entered into outside of any State, is
valid in the place where entered into and
could have been entered into in at least one
State.
Teacher (or employee employed in an in-
structional capacity, or instructional em-
ployee) means an employee employed prin-
cipally in an instructional capacity by an
educational agency or school whose principal
function is to teach and instruct students in
a class, a small group, or an individual set-
ting, and includes athletic coaches, driving
instructors, and special education assistants
such as signers for the hearing impaired. The
term does not include teacher assistants or
aides who do not have as their principal
function actual teaching or instructing, nor
auxiliary personnel such as counselors, psy-
chologists, curriculum specialists, cafeteria
workers, maintenance workers, bus drivers,
or other primarily noninstructional employ-
ees.
TRICARE is the health care program serv-
ing active duty servicemembers, National
Guard and Reserve members, retirees, their
families, survivors, and certain former
spouses worldwide.
825.103 [Reserved]
825.104 Covered employing offices.
The FMLA, as made applicable by the
CAA, covers all employing offices. As used in
the CAA, the term employing office means:
(a) The personal office of a Member of the
House of Representatives or of a Senator;
(b) A committee of the House of Represent-
atives or the Senate or a joint committee;
(c) Any other office headed by a person
with the final authority to appoint, hire, dis-
charge, and set the terms, conditions, or
privileges of the employment of an employee
of the House of Representatives or the Sen-
ate; or
(d) The Office of Congressional Accessi-
bility Services, the United States Capitol
Police, the Congressional Budget Office, the
Office of the Architect of the Capitol, the Of-
fice of the Attending Physician, the Office of
Congressional Workplace Rights, the Library
of Congress, the Stennis Center for Public
Service, the China Review Commission, the
Congressional Executive China Commission,
the Helsinki Commission, and the Office of
Technology Assessment.
825.105 [Reserved].
825.106 Joint employer coverage.
(a) Where two or more employing offices
exercise some control over the work or work-
ing conditions of the employee, the employ-
ing offices may be joint employers under
FMLA, as made applicable by the CAA.
Where the employee performs work which si-
multaneously benefits two or more employ-
ing offices, or works for two or more employ-
ing offices at different times during the
workweek, a joint employment relationship
generally will be considered to exist in situa-
tions such as:
(1) Where there is an arrangement between
employing offices to share an employee’s
services or to interchange employees;
(2) Where one employing office acts di-
rectly or indirectly in the interest of the
other employing office in relation to the em-
ployee; or
(3) Where the employing offices are not
completely disassociated with respect to the
employee’s employment and may be deemed
to share control of the employee, directly or
indirectly, because one employing office con-
trols, is controlled by, or is under common
control with the other employing office.
(b) A determination of whether or not a
joint employment relationship exists is not
determined by the application of any single
criterion, but rather the entire relationship
is to be viewed in its totality. For example,
joint employment will ordinarily be found to
exist when:
(1) An employee, who is employed by an
employing office other than the personal of-
fice of a Member of the House of Representa-
tives or of a Senator, is under the actual di-
rection and control of the Member of the
House of Representatives or Senator; or
(2) Two or more employing offices employ
an individual to work on common issues or
other matters for both or all of them.
(c) When employing offices employ a cov-
ered employee jointly, they may designate
one of themselves to be the primary employ-
ing office, and the other or others to be the
secondary employing office(s). Such a des-
ignation shall be made by written notice to
the covered employee.
(d) If an employing office is designated a
primary employing office pursuant to para-
graph (c) of this section, only that employ-
ing office is responsible for giving required
notices to the covered employee, providing
FMLA leave, and maintenance of health ben-
efits. Job restoration is the primary respon-
sibility of the primary employing office, and
the secondary employing office(s) may, sub-
ject to the limitations in 825.216, be respon-
sible for accepting the employee returning
from FMLA leave.
(e) If employing offices employ an em-
ployee jointly, but fail to designate a pri-
mary employing office pursuant to para-
graph (c) of this section, then all of these
employing offices shall be jointly and sever-
ally liable for giving required notices to the
employee, for providing FMLA leave, for as-
suring that health benefits are maintained,
and for job restoration. The employee may
give notice of need for FMLA leave, as de-
scribed in 825.302 and 825.303, to whichever of
these employing offices the employee choos-
es. If the employee makes a written request
for restoration to one of these employing of-
fices, that employing office shall be pri-
marily responsible for job restoration, and
the other employing office(s) may, subject to
the limitations in 825.216, be responsible for
accepting the employee returning from
FMLA leave.
825.107 [Reserved]
825.108 [Reserved]
825.109 [Reserved]
825.110 Eligible employee, general rule.
(a) Subject to the exceptions provided in
825.111, an eligible employee is a covered em-
ployee of an employing office who:
(1) Has been employed by any employing
office for at least 12 months, and
(2) Has been employed for at least 1,250
hours of service during the 12–month period
immediately preceding the commencement
of the leave.
(b) Any service on active duty (as defined
in 29 U.S.C. 2611(14)) by a covered employee
who is a member of the National Guard or
Reserves shall be counted as time during
which such employee has been employed in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5770 November 16, 2020
an employing office for purposes of para-
graph (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(c) The 12 months an employee must have
been employed by any employing office need
not be consecutive months, provided:
(1) Subject to the exceptions provided in
paragraph (c)(2) of this section, employment
periods prior to a break in service of seven
years or more need not be counted in deter-
mining whether the employee has been em-
ployed by any employing office for at least 12
months.
(2) Employment periods preceding a break
in service of more than seven years must be
counted in determining whether the em-
ployee has been employed by any employing
office for at least 12 months where:
(i) The employee’s break in service is occa-
sioned by the fulfillment of his or her Uni-
formed Services Employment and Reemploy-
ment Rights Act (USERRA), 38 U.S.C. 4301,
et seq., covered service obligation. The pe-
riod of absence from work due to or neces-
sitated by USERRA-covered service must be
also counted in determining whether the em-
ployee has been employed for at least 12
months by any employing office. However,
this section does not provide any greater en-
titlement to the employee than would be
available under the USERRA; or
(ii) A written agreement, including a col-
lective bargaining agreement, exists con-
cerning the employing office’s intention to
rehire the employee after the break in serv-
ice (e.g., for purposes of the employee fur-
thering his or her education or for
childrearing purposes).
(3) If an employee worked for two or more
employing offices sequentially, the time
worked will be aggregated to determine
whether it equals 12 months.
(4) If an employee is maintained on the
payroll for any part of a week, including any
periods of paid or unpaid leave (sick, vaca-
tion) during which other benefits or com-
pensation are provided by the employing of-
fice (e.g., Federal Employees’ Compensation,
group health plan benefits, etc.), the week
counts as a week of employment. For pur-
poses of determining whether intermittent/
occasional/casual employment qualifies as at
least 12 months, 52 weeks is deemed to be
equal to 12 months.
(5) Nothing in this section prevents em-
ploying offices from considering employment
prior to a continuous break in service of
more than seven years when determining
whether an employee has met the 12-month
employment requirement. However, if an
employing office chooses to recognize such
prior employment, the employing office
must do so uniformly, with respect to all em-
ployees with similar breaks in service.
(d)(1) If an employee was employed by two
or more employing offices, either sequen-
tially or concurrently, the hours of service
will be aggregated to determine whether the
minimum of 1,250 hours has been reached.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of
this section, whether an employee has
worked the minimum 1,250 hours of service is
determined according to the principles es-
tablished under the Fair Labor Standards
Act (FLSA), as applied by section 203 of the
CAA (2 U.S.C. 1313), for determining compen-
sable hours of work. The determining factor
is the number of hours an employee has
worked for one or more employing offices as
defined by the CAA. The determination is
not limited by methods of recordkeeping, or
by compensation agreements that do not ac-
curately reflect all of the hours an employee
has worked for or been in service to the em-
ploying office. Any accurate accounting of
actual hours worked under the FLSA’s prin-
ciples, as made applicable by the CAA (2
U.S.C. 1313), may be used.
(3) An employee returning from USERRA-
covered service shall be credited with the
hours of service that would have been per-
formed but for the period of absence from
work due to or necessitated by USERRA-cov-
ered service in determining the employee’s
eligibility for FMLA-qualifying leave. Ac-
cordingly, a person reemployed following
USERRA-covered service has the hours that
would have been worked for the employing
office added to any hours actually worked
during the previous 12 month period to meet
the hours of service requirement. In order to
determine the hours that would have been
worked during the period of absence from
work due to or necessitated by USERRA-cov-
ered service, the employee’s pre-service work
schedule can generally be used for calcula-
tions.
(4) In the event an employing office does
not maintain an accurate record of hours
worked by an employee, including for em-
ployees who are exempt from the overtime
requirements of the FLSA, as made applica-
ble by the CAA and its regulations, the em-
ploying office has the burden of showing that
the employee has not worked the requisite
hours. An employing office must be able to
clearly demonstrate, for example, that full
time teachers (See 825.102 for definition) of an
elementary or secondary school system, or
institution of higher education, or other edu-
cational establishment or institution (who
often work outside the classroom or at their
homes) did not work 1,250 hours during the
previous 12 months in order to claim that
the teachers are not covered or eligible for
FMLA leave.
(e) The determination of whether an em-
ployee meets the hours of service require-
ment for any employing office and has been
employed by any employing office for a total
of at least 12 months, must be made as of the
date the FMLA leave is to start. An em-
ployee may be on non-FMLA leave at the
time he or she meets the 12-month eligibility
requirement, and in that event, any portion
of the leave taken for an FMLA-qualifying
reason after the employee meets the eligi-
bility requirement would be FMLA leave.
See 825.300(b) for rules governing the content
of the eligibility notice given to employees.
(f) If, before beginning employment with
an employing office, an employee had been
employed by another employing office, the
subsequent employing office may count
against the employee’s FMLA leave entitle-
ment FMLA leave taken from the prior em-
ploying office, so long as the prior employing
office properly designated the leave as
FMLA under these regulations or other ap-
plicable requirements.
825.111 Eligible employee, birth or place-
ment.
For purposes of leave under subparagraphs
(a)(1) or (a)(2) of 825.112 [or subsections (A) or
(B) of section 102(a)(1) of the FMLA]:
(a) an eligible employee is a covered em-
ployee of an employing office; and
(b) the eligibility requirements of section
825.110 shall not apply. See also 825.120–21.
825.112 Qualifying reasons for leave, general
rule.
(a) Circumstances qualifying for leave.
Employing offices covered by FMLA as made
applicable by the CAA are required to grant
leave to eligible employees:
(1) For birth of a son or daughter, and to
care for the newborn child (See 825.120);
(2) For the placement of a son or daughter
with the employee for adoption or foster care
and the care of such son or daughter (See
825.121);
(3) To care for the employee’s spouse, son,
daughter, or parent with a serious health
condition (See 825.113 and 825.122);
(4) Because of a serious health condition
that makes the employee unable to perform
the functions of the employee’s job (See
825.113 and 825.123);
(5) Because of any qualifying exigency aris-
ing out of the fact that the employee’s
spouse, son, daughter, or parent is a military
member on covered active duty (or has been
notified of an impending call or order to cov-
ered active duty status) (See 825.122 and
825.126); and
(6) To care for a covered servicemember
with a serious injury or illness if the em-
ployee is the spouse, son, daughter, parent,
or next of kin of the covered servicemember
(See 825.122 and 825.127).
(b) Equal Application. The right to take
leave under FMLA, as made applicable by
the CAA, applies equally to male and female
employees. A father, as well as a mother, can
take family leave for the birth, placement
for adoption, or foster care of a child.
(c) Active employee. In situations where the
employing office/employee relationship has
been interrupted, such as an employee who
has been on layoff, the employee must be re-
called or otherwise be re-employed before
being eligible for FMLA leave. Under such
circumstances, an eligible employee is im-
mediately entitled to further FMLA leave
for a qualifying reason.
825.113 Serious health condition.
(a) For purposes of FMLA, serious health
condition entitling an employee to FMLA leave
means an illness, injury, impairment, or
physical or mental condition that involves
inpatient care as defined in 825.114 or con-
tinuing treatment by a health care provider
as defined in 825.115.
(b) The term incapacity means inability to
work, attend school or perform other regular
daily activities due to the serious health
condition, treatment therefore, or recovery
therefrom.
(c) The term treatment includes (but is not
limited to) examinations to determine if a
serious health condition exists and evalua-
tions of the condition. Treatment does not
include routine physical examinations, eye
examinations, or dental examinations. A reg-
imen of continuing treatment includes, for
example, a course of prescription medication
(e.g., an antibiotic) or therapy requiring spe-
cial equipment to resolve or alleviate the
health condition (e.g., oxygen). A regimen of
continuing treatment that includes the tak-
ing of over-the-counter medications such as
aspirin, antihistamines, or salves; or bed-
rest, drinking fluids, exercise, and other
similar activities that can be initiated with-
out a visit to a health care provider, is not,
by itself, sufficient to constitute a regimen
of continuing treatment for purposes of
FMLA leave.
(d) Conditions for which cosmetic treat-
ments are administered (such as most treat-
ments for acne or plastic surgery) are not se-
rious health conditions unless inpatient hos-
pital care is required or unless complications
develop. Ordinarily, unless complications
arise, the common cold, the flu, ear aches,
upset stomach, minor ulcers, headaches
other than migraine, routine dental or or-
thodontia problems, periodontal disease,
etc., are examples of conditions that do not
meet the definition of a serious health condi-
tion and do not qualify for FMLA leave. Re-
storative dental or plastic surgery after an
injury or removal of cancerous growths are
serious health conditions provided all the
other conditions of this regulation are met.
Mental illness or allergies may be serious
health conditions, but only if all the condi-
tions of this section are met.
825.114 Inpatient care.
Inpatient care means an overnight stay in
a hospital, hospice, or residential medical
care facility, including any period of inca-
pacity as defined in 825.113(b), or any subse-
quent treatment in connection with such in-
patient care.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5771
November 16, 2020
825.115 Continuing treatment.
A serious health condition involving con-
tinuing treatment by a health care provider
includes any one or more of the following:
(a) Incapacity and treatment. A period of in-
capacity of more than three consecutive, full
calendar days, and any subsequent treat-
ment or period of incapacity relating to the
same condition, that also involves:
(1) Treatment two or more times, within 30
days of the first day of incapacity, unless ex-
tenuating circumstances exist, by a health
care provider, by a nurse under direct super-
vision of a health care provider, or by a pro-
vider of health care services (e.g., physical
therapist) under orders of, or on referral by,
a health care provider; or
(2) Treatment by a health care provider on
at least one occasion, which results in a regi-
men of continuing treatment under the su-
pervision of the health care provider.
(3) The requirement in paragraphs (a)(1)
and (2) of this section for treatment by a
health care provider means an in-person visit
to a health care provider. The first (or only)
in-person treatment visit must take place
within seven days of the first day of inca-
pacity.
(4) Whether additional treatment visits or
a regimen of continuing treatment is nec-
essary within the 30-day period shall be de-
termined by the health care provider.
(5) The term extenuating circumstances in
paragraph (a)(1) of this section means cir-
cumstances beyond the employee’s control
that prevent the follow-up visit from occur-
ring as planned by the health care provider.
Whether a given set of circumstances are ex-
tenuating depends on the facts. For example,
extenuating circumstances exist if a health
care provider determines that a second in-
person visit is needed within the 30-day pe-
riod, but the health care provider does not
have any available appointments during that
time period.
(b) Pregnancy or prenatal care. Any period
of incapacity due to pregnancy, or for pre-
natal care. See also 825.120.
(c) Chronic conditions. Any period of inca-
pacity or treatment for such incapacity due
to a chronic serious health condition. A
chronic serious health condition is one
which:
(1) Requires periodic visits (defined as at
least twice a year) for treatment by a health
care provider, or by a nurse under direct su-
pervision of a health care provider;
(2) Continues over an extended period of
time (including recurring episodes of a single
underlying condition); and
(3) May cause episodic rather than a con-
tinuing period of incapacity (e.g., asthma,
diabetes, epilepsy, etc.).
(d) Permanent or long-term conditions. A pe-
riod of incapacity which is permanent or
long-term due to a condition for which treat-
ment may not be effective. The employee or
family member must be under the con-
tinuing supervision of, but need not be re-
ceiving active treatment by, a health care
provider. Examples include Alzheimer’s, a
severe stroke, or the terminal stages of a dis-
ease.
(e) Conditions requiring multiple treatments.
Any period of absence to receive multiple
treatments (including any period of recovery
therefrom) by a health care provider or by a
provider of health care services under orders
of, or on referral by, a health care provider,
for:
(1) Restorative surgery after an accident or
other injury; or
(2) A condition that would likely result in
a period of incapacity of more than three
consecutive, full calendar days in the ab-
sence of medical intervention or treatment,
such as cancer (chemotherapy, radiation,
etc.), severe arthritis (physical therapy), or
kidney disease (dialysis).
(f) Absences attributable to incapacity
under paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section
qualify for FMLA leave even though the em-
ployee or the covered family member does
not receive treatment from a health care
provider during the absence, and even if the
absence does not last more than three con-
secutive, full calendar days. For example, an
employee with asthma may be unable to re-
port for work due to the onset of an asthma
attack or because the employee’s health care
provider has advised the employee to stay
home when the pollen count exceeds a cer-
tain level. An employee who is pregnant may
be unable to report to work because of severe
morning sickness.
825.116 [Reserved]
825.117 [Reserved]
825.118 [Reserved]
825.119 Leave for treatment of substance
abuse.
(a) Substance abuse may be a serious
health condition if the conditions of 825.113
through 825.115 are met. However, FMLA
leave may only be taken for treatment for
substance abuse by a health care provider or
by a provider of health care services on refer-
ral by a health care provider. On the other
hand, absence because of the employee’s use
of the substance, rather than for treatment,
does not qualify for FMLA leave.
(b) Treatment for substance abuse does not
prevent an employing office from taking em-
ployment action against an employee. The
employing office may not take action
against the employee because the employee
has exercised his or her right to take FMLA
leave for treatment. However, if the employ-
ing office has an established policy, applied
in a non-discriminatory manner that has
been communicated to all employees, that
provides under certain circumstances an em-
ployee may be terminated for substance
abuse, pursuant to that policy the employee
may be terminated whether or not the em-
ployee is presently taking FMLA leave. An
employee may also take FMLA leave to care
for a covered family member who is receiv-
ing treatment for substance abuse. The em-
ploying office may not take action against
an employee who is providing care for a cov-
ered family member receiving treatment for
substance abuse.
825.120 Leave for pregnancy or birth.
(a) General rules. Eligible employees are en-
titled to FMLA leave for pregnancy or birth
of a son or daughter and to care for the new-
born child as follows:
(1) Both parents are entitled to FMLA
leave for the birth of their child.
(2) Both parents are entitled to FMLA
leave to be with the healthy newborn child
(i.e., bonding time) during the 12-month pe-
riod beginning on the date of birth. An em-
ployee’s entitlement to FMLA leave for a
birth expires at the end of the 12-month pe-
riod beginning on the date of the birth.
Leave for a birth must be concluded within
this 12-month period. If the employing office
permits bonding leave to be taken beyond
this period, such leave will not qualify as
FMLA leave. Under this section, both par-
ents are entitled to FMLA leave even if the
newborn does not have a serious health con-
dition.
(3) Spouses who are eligible for FMLA
leave and are employed by the same employ-
ing office may be limited to a combined total
of 12 weeks of leave during any 12-month pe-
riod if the leave is taken for birth of the em-
ployee’s son or daughter or to care for the
child after birth, for placement of a son or
daughter with the employee for adoption or
foster care or to care for the child after
placement, or to care for the employee’s par-
ent with a serious health condition. This
limitation on the total weeks of leave ap-
plies to leave taken for the reasons specified
as long as the spouses are employed by the
same employing office. It would apply, for
example, even though the spouses are em-
ployed at two different worksites of an em-
ploying office. On the other hand, if one
spouse is ineligible for FMLA leave, the
other spouse would be entitled to a full 12
weeks of FMLA leave. Where spouses both
use a portion of the total 12-week FMLA
leave entitlement for either the birth of a
child, for placement for adoption or foster
care, or to care for a parent, the spouses
would each be entitled to the difference be-
tween the amount he or she has taken indi-
vidually and 12 weeks for FMLA leave for
other purposes. For example, if each spouse
took six weeks of leave to care for a healthy,
newborn child, each could use an additional
six weeks due to his or her own serious
health condition or to care for a child with
a serious health condition.
(4) The expectant mother is entitled to
FMLA leave for incapacity due to pregnancy,
for prenatal care, or for her own serious
health condition following the birth of the
child. An expectant mother may take FMLA
leave before the birth of the child for pre-
natal care or if her condition makes her un-
able to work. The expectant mother is enti-
tled to leave for incapacity due to pregnancy
even though she does not receive treatment
from a health care provider during the ab-
sence, and even if the absence does not last
for more than three consecutive calendar
days.
(5) A spouse is entitled to FMLA leave if
needed to care for a pregnant spouse who is
incapacitated or if needed to care for her
during her prenatal care, or if needed to care
for her following the birth of a child if she
has a serious health condition. See 825.124.
(6) Both parents are entitled to FMLA
leave if needed to care for a child with a seri-
ous health condition if the requirements of
825.113 through 825.115 and 825.122 (d) are met.
Thus, spouses may each take 12 weeks of
FMLA leave if needed to care for their new-
born child with a serious health condition,
even if both are employed by the same em-
ploying office, provided they have not ex-
hausted their entitlements during the appli-
cable 12-month FMLA leave period.
(7) Leave taken because of the birth of a
son or daughter of the employee includes
leave necessary for an employee who is the
birth mother to recover from giving birth, or
for an employee who is the other parent to
care for the birth mother during her recov-
ery period, even if the employee is not in-
volved in caring for the son or daughter dur-
ing portions of that recovery period.
(b) Intermittent and reduced schedule leave.
An eligible employee may use intermittent
or reduced schedule leave after the birth to
be with a healthy newborn child only if the
employing office agrees. For example, an em-
ploying office and employee may agree to a
part-time work schedule after the birth. If
the employing office agrees to permit inter-
mittent or reduced schedule leave for the
birth of a child, the employing office may re-
quire the employee to transfer temporarily,
during the period the intermittent or re-
duced leave schedule is required, to an avail-
able alternative position for which the em-
ployee is qualified and which better accom-
modates recurring periods of leave than does
the employee’s regular position. Transfer to
an alternative position may require compli-
ance with any applicable collective bar-
gaining agreement and federal law (such as
the Americans with Disabilities Act, as made
applicable by the CAA). Transfer to an alter-
native position may include altering an ex-
isting job to better accommodate the em-
ployee’s need for intermittent or reduced
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5772 November 16, 2020
leave. The employing office’s agreement is
not required for intermittent leave required
by the serious health condition of the ex-
pectant mother or newborn child. See 825.202–
825.205 for general rules governing the use of
intermittent and reduced schedule leave. See
825.121 for rules governing leave for adoption
or foster care. See 825.601 for special rules ap-
plicable to instructional employees of
schools.
825.121 Leave for adoption or foster care.
(a) General rules. Eligible employees are en-
titled to FMLA leave for placement with the
employee of a son or daughter for adoption
or foster care and to care for the newly
placed child as follows as follows:
(1) Employees may take FMLA leave be-
fore the actual placement or adoption of a
child if an absence from work is required for
the placement for adoption or foster care to
proceed. For example, the employee may be
required to attend counseling sessions, ap-
pear in court, consult with his or her attor-
ney or the doctor(s) representing the birth
parent, submit to a physical examination, or
travel to another country to complete an
adoption. The source of an adopted child
(e.g., whether from a licensed placement
agency or otherwise) is not a factor in deter-
mining eligibility for leave for this purpose.
(2) An employee’s entitlement to leave for
adoption or foster care expires at the end of
the 12-month period beginning on the date of
the placement. If the employing office per-
mits leave for adoption or foster care to be
taken beyond this period, such leave will not
qualify as FMLA leave. Under this section,
the employee is entitled to FMLA leave even
if the adopted or foster child does not have a
serious health condition.
(3) Spouses who are eligible for FMLA
leave and are employed by the same covered
employing office may be limited to a com-
bined total of 12 weeks of leave during any
12-month period if the leave is taken for the
placement of the employee’s son or daughter
or to care for the child after placement, for
the birth of the employee’s son or daughter
or to care for the child after birth, or to care
for the employee’s parent with a serious
health condition. This limitation on the
total weeks of leave applies to leave taken
for the reasons specified as long as the
spouses are employed by the same employing
office. It would apply, for example, even
though the spouses are employed at two dif-
ferent worksites of an employing office. On
the other hand, if one spouse is ineligible for
FMLA leave, the other spouse would be enti-
tled to a full 12 weeks of FMLA leave. Where
spouses both use a portion of the total 12-
week FMLA leave entitlement for either the
birth of a child, for placement for adoption
or foster care, or to care for a parent, the
spouses would each be entitled to the dif-
ference between the amount he or she has
taken individually and 12 weeks for FMLA
leave for other purposes. For example, if
each spouse took six weeks of leave to care
for a healthy, newly placed child, each could
use an additional six weeks due to his or her
own serious health condition or to care for a
child with a serious health condition.
(4) An eligible employee is entitled to
FMLA leave in order to care for an adopted
or foster child with a serious health condi-
tion if the requirements of 825.113 through
825.115 and 825.122(d) are met. Thus, spouses
may each take 12 weeks of FMLA leave if
needed to care for an adopted or foster child
with a serious health condition, even if both
are employed by the same employing office,
provided they have not exhausted their enti-
tlements during the applicable 12-month
FMLA leave period.
(b) Use of intermittent and reduced schedule
leave. An eligible employee may use inter-
mittent or reduced schedule leave after the
placement of a healthy child for adoption or
foster care only if the employing office
agrees. Thus, for example, the employing of-
fice and employee may agree to a part-time
work schedule after the placement for bond-
ing purposes. If the employing office agrees
to permit intermittent or reduced schedule
leave for the placement for adoption or fos-
ter care, the employing office may require
the employee to transfer temporarily, during
the period the intermittent or reduced leave
schedule is required, to an available alter-
native position for which the employee is
qualified and which better accommodates re-
curring periods of leave than does the em-
ployee’s regular position. Transfer to an al-
ternative position may require compliance
with any applicable collective bargaining
agreement and federal law (such as the
Americans with Disabilities Act, as made ap-
plicable by the CAA). Transfer to an alter-
native position may include altering an ex-
isting job to better accommodate the em-
ployee’s need for intermittent or reduced
leave. The employing office’s agreement is
not required for intermittent leave required
by the serious health condition of the adopt-
ed or foster child. See 825.202—825.205 for gen-
eral rules governing the use of intermittent
and reduced schedule leave. See 825.120 for
general rules governing leave for pregnancy
and birth of a child. See 825.601 for special
rules applicable to instructional employees
of schools.
825.122 Definitions of covered service mem-
ber, spouse, parent, son or daughter, next
of kin of a covered service member, adop-
tion, foster care, son or daughter on cov-
ered active duty or call to covered active
duty status, son or daughter of a covered
service member, and parent of a covered
service member.
(a) Covered service member means:
(1) A current member of the Armed Forces,
including a member of the National Guard or
Reserves, who is undergoing medical treat-
ment, recuperation or therapy, is otherwise
in outpatient status, or is otherwise on the
temporary disability retired list, for a seri-
ous injury or illness; or
(2) A covered veteran who is undergoing
medical treatment, recuperation, or therapy
for a serious injury or illness. Covered vet-
eran means an individual who was a member
of the Armed Forces (including a member of
the National Guard or Reserves), and was
discharged or released under conditions
other than dishonorable at any time during
the five-year period prior to the first date
the eligible employee takes FMLA leave to
care for the covered veteran. See 825.127(b)(2).
(b) Spouse means a husband or wife. For
purposes of this definition, husband or wife
refers to the other person with whom an in-
dividual entered into marriage as defined or
recognized under state law for purposes of
marriage in the State in which the marriage
was entered into or, in the case of a marriage
entered into outside of any State, if the mar-
riage is valid in the place where entered into
and could have been entered into in at least
one State. This definition includes an indi-
vidual in a same-sex or common law mar-
riage that either:
(1) Was entered into in a State that recog-
nizes such marriages; or
(2) If entered into outside of any State, is
valid in the place where entered into and
could have been entered into in at least one
State.
(c) Parent. Parent means a biological,
adoptive, step or foster father or mother, or
any other individual who stood in loco
parentis to the employee when the employee
was a son or daughter as defined in para-
graph (d) of this section. This term does not
include parents ‘‘in law.’’
(d) Son or daughter. For purposes of FMLA
leave taken for birth or adoption, or to care
for a family member with a serious health
condition, son or daughter means a biologi-
cal, adopted, or foster child, a stepchild, a
legal ward, or a child of a person standing in
loco parentis, who is either under age 18, or
age 18 or older and ‘‘incapable of self-care be-
cause of a mental or physical disability’’ at
the time that FMLA leave is to commence.
(1) Incapable of self-care means that the in-
dividual requires active assistance or super-
vision to provide daily self-care in three or
more of the activities of daily living (ADLs)
or instrumental activities of daily living
(IADLs). Activities of daily living include
adaptive activities such as caring appro-
priately for one’s grooming and hygiene,
bathing, dressing and eating. Instrumental
activities of daily living include cooking,
cleaning, shopping, taking public transpor-
tation, paying bills, maintaining a residence,
using telephones and directories, using a
post office, etc.
(2) Physical or mental disability means a
physical or mental impairment that substan-
tially limits one or more of the major life ac-
tivities of an individual. Regulations at 29
CFR 1630.2(h), (i), and (j), issued by the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission under
the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA),
42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq., provide guidance for
these terms.
(3) Persons who are ‘‘in loco parentis’’ in-
clude those with day-to-day responsibilities
to care for and financially support a child,
or, in the case of an employee, who had such
responsibility for the employee when the em-
ployee was a child. A biological or legal rela-
tionship is not necessary.
(e) Next of kin of a covered servicemember
means the nearest blood relative other than
the covered servicemember’s spouse, parent,
son, or daughter, in the following order of
priority: blood relatives who have been
granted legal custody of the covered service-
member by court decree or statutory provi-
sions, brothers and sisters, grandparents,
aunts and uncles, and first cousins, unless
the covered servicemember has specifically
designated in writing another blood relative
as his or her nearest blood relative for pur-
poses of military caregiver leave under the
FMLA. When no such designation is made,
and there are multiple family members with
the same level of relationship to the covered
servicemember, all such family members
shall be considered the covered
servicemember’s next of kin and may take
FMLA leave to provide care to the covered
servicemember, either consecutively or si-
multaneously. When such designation has
been made, the designated individual shall
be deemed to be the covered servicemember’s
only next of kin. See 825.127(d)(3).
(f) Adoption means legally and perma-
nently assuming the responsibility of raising
a child as one’s own. The source of an adopt-
ed child (e.g., whether from a licensed place-
ment agency or otherwise) is not a factor in
determining eligibility for FMLA leave. See
825.121 for rules governing leave for adoption.
(g) Foster care means 24-hour care for chil-
dren in substitution for, and away from,
their parents or guardian. Such placement is
made by or with the agreement of the State
as a result of a voluntary agreement between
the parent or guardian that the child be re-
moved from the home, or pursuant to a judi-
cial determination of the necessity for foster
care, and involves agreement between the
State and foster family that the foster fam-
ily will take care of the child. Although fos-
ter care may be with relatives of the child,
State action is involved in the removal of
the child from parental custody. See 825.121
for rules governing leave for foster care.
(h) Son or daughter on covered active duty
or call to covered active duty status means
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5773
November 16, 2020
the employee’s biological, adopted, or foster
child, stepchild, legal ward, or a child for
whom the employee stood in loco parentis,
who is on covered active duty or call to cov-
ered active duty status, and who is of any
age. See 825.126(a)(5).
(i) Son or daughter of a covered service-
member means the covered servicemember’s
biological, adopted, or foster child, stepchild,
legal ward, or a child for whom the covered
servicemember stood in loco parentis, and
who is of any age. See 825.127(d)(1).
(j) Parent of a covered servicemember means
a covered servicemember’s biological, adop-
tive, step or foster father or mother, or any
other individual who stood in loco parentis
to the covered servicemember. This term
does not include parents ‘‘in law.’’ See
825.127(d)(2).
(k) Documenting relationships. For purposes
of confirmation of family relationship, the
employing office may require the employee
giving notice of the need for leave to provide
reasonable documentation or statement of
family relationship. This documentation
may take the form of a simple statement
from the employee, or a child’s birth certifi-
cate, a court document, etc. The employing
office is entitled to examine documentation
such as a birth certificate, etc., but the em-
ployee is entitled to the return of the official
document submitted for this purpose.
825.123 Unable to perform the functions of
the position.
(a) Definition. An employee is unable to
perform the functions of the position where
the health care provider finds that the em-
ployee is unable to work at all or is unable
to perform any one of the essential functions
of the employee’s position within the mean-
ing of the Americans with Disabilities Act
(ADA), as amended and made applicable by
Section 201(a) of the CAA (2 U.S.C. 1311(a)(3)).
An employee who must be absent from work
to receive medical treatment for a serious
health condition is considered to be unable
to perform the essential functions of the po-
sition during the absence for treatment.
(b) Statement of functions. An employing of-
fice has the option, in requiring certification
from a health care provider, to provide a
statement of the essential functions of the
employee’s position for the health care pro-
vider to review. A sufficient medical certifi-
cation must specify what functions of the
employee’s position the employee is unable
to perform so that the employing office can
then determine whether the employee is un-
able to perform one or more essential func-
tions of the employee’s position. For pur-
poses of the FMLA, the essential functions of
the employee’s position are to be determined
with reference to the position the employee
held at the time notice is given or leave
commenced, whichever is earlier. See 825.306.
825.124 Needed to care for a family member
or covered servicemember.
(a) The medical certification provision
that an employee is needed to care for a fam-
ily member or covered servicemember en-
compasses both physical and psychological
care. It includes situations where, for exam-
ple, because of a serious health condition,
the family member is unable to care for his
or her own basic medical, hygienic, or nutri-
tional needs or safety, or is unable to trans-
port himself or herself to the doctor. The
term also includes providing psychological
comfort and reassurance which would be ben-
eficial to a child, spouse or parent with a se-
rious health condition who is receiving inpa-
tient or home care.
(b) The term also includes situations where
the employee may be needed to substitute
for others who normally care for the family
member or covered servicemember, or to
make arrangements for changes in care, such
as transfer to a nursing home. The employee
need not be the only individual or family
member available to care for the family
member or covered servicemember.
(c) An employee’s intermittent leave or a
reduced leave schedule necessary to care for
a family member or covered servicemember
includes not only a situation where the con-
dition of the family member or covered serv-
icemember itself is intermittent, but also
where the employee is only needed intermit-
tently—such as where other care is normally
available, or care responsibilities are shared
with another member of the family or a
third party. See 825.202–825.205 for rules gov-
erning the use of intermittent or reduced
schedule leave.
825.125 Definition of health care provider.
(a) The FMLA, as made applicable by the
CAA, defines health care provider as:
(1) A doctor of medicine or osteopathy who
is authorized to practice medicine or surgery
(as appropriate) by the State in which the
doctor practices; or
(2) Any other person determined by the Of-
fice of Congressional Workplace Rights to be
capable of providing health care services.
(3) In making a determination referred to
in subparagraph (a)(2), and absent good cause
shown to do otherwise, the Office of Congres-
sional Workplace Rights will follow any de-
termination made by the Department of
Labor (under section 101(6)(B) of FMLA (29
U.S.C. 2611(6)(B))) that a person is capable of
providing health care services, provided the
determination by the Department of Labor
was not made at the request of a person who
was then a covered employee.
(b) Others capable of providing health care
services include only:
(1) Podiatrists, dentists, clinical psycholo-
gists, optometrists, and chiropractors (lim-
ited to treatment consisting of manual ma-
nipulation of the spine to correct a sub-
luxation as demonstrated by X-ray to exist)
authorized to practice in the State and per-
forming within the scope of their practice as
defined under State law;
(2) Nurse practitioners, nurse-midwives,
clinical social workers and physician assist-
ants who are authorized to practice under
State law and who are performing within the
scope of their practice as defined under State
law;
(3) Christian Science Practitioners listed
with the First Church of Christ, Scientist in
Boston, Massachusetts. Where an employee
or family member is receiving treatment
from a Christian Science practitioner, an
employee may not object to any requirement
from an employing office that the employee
or family member submit to examination
(though not treatment) to obtain a second or
third certification from a health care pro-
vider other than a Christian Science practi-
tioner except as otherwise provided under
applicable State or local law or collective
bargaining agreement;
(4) Any health care provider from whom an
employing office or the employing office’s
group health plan’s benefits manager will ac-
cept certification of the existence of a seri-
ous health condition to substantiate a claim
for benefits; and
(5) A health care provider listed above who
practices in a country other than the United
States, who is authorized to practice in ac-
cordance with the law of that country, and
who is performing within the scope of his or
her practice as defined under such law.
(c) The phrase authorized to practice in the
State as used in this section means that the
provider must be authorized to diagnose and
treat physical or mental health conditions.
825.126 Leave because of a qualifying exi-
gency.
(a) Eligible employees may take FMLA
leave for a qualifying exigency while the em-
ployee’s spouse, son, daughter, or parent (the
military member or member) is on covered
active duty or call to covered active duty
status (or has been notified of an impending
call or order to covered active duty).
(1) Covered active duty or call to covered ac-
tive duty status in the case of a member of the
Regular Armed Forces means duty during
the deployment of the member with the
Armed Forces to a foreign country. The ac-
tive duty orders of a member of the Regular
components of the Armed Forces will gen-
erally specify if the member is deployed to a
foreign country.
(2) Covered active duty or call to covered ac-
tive duty status in the case of a member of the
Reserve components of the Armed Forces
means duty during the deployment of the
member with the Armed Forces to a foreign
country under a Federal call or order to ac-
tive duty in support of a contingency oper-
ation pursuant to: Section 688 of Title 10 of
the United States Code, which authorizes or-
dering to active duty retired members of the
Regular Armed Forces and members of the
retired Reserve who retired after completing
at least 20 years of active service; Section
12301(a) of Title 10 of the United States Code,
which authorizes ordering all reserve compo-
nent members to active duty in the case of
war or national emergency; Section 12302 of
Title 10 of the United States Code, which au-
thorizes ordering any unit or unassigned
member of the Ready Reserve to active duty;
Section 12304 of Title 10 of the United States
Code, which authorizes ordering any unit or
unassigned member of the Selected Reserve
and certain members of the Individual Ready
Reserve to active duty; Section 12305 of Title
10 of the United States Code, which author-
izes the suspension of promotion, retirement
or separation rules for certain Reserve com-
ponents; Section 12406 of Title 10 of the
United States Code, which authorizes calling
the National Guard into Federal service in
certain circumstances; chapter 15 of Title 10
of the United States Code, which authorizes
calling the National Guard and state mili-
tary into Federal service in the case of insur-
rections and national emergencies; or any
other provision of law during a war or during
a national emergency declared by the Presi-
dent or Congress so long as it is in support of
a contingency operation. See 10 U.S.C.
101(a)(13)(B).
(i) For purposes of covered active duty or
call to covered active duty status, the Re-
serve components of the Armed Forces in-
clude the Army National Guard of the
United States, Army Reserve, Navy Reserve,
Marine Corps Reserve, Air National Guard of
the United States, Air Force Reserve and
Coast Guard Reserve, and retired members of
the Regular Armed Forces or Reserves who
are called up in support of a contingency op-
eration pursuant to one of the provisions of
law identified in paragraph (a)(2).
(ii) The active duty orders of a member of
the Reserve components will generally speci-
fy if the military member is serving in sup-
port of a contingency operation by citation
to the relevant section of Title 10 of the
United States Code and/or by reference to
the specific name of the contingency oper-
ation and will specify that the deployment is
to a foreign country.
(3) Deployment of the member with the Armed
Forces to a foreign country means deployment
to areas outside of the United States, the
District of Columbia, or any Territory or
possession of the United States, including
international waters.
(4) A call to covered active duty for pur-
poses of leave taken because of a qualifying
exigency refers to a Federal call to active
duty. State calls to active duty are not cov-
ered unless under order of the President of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5774 November 16, 2020
the United States pursuant to one of the pro-
visions of law identified in paragraph (a)(2)
of this section.
(5) Son or daughter on covered active duty or
call to covered active duty status means the
employee’s biological, adopted, or foster
child, stepchild, legal ward, or a child for
whom the employee stood in loco parentis,
who is on covered active duty or call to cov-
ered active duty status, and who is of any
age.
(b) An eligible employee may take FMLA
leave for one or more of the following quali-
fying exigencies:
(1) Short-notice deployment. (i) To address
any issue that arises from the fact that the
military member is notified of an impending
call or order to covered active duty seven or
less calendar days prior to the date of de-
ployment;
(ii) Leave taken for this purpose can be
used for a period of seven calendar days be-
ginning on the date the military member is
notified of an impending call or order to cov-
ered active duty;
(2) Military events and related activities. (i)
To attend any official ceremony, program, or
event sponsored by the military that is re-
lated to the covered active duty or call to
covered active duty status of the military
member; and
(ii) To attend family support or assistance
programs and informational briefings spon-
sored or promoted by the military, military
service organizations, or the American Red
Cross that are related to the covered active
duty or call to covered active duty status of
the military member;
(3) Childcare and school activities. For the
purposes of leave for childcare and school ac-
tivities listed in (i) through (iv) of this para-
graph, a child of the military member must
be the military member’s biological, adopt-
ed, or foster child, stepchild, legal ward, or
child for whom the military member stands
in loco parentis, who is either under 18 years
of age or 18 years of age or older and incapa-
ble of self-care because of a mental or phys-
ical disability at the time that FMLA leave
is to commence. As with all instances of
qualifying exigency leave, the military mem-
ber must be the spouse, son, daughter, or
parent of the employee requesting qualifying
exigency leave.
(i) To arrange for alternative childcare for
a child of the military member when the cov-
ered active duty or call to covered active
duty status of the military member neces-
sitates a change in the existing childcare ar-
rangement;
(ii) To provide childcare for a child of the
military member on an urgent, immediate
need basis (but not on a routine, regular, or
everyday basis) when the need to provide
such care arises from the covered active duty
or call to covered active duty status of the
military member;
(iii) To enroll in or transfer to a new
school or day care facility a child of the
military member when enrollment or trans-
fer is necessitated by the covered active duty
or call to covered active duty status of the
military member; and
(iv) To attend meetings with staff at a
school or a daycare facility, such as meet-
ings with school officials regarding discipli-
nary measures, parent-teacher conferences,
or meetings with school counselors, for a
child of the military member, when such
meetings are necessary due to circumstances
arising from the covered active duty or call
to covered active duty status of the military
member;
(4) Financial and legal arrangements. (i) To
make or update financial or legal arrange-
ments to address the military member’s ab-
sence while on covered active duty or call to
covered active duty status, such as preparing
and executing financial and healthcare pow-
ers of attorney, transferring bank account
signature authority, enrolling in the Defense
Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System
(DEERS), obtaining military identification
cards, or preparing or updating a will or liv-
ing trust; and
(ii) To act as the military member’s rep-
resentative before a federal, state, or local
agency for purposes of obtaining, arranging,
or appealing military service benefits while
the military member is on covered active
duty or call to covered active duty status,
and for a period of 90 days following the ter-
mination of the military member’s covered
active duty status;
(5) Counseling. To attend counseling pro-
vided by someone other than a health care
provider, for oneself, for the military mem-
ber, or for the biological, adopted, or foster
child, a stepchild, or a legal ward of the mili-
tary member, or a child for whom the mili-
tary member stands in loco parentis, who is
either under age 18, or age 18 or older and in-
capable of self-care because of a mental or
physical disability at the time that FMLA
leave is to commence, provided that the need
for counseling arises from the covered active
duty or call to covered active duty status of
the military member;
(6) Rest and Recuperation. (i) To spend time
with the military member who is on short-
term, temporary, Rest and Recuperation
leave during the period of deployment;
(ii) Leave taken for this purpose can be
used for a period of 15 calendar days begin-
ning on the date the military member com-
mences each instance of Rest and Recuper-
ation leave;
(7) Post-deployment activities. (i) To attend
arrival ceremonies, reintegration briefings
and events, and any other official ceremony
or program sponsored by the military for a
period of 90 days following the termination
of the military member’s covered active
duty status; and
(ii) To address issues that arise from the
death of the military member while on cov-
ered active duty status, such as meeting and
recovering the body of the military member,
making funeral arrangements, and attending
funeral services;
(8) Parental care. For purposes of leave for
parental care listed in (i) through (iv) of this
paragraph, the parent of the military mem-
ber must be incapable of self-care and must
be the military member’s biological, adop-
tive, step, or foster father or mother, or any
other individual who stood in loco parentis
to the military member when the member
was under 18 years of age. A parent who is in-
capable of self-care means that the parent
requires active assistance or supervision to
provide daily self-care in three or more of
the activities of daily living or instrumental
activities of daily living. Activities of daily
living include adaptive activities such as
caring appropriately for one’s grooming and
hygiene, bathing, dressing, and eating. In-
strumental activities of daily living include
cooking, cleaning, shopping, taking public
transportation, paying bills, maintaining a
residence, using telephones and directories,
using a post office, etc. As with all instances
of qualifying exigency leave, the military
member must be the spouse, son, daughter,
or parent of the employee requesting quali-
fying exigency leave.
(i) To arrange for alternative care for a
parent of the military member when the par-
ent is incapable of self-care and the covered
active duty or call to covered active duty
status of the military member necessitates a
change in the existing care arrangement for
the parent;
(ii) To provide care for a parent of the
military member on an urgent, immediate
need basis (but not on a routine, regular, or
everyday basis) when the parent is incapable
of self-care and the need to provide such care
arises from the covered active duty or call to
covered active duty status of the military
member;
(iii) To admit to or transfer to a care facil-
ity a parent of the military member when
admittance or transfer is necessitated by the
covered active duty or call to covered active
duty status of the military member; and
(iv) To attend meetings with staff at a care
facility, such as meetings with hospice or so-
cial service providers for a parent of the
military member, when such meetings are
necessary due to circumstances arising from
the covered active duty or call to covered ac-
tive duty status of the military member but
not for routine or regular meetings;
(9) Additional activities. To address other
events which arise out of the military mem-
ber’s covered active duty or call to covered
active duty status provided that the employ-
ing office and employee agree that such
leave shall qualify as an exigency, and agree
to both the timing and duration of such
leave.
825.127 Leave to care for a covered service-
member with a serious injury or illness
(military caregiver leave).
(a) Eligible employees are entitled to
FMLA leave to care for a covered service-
member with a serious illness or injury.
(b) Covered servicemember means:
(1) A current member of the Armed Forces,
including a member of the National Guard or
Reserves, who is undergoing medical treat-
ment, recuperation, or therapy, is otherwise
in outpatient status; or is otherwise on the
temporary disability retired list, for a seri-
ous injury or illness. Outpatient status
means the status of a member of the Armed
Forces assigned to either a military medical
treatment facility as an outpatient or a unit
established for the purpose of providing com-
mand and control of members of the Armed
Forces receiving medical care as out-
patients.
(2) A covered veteran who is undergoing
medical treatment, recuperation or therapy
for a serious injury or illness. Covered vet-
eran means an individual who was a member
of the Armed Forces (including a member of
the National Guard or Reserves), and was
discharged or released under conditions
other than dishonorable at any time during
the five-year period prior to the first date
the eligible employee takes FMLA leave to
care for the covered veteran. An eligible em-
ployee must commence leave to care for a
covered veteran within five years of the vet-
eran’s active duty service, but the single 12-
month period described in paragraph (e)(1) of
this section may extend beyond the five-year
period.
(i) For an individual who was a member of
the Armed Forces (including a member of
the National Guard or Reserves) and who was
discharged or released under conditions
other than dishonorable prior to the effec-
tive date of this Final Rule, the period be-
tween October 28, 2009 and the effective date
of this Final Rule shall not count towards
the determination of the five-year period for
covered veteran status.
(c) A serious injury or illness means:
(1) In the case of a current member of the
Armed Forces, including a member of the
National Guard or Reserves, means an injury
or illness that was incurred by the covered
servicemember in the line of duty on active
duty in the Armed Forces or that existed be-
fore the beginning of the member’s active
duty and was aggravated by service in the
line of duty on active duty in the Armed
Forces, and that may render the member
medically unfit to perform the duties of the
member’s office, grade, rank or rating; and,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5775
November 16, 2020
(2) In the case of a covered veteran, means
an injury or illness that was incurred by the
member in the line of duty on active duty in
the Armed Forces (or existed before the be-
ginning of the member’s active duty and was
aggravated by service in the line of duty on
active duty in the Armed Forces), and mani-
fested itself before or after the member be-
came a veteran, and is:
(i) A continuation of a serious injury or ill-
ness that was incurred or aggravated when
the covered veteran was a member of the
Armed Forces and rendered the servicemem-
ber unable to perform the duties of the
servicemember’s office, grade, rank, or rat-
ing; or
(ii) A physical or mental condition for
which the covered veteran has received a
U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Service-
Related Disability Rating (VASRD) of 50 per-
cent or greater, and such VASRD rating is
based, in whole or in part, on the condition
precipitating the need for military caregiver
leave; or
(iii) A physical or mental condition that
substantially impairs the covered veteran’s
ability to secure or follow a substantially
gainful occupation by reason of a disability
or disabilities related to military service, or
would do so absent treatment; or
(iv) An injury, including a psychological
injury, on the basis of which the covered vet-
eran has been enrolled in the Department of
Veterans Affairs Program of Comprehensive
Assistance for Family Caregivers.
(d) In order to care for a covered service-
member, an eligible employee must be the
spouse, son, daughter, or parent, or next of
kin of a covered servicemember.
(1) Son or daughter of a covered service-
member means the covered servicemember’s
biological, adopted, or foster child, stepchild,
legal ward, or a child for whom the covered
servicemember stood in loco parentis, and
who is of any age.
(2) Parent of a covered servicemember
means a covered servicemember’s biological,
adoptive, step or foster father or mother, or
any other individual who stood in loco
parentis to the covered servicemember. This
term does not include parents ‘‘in law.’’
(3) Next of kin of a covered servicemember
means the nearest blood relative, other than
the covered servicemember’s spouse, parent,
son, or daughter, in the following order of
priority: blood relatives who have been
granted legal custody of the servicemember
by court decree or statutory provisions,
brothers and sisters, grandparents, aunts and
uncles, and first cousins, unless the covered
servicemember has specifically designated in
writing another blood relative as his or her
nearest blood relative for purposes of mili-
tary caregiver leave under the FMLA. When
no such designation is made, and there are
multiple family members with the same
level of relationship to the covered service-
member, all such family members shall be
considered the covered servicemember’s next
of kin and may take FMLA leave to provide
care to the covered servicemember, either
consecutively or simultaneously. When such
designation has been made, the designated
individual shall be deemed to be the covered
servicemember’s only next of kin. For exam-
ple, if a covered servicemember has three
siblings and has not designated a blood rel-
ative to provide care, all three siblings would
be considered the covered servicemember’s
next of kin. Alternatively, where a covered
servicemember has a sibling(s) and des-
ignates a cousin as his or her next of kin for
FMLA purposes, then only the designated
cousin is eligible as the covered
servicemember’s next of kin. An employing
office is permitted to require an employee to
provide confirmation of covered family rela-
tionship to the covered servicemember pur-
suant to 825.122(k).
(e) An eligible employee is entitled to 26
workweeks of leave to care for a covered
servicemember with a serious injury or ill-
ness during a single 12-month period.
(1) The single 12-month period described in
paragraph (e) of this section begins on the
first day the eligible employee takes FMLA
leave to care for a covered servicemember
and ends 12 months after that date, regard-
less of the method used by the employing of-
fice to determine the employee’s 12 work-
weeks of leave entitlement for other FMLA-
qualifying reasons. If an eligible employee
does not take all of his or her 26 workweeks
of leave entitlement to care for a covered
servicemember during this single 12-month
period, the remaining part of his or her 26
workweeks of leave entitlement to care for
the covered servicemember is forfeited.
(2) The leave entitlement described in
paragraph (e) of this section is to be applied
on a per-covered-servicemember, per-injury
basis such that an eligible employee may be
entitled to take more than one period of 26
workweeks of leave if the leave is to care for
different covered servicemembers or to care
for the same servicemember with a subse-
quent serious injury or illness, except that
no more than 26 workweeks of leave may be
taken within any single 12-month period. An
eligible employee may take more than one
period of 26 workweeks of leave to care for a
covered servicemember with more than one
serious injury or illness only when the seri-
ous injury or illness is a subsequent serious
injury or illness. When an eligible employee
takes leave to care for more than one cov-
ered servicemember or for a subsequent seri-
ous injury or illness of the same covered
servicemember, and the single 12-month pe-
riods corresponding to the different military
caregiver leave entitlements overlap, the
employee is limited to taking no more than
26 workweeks of leave in each single 12-
month period.
(3) An eligible employee is entitled to a
combined total of 26 workweeks of leave for
any FMLA-qualifying reason during the sin-
gle 12-month period described in paragraph
(e) of this section, provided that the em-
ployee is entitled to no more than 12 work-
weeks of leave for one or more of the fol-
lowing: because of the birth of a son or
daughter of the employee and in order to
care for such son or daughter; because of the
placement of a son or daughter with the em-
ployee for adoption or foster care; in order to
care for the spouse, son, daughter, or parent
with a serious health condition; because of
the employee’s own serious health condition;
or because of a qualifying exigency. Thus, for
example, an eligible employee may, during
the single 12-month period, take 16 work-
weeks of FMLA leave to care for a covered
servicemember and 10 workweeks of FMLA
leave to care for a newborn child. However,
the employee may not take more than 12
weeks of FMLA leave to care for the new-
born child during the single 12-month period,
even if the employee takes fewer than 14
workweeks of FMLA leave to care for a cov-
ered servicemember.
(4) In all circumstances, including for leave
taken to care for a covered servicemember,
the employing office is responsible for desig-
nating leave, paid or unpaid, as FMLA-quali-
fying, and for giving notice of the designa-
tion to the employee as provided in 825.300.
In the case of leave that qualifies as both
leave to care for a covered servicemember
and leave to care for a family member with
a serious health condition during the single
12-month period described in paragraph (e) of
this section, the employing office must des-
ignate such leave as leave to care for a cov-
ered servicemember in the first instance.
Leave that qualifies as both leave to care for
a covered servicemember and leave taken to
care for a family member with a serious
health condition during the single 12-month
period described in paragraph (e) of this sec-
tion must not be designated and counted as
both leave to care for a covered servicemem-
ber and leave to care for a family member
with a serious health condition. As is the
case with leave taken for other qualifying
reasons, employing offices may retroactively
designate leave as leave to care for a covered
servicemember pursuant to 825.301(d).
(f) Spouses who are eligible for FMLA
leave and are employed by the same covered
employing office may be limited to a com-
bined total of 26 workweeks of leave during
the single 12-month period described in para-
graph (e) of this section if the leave is taken
for birth of the employee’s son or daughter
or to care for the child after birth, for place-
ment of a son or daughter with the employee
for adoption or foster care, or to care for the
child after placement, to care for the em-
ployee’s parent with a serious health condi-
tion, or to care for a covered servicemember
with a serious injury or illness. This limita-
tion on the total weeks of leave applies to
leave taken for the reasons specified as long
as the spouses are employed by the same em-
ploying office. It would apply, for example,
even though the spouses are employed at two
different worksites. On the other hand, if one
spouse is ineligible for FMLA leave, the
other spouse would be entitled to a full 26
workweeks of FMLA leave.
SUBPART B—EMPLOYEE LEAVE ENTITLE-
MENTS UNDER THE FAMILY AND MED-
ICAL LEAVE ACT, AS MADE APPLICABLE
BY THE CONGRESSIONAL ACCOUNT-
ABILITY ACT
825.200 Amount of Leave.
(a) Except in the case of leave to care for
a covered servicemember with a serious in-
jury or illness, an eligible employee’s FMLA
leave entitlement is limited to a total of 12
workweeks of leave during any 12-month pe-
riod for any one, or more, of the following
reasons:
(1) The birth of the employee’s son or
daughter, and to care for the newborn child;
(2) The placement with the employee of a
son or daughter for adoption or foster care,
and to care for the newly placed child;
(3) To care for the employee’s spouse, son,
daughter, or parent with a serious health
condition;
(4) Because of a serious health condition
that makes the employee unable to perform
one or more of the essential functions of his
or her job; and
(5) Because of any qualifying exigency aris-
ing out of the fact that the employee’s
spouse, son, daughter, or parent is a military
member on covered active duty status (or
has been notified of an impending call or
order to covered active duty).
(b) An employing office is permitted to
choose any one of the following methods for
determining the 12–month period in which
the 12 weeks of leave entitlement described
in paragraph (a) of this section occurs:
(1) The calendar year;
(2) Any fixed 12-month leave year, such as
a fiscal year or a year starting on an employ-
ee’s anniversary date;
(3) The 12-month period measured forward
from the date any employee’s first FMLA
leave under paragraph (a) begins; or
(4) A ‘‘rolling’’ 12-month period measured
backward from the date an employee uses
any FMLA leave as described in paragraph
(a).
(c) Under methods in paragraphs (b)(1) and
(b)(2) of this section an employee would be
entitled to up to 12 weeks of FMLA leave at
any time in the fixed 12-month period se-
lected. An employee could, therefore, take 12
weeks of leave at the end of the year and 12
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5776 November 16, 2020
weeks at the beginning of the following year.
Under the method in paragraph (b)(3) of this
section, an employee would be entitled to 12
weeks of leave during the year beginning on
the first date FMLA leave is taken; the next
12-month period would begin the first time
FMLA leave is taken after completion of any
previous 12-month period. Under the method
in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the ‘‘roll-
ing’’ 12-month period, each time an employee
takes FMLA leave the remaining leave enti-
tlement would be any balance of the 12
weeks which has not been used during the
immediately preceding 12 months. For exam-
ple, if an employee has taken eight weeks of
leave during the past 12 months, an addi-
tional four weeks of leave could be taken. If
an employee used four weeks beginning Feb-
ruary 1, 2008, four weeks beginning June 1,
2008, and four weeks beginning December 1,
2008, the employee would not be entitled to
any additional leave until February 1, 2009.
However, beginning on February 1, 2009, the
employee would again be eligible to take
FMLA leave, recouping the right to take the
leave in the same manner and amounts in
which it was used in the previous year. Thus,
the employee would recoup (and be entitled
to use) one additional day of FMLA leave
each day for four weeks, commencing Feb-
ruary 1, 2009. The employee would also begin
to recoup additional days beginning on June
1, 2009, and additional days beginning on De-
cember 1, 2009. Accordingly, employing of-
fices using the rolling 12-month period may
need to calculate whether the employee is
entitled to take FMLA leave each time that
leave is requested, and employees taking
FMLA leave on such a basis may fall in and
out of FMLA protection based on their
FMLA usage in the prior 12 months. For ex-
ample, in the example above, if the employee
needs six weeks of leave for a serious health
condition commencing February 1, 2009, only
the first four weeks of the leave would be
FMLA-protected.
(d)(1) Employing offices will be allowed to
choose any one of the alternatives in para-
graph (b) of this section for the leave entitle-
ments described in paragraph (a) of this sec-
tion provided the alternative chosen is ap-
plied consistently and uniformly to all em-
ployees. An employing office wishing to
change to another alternative is required to
give at least 60 days’ notice to all employees,
and the transition must take place in such a
way that the employees retain the full ben-
efit of 12 weeks of leave under whichever
method affords the greatest benefit to the
employee. Under no circumstances may a
new method be implemented in order to
avoid the CAA’s FMLA leave requirements.
(2) [Reserved]
(e) If an employing office fails to select one
of the options in paragraph (b) of this section
for measuring the 12-month period for the
leave entitlements described in paragraph
(a), the option that provides the most bene-
ficial outcome for the employee will be used.
The employing office may subsequently se-
lect an option only by providing the 60-day
notice to all employees of the option the em-
ploying office intends to implement. During
the running of the 60-day period any other
employee who needs FMLA leave may use
the option providing the most beneficial out-
come to that employee. At the conclusion of
the 60-day period the employing office may
implement the selected option.
(f) An eligible employee’s FMLA leave en-
titlement is limited to a total of 26 work-
weeks of leave during a single 12-month pe-
riod to care for a covered servicemember
with a serious injury or illness. An employ-
ing office shall determine the single 12-
month period in which the 26 weeks of leave
entitlement described in this paragraph oc-
curs using the 12-month period measured for-
ward from the date an employee’s first
FMLA leave to care for the covered service-
member begins. See 825.127(e)(1).
(g) During the single 12-month period de-
scribed in paragraph (f), an eligible employ-
ee’s FMLA leave entitlement is limited to a
combined total of 26 workweeks of FMLA
leave for any qualifying reason. See
825.127(e)(3).
(h) For purposes of determining the
amount of leave used by an employee, the
fact that a holiday may occur within the
week taken as FMLA leave has no effect; the
week is counted as a week of FMLA leave.
However, if an employee is using FMLA
leave in increments of less than one week,
the holiday will not count against the em-
ployee’s FMLA entitlement unless the em-
ployee was otherwise scheduled and expected
to work during the holiday. Similarly, if for
some reason the employing office’s business
activity has temporarily ceased and employ-
ees generally are not expected to report for
work for one or more weeks (e.g., a school
closing two weeks for the Christmas/New
Year holiday or the summer vacation or an
employing office closing the office for re-
pairs), the days the employing office’s activi-
ties have ceased do not count against the
employee’s FMLA leave entitlement. Meth-
ods for determining an employee’s 12-week
leave entitlement are also described in
825.205.
(i)(1) If employing offices jointly employ
an employee, and if they designate a primary
employing office pursuant to 825.106(c), the
primary employing office may choose any
one of the alternatives in paragraph (b) of
this section for measuring the 12-month pe-
riod, provided that the alternative chosen is
applied consistently and uniformly to all
employees of the primary employing office
including the jointly employed employee.
(2) If employing offices fail to designate a
primary employing office pursuant to
825.106(c), an employee jointly employed by
the employing offices may, by so notifying
one of the employing offices, select that em-
ploying office to be the primary employing
office of the employee for purposes of the ap-
plication of paragraphs (d) and (e) of this sec-
tion.
825.201 Leave to care for a parent.
(a) General rule. An eligible employee is en-
titled to FMLA leave if needed to care for
the employee’s parent with a serious health
condition. Care for parents-in-law is not cov-
ered by the FMLA. See 825.122(c) for defini-
tion of parent.
(b) Same employing office limitation. Spouses
who are eligible for FMLA leave and are em-
ployed by the same covered employing office
may be limited to a combined total of 12
weeks of leave during any 12-month period if
the leave is taken to care for the employee’s
parent with a serious health condition, for
the birth of the employee’s son or daughter
or to care for the child after the birth, or for
placement of a son or daughter with the em-
ployee for adoption or foster care or to care
for the child after placement. This limita-
tion on the total weeks of leave applies to
leave taken for the reasons specified as long
as the spouses are employed by the same em-
ploying office. It would apply, for example,
even though the spouses are employed at two
different worksites of an employing office.
On the other hand, if one spouse is ineligible
for FMLA leave, the other spouse would be
entitled to a full 12 weeks of FMLA leave.
Where the spouses both use a portion of the
total 12-week FMLA leave entitlement for
either the birth of a child, for placement for
adoption or foster care, or to care for a par-
ent, the spouses would each be entitled to
the difference between the amount he or she
has taken individually and 12 weeks for
FMLA leave for other purposes. For example,
if each spouse took six weeks of leave to care
for a parent, each could use an additional six
weeks due to his or her own serious health
condition or to care for a child with a serious
health condition. See also 825.127(d).
825.202 Intermittent leave or reduced leave
schedule.
(a) Definition. FMLA leave may be taken
intermittently or on a reduced leave sched-
ule under certain circumstances. Intermit-
tent leave is FMLA leave taken in separate
blocks of time due to a single qualifying rea-
son. A reduced leave schedule is a leave
schedule that reduces an employee’s usual
number of working hours per workweek, or
hours per workday. A reduced leave schedule
is a change in the employee’s schedule for a
period of time, normally from full-time to
part-time.
(b) Medical necessity. For intermittent
leave or leave on a reduced leave schedule
taken because of one’s own serious health
condition, to care for a spouse, parent, son,
or daughter with a serious health condition,
or to care for a covered servicemember with
a serious injury or illness, there must be a
medical need for leave and it must be that
such medical need can be best accommo-
dated through an intermittent or reduced
leave schedule. The treatment regimen and
other information described in the certifi-
cation of a serious health condition and in
the certification of a serious injury or ill-
ness, if required by the employing office, ad-
dresses the medical necessity of intermittent
leave or leave on a reduced leave schedule.
See 825.306, 825.310. Leave may be taken inter-
mittently or on a reduced leave schedule
when medically necessary for planned and/or
unanticipated medical treatment of a serious
health condition or of a covered
servicemember’s serious injury or illness, or
for recovery from treatment or recovery
from a serious health condition or a covered
servicemember’s serious injury or illness. It
may also be taken to provide care or psycho-
logical comfort to a covered family member
with a serious health condition or a covered
servicemember with a serious injury or ill-
ness.
(1) Intermittent leave may be taken for a
serious health condition of a spouse, parent,
son, or daughter, for the employee’s own se-
rious health condition, or a serious injury or
illness of a covered servicemember which re-
quires treatment by a health care provider
periodically, rather than for one continuous
period of time, and may include leave of pe-
riods from an hour or more to several weeks.
Examples of intermittent leave would in-
clude leave taken on an occasional basis for
medical appointments, or leave taken sev-
eral days at a time spread over a period of
six months, such as for chemotherapy. A
pregnant employee may take leave intermit-
tently for prenatal examinations or for her
own condition, such as for periods of severe
morning sickness. An example of an em-
ployee taking leave on a reduced leave
schedule is an employee who is recovering
from a serious health condition and is not
strong enough to work a full-time schedule.
(2) Intermittent or reduced schedule leave
may be taken for absences where the em-
ployee or family member is incapacitated or
unable to perform the essential functions of
the position because of a chronic serious
health condition or a serious injury or ill-
ness of a covered servicemember, even if he
or she does not receive treatment by a
health care provider. See 825.113 and 825.127.
(c) Birth or placement. When leave is taken
after the birth of a healthy child or place-
ment of a healthy child for adoption or fos-
ter care, an employee may take leave inter-
mittently or on a reduced leave schedule
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5777
November 16, 2020
only if the employing office agrees. Such a
schedule reduction might occur, for example,
where an employee, with the employing of-
fice’s agreement, works part-time after the
birth of a child, or takes leave in several seg-
ments. The employing office’s agreement is
not required, however, for leave during
which the expectant mother has a serious
health condition in connection with the
birth of her child or if the newborn child has
a serious health condition. See 825.204 for
rules governing transfer to an alternative
position that better accommodates intermit-
tent leave. See also 825.120 (pregnancy) and
825.121 (adoption and foster care).
(d) Qualifying exigency. Leave due to a
qualifying exigency may be taken on an
intermittent or reduced leave schedule basis.
825.203 Scheduling of intermittent or re-
duced schedule leave.
Eligible employees may take FMLA leave
on an intermittent or reduced schedule basis
when medically necessary due to the serious
health condition of a covered family member
or the employee or the serious injury or ill-
ness of a covered servicemember. See 825.202.
Eligible employees may also take FMLA
leave on an intermittent or reduced schedule
basis when necessary because of a qualifying
exigency. If an employee needs leave inter-
mittently or on a reduced leave schedule for
planned medical treatment, then the em-
ployee must make a reasonable effort to
schedule the treatment so as not to disrupt
unduly the employing office’s operations.
825.204 Transfer of an employee to an alter-
native position during intermittent leave
or reduced schedule leave.
(a) Transfer or reassignment. If an employee
needs intermittent leave or leave on a re-
duced leave schedule that is foreseeable
based on planned medical treatment for the
employee, a family member, or a covered
servicemember, including during a period of
recovery from one’s own serious health con-
dition, a serious health condition of a
spouse, parent, son, or daughter, or a serious
injury or illness of a covered servicemember,
or if the employing office agrees to permit
intermittent or reduced schedule leave for
the birth of a child or for placement of a
child for adoption or foster care, the employ-
ing office may require the employee to
transfer temporarily, during the period the
intermittent or reduced leave schedule is re-
quired, to an available alternative position
for which the employee is qualified and
which better accommodates recurring peri-
ods of leave than does the employee’s regular
position. See 825.601 for special rules applica-
ble to instructional employees of schools.
(b) Compliance. Transfer to an alternative
position may require compliance with any
applicable collective bargaining agreement
and Federal law (such as the Americans with
Disabilities Act, as made applicable by the
CAA). Transfer to an alternative position
may include altering an existing job to bet-
ter accommodate the employee’s need for
intermittent or reduced scheduled leave.
(c) Equivalent pay and benefits. The alter-
native position must have equivalent pay
and benefits. An alternative position for
these purposes does not have to have equiva-
lent duties. The employing office may in-
crease the pay and benefits of an existing al-
ternative position, so as to make them
equivalent to the pay and benefits of the em-
ployee’s regular job. The employing office
may also transfer the employee to a part-
time job with the same hourly rate of pay
and benefits, provided the employee is not
required to take more leave than is medi-
cally necessary. For example, an employee
desiring to take leave in increments of four
hours per day could be transferred to a half-
time job, or could remain in the employee’s
same job on a part-time schedule, paying the
same hourly rate as the employee’s previous
job and enjoying the same benefits. The em-
ploying office may not eliminate benefits
which otherwise would not be provided to
part-time employees; however, an employing
office may proportionately reduce benefits
such as vacation leave where an employing
office’s normal practice is to base such bene-
fits on the number of hours worked.
(d) Employing office limitations. An employ-
ing office may not transfer the employee to
an alternative position in order to discour-
age the employee from taking leave or other-
wise work a hardship on the employee. For
example, a white collar employee may not be
assigned to perform laborer’s work; an em-
ployee working the day shift may not be re-
assigned to the graveyard shift; an employee
working in the headquarters facility may
not be reassigned to a branch a significant
distance away from the employee’s normal
job location. Any such attempt on the part
of the employing office to make such a
transfer will be held to be contrary to the
prohibited acts provisions of the FMLA, as
made applicable by the CAA.
(e) Reinstatement of employee. When an em-
ployee who is taking leave intermittently or
on a reduced leave schedule and has been
transferred to an alternative position no
longer needs to continue on leave and is able
to return to full-time work, the employee
must be placed in the same or equivalent job
as the job he or she left when the leave com-
menced. An employee may not be required to
take more leave than necessary to address
the circumstance that precipitated the need
for leave.
825.205 Increments of FMLA leave for inter-
mittent or reduced schedule leave.
(a) Minimum increment. (1) When an em-
ployee takes FMLA leave on an intermittent
or reduced leave schedule basis, the employ-
ing office must account for the leave using
an increment no greater than the shortest
period of time that the employing office uses
to account for use of other forms of leave
provided that it is not greater than one hour
and provided further that an employee’s
FMLA leave entitlement may not be reduced
by more than the amount of leave actually
taken. An employing office may not require
an employee to take more leave than is nec-
essary to address the circumstances that
precipitated the need for the leave, provided
that the leave is counted using the shortest
increment of leave used to account for any
other type of leave. See also 825.205(a)(2) for
the physical impossibility exception, and
825.600 and 825.601 for special rules applicable
to employees of schools. If an employing of-
fice uses different increments to account for
different types of leave, the employing office
must account for FMLA leave in the small-
est increment used to account for any other
type of leave. For example, if an employing
office accounts for the use of annual leave in
increments of one hour and the use of sick
leave in increments of one-half hour, then
FMLA leave use must be accounted for using
increments no larger than one-half hour. If
an employing office accounts for use of leave
in varying increments at different times of
the day or shift, the employing office may
also account for FMLA leave in varying in-
crements, provided that the increment used
for FMLA leave is no greater than the small-
est increment used for any other type of
leave during the period in which the FMLA
leave is taken. If an employing office ac-
counts for other forms of leave use in incre-
ments greater than one hour, the employing
office must account for FMLA leave use in
increments no greater than one hour. An em-
ploying office may account for FMLA leave
in shorter increments than used for other
forms of leave. For example, an employing
office that accounts for other forms of leave
in one hour increments may account for
FMLA leave in a shorter increment when the
employee arrives at work several minutes
late, and the employing office wants the em-
ployee to begin work immediately. Such ac-
counting for FMLA leave will not alter the
increment considered to be the shortest pe-
riod used to account for other forms of leave
or the use of FMLA leave in other cir-
cumstances. In all cases, employees may not
be charged FMLA leave for periods during
which they are working.
(2) Where it is physically impossible for an
employee using intermittent leave or work-
ing a reduced leave schedule to commence or
end work mid-way through a shift, such as
where a flight attendant or a railroad con-
ductor is scheduled to work aboard an air-
plane or train, or a laboratory employee is
unable to enter or leave a sealed ‘‘clean
room’’ during a certain period of time and no
equivalent position is available, the entire
period that the employee is forced to be ab-
sent is designated as FMLA leave and counts
against the employee’s FMLA entitlement.
The period of the physical impossibility is
limited to the period during which the em-
ploying office is unable to permit the em-
ployee to work prior to a period of FMLA
leave or return the employee to the same or
equivalent position due to the physical im-
possibility after a period of FMLA leave. See
825.214.
(b) Calculation of leave. (1) When an em-
ployee takes leave on an intermittent or re-
duced leave schedule, only the amount of
leave actually taken may be counted toward
the employee’s leave entitlement. The actual
workweek is the basis of leave entitlement.
Therefore, if an employee who would other-
wise work 40 hours a week takes off eight
hours, the employee would use one-fifth (1/5)
of a week of FMLA leave. Similarly, if a full-
time employee who would otherwise work
eight hour days works four-hour days under
a reduced leave schedule, the employee
would use one half (1/2) week of FMLA leave
each week. Where an employee works a part-
time schedule or variable hours, the amount
of FMLA leave that an employee uses is de-
termined on a pro rata or proportional basis.
If an employee who would otherwise work 30
hours per week, but works only 20 hours a
week under a reduced leave schedule, the
employee’s 10 hours of leave would con-
stitute one-third (1/3) of a week of FMLA
leave for each week the employee works the
reduced leave schedule. An employing office
may convert these fractions to their hourly
equivalent so long as the conversion equi-
tably reflects the employee’s total normally
scheduled hours. An employee does not ac-
crue FMLA-protected leave at any particular
hourly rate. An eligible employee is entitled
to up to a total of 12 workweeks of leave, or
26 workweeks in the case of military care-
giver leave, and the total number of hours
contained in those workweeks is necessarily
dependent on the specific hours the em-
ployee would have worked but for the use of
leave. See also 825.601 and 825.602 on special
rules for schools.
(2) If an employing office has made a per-
manent or long-term change in the employ-
ee’s schedule (for reasons other than FMLA,
and prior to the notice of need for FMLA
leave), the hours worked under the new
schedule are to be used for making this cal-
culation.
(3) If an employee’s schedule varies from
week to week to such an extent that an em-
ploying office is unable to determine with
any certainty how many hours the employee
would otherwise have worked (but for the
taking of FMLA leave), a weekly average of
the hours worked over the 12 months prior to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5778 November 16, 2020
the beginning of the leave period (including
any hours for which the employee took leave
of any type) would be used for calculating
the employee’s leave entitlement.
(c) Overtime. If an employee would nor-
mally be required to work overtime, but is
unable to do so because of a FMLA-quali-
fying reason that limits the employee’s abil-
ity to work overtime, the hours which the
employee would have been required to work
may be counted against the employee’s
FMLA entitlement. In such a case, the em-
ployee is using intermittent or reduced
schedule leave. For example, if an employee
would normally be required to work for 48
hours in a particular week, but due to a seri-
ous health condition the employee is unable
to work more than 40 hours that week, the
employee would utilize eight hours of
FMLA-protected leave out of the 48–hour
workweek, or one-sixth (1/6) of a week of
FMLA leave. Voluntary overtime hours that
an employee does not work due to an FMLA-
qualifying reason may not be counted
against the employee’s FMLA leave entitle-
ment.
825.206 Interaction with the FLSA, as made
applicable by the Congressional Account-
ability Act.
(a) Leave taken under FMLA, as made ap-
plicable by the CAA, may be unpaid. If an
employee is otherwise exempt from min-
imum wage and overtime requirements of
the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), as
made applicable by the CAA, and as exempt
under regulations issued by the Board, at
part 541, providing unpaid FMLA-qualifying
leave to such an employee will not cause the
employee to lose the FLSA exemption. This
means that under regulations currently in
effect, where an employee meets the speci-
fied duties test, is paid on a salary basis, and
is paid a salary of at least the amount speci-
fied in the regulations, the employing office
may make deductions from the employee’s
salary for any hours taken as intermittent
or reduced FMLA leave within a workweek,
without affecting the exempt status of the
employee.
(b) For an employee paid in accordance
with a fluctuating workweek method of pay-
ment for overtime, where permitted by sec-
tion 203 of the CAA (2 U.S.C. 1313), the em-
ploying office, during the period in which
intermittent or reduced schedule FMLA
leave is scheduled to be taken, may com-
pensate an employee on an hourly basis and
pay only for the hours the employee works,
including time and one-half the employee’s
regular rate for overtime hours. The change
to payment on an hourly basis would include
the entire period during which the employee
is taking intermittent leave, including
weeks in which no leave is taken. The hourly
rate shall be determined by dividing the em-
ployee’s weekly salary by the employee’s
normal or average schedule of hours worked
during weeks in which FMLA leave is not
being taken. If an employing office chooses
to follow this exception from the fluctuating
workweek method of payment, the employ-
ing office must do so uniformly, with respect
to all employees paid on a fluctuating work-
week basis for whom FMLA leave is taken on
an intermittent or reduced leave schedule
basis. If an employing office does not elect to
convert the employee’s compensation to
hourly pay, no deduction may be taken for
FMLA leave absences. Once the need for
intermittent or reduced scheduled leave is
over, the employee may be restored to pay-
ment on a fluctuating workweek basis.
(c) This special exception to the salary
basis requirements of the FLSA exemption
or fluctuating workweek payment require-
ments applies only to employees of covered
employing offices who are eligible for FMLA
leave, and to leave which qualifies as FMLA
leave. Hourly or other deductions which are
not in accordance with the Board’s FLSA
regulations at part 541 or with a permissible
fluctuating workweek method of payment
for overtime may not be taken, for example,
where the employee has not worked long
enough to be eligible for FMLA leave with-
out potentially affecting the employee’s eli-
gibility for exemption. Nor may deductions
which are not permitted by the Board’s
FLSA regulations at part 541 or by a permis-
sible fluctuating workweek method of pay-
ment for overtime be taken from such an
employee’s salary for any leave which does
not qualify as FMLA leave, for example, de-
ductions from an employee’s pay for leave
required under an employing office’s policy
or practice for a reason which does not qual-
ify as FMLA leave, e.g., leave to care for a
grandparent or for a medical condition which
does not qualify as a serious health condi-
tion or serious injury or illness; or for leave
which is more generous than provided by the
FMLA, as made applicable by the CAA. Em-
ploying offices may comply with the employ-
ing office’s own policy/practice under these
circumstances and maintain the employee’s
eligibility for exemption or for the fluc-
tuating workweek method of pay by not tak-
ing hourly deductions from the employee’s
pay, in accordance with FLSA requirements,
as made applicable by the CAA, or may take
such deductions, treating the employee as an
hourly employee and pay overtime premium
pay for hours worked over 40 in a workweek.
825.207 Substitution of paid leave, generally.
(a) Generally, FMLA leave is unpaid leave.
However, under the circumstances described
in this section, the FMLA, as made applica-
ble by the CAA, permits an eligible employee
to choose to substitute accrued paid leave
for unpaid FMLA leave. Subject to 825.208, if
an employee does not choose to substitute
accrued paid leave, the employing office may
require the employee to substitute accrued
paid leave for unpaid FMLA leave. The term
substitute means that the paid leave pro-
vided by the employing office, and accrued
pursuant to established policies of the em-
ploying office, will run concurrently with
the unpaid FMLA leave. Accordingly, the
employee receives pay pursuant to the em-
ploying office’s applicable paid leave policy
during the period of otherwise unpaid FMLA
leave. An employee’s ability to substitute
accrued paid leave is determined by the
terms and conditions of the employing of-
fice’s normal leave policy. When an em-
ployee chooses, or an employing office re-
quires, substitution of accrued paid leave,
the employing office must inform the em-
ployee that the employee must satisfy any
procedural requirements of the paid leave
policy only in connection with the receipt of
such payment. See 825.300(c). If an employee
does not comply with the additional require-
ments in an employing office’s paid leave
policy, the employee is not entitled to sub-
stitute accrued paid leave, but the employee
remains entitled to take unpaid FMLA leave.
Employing offices may not discriminate
against employees on FMLA leave in the ad-
ministration of their paid leave policies.
(b) If neither the employee nor the employ-
ing office elects to substitute paid leave for
unpaid FMLA leave under the above condi-
tions and circumstances, the employee will
remain entitled to all the paid leave which is
earned or accrued under the terms of the em-
ploying office’s plan.
(c) If an employee uses paid leave under
circumstances which do not qualify as FMLA
leave, the leave will not count against the
employee’s FMLA leave entitlement. For ex-
ample, paid sick leave used for a medical
condition which is not a serious health con-
dition or serious injury or illness does not
count against the employee’s FMLA leave
entitlement.
(d) Leave taken pursuant to a disability
leave plan would be considered FMLA leave
for a serious health condition and counted in
the leave entitlement permitted under
FMLA if it meets the criteria set forth above
in 825.112 through 825.115. In such cases, the
employing office may designate the leave as
FMLA leave and count the leave against the
employee’s FMLA leave entitlement. Be-
cause leave pursuant to a disability benefit
plan is not unpaid, the provision for substi-
tution of the employee’s accrued paid leave
is inapplicable, and neither the employee nor
the employing office may require the substi-
tution of paid leave. However, employing of-
fices and employees may agree to have paid
leave supplement the disability plan bene-
fits, such as in the case where a plan only
provides replacement income for two-thirds
of an employee’s salary.
(e) The FMLA, as made applicable by the
CAA, provides that a serious health condi-
tion may result from injury to the employee
on or off the job. If the employing office des-
ignates the leave as FMLA leave in accord-
ance with 825.300(d), the leave counts against
the employee’s FMLA leave entitlement. Be-
cause the workers’ compensation absence is
not unpaid, the provision for substitution of
the employee’s accrued paid leave is not ap-
plicable, and neither the employee nor the
employing office may require the substi-
tution of paid leave. However, employing of-
fices and employees may agree, to have paid
leave supplement workers’ compensation
benefits, such as in the case where workers’
compensation only provides replacement in-
come for two-thirds of an employee’s salary.
If the health care provider treating the em-
ployee for the workers’ compensation injury
certifies the employee is able to return to a
light duty job but is unable to return to the
same or equivalent job, the employee may
decline the employing office’s offer of a light
duty job. As a result, the employee may lose
workers’ compensation payments, but is en-
titled to remain on unpaid FMLA leave until
the employee’s FMLA leave entitlement is
exhausted. As of the date workers’ com-
pensation benefits cease, the substitution
provision becomes applicable and either the
employee may elect or the employing office
may require the use of accrued paid leave.
See also 825.210(f), 825.216(d), 825.220(d),
825.307(a) and 825.702 (d)(1) and (2) regarding
the relationship between workers’ compensa-
tion absences and FMLA leave.
(f) Under the FLSA, as made applicable by
the CAA, an employing office always has the
right to cash out an employee’s compen-
satory time or to require the employee to
use the time. Therefore, if an employee re-
quests and is permitted to use accrued com-
pensatory time to receive pay for time taken
off for an FMLA reason, or if the employing
office requires such use pursuant to the
FLSA, the time taken may be counted
against the employee’s FMLA leave entitle-
ment.
825.208 Substitution of paid leave—special
rule for paid parental leave.
(a) This section provides the basis for de-
termining the periods of unpaid leave for
which paid parental leave may be sub-
stituted under subpart E of this part, which
must be read with this subpart to establish
eligibility. This section addresses substi-
tution of accrued paid leave for unpaid
FMLA leave:
(1) For birth of a son or daughter, and to
care for the newborn child (See 825.120);
(2) For the placement of a son or daughter
with the employee for adoption or foster care
and the care of such son or daughter (See
825.121);
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5779
November 16, 2020
(b) Leave connected to birth or placement. (1)
For unpaid family and medical leave taken
under 825.120 or 825.121 (which correspond to
29 U.S.C. 2612(A) or (B), respectively) an em-
ployee may elect to substitute—
(i) Up to 12 workweeks of paid parental
leave in connection with the occurrence of a
birth or placement, as provided in subpart E
of this part; and
(ii) Any additional paid annual, vacation,
personal, family, medical, or sick leave pro-
vided by the employing office to such em-
ployee.
(c) Employee entitlement to substitute. (1) An
employee is entitled substitute paid leave for
leave without pay under this subpart, as per-
mitted in this section.
(2) An employing office may not require
that an employee first use all or any portion
of the leave described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)
of this section before being allowed to use
the leave described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of
this section.
(3) An employing office may not require an
employee to substitute paid leave for leave
without pay.
(4) An employee may request to use annual
leave or sick leave without invoking family
and medical leave, and, in that case, the em-
ploying office exercises its normal authority
with respect to approving or disapproving
the timing of when the leave may be used.
(d) Notification by employee and retroactive
substitution. (1) An employee must notify the
employing office of the employee’s election
to substitute paid leave for leave without
pay under this section prior to the date such
paid leave commences (i.e., no retroactive
substitution), except as provided in para-
graphs (d)(2) through (d)(4) of this section.
(2) An employee may retroactively sub-
stitute annual leave or sick leave for leave
without pay granted under this subpart cov-
ering a past period of time, if the substi-
tution is made in conjunction with the retro-
active granting of leave without pay.
(3) An employee may retroactively sub-
stitute transferred (donated) annual leave
for leave without pay granted under this sub-
part.
(4) An employee may retroactively sub-
stitute paid parental leave for applicable
leave without pay granted under this sub-
part, as provided in 825.505 and subject to the
requirements governing paid parental leave
in subpart E of this part. If the employee’s
leave without pay was not granted on a pro-
spective basis under this subpart, the retro-
active substitution of paid parental leave
may not be made unless the leave without
pay period has been retroactively designated
as leave under this subpart.
825.209 Maintenance of employee benefits.
(a) During any FMLA leave, an employing
office must maintain the employee’s cov-
erage under the Federal Employees Health
Benefits Program or any group health plan
(as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 at 26 U.S.C. 5000(b)(1)) on the same con-
ditions as coverage would have been provided
if the employee had been continuously em-
ployed during the entire leave period. All
employing offices are subject to the require-
ments of the FMLA, as made applicable by
the CAA, to maintain health coverage. The
definition of group health plan is set forth in
825.102. For purposes of FMLA, the term
group health plan shall not include an insur-
ance program providing health coverage
under which employees purchase individual
policies from insurers provided that:
(1) No contributions are made by the em-
ploying office;
(2) Participation in the program is com-
pletely voluntary for employees;
(3) The sole functions of the employing of-
fice with respect to the program are, without
endorsing the program, to permit the insurer
to publicize the program to employees, to
collect premiums through payroll deductions
and to remit them to the insurer;
(4) The employing office receives no con-
sideration in the form of cash or otherwise in
connection with the program, other than
reasonable compensation, excluding any
profit, for administrative services actually
rendered in connection with payroll deduc-
tion; and
(5) The premium charged with respect to
such coverage does not increase in the event
the employment relationship terminates.
(b) The same group health plan benefits
provided to an employee prior to taking
FMLA leave must be maintained during the
FMLA leave. For example, if family member
coverage is provided to an employee, family
member coverage must be maintained during
the FMLA leave. Similarly, benefit coverage
during FMLA leave for medical care, sur-
gical care, hospital care, dental care, eye
care, mental health counseling, substance
abuse treatment, etc., must be maintained
during leave if provided in an employing of-
fice’s group health plan, including a supple-
ment to a group health plan, whether or not
provided through a flexible spending account
or other component of a cafeteria plan.
(c) If an employing office provides a new
health plan or benefits or changes health
benefits or plans while an employee is on
FMLA leave, the employee is entitled to the
new or changed plan/benefits to the same ex-
tent as if the employee were not on leave.
For example, if an employing office changes
a group health plan so that dental care be-
comes covered under the plan, an employee
on FMLA leave must be given the same op-
portunity as other employees to receive (or
obtain) the dental care coverage. Any other
plan changes (e.g., in coverage, premiums,
deductibles, etc.) which apply to all employ-
ees of the workforce would also apply to an
employee on FMLA leave.
(d) Notice of any opportunity to change
plans or benefits must also be given to an
employee on FMLA leave. If the group
health plan permits an employee to change
from single to family coverage upon the
birth of a child or otherwise add new family
members, such a change in benefits must be
made available while an employee is on
FMLA leave. If the employee requests the
changed coverage it must be provided by the
employing office.
(e) An employee may choose not to retain
group health plan coverage during FMLA
leave. However, when an employee returns
from leave, the employee is entitled to be re-
instated on the same terms as prior to tak-
ing the leave, including family or dependent
coverages, without any qualifying period,
physical examination, exclusion of pre-exist-
ing conditions, etc. See 825.212(c).
(f) Except as required by the Consolidated
Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1986
(COBRA) or 5 U.S.C. 8905a, whichever is ap-
plicable, and for key employees (as discussed
below), an employing office’s obligation to
maintain health benefits during leave (and
to restore the employee to the same or
equivalent employment) under FMLA ceases
if and when the employment relationship
would have terminated if the employee had
not taken FMLA leave (e.g., if the employ-
ee’s position is eliminated as part of a non-
discriminatory reduction in force and the
employee would not have been transferred to
another position); an employee informs the
employing office of his or her intent not to
return from leave (including before starting
the leave if the employing office is so in-
formed before the leave starts); or the em-
ployee fails to return from leave or con-
tinues on leave after exhausting his or her
FMLA leave entitlement in the 12–month pe-
riod.
(g) If a key employee (See 825.218) does not
return from leave when notified by the em-
ploying office that substantial or grievous
economic injury will result from his or her
reinstatement, the employee’s entitlement
to group health plan benefits continues un-
less and until the employee advises the em-
ploying office that the employee does not de-
sire restoration to employment at the end of
the leave period, or the FMLA leave entitle-
ment is exhausted, or reinstatement is actu-
ally denied.
(h) An employee’s entitlement to benefits
other than group health benefits during a pe-
riod of FMLA leave (e.g., holiday pay) is to
be determined by the employing office’s es-
tablished policy for providing such benefits
when the employee is on other forms of leave
(paid or unpaid, as appropriate).
825.210 Employee payment of group health
benefit premiums.
(a) Group health plan benefits must be
maintained on the same basis as coverage
would have been provided if the employee
had been continuously employed during the
FMLA leave period. Therefore, any share of
group health plan premiums which had been
paid by the employee prior to FMLA leave
must continue to be paid by the employee
during the FMLA leave period. If premiums
are raised or lowered, the employee would be
required to pay the new premium rates.
Maintenance of health insurance policies
which are not a part of the employing of-
fice’s group health plan, as described in
825.209(a), are the sole responsibility of the
employee. The employee and the insurer
should make necessary arrangements for
payment of premiums during periods of un-
paid FMLA leave.
(b) If the FMLA leave is substituted paid
leave, the employee’s share of premiums
must be paid by the method normally used
during any paid leave, presumably as a pay-
roll deduction.
(c) If FMLA leave is unpaid, the employing
office has a number of options for obtaining
payment from the employee. The employing
office may require that payment be made to
the employing office or to the insurance car-
rier, but no additional charge may be added
to the employee’s premium payment for ad-
ministrative expenses. The employing office
may require employees to pay their share of
premium payments in any of the following
ways:
(1) Payment would be due at the same time
as it would be made if by payroll deduction;
(2) Payment would be due on the same
schedule as payments are made under
COBRA or 5 U.S.C. 8905a, whichever is appli-
cable;
(3) Payment would be prepaid pursuant to
a cafeteria plan at the employee’s option;
(4) The employing office’s existing rules for
payment by employees on leave without pay
would be followed, provided that such rules
do not require prepayment (i.e., prior to the
commencement of the leave) of the pre-
miums that will become due during a period
of unpaid FMLA leave or payment of higher
premiums than if the employee had contin-
ued to work instead of taking leave; or
(5) Another system voluntarily agreed to
between the employing office and the em-
ployee, which may include prepayment of
premiums (e.g., through increased payroll
deductions when the need for the FMLA
leave is foreseeable).
(d) The employing office must provide the
employee with advance written notice of the
terms and conditions under which these pay-
ments must be made. See 825. 300(c).
(e) An employing office may not require
more of an employee using unpaid FMLA
leave than the employing office requires of
other employees on leave without pay.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5780 November 16, 2020
(f) An employee who is receiving payments
as a result of a workers’ compensation injury
must make arrangements with the employ-
ing office for payment of group health plan
benefits when simultaneously taking FMLA
leave. See 825.207(e).
825.211 Maintenance of benefits under multi-
employer health plans.
(a) A multi-employer health plan is a plan
to which more than one employing office is
required to contribute, and which is main-
tained pursuant to one or more collective
bargaining agreements between employee or-
ganization(s) and the employing offices.
(b) An employing office under a multi-em-
ployer plan must continue to make contribu-
tions on behalf of an employee using FMLA
leave as though the employee had been con-
tinuously employed, unless the plan contains
an explicit FMLA provision for maintaining
coverage such as through pooled contribu-
tions by all employing offices party to the
plan.
(c) During the duration of an employee’s
FMLA leave, coverage by the group health
plan, and benefits provided pursuant to the
plan, must be maintained at the level of cov-
erage and benefits which were applicable to
the employee at the time FMLA leave com-
menced.
(d) An employee using FMLA leave cannot
be required to use banked hours or pay a
greater premium than the employee would
have been required to pay if the employee
had been continuously employed.
(e) As provided in 825.209(f) of this part,
group health plan coverage must be main-
tained for an employee on FMLA leave until:
(1) The employee’s FMLA leave entitle-
ment is exhausted;
(2) The employing office can show that the
employee would have been laid off and the
employment relationship terminated; or
(3) The employee provides unequivocal no-
tice of intent not to return to work.
825.212 Employee failure to pay health plan
premium payments.
(a)(1) In the absence of an established em-
ploying office policy providing a longer grace
period, an employing office’s obligations to
maintain health insurance coverage cease
under FMLA if an employee’s premium pay-
ment is more than 30 days late. In order to
drop the coverage for an employee whose
premium payment is late, the employing of-
fice must provide written notice to the em-
ployee that the payment has not been re-
ceived. Such notice must be mailed to the
employee at least 15 days before coverage is
to cease, advising that coverage will be
dropped on a specified date at least 15 days
after the date of the letter unless the pay-
ment has been received by that date. If the
employing office has established policies re-
garding other forms of unpaid leave that pro-
vide for the employing office to cease cov-
erage retroactively to the date the unpaid
premium payment was due, the employing
office may drop the employee from coverage
retroactively in accordance with that policy,
provided the 15-day notice was given. In the
absence of such a policy, coverage for the
employee may be terminated at the end of
the 30-day grace period, where the required
15-day notice has been provided.
(2) An employing office has no obligation
regarding the maintenance of a health insur-
ance policy which is not a group health plan.
See 825.209(a).
(3) All other obligations of an employing
office under FMLA would continue; for ex-
ample, the employing office continues to
have an obligation to reinstate an employee
upon return from leave.
(b) The employing office may recover the
employee’s share of any premium payments
missed by the employee for any FMLA leave
period during which the employing office
maintains health coverage by paying the em-
ployee’s share after the premium payment is
missed.
(c) If coverage lapses because an employee
has not made required premium payments,
upon the employee’s return from FMLA
leave the employing office must still restore
the employee to coverage/benefits equivalent
to those the employee would have had if
leave had not been taken and the premium
payment(s) had not been missed, including
family or dependent coverage. See
825.215(d)(1)(5). In such case, an employee
may not be required to meet any qualifica-
tion requirements imposed by the plan, in-
cluding any new preexisting condition wait-
ing period, to wait for an open season, or to
pass a medical examination to obtain rein-
statement of coverage. If an employing office
terminates an employee’s insurance in ac-
cordance with this section and fails to re-
store the employee’s health insurance as re-
quired by this section upon the employee’s
return, the employing office may be liable
for benefits lost by reason of the violation,
for other actual monetary losses sustained
as a direct result of the violation, and for ap-
propriate equitable relief tailored to the
harm suffered.
825.213 Employing office recovery of benefit
costs.
(a) In addition to the circumstances dis-
cussed in 825.212(b), and subject to the excep-
tions provided in 825.504, an employing office
may recover its share of health plan pre-
miums during a period of unpaid FMLA leave
from an employee if the employee fails to re-
turn to work after the employee’s FMLA
leave entitlement has been exhausted or ex-
pires, unless the reason the employee does
not return is due to:
(1) The continuation, recurrence, or onset
of either a serious health condition of the
employee or the employee’s family member,
or a serious injury or illness of a covered
servicemember, which would otherwise enti-
tle the employee to leave under FMLA; or
(2) Other circumstances beyond the em-
ployee’s control. Examples of other cir-
cumstances beyond the employee’s control
are necessarily broad. They include such sit-
uations as where a parent chooses to stay
home with a newborn child who has a serious
health condition; an employee’s spouse is un-
expectedly transferred to a job location more
than 75 miles from the employee’s worksite;
a relative or individual other than a covered
family member has a serious health condi-
tion and the employee is needed to provide
care; the employee is laid off while on leave;
or, the employee is a key employee who de-
cides not to return to work upon being noti-
fied of the employing office’s intention to
deny restoration because of substantial and
grievous economic injury to the employing
office’s operations and is not reinstated by
the employing office. Other circumstances
beyond the employee’s control would not in-
clude a situation where an employee desires
to remain with a parent in a distant city
even though the parent no longer requires
the employee’s care, or a parent chooses not
to return to work to stay home with a well,
newborn child.
(3) When an employee fails to return to
work because of the continuation, recur-
rence, or onset of either a serious health con-
dition of the employee or employee’s family
member, or a serious injury or illness of a
covered servicemember, thereby precluding
the employing office from recovering its
(share of) health benefit premium payments
made on the employee’s behalf during a pe-
riod of unpaid FMLA leave, the employing
office may require medical certification of
the employee’s or the family member’s seri-
ous health condition or the covered
servicemember’s serious injury or illness.
Such certification is not required unless re-
quested by the employing office. The cost of
the certification shall be borne by the em-
ployee, and the employee is not entitled to
be paid for the time or travel costs spent in
acquiring the certification. The employee is
required to provide medical certification in a
timely manner which, for purposes of this
section, is within 30 days from the date of
the employing office’s request. For purposes
of medical certification, the employee may
use the optional forms developed for this
purpose. See 825.306(b), 825.310(c)–(d) and
Forms A, B, and F. If the employing office
requests medical certification and the em-
ployee does not provide such certification in
a timely manner (within 30 days), or the rea-
son for not returning to work does not meet
the test of other circumstances beyond the
employee’s control, the employing office
may recover 100 percent of the health benefit
premiums it paid during the period of unpaid
FMLA leave.
(b) Under some circumstances an employ-
ing office may elect to maintain other bene-
fits, e.g., life insurance, disability insurance,
etc., by paying the employee’s (share of) pre-
miums during periods of unpaid FMLA leave.
For example, to ensure the employing office
can meet its responsibilities to provide
equivalent benefits to the employee upon re-
turn from unpaid FMLA leave, it may be
necessary that premiums be paid continu-
ously to avoid a lapse of coverage. If the em-
ploying office elects to maintain such bene-
fits during the leave, at the conclusion of
leave, the employing office is entitled to re-
cover only the costs incurred for paying the
employee’s share of any premiums whether
or not the employee returns to work.
(c) An employee who returns to work for at
least 30 calendar days is considered to have
returned to work. An employee who trans-
fers directly from taking FMLA leave to re-
tirement, or who retires during the first 30
days after the employee returns to work, is
deemed to have returned to work.
(d) When an employee elects or an employ-
ing office requires paid leave to be sub-
stituted for FMLA leave, the employing of-
fice may not recover its (share of) health in-
surance or other non-health benefit pre-
miums for any period of FMLA leave covered
by paid leave. Because paid leave provided
under a plan covering temporary disabilities
(including workers’ compensation) is not un-
paid, recovery of health insurance premiums
does not apply to such paid leave.
(e) The amount that self-insured employ-
ing offices may recover is limited to only the
employing office’s share of allowable pre-
miums as would be calculated under COBRA,
excluding the two percent fee for administra-
tive costs.
(f) When an employee fails to return to
work, any health and non-health benefit pre-
miums which this section of the regulations
permits an employing office to recover are a
debt owed by the non-returning employee to
the employing office. The existence of this
debt caused by the employee’s failure to re-
turn to work does not alter the employing
office’s responsibilities for health benefit
coverage and, under a self-insurance plan,
payment of claims incurred during the pe-
riod of FMLA leave. To the extent recovery
is allowed, the employing office may recover
the costs through deduction from any sums
due to the employee (e.g., unpaid wages, va-
cation pay, etc.), provided such deductions
do not otherwise violate applicable wage
payment or other laws. Alternatively, the
employing office may initiate legal action
against the employee to recover such costs.
825.214 Employee right to reinstatement.
General Rule. On return from FMLA leave,
an employee is entitled to be returned to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5781
November 16, 2020
same position the employee held when leave
commenced, or to an equivalent position
with equivalent benefits, pay, and other
terms and conditions of employment. An em-
ployee is entitled to such reinstatement even
if the employee has been replaced or his or
her position has been restructured to accom-
modate the employee’s absence. See also
825.106(e) for the obligations of employing of-
fices that are joint employers.
825.215 Equivalent position.
(a) Equivalent position. An equivalent posi-
tion is one that is virtually identical to the
employee’s former position in terms of pay,
benefits and working conditions, including
privileges, prerequisites and status. It must
involve the same or substantially similar du-
ties and responsibilities, which must entail
substantially equivalent skill, effort, respon-
sibility, and authority.
(b) Conditions to qualify. If an employee is
no longer qualified for the position because
of the employee’s inability to attend a nec-
essary course, renew a license, etc., as a re-
sult of the leave, the employee shall be given
a reasonable opportunity to fulfill those con-
ditions upon return to work.
(c) Equivalent Pay. (1) An employee is enti-
tled to any unconditional pay increases
which may have occurred during the FMLA
leave period, such as cost of living increases.
Pay increases conditioned upon seniority,
length of service, or work performed must be
granted in accordance with the employing
office’s policy or practice with respect to
other employees on an equivalent leave sta-
tus for a reason that does not qualify as
FMLA leave. An employee is entitled to be
restored to a position with the same or
equivalent pay premiums, such as a shift dif-
ferential. If an employee departed from a po-
sition averaging ten hours of overtime (and
corresponding overtime pay) each week, an
employee is ordinarily entitled to such a po-
sition on return from FMLA leave.
(2) Equivalent pay includes any bonus or
payment, whether it is discretionary or non-
discretionary, made to employees consistent
with the provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this
section. However, if a bonus or other pay-
ment is based on the achievement of a speci-
fied goal such as hours worked, products sold
or perfect attendance, and the employee has
not met the goal due to FMLA leave, then
the payment may be denied, unless otherwise
paid to employees on an equivalent leave
status for a reason that does not qualify as
FMLA leave. For example, if an employee
who used paid vacation leave for a non-
FMLA purpose would receive the payment,
then the employee who used paid vacation
leave for an FMLA-protected purpose also
must receive the payment.
(d) Equivalent benefits. Benefits include all
benefits provided or made available to em-
ployees by an employing office, including
group life insurance, health insurance, dis-
ability insurance, sick leave, annual leave,
educational benefits, and pensions, regard-
less of whether such benefits are provided by
a practice or written policy of an employing
office through an employee benefit plan.
(1) At the end of an employee’s FMLA
leave, benefits must be resumed in the same
manner and at the same levels as provided
when the leave began, and subject to any
changes in benefit levels that may have
taken place during the period of FMLA leave
affecting the entire work force, unless other-
wise elected by the employee. Upon return
from FMLA leave, an employee cannot be re-
quired to requalify for any benefits the em-
ployee enjoyed before FMLA leave began (in-
cluding family or dependent coverages). For
example, if an employee was covered by a
life insurance policy before taking leave but
is not covered or coverage lapses during the
period of unpaid FMLA leave, the employee
cannot be required to meet any qualifica-
tions, such as taking a physical examina-
tion, in order to requalify for life insurance
upon return from leave. Accordingly, some
employing offices may find it necessary to
modify life insurance and other benefits pro-
grams in order to restore employees to
equivalent benefits upon return from FMLA
leave, make arrangements for continued
payment of costs to maintain such benefits
during unpaid FMLA leave, or pay these
costs subject to recovery from the employee
on return from leave. See 825.213(b).
(2) An employee may, but is not entitled
to, accrue any additional benefits or senior-
ity during unpaid FMLA leave. Benefits ac-
crued at the time leave began, however, (e.g.,
paid vacation, sick or personal leave to the
extent not substituted for FMLA leave) must
be available to an employee upon return
from leave.
(3) If, while on unpaid FMLA leave, an em-
ployee desires to continue life insurance, dis-
ability insurance, or other types of benefits
for which he or she typically pays, the em-
ploying office is required to follow estab-
lished policies or practices for continuing
such benefits for other instances of leave
without pay. If the employing office has no
established policy, the employee and the em-
ploying office are encouraged to agree upon
arrangements before FMLA leave begins.
(4) With respect to pension and other re-
tirement plans, any period of unpaid FMLA
leave shall not be treated as or counted to-
ward a break in service for purposes of vest-
ing and eligibility to participate. Also, if the
plan requires an employee to be employed on
a specific date in order to be credited with a
year of service for vesting, contributions or
participation purposes, an employee on un-
paid FMLA leave on that date shall be
deemed to have been employed on that date.
However, unpaid FMLA leave periods need
not be treated as credited service for pur-
poses of benefit accrual, vesting and eligi-
bility to participate.
(5) Employees on unpaid FMLA leave are
to be treated as if they continued to work for
purposes of changes to benefit plans. They
are entitled to changes in benefits plans, ex-
cept those which may be dependent upon se-
niority or accrual during the leave period,
immediately upon return from leave or to
the same extent they would have qualified if
no leave had been taken. For example if the
benefit plan is predicated on a pre-estab-
lished number of hours worked each year and
the employee does not have sufficient hours
as a result of taking unpaid FMLA leave, the
benefit is lost. (In this regard, 825.209 ad-
dresses health benefits.)
(e) Equivalent terms and conditions of em-
ployment. An equivalent position must have
substantially similar duties, conditions, re-
sponsibilities, privileges and status as the
employee’s original position.
(1) The employee must be reinstated to the
same or a geographically proximate worksite
(i.e., one that does not involve a significant
increase in commuting time or distance)
from where the employee had previously
been employed. If the employee’s original
worksite has been closed, the employee is en-
titled to the same rights as if the employee
had not been on leave when the worksite
closed. For example, if an employing office
transfers all employees from a closed work-
site to a new worksite in a different city, the
employee on leave is also entitled to transfer
under the same conditions as if he or she had
continued to be employed.
(2) The employee is ordinarily entitled to
return to the same shift or the same or an
equivalent work schedule.
(3) The employee must have the same or an
equivalent opportunity for bonuses, and
other similar discretionary and non-discre-
tionary payments.
(4) FMLA does not prohibit an employing
office from accommodating an employee’s
request to be restored to a different shift,
schedule, or position which better suits the
employee’s personal needs on return from
leave, or to offer a promotion to a better po-
sition. However, an employee cannot be in-
duced by the employing office to accept a
different position against the employee’s
wishes.
(f) De minimis exception. The requirement
that an employee be restored to the same or
equivalent job with the same or equivalent
pay, benefits, and terms and conditions of
employment does not extend to de minimis,
intangible, or unmeasurable aspects of the
job.
825.216 Limitations on an employee’s right to
reinstatement.
(a) An employee has no greater right to re-
instatement or to other benefits and condi-
tions of employment than if the employee
had been continuously employed during the
FMLA leave period. An employing office
must be able to show that an employee
would not otherwise have been employed at
the time reinstatement is requested in order
to deny restoration to employment. For ex-
ample:
(1) If an employee is laid off during the
course of taking FMLA leave and employ-
ment is terminated, the employing office’s
responsibility to continue FMLA leave,
maintain group health plan benefits and re-
store the employee ceases at the time the
employee is laid off, provided the employing
office has no continuing obligations under a
collective bargaining agreement or other-
wise. An employing office would have the
burden of proving that an employee would
have been laid off during the FMLA leave pe-
riod and, therefore, would not be entitled to
restoration. Restoration to a job slated for
lay-off when the employee’s original position
is not would not meet the requirements of an
equivalent position.
(2) If a shift has been eliminated, or over-
time has been decreased, an employee would
not be entitled to return to work that shift
or the original overtime hours upon restora-
tion. However, if a position on, for example,
a night shift has been filled by another em-
ployee, the employee is entitled to return to
the same shift on which employed before
taking FMLA leave.
(3) If an employee was hired for a specific
term or only to perform work on a discrete
project, the employing office has no obliga-
tion to restore the employee if the employ-
ment term or project is over and the employ-
ing office would not otherwise have contin-
ued to employ the employee. On the other
hand, if an employee was hired to perform
work for one employing office for a specific
time period, and after that time period has
ended, the work was assigned to another em-
ploying office, the successor employing of-
fice may be required to restore the employee
if it is a successor employing office.
(b) In addition to the circumstances ex-
plained above, an employing office may deny
job restoration to salaried eligible employees
(key employees, as defined in 825.217(c)), if
such denial is necessary to prevent substan-
tial and grievous economic injury to the op-
erations of the employing office; or may
delay restoration to an employee who fails
to provide a fitness-for-duty certificate to
return to work under the conditions de-
scribed in 825.312.
(c) If the employee is unable to perform an
essential function of the position because of
a physical or mental condition, including the
continuation of a serious health condition or
an injury or illness also covered by workers’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5782 November 16, 2020
compensation, the employee has no right to
restoration to another position under the
FMLA. The employing office’s obligations
may, however, be governed by the Americans
with Disabilities Act (ADA), as amended and
as made applicable by the CAA. See 825.702.
(d) An employee who fraudulently obtains
FMLA leave from an employing office is not
protected by the job restoration or mainte-
nance of health benefits provisions of the
FMLA, as made applicable by the CAA.
(e) If the employing office has a uniformly-
applied policy governing outside or supple-
mental employment, such a policy may con-
tinue to apply to an employee while on
FMLA leave. An employing office which does
not have such a policy may not deny benefits
to which an employee is entitled under
FMLA, as made applicable by the CAA, on
this basis unless the FMLA leave was fraudu-
lently obtained as in paragraph (d) of this
section.
825.217 Key employee, general rule.
(a) A key employee is a salaried FMLA-eli-
gible employee who is among the highest
paid 10 percent of all the employees em-
ployed by the employing office within 75
miles of the employee’s worksite.
(b) The term salaried means paid on a sal-
ary basis, within the meaning of the Board’s
FLSA regulations at part 541, implementing
section 203 of the CAA (2 U.S.C. 1313), regard-
ing employees who may qualify as exempt
from the minimum wage and overtime re-
quirements of the FLSA, as made applicable
by the CAA.
(c) A key employee must be among the
highest paid 10 percent of all the employ-
ees—both salaried and non-salaried, eligible
and ineligible—who are employed by the em-
ploying office within 75 miles of the work-
site.
(1) In determining which employees are
among the highest paid 10 percent, year- to-
date earnings are divided by weeks worked
by the employee (including weeks in which
paid leave was taken). Earnings include
wages, premium pay, incentive pay, and non-
discretionary and discretionary bonuses.
Earnings do not include incentives whose
value is determined at some future date, e.g.,
benefits or prerequisites.
(2) The determination of whether a salaried
employee is among the highest paid 10 per-
cent shall be made at the time the employee
gives notice of the need for leave. No more
than 10 percent of the employing office’s em-
ployees within 75 miles of the worksite may
be key employees.
825.218 Substantial and grievous economic
injury.
(a) In order to deny restoration to a key
employee, an employing office must deter-
mine that the restoration of the employee to
employment will cause substantial and
grievous economic injury to the operations
of the employing office, not whether the ab-
sence of the employee will cause such sub-
stantial and grievous injury.
(b) An employing office may take into ac-
count its ability to replace on a temporary
basis (or temporarily do without) the em-
ployee on FMLA leave. If permanent replace-
ment is unavoidable, the cost of then rein-
stating the employee can be considered in
evaluating whether substantial and grievous
economic injury will occur from restoration;
in other words, the effect on the operations
of the employing office of reinstating the
employee in an equivalent position.
(c) A precise test cannot be set for the
level of hardship or injury to the employing
office which must be sustained. If the rein-
statement of a key employee threatens the
economic viability of the employing office,
that would constitute substantial and griev-
ous economic injury. A lesser injury which
causes substantial, long-term economic in-
jury would also be sufficient. Minor incon-
veniences and costs that the employing of-
fice would experience in the normal course
would certainly not constitute substantial
and grievous economic injury.
(d) FMLA’s substantial and grievous eco-
nomic injury standard is different from and
more stringent than the undue hardship test
under the ADA, as made applicable by the
CAA. See also 825.702.
825.219 Rights of a key employee.
(a) An employing office that believes that
reinstatement may be denied to a key em-
ployee, must give written notice to the em-
ployee at the time the employee gives notice
of the need for FMLA leave (or when FMLA
leave commences, if earlier) that he or she
qualifies as a key employee. At the same
time, the employing office must also fully
inform the employee of the potential con-
sequences with respect to reinstatement and
maintenance of health benefits if the em-
ploying office should determine that sub-
stantial and grievous economic injury to the
employing office’s operations will result if
the employee is reinstated from FMLA
leave. If such notice cannot be given imme-
diately because of the need to determine
whether the employee is a key employee, it
shall be given as soon as practicable after
being notified of a need for leave (or the
commencement of leave, if earlier). It is ex-
pected that in most circumstances there will
be no desire that an employee be denied res-
toration after FMLA leave and, therefore,
there would be no need to provide such no-
tice. However, an employing office who fails
to provide such timely notice will lose its
right to deny restoration even if substantial
and grievous economic injury will result
from reinstatement.
(b) As soon as an employing office makes a
good faith determination, based on the facts
available, that substantial and grievous eco-
nomic injury to its operations will result if
a key employee who has given notice of the
need for FMLA leave or is using FMLA leave
is reinstated, the employing office shall no-
tify the employee in writing of its deter-
mination, that it cannot deny FMLA leave,
and that it intends to deny restoration to
employment on completion of the FMLA
leave. It is anticipated that an employing of-
fice will ordinarily be able to give such no-
tice prior to the employee starting leave.
The employing office must serve this notice
either in person or by certified mail. This no-
tice must explain the basis for the employing
office’s finding that substantial and grievous
economic injury will result, and, if leave has
commenced, must provide the employee a
reasonable time in which to return to work,
taking into account the circumstances, such
as the length of the leave and the urgency of
the need for the employee to return.
(c) If an employee on leave does not return
to work in response to the employing office’s
notification of intent to deny restoration,
the employee continues to be entitled to
maintenance of health benefits and the em-
ploying office may not recover its cost of
health benefit premiums. A key employee’s
rights under FMLA continue unless and
until the employee either gives notice that
he or she no longer wishes to return to work,
or the employing office actually denies rein-
statement at the conclusion of the leave pe-
riod.
(d) After notice to an employee has been
given that substantial and grievous eco-
nomic injury will result if the employee is
reinstated to employment, an employee is
still entitled to request reinstatement at the
end of the leave period even if the employee
did not return to work in response to the em-
ploying office’s notice. The employing office
must then again determine whether there
will be substantial and grievous economic in-
jury from reinstatement, based on the facts
at that time. If it is determined that sub-
stantial and grievous economic injury will
result, the employing office shall notify the
employee in writing (in person or by cer-
tified mail) of the denial of restoration.
825.220 Protection for employees who request
leave or otherwise assert FMLA rights.
(a) The FMLA, as made applicable by the
CAA, prohibits interference with an employ-
ee’s rights under the law, and with legal pro-
ceedings or inquiries relating to an employ-
ee’s rights. More specifically, the law con-
tains the following employee protections:
(1) An employing office is prohibited from
interfering with, restraining, or denying the
exercise of (or attempts to exercise) any
rights provided by the FMLA, as made appli-
cable by the CAA.
(2) An employing office is prohibited from
discharging or in any other way discrimi-
nating against any covered employee (wheth-
er or not an eligible employee) for opposing
or complaining about any unlawful practice
under the FMLA, as made applicable by the
CAA.
(3) All employing offices are prohibited
from discharging or in any other way dis-
criminating against any covered employee
(whether or not an eligible employee) be-
cause that covered employee has—
(i) Filed any charge, or has instituted (or
caused to be instituted) any proceeding
under or related to the FMLA, as made ap-
plicable by the CAA;
(ii) Given, or is about to give, any informa-
tion in connection with an inquiry or pro-
ceeding relating to a right under the FMLA,
as made applicable by the CAA;
(iii) Testified, or is about to testify, in any
inquiry or proceeding relating to a right
under the FMLA, as made applicable by the
CAA.
(b) Any violations of the FMLA, as made
applicable by the CAA, or of these regula-
tions constitute interfering with, restrain-
ing, or denying the exercise of rights pro-
vided by the FMLA, as made applicable by
the CAA. An employing office may be liable
for compensation and benefits lost by reason
of the violation, for other actual monetary
losses sustained as a direct result of the vio-
lation, and for appropriate equitable or other
relief, including employment, reinstatement,
promotion, or any other relief tailored to the
harm suffered. See 825.400(c). Interfering with
the exercise of an employee’s rights would
include, for example, not only refusing to au-
thorize FMLA leave, but discouraging an em-
ployee from using such leave. It would also
include manipulation by a covered employ-
ing office to avoid responsibilities under
FMLA, for example:
(1) [Reserved]
(2) Changing the essential functions of the
job in order to preclude the taking of leave;
or
(3) Reducing hours available to work in
order to avoid employee eligibility.
(c) The FMLA’s prohibition against inter-
ference prohibits an employing office from
discriminating or retaliating against an em-
ployee or prospective employee for having
exercised or attempted to exercise FMLA
rights. For example, if an employee on leave
without pay would otherwise be entitled to
full benefits (other than health benefits), the
same benefits would be required to be pro-
vided to an employee on unpaid FMLA leave.
By the same token, employing offices cannot
use the taking of FMLA leave as a negative
factor in employment actions, such as hir-
ing, promotions or disciplinary actions; nor
can FMLA leave be counted under no fault
attendance policies. See 825.215.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5783
November 16, 2020
(d) Employees cannot waive, nor may em-
ploying offices induce employees to waive,
their rights under FMLA. For example, em-
ployees (or their collective bargaining rep-
resentatives) cannot trade off the right to
take FMLA leave against some other benefit
offered by the employing office. Except for
settlement agreements covered by 1414 and/
or 1415 of the Congressional Accountability
Act, this does not prevent the settlement or
release of FMLA claims by employees based
on past employing office conduct without
the approval of the Office of Congressional
Workplace Rights or a court. Nor does it pre-
vent an employee’s voluntary and uncoerced
acceptance (not as a condition of employ-
ment) of a light duty assignment while re-
covering from a serious health condition. See
825.702(d). An employee’s acceptance of such
light duty assignment does not constitute a
waiver of the employee’s prospective rights,
including the right to be restored to the
same position the employee held at the time
the employee’s FMLA leave commenced or
to an equivalent position. The employee’s
right to restoration, however, ceases at the
end of the applicable 12-month FMLA leave
year.
(e) Covered employees, and not merely eli-
gible employees, are protected from retalia-
tion for opposing (e.g., filing a complaint
about) any practice which is unlawful under
the FMLA, as made applicable by the CAA.
They are similarly protected if they oppose
any practice which they reasonably believe
to be a violation of the FMLA, as made ap-
plicable by the CAA, or regulations.
SUBPART C—EMPLOYEE AND EMPLOYING
OFFICE RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS
UNDER THE FMLA, AS MADE APPLICA-
BLE BY THE CAA
825.300 Employing office notice require-
ments.
(a)(1) If an employing office has any eligi-
ble employees and has any written guidance
to employees concerning employee benefits
or leave rights, such as in an employee hand-
book, information concerning both entitle-
ments and employee obligations under the
FMLA, as made applicable by the CAA, must
be included in the handbook or other docu-
ment. For example, if an employing office
provides an employee handbook to all em-
ployees that describes the employing office’s
policies regarding leave, wages, attendance,
and similar matters, the handbook must in-
corporate information on FMLA rights and
responsibilities and the employing office’s
policies regarding the FMLA, as made appli-
cable by the CAA. Informational publica-
tions describing the provisions of the FMLA,
as made applicable by the CAA, are available
from the Office of Congressional Workplace
Rights and may be incorporated in such em-
ploying office handbooks or written policies.
(2) If such an employing office does not
have written policies, manuals, or handbooks
describing employee benefits and leave pro-
visions, the employing office shall provide
written guidance to an employee concerning
all the employee’s rights and obligations
under the FMLA, as made applicable by the
CAA. This notice shall be provided to em-
ployees each time notice is given pursuant to
paragraph (c), and in accordance with the
provisions of that paragraph. Employing of-
fices may duplicate and provide the em-
ployee a copy of the FMLA Fact Sheet avail-
able from the Office of Congressional Work-
place Rights to provide such guidance.
(b) Eligibility notice. (1) When an employee
requests FMLA leave, or when the employing
office acquires knowledge that an employee’s
leave may be for an FMLA-qualifying reason,
the employing office must notify the em-
ployee of the employee’s eligibility to take
FMLA leave within five business days, ab-
sent extenuating circumstances. See 825.110
for definition of an eligible employee. Em-
ployee eligibility is determined (and notice
must be provided) at the commencement of
the first instance of leave for each FMLA-
qualifying reason in the applicable 12-month
period. See 825.127(c) and 825.200(b). All
FMLA absences for the same qualifying rea-
son are considered a single leave and em-
ployee eligibility as to that reason for leave
does not change during the applicable 12-
month period.
(2) The eligibility notice must state wheth-
er the employee is eligible for FMLA leave
as defined in 825.110. If the employee is not
eligible for FMLA leave, the notice must
state at least one reason why the employee
is not eligible, including as applicable the
number of months the employee has been
employed by the employing office and the
hours of service with the employing office
during the 12-month period. Notification of
eligibility may be oral or in writing; employ-
ing offices may use Form C to provide such
notification to employees.
(3) If, at the time an employee provides no-
tice of a subsequent need for FMLA leave
during the applicable 12-month period due to
a different FMLA-qualifying reason, and the
employee’s eligibility status has not
changed, no additional eligibility notice is
required. If, however, the employee’s eligi-
bility status has changed (e.g., if the em-
ployee has not met the hours of service re-
quirement in the 12 months preceding the
commencement of leave for the subsequent
qualifying reason), the employing office
must notify the employee of the change in
eligibility status within five business days,
absent extenuating circumstances.
(c) Rights and responsibilities notice. (1) Em-
ploying offices shall provide written notice
detailing the specific expectations and obli-
gations of the employee and explaining any
consequences of a failure to meet these obli-
gations. This notice shall be provided to the
employee each time the eligibility notice is
provided pursuant to paragraph (b) of this
section. If leave has already begun, the no-
tice should be mailed to the employee’s ad-
dress of record. Such specific notice must in-
clude, as appropriate:
(i) That the leave may be designated and
counted against the employee’s annual
FMLA leave entitlement if qualifying (See
825.300(c) and 825.301) and the applicable 12-
month period for FMLA entitlement (See
825.127(c), 825.200(b), (f), and (g));
(ii) Any requirements for the employee to
furnish certification of a serious health con-
dition, serious injury or illness, or qualifying
exigency arising out of covered active duty
or call to covered active duty status, and the
consequences of failing to do so (See 825.305,
825.309, 825.310, 825.313);
(iii) If applicable, the employee’s right to
substitute paid parental leave for unpaid
FMLA leave for a birth or placement (See
825.208) and the employee’s right to sub-
stitute paid leave generally, whether the em-
ploying office will require the substitution of
paid leave, the conditions related to any sub-
stitution, and the employee’s entitlement to
take unpaid FMLA leave if the employee
does not meet the conditions for paid leave
(See 825.207);
(iv) Any requirement for the employee to
make any premium payments to maintain
health benefits and the arrangements for
making such payments (See 825.210), and the
possible consequences of failure to make
such payments on a timely basis (i.e., the
circumstances under which coverage may
lapse);
(v) The employee’s status as a key em-
ployee and the potential consequence that
restoration may be denied following FMLA
leave, explaining the conditions required for
such denial (See 825.218);
(vi) The employee’s right to maintenance
of benefits during the FMLA leave and res-
toration to the same or an equivalent job
upon return from FMLA leave (See 825.214
and 825.604); and
(vii) The employee’s potential liability for
payment of health insurance premiums paid
by the employing office during the employ-
ee’s unpaid FMLA leave if the employee fails
to return to work after taking FMLA leave
(See 825.213, 825.504).
(2) The notice of rights and responsibilities
may include other information—e.g., wheth-
er the employing office will require periodic
reports of the employee’s status and intent
to return to work—but is not required to do
so.
(3) The notice of rights and responsibilities
may be accompanied by any required certifi-
cation form.
(4) If the specific information provided by
the notice of rights and responsibilities
changes, the employing office shall, within
five business days of receipt of the employ-
ee’s first notice of need for leave subsequent
to any change, provide written notice ref-
erencing the prior notice and setting forth
any of the information in the notice of rights
and responsibilities that has changed. For
example, if the initial leave period was paid
leave and the subsequent leave period would
be unpaid leave, the employing office may
need to give notice of the arrangements for
making premium payments.
(5) Employing offices are also expected to
responsively answer questions from employ-
ees concerning their rights and responsibil-
ities under the FMLA, as made applicable
under the CAA.
(6) A prototype notice of rights and respon-
sibilities may be obtained in Form C, or
from the Office of Congressional Workplace
Rights. Employing offices may adapt the
prototype notice as appropriate to meet
these notice requirements. The notice of
rights and responsibilities may be distrib-
uted electronically so long as it otherwise
meets the requirements of this section.
(d) Designation notice. (1) The employing of-
fice is responsible in all circumstances for
designating leave as FMLA-qualifying, and
for giving notice of the designation to the
employee as provided in this section. When
the employing office has enough information
to determine whether the leave is being
taken for a FMLA-qualifying reason (e.g.,
after receiving a certification), the employ-
ing office must notify the employee whether
the leave will be designated and will be
counted as FMLA leave within five business
days absent extenuating circumstances. Only
one notice of designation is required for each
FMLA-qualifying reason per applicable 12-
month period, regardless of whether the
leave taken due to the qualifying reason will
be a continuous block of leave or intermit-
tent or reduced schedule leave. If the em-
ploying office determines that the leave will
not be designated as FMLA-qualifying (e.g.,
if the leave is not for a reason covered by
FMLA or the FMLA leave entitlement has
been exhausted), the employing office must
notify the employee of that determination.
Subject to 825.208, if the employing office re-
quires paid leave to be substituted for unpaid
FMLA leave, or that paid leave taken under
an existing leave plan be counted as FMLA
leave, the employing office must inform the
employee of this designation at the time of
designating the FMLA leave.
(2) If the employing office has sufficient in-
formation to designate the leave as FMLA
leave immediately after receiving notice of
the employee’s need for leave, the employing
office may provide the employee with the
designation notice at that time.
(3) If the employing office will require the
employee to present a fitness-for-duty cer-
tification to be restored to employment, the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5784 November 16, 2020
employing office must provide notice of such
requirement with the designation notice. If
the employing office will require that the
fitness-for-duty certification address the em-
ployee’s ability to perform the essential
functions of the employee’s position, the em-
ploying office must so indicate in the des-
ignation notice, and must include a list of
the essential functions of the employee’s po-
sition. See 825.312. If the employing office’s
handbook or other written documents (if
any) describing the employing office’s leave
policies clearly provide that a fitness-for-
duty certification will be required in specific
circumstances (e.g., by stating that fitness-
for-duty certification will be required in all
cases of back injuries for employees in a cer-
tain occupation), the employing office is not
required to provide written notice of the re-
quirement with the designation notice, but
must provide oral notice no later than with
the designation notice.
(4) The designation notice must be in writ-
ing. A prototype designation notice is con-
tained in Form D which may be obtained
from the Office of Congressional Workplace
Rights. If the leave is not designated as
FMLA leave because it does not meet the re-
quirements of the FMLA, as made applicable
by the CAA, the notice to the employee that
the leave is not designated as FMLA leave
may be in the form of a simple written state-
ment. The designation notice may be distrib-
uted electronically so long as it otherwise
meets the requirements of this section and
the employing office can demonstrate that
the employee (who may already be on leave
and who may not have access to employing
office-provided computers) has access to the
information electronically.
(5) If the information provided by the em-
ploying office to the employee in the des-
ignation notice changes (e.g., the employee
exhausts the FMLA leave entitlement), the
employing office shall provide, within five
business days of receipt of the employee’s
first notice of need for leave subsequent to
any change, written notice of the change.
(6) The employing office must notify the
employee of the amount of leave counted
against the employee’s FMLA leave entitle-
ment and, if applicable, the employee’s paid
parental leave entitlement. If the amount of
leave needed is known at the time the em-
ploying office designates the leave as FMLA-
qualifying, the employing office must notify
the employee of the number of hours, days,
or weeks that will be counted against the
employee’s FMLA leave entitlement in the
designation notice. If it is not possible to
provide the hours, days, or weeks that will
be counted against the employee’s FMLA
leave entitlement (such as in the case of un-
foreseeable intermittent leave), then the em-
ploying office must provide notice of the
amount of leave counted against the employ-
ee’s FMLA leave entitlement and, if applica-
ble, paid parental leave entitlement, upon
the request by the employee, but no more
often than once in a 30-day period and only
if leave was taken in that period. The notice
of the amount of leave counted against the
employee’s FMLA entitlement and, if appli-
cable, paid parental leave entitlement may
be oral or in writing. If such notice is oral,
it shall be confirmed in writing no later than
the following payday (unless the payday is
less than one week after the oral notice, in
which case the notice must be no later than
the subsequent payday). Such written notice
may be in any form, including a notation on
the employee’s pay stub.
(e) Consequences of failing to provide notice.
Failure to follow the notice requirements set
forth in this section may constitute an inter-
ference with, restraint, or denial of the exer-
cise of an employee’s FMLA rights. An em-
ploying office may be liable for compensa-
tion and benefits lost by reason of the viola-
tion, for other actual monetary losses sus-
tained as a direct result of the violation, and
for appropriate equitable or other relief, in-
cluding employment, reinstatement, pro-
motion, or any other relief tailored to the
harm suffered. See 825.400(c). 825.301 Designa-
tion of FMLA leave.
(a) Employing office responsibilities. The em-
ploying office’s decision to designate leave
as FMLA-qualifying must be based only on
information received from the employee or
the employee’s spokesperson (e.g., if the em-
ployee is incapacitated, the employee’s
spouse, adult child, parent, doctor, etc., may
provide notice to the employing office of the
need to take FMLA leave). In any cir-
cumstance where the employing office does
not have sufficient information about the
reason for an employee’s use of leave, the
employing office should inquire further of
the employee or the spokesperson to ascer-
tain whether leave is potentially FMLA-
qualifying. Once the employing office has ac-
quired knowledge that the leave is being
taken for a FMLA-qualifying reason, the em-
ploying office must notify the employee as
provided in 825.300(d).
(b) Employee responsibilities. An employee
giving notice of the need for FMLA leave
does not need to expressly assert rights
under the FMLA, as made applicable by the
CAA, or even mention the FMLA to meet his
or her obligation to provide notice, though
the employee would need to state a quali-
fying reason for the needed leave and other-
wise satisfy the notice requirements set
forth in 825.302 or 825.303 depending on
whether the need for leave is foreseeable or
unforeseeable. An employee giving notice of
the need for FMLA leave must explain the
reasons for the needed leave so as to allow
the employing office to determine whether
the leave qualifies under the FMLA, as made
applicable by the CAA. If the employee fails
to explain the reasons, leave may be denied.
In many cases, in explaining the reasons for
a request to use leave, especially when the
need for the leave was unexpected or unfore-
seen, an employee will provide sufficient in-
formation for the employing office to des-
ignate the leave as FMLA leave. An em-
ployee using accrued paid leave may in some
cases not spontaneously explain the reasons
or their plans for using their accrued leave.
However, if an employee requesting to use
paid leave for a FMLA-qualifying reason
does not explain the reason for the leave and
the employing office denies the employee’s
request, the employee will need to provide
sufficient information to establish a FMLA-
qualifying reason for the needed leave so
that the employing office is aware that the
leave may not be denied and may designate
that the paid leave be appropriately counted
against (substituted for) the employee’s
FMLA leave entitlement. Similarly, an em-
ployee using accrued paid vacation leave
who seeks an extension of unpaid leave for a
FMLA-qualifying reason will need to state
the reason. If this is due to an event which
occurred during the period of paid leave, the
employing office may count the leave used
after the FMLA-qualifying reason against
the employee’s FMLA leave entitlement.
(c) Disputes. If there is a dispute between
an employing office and an employee as to
whether leave qualifies as FMLA leave, it
should be resolved through discussions be-
tween the employee and the employing of-
fice. Such discussions and the decision must
be documented.
(d) Retroactive designation. If an employing
office does not designate leave as required by
825.300, the employing office may retro-
actively designate leave as FMLA leave with
appropriate notice to the employee as re-
quired by 825.300 provided that the employ-
ing office’s failure to timely designate leave
does not cause harm or injury to the em-
ployee. In all cases where leave would qual-
ify for FMLA protections, an employing of-
fice and an employee can mutually agree
that leave be retroactively designated as
FMLA leave.
(e) Remedies. If an employing office’s fail-
ure to timely designate leave in accordance
with 825.300 causes the employee to suffer
harm, it may constitute an interference
with, restraint of, or denial of the exercise of
an employee’s FMLA rights. An employing
office may be liable for compensation and
benefits lost by reason of the violation, for
other actual monetary losses sustained as a
direct result of the violation, and for appro-
priate equitable or other relief, including
employment, reinstatement, promotion, or
any other relief tailored to the harm suf-
fered. See 825.400(c). For example, if an em-
ploying office that was put on notice that an
employee needed FMLA leave failed to des-
ignate the leave properly, but the employee’s
own serious health condition prevented him
or her from returning to work during that
time period regardless of the designation, an
employee may not be able to show that the
employee suffered harm as a result of the
employing office’s actions. However, if an
employee took leave to provide care for a
son or daughter with a serious health condi-
tion believing it would not count toward his
or her FMLA entitlement, and the employee
planned to later use that FMLA leave to pro-
vide care for a spouse who would need assist-
ance when recovering from surgery planned
for a later date, the employee may be able to
show that harm has occurred as a result of
the employing office’s failure to designate
properly. The employee might establish this
by showing that he or she would have ar-
ranged for an alternative caregiver for the
seriously-ill son or daughter if the leave had
been designated timely.
825.302 Employee notice requirements for
foreseeable FMLA leave.
(a) Timing of notice. An employee must pro-
vide the employing office at least 30 days ad-
vance notice before FMLA leave is to begin
if the need for the leave is foreseeable based
on an expected birth, placement for adoption
or foster care, planned medical treatment for
a serious health condition of the employee or
of a family member, or the planned medical
treatment for a serious injury or illness of a
covered servicemember. If 30 days’ notice is
not practicable, such as because of a lack of
knowledge of approximately when leave will
be required to begin, a change in cir-
cumstances, or a medical emergency, notice
must be given as soon as practicable. For ex-
ample, an employee’s health condition may
require leave to commence earlier than an-
ticipated before the birth of a child. Simi-
larly, little opportunity for notice may be
given before placement for adoption. For
foreseeable leave due to a qualifying exi-
gency, notice must be provided as soon as
practicable, regardless of how far in advance
such leave is foreseeable. Whether FMLA
leave is to be continuous or is to be taken
intermittently or on a reduced schedule
basis, notice need only be given one time,
but the employee shall advise the employing
office as soon as practicable if dates of
scheduled leave change or are extended, or
were initially unknown. In those cases where
the employee is required to provide at least
30 days’ notice of foreseeable leave and does
not do so, the employee shall explain the
reasons why such notice was not practicable
upon a request from the employing office for
such information.
(b) As soon as practicable means as soon as
both possible and practical, taking into ac-
count all of the facts and circumstances in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5785
November 16, 2020
the individual case. When an employee be-
comes aware of a need for FMLA leave less
than 30 days in advance, it should be prac-
ticable for the employee to provide notice of
the need for leave either the same day or the
next business day. In all cases, however, the
determination of when an employee could
practicably provide notice must take into
account the individual facts and cir-
cumstances.
(c) Content of notice. An employee shall
provide at least verbal notice sufficient to
make the employing office aware that the
employee needs FMLA-qualifying leave, and
the anticipated timing and duration of the
leave. Depending on the situation, such in-
formation may include that a condition ren-
ders the employee unable to perform the
functions of the job; that the employee is
pregnant or has been hospitalized overnight;
whether the employee or the employee’s
family member is under the continuing care
of a health care provider; if the leave is due
to a qualifying exigency, that a military
member is on covered active duty or call to
covered active duty status (or has been noti-
fied of an impending call or order to covered
active duty), and that the requested leave is
for one of the reasons listed in 825.126(b); if
the leave is for a family member, that the
condition renders the family member unable
to perform daily activities, or that the fam-
ily member is a covered servicemember with
a serious injury or illness; and the antici-
pated duration of the absence, if known.
When an employee seeks leave for the first
time for a FMLA-qualifying reason, the em-
ployee need not expressly assert rights under
the FMLA, as made applicable by the CAA,
or even mention the FMLA. When an em-
ployee seeks leave due to a FMLA-qualifying
reason, for which the employing office has
previously provided FMLA-protected leave,
the employee must specifically reference the
qualifying reason for leave or the need for
FMLA leave. In all cases, the employing of-
fice should inquire further of the employee if
it is necessary to have more information
about whether FMLA leave is being sought
by the employee, and obtain the necessary
details of the leave to be taken. In the case
of medical conditions, the employing office
may find it necessary to inquire further to
determine if the leave is because of a serious
health condition and may request medical
certification to support the need for such
leave. See 825.305. An employing office may
also request certification to support the need
for leave for a qualifying exigency or for
military caregiver leave. See 825.309, 825.310.
When an employee has been previously cer-
tified for leave due to more than one FMLA-
qualifying reason, the employing office may
need to inquire further to determine for
which qualifying reason the leave is needed.
An employee has an obligation to respond to
an employing office’s questions designed to
determine whether an absence is potentially
FMLA-qualifying. Failure to respond to rea-
sonable employing office inquiries regarding
the leave request may result in denial of
FMLA protection if the employing office is
unable to determine whether the leave is
FMLA-qualifying.
(d) Complying with the employing office
policy. An employing office may require an
employee to comply with the employing of-
fice’s usual and customary notice and proce-
dural requirements for requesting leave, ab-
sent unusual circumstances. For example, an
employing office may require that written
notice set forth the reasons for the requested
leave, the anticipated duration of the leave,
and the anticipated start of the leave. An
employee also may be required by an em-
ploying office’s policy to contact a specific
individual. Unusual circumstances would in-
clude situations such as when an employee is
unable to comply with the employing office’s
policy that requests for leave should be made
by contacting a specific number because on
the day the employee needs to provide notice
of his or her need for FMLA leave there is no
one to answer the call-in number and the
voice mail box is full. Where an employee
does not comply with the employing office’s
usual notice and procedural requirements,
and no unusual circumstances justify the
failure to comply, FMLA-protected leave
may be delayed or denied. However, FMLA-
protected leave may not be delayed or denied
where the employing office’s policy requires
notice to be given sooner than set forth in
paragraph (a) of this section and the em-
ployee provides timely notice as set forth in
paragraph (a) of this section.
(e) Scheduling planned medical treatment.
When planning medical treatment, the em-
ployee must consult with the employing of-
fice and make a reasonable effort to schedule
the treatment so as not to disrupt unduly
the employing office’s operations, subject to
the approval of the health care provider. Em-
ployees are ordinarily expected to consult
with their employing offices prior to the
scheduling of treatment in order to work out
a treatment schedule which best suits the
needs of both the employing office and the
employee. For example, if an employee who
provides notice of the need to take FMLA
leave on an intermittent basis for planned
medical treatment neglects to consult with
the employing office to make a reasonable
effort to arrange the schedule of treatments
so as not to unduly disrupt the employing of-
fice’s operations, the employing office may
initiate discussions with the employee and
require the employee to attempt to make
such arrangements, subject to the approval
of the health care provider. See 825.203 and
825.205.
(f) Intermittent leave or leave on a reduced
leave schedule must be medically necessary
due to a serious health condition or a serious
injury or illness. An employee shall advise
the employing office, upon request, of the
reasons why the intermittent/reduced leave
schedule is necessary and of the schedule for
treatment, if applicable. The employee and
employing office shall attempt to work out a
schedule for such leave that meets the em-
ployee’s needs without unduly disrupting the
employing office’s operations, subject to the
approval of the health care provider.
(g) An employing office may waive employ-
ees’ FMLA notice requirements. See 825.304.
825.303 Employee notice requirements for un-
foreseeable FMLA leave.
(a) Timing of notice. When the approximate
timing of the need for leave is not foresee-
able, an employee must provide notice to the
employing office as soon as practicable
under the facts and circumstances of the par-
ticular case. It generally should be prac-
ticable for the employee to provide notice of
leave that is unforeseeable within the time
prescribed by the employing office’s usual
and customary notice requirements applica-
ble to such leave. See 825.303(c). Notice may
be given by the employee’s spokesperson
(e.g., spouse, adult family member, or other
responsible party) if the employee is unable
to do so personally. For example, if an em-
ployee’s child has a severe asthma attack
and the employee takes the child to the
emergency room, the employee would not be
required to leave his or her child in order to
report the absence while the child is receiv-
ing emergency treatment. However, if the
child’s asthma attack required only the use
of an inhaler at home followed by a period of
rest, the employee would be expected to call
the employing office promptly after ensuring
the child has used the inhaler.
(b) Content of notice. An employee shall
provide sufficient information for an em-
ploying office to reasonably determine
whether the FMLA may apply to the leave
request. Depending on the situation, such in-
formation may include that a condition ren-
ders the employee unable to perform the
functions of the job; that the employee is
pregnant or has been hospitalized overnight;
whether the employee or the employee’s
family member is under the continuing care
of a health care provider; if the leave is due
to a qualifying exigency, that a military
member is on covered active duty or call to
covered active duty status (or has been noti-
fied of an impending call or order to covered
active duty), that the requested leave is for
one of the reasons listed in 825.126(b), and the
anticipated duration of the absence; or if the
leave is for a family member that the condi-
tion renders the family member unable to
perform daily activities or that the family
member is a covered servicemember with a
serious injury or illness; and the anticipated
duration of the absence, if known. When an
employee seeks leave for the first time for a
FMLA-qualifying reason, the employee need
not expressly assert rights under the FMLA,
as made applicable by the CAA, or even men-
tion the FMLA. When an employee seeks
leave due to a qualifying reason, for which
the employing office has previously provided
the employee FMLA-protected leave, the em-
ployee must specifically reference either the
qualifying reason for leave or the need for
FMLA leave. Calling in ‘‘sick’’ without pro-
viding more information will not be consid-
ered sufficient notice to trigger an employ-
ing office’s obligations under the FMLA, as
made applicable by the CAA. The employing
office will be expected to obtain any addi-
tional required information through infor-
mal means. An employee has an obligation
to respond to an employing office’s questions
designed to determine whether an absence is
potentially FMLA-qualifying. Failure to re-
spond to reasonable employing office inquir-
ies office regarding the leave request may re-
sult in denial of FMLA protection if the em-
ploying office is unable to determine wheth-
er the leave is FMLA-qualifying.
(c) Complying with employing office policy.
When the need for leave is not foreseeable,
an employee must comply with the employ-
ing office’s usual and customary notice and
procedural requirements for requesting
leave, absent unusual circumstances. For ex-
ample, an employing office may require em-
ployees to call a designated number or a spe-
cific individual to request leave. However, if
an employee requires emergency medical
treatment, he or she would not be required
to follow the call-in procedure until his or
her condition is stabilized and he or she has
access to, and is able to use, a phone. Simi-
larly, in the case of an emergency requiring
leave because of a FMLA-qualifying reason,
written advance notice pursuant to an em-
ploying office’s internal rules and procedures
may not be required when FMLA leave is in-
volved. If an employee does not comply with
the employing office’s usual notice and pro-
cedural requirements, and no unusual cir-
cumstances justify the failure to comply,
FMLA-protected leave may be delayed or de-
nied.
825.304 Employee failure to provide notice.
(a) Proper notice required. In all cases, in
order for the onset of an employee’s FMLA
leave to be delayed due to lack of required
notice, it must be clear that the employee
had actual notice of the FMLA notice re-
quirements. This condition would be satis-
fied by the employing office’s proper posting,
at the worksite where the employee is em-
ployed, of the information regarding the
FMLA provided (pursuant to section 301(h)(2)
of the CAA, 2 U.S.C. 1381(h)(2)) by the Office
of Congressional Workplace Rights to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5786 November 16, 2020
employing office in a manner suitable for
posting.
(b) Foreseeable leave—30 days. When the
need for FMLA leave is foreseeable at least
30 days in advance and an employee fails to
give timely advance notice with no reason-
able excuse, the employing office may delay
FMLA coverage until 30 days after the date
the employee provides notice. The need for
leave and the approximate date leave would
be taken must have been clearly foreseeable
to the employee 30 days in advance of the
leave. For example, knowledge that an em-
ployee would receive a telephone call about
the availability of a child for adoption at
some unknown point in the future would not
be sufficient to establish the leave was clear-
ly foreseeable 30 days in advance.
(c) Foreseeable leave—less than 30 days.
When the need for FMLA leave is foreseeable
fewer than 30 days in advance and an em-
ployee fails to give notice as soon as prac-
ticable under the particular facts and cir-
cumstances, the extent to which an employ-
ing office may delay FMLA coverage for
leave depends on the facts of the particular
case. For example, if an employee reasonably
should have given the employing office two
weeks’ notice but instead only provided one
week’s notice, then the employing office
may delay FMLA-protected leave for one
week (thus, if the employing office elects to
delay FMLA coverage and the employee
nonetheless takes leave one week after pro-
viding the notice (i.e., a week before the two
week notice period has been met) the leave
will not be FMLA-protected).
(d) Unforeseeable leave. When the need for
FMLA leave is unforeseeable and an em-
ployee fails to give notice in accordance with
825.303, the extent to which an employing of-
fice may delay FMLA coverage for leave de-
pends on the facts of the particular case. For
example, if it would have been practicable
for an employee to have given the employing
office notice of the need for leave very soon
after the need arises consistent with the em-
ploying office’s policy, but instead the em-
ployee provided notice two days after the
leave began, then the employing office may
delay FMLA coverage of the leave by two
days.
(e) Waiver of notice. An employing office
may waive employees’ FMLA notice obliga-
tions or the employing office’s own internal
rules on leave notice requirements. If an em-
ploying office does not waive the employee’s
obligations under its internal leave rules,
the employing office may take appropriate
action under its internal rules and proce-
dures for failure to follow its usual and cus-
tomary notification rules, absent unusual
circumstances, as long as the actions are
taken in a manner that does not discrimi-
nate against employees taking FMLA leave
and the rules are not inconsistent with
825.303(a).
825.305 Certification, general rule.
(a) General. An employing office may re-
quire that an employee’s leave to care for
the employee’s covered family member with
a serious health condition, or due to the em-
ployee’s own serious health condition that
makes the employee unable to perform one
or more of the essential functions of the em-
ployee’s position, be supported by a certifi-
cation issued by the health care provider of
the employee or the employee’s family mem-
ber. An employing office may also require
that an employee’s leave because of a quali-
fying exigency or to care for a covered serv-
icemember with a serious injury or illness be
supported by a certification, as described in
825.309 and 825.310, respectively. An employ-
ing office must give notice of a requirement
for certification each time a certification is
required; such notice must be written notice
whenever required by 825.300(c). An employ-
ing office’s oral request to an employee to
furnish any subsequent certification is suffi-
cient.
(b) Timing. In most cases, the employing of-
fice should request that an employee furnish
certification at the time the employee gives
notice of the need for leave or within five
business days thereafter, or, in the case of
unforeseen leave, within five business days
after the leave commences. The employing
office may request certification at some
later date if the employing office later has
reason to question the appropriateness of the
leave or its duration. The employee must
provide the requested certification to the
employing office within 15 calendar days
after the employing office’s request, unless it
is not practicable under the particular cir-
cumstances to do so despite the employee’s
diligent, good faith efforts or the employing
office provides more than 15 calendar days to
return the requested certification.
(c) Complete and sufficient certification. The
employee must provide a complete and suffi-
cient certification to the employing office if
required by the employing office in accord-
ance with 825.306, 825.309, and 825.310. The em-
ploying office shall advise an employee
whenever the employing office finds a cer-
tification incomplete or insufficient, and
shall state in writing what additional infor-
mation is necessary to make the certifi-
cation complete and sufficient. A certifi-
cation is considered incomplete if the em-
ploying office receives a certification, but
one or more of the applicable entries have
not been completed. A certification is con-
sidered insufficient if the employing office
receives a complete certification, but the in-
formation provided is vague, ambiguous, or
non-responsive. The employing office must
provide the employee with seven calendar
days (unless not practicable under the par-
ticular circumstances despite the employee’s
diligent good faith efforts) to cure any such
deficiency. If the deficiencies specified by
the employing office are not cured in the re-
submitted certification, the employing office
may deny the taking of FMLA leave, in ac-
cordance with 825.313. A certification that is
not returned to the employing office is not
considered incomplete or insufficient, but
constitutes a failure to provide certification.
(d) Consequences. At the time the employ-
ing office requests certification, the employ-
ing office must also advise an employee of
the anticipated consequences of an employ-
ee’s failure to provide adequate certification.
If the employee fails to provide the employ-
ing office with a complete and sufficient cer-
tification, despite the opportunity to cure
the certification as provided in paragraph (c)
of this section, or fails to provide any certifi-
cation, the employing office may deny the
taking of FMLA leave, in accordance with
825.313. It is the employee’s responsibility ei-
ther to furnish a complete and sufficient cer-
tification or to furnish the health care pro-
vider providing the certification with any
necessary authorization from the employee
or the employee’s family member in order
for the health care provider to release a com-
plete and sufficient certification to the em-
ploying office to support the employee’s
FMLA request. This provision will apply in
any case where an employing office requests
a certification permitted by these regula-
tions, whether it is the initial certification,
a recertification, a second or third opinion,
or a fitness-for-duty certificate, including
any clarifications necessary to determine if
such certifications are authentic and suffi-
cient. See 825.306, 825.307, 825.308, and 825.312.
(e) Annual medical certification. Where the
employee’s need for leave due to the employ-
ee’s own serious health condition, or the se-
rious health condition of the employee’s cov-
ered family member, lasts beyond a single
leave year (as defined in 825.200), the employ-
ing office may require the employee to pro-
vide a new medical certification in each sub-
sequent leave year. Such new medical cer-
tifications are subject to the provisions for
authentication and clarification set forth in
825.307, including second and third opinions.
825.306 Content of medical certification for
leave taken because of an employee’s own
serious health condition or the serious
health condition of a family member.
(a) Required information. When leave is
taken because of an employee’s own serious
health condition, or the serious health condi-
tion of a family member, an employing office
may require an employee to obtain a medical
certification from a health care provider
that sets forth the following information:
(1) The name, address, telephone number,
and fax number of the health care provider
and type of medical practice/specialization;
(2) The approximate date on which the se-
rious health condition commenced, and its
probable duration;
(3) A statement or description of appro-
priate medical facts regarding the patient’s
health condition for which FMLA leave is re-
quested. The medical facts must be sufficient
to support the need for leave. Such medical
facts may include information on symptoms,
diagnosis, hospitalization, doctor visits,
whether medication has been prescribed, any
referrals for evaluation or treatment (phys-
ical therapy, for example), or any other regi-
men of continuing treatment;
(4) If the employee is the patient, informa-
tion sufficient to establish that the em-
ployee cannot perform the essential func-
tions of the employee’s job as well as the na-
ture of any other work restrictions, and the
likely duration of such inability (See
825.123(b));
(5) If the patient is a covered family mem-
ber with a serious health condition, informa-
tion sufficient to establish that the family
member is in need of care, as described in
825.124, and an estimate of the frequency and
duration of the leave required to care for the
family member;
(6) If an employee requests leave on an
intermittent or reduced schedule basis for
planned medical treatment of the employee’s
or a covered family member’s serious health
condition, information sufficient to establish
the medical necessity for such intermittent
or reduced schedule leave and an estimate of
the dates and duration of such treatments
and any periods of recovery;
(7) If an employee requests leave on an
intermittent or reduced schedule basis for
the employee’s serious health condition, in-
cluding pregnancy, that may result in un-
foreseeable episodes of incapacity, informa-
tion sufficient to establish the medical ne-
cessity for such intermittent or reduced
schedule leave and an estimate of the fre-
quency and duration of the episodes of inca-
pacity; and
(8) If an employee requests leave on an
intermittent or reduced schedule basis to
care for a covered family member with a se-
rious health condition, a statement that
such leave is medically necessary to care for
the family member, as described in 825.124
and 825.203(b), which can include assisting in
the family member’s recovery, and an esti-
mate of the frequency and duration of the re-
quired leave.
(b) The Office of Congressional Workplace
Rights has developed two optional forms
(Form A and Form B) for use in obtaining
medical certification, including second and
third opinions, from health care providers
that meets FMLA’s certification require-
ments, as made applicable by the CAA. (See
Forms A and B.) Optional Form A is for use
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5787
November 16, 2020
when the employee’s need for leave is due to
the employee’s own serious health condition.
Optional Form B is for use when the em-
ployee needs leave to care for a family mem-
ber with a serious health condition. These
optional forms reflect certification require-
ments so as to permit the health care pro-
vider to furnish appropriate medical infor-
mation. Forms A and B are modeled closely
on Form WH–380E and Form WH–380F, as re-
vised, which were developed by the Depart-
ment of Labor (See 29 C.F.R. Part 825). The
employing office may use the Office of Con-
gressional Workplace Rights’s forms, or
Form WH–380E and Form WH–380F, as re-
vised, or another form containing the same
basic information; however, no information
may be required beyond that specified in
825.306, 825.307, and 825.308. In all instances
the information on the form must relate
only to the serious health condition for
which the current need for leave exists.
(c) If an employee is on FMLA leave run-
ning concurrently with a workers’ compensa-
tion absence, and the provisions of the work-
ers’ compensation statute permit the em-
ploying office or the employing office’s rep-
resentative to request additional informa-
tion from the employee’s workers’ com-
pensation health care provider, the FMLA
does not prevent the employing office from
following the applicable workers’ compensa-
tion provisions and information received
under those provisions may be considered in
determining the employee’s entitlement to
FMLA-protected leave. Similarly, an em-
ploying office may request additional infor-
mation in accordance with a paid leave pol-
icy or disability plan that requires greater
information to qualify for payments or bene-
fits, provided that the employing office in-
forms the employee that the additional in-
formation only needs to be provided in con-
nection with receipt of such payments or
benefits. Any information received pursuant
to such policy or plan may be considered in
determining the employee’s entitlement to
FMLA-protected leave. If the employee fails
to provide the information required for re-
ceipt of such payments or benefits, such fail-
ure will not affect the employee’s entitle-
ment to take unpaid FMLA leave. See
825.207(a).
(d) If an employee’s serious health condi-
tion may also be a disability within the
meaning of the Americans with Disabilities
Act (ADA), as amended and as made applica-
ble by the CAA, the FMLA does not prevent
the employing office from following the pro-
cedures for requesting medical information
under the ADA. Any information received
pursuant to these procedures may be consid-
ered in determining the employee’s entitle-
ment to FMLA-protected leave.
(e) While an employee may choose to com-
ply with the certification requirement by
providing the employing office with an au-
thorization, release, or waiver allowing the
employing office to communicate directly
with the health care provider of the em-
ployee or his or her covered family member,
the employee may not be required to provide
such an authorization, release, or waiver. In
all instances in which certification is re-
quested, it is the employee’s responsibility
to provide the employing office with com-
plete and sufficient certification and failure
to do so may result in the denial of FMLA
leave. See 825.305(d).
825.307 Authentication and clarification of
medical certification for leave taken be-
cause of an employee’s own serious
health condition or the serious health
condition of a family member; second and
third opinions.
(a) Clarification and authentication. If an
employee submits a complete and sufficient
certification signed by the health care pro-
vider, the employing office may not request
additional information from the health care
provider. However, the employing office may
contact the health care provider for purposes
of clarification and authentication of the
medical certification (whether initial certifi-
cation or recertification) after the employ-
ing office has given the employee an oppor-
tunity to cure any deficiencies as set forth in
825.305(c). To make such contact, the em-
ploying office must use a health care pro-
vider, a human resources professional, a
leave administrator, or a management offi-
cial. An employee’s direct supervisor may
not contact the employee’s health care pro-
vider, unless the direct supervisor is also the
only individual in the employing office des-
ignated to process FMLA requests and the
direct supervisor receives specific authoriza-
tion from the employee to contact the em-
ployee’s health care provider. For purposes
of these regulations, authentication means
providing the health care provider with a
copy of the certification and requesting
verification that the information contained
on the certification form was completed and/
or authorized by the health care provider
who signed the document; no additional med-
ical information may be requested.
Clarification means contacting the health
care provider to understand the handwriting
on the medical certification or to understand
the meaning of a response. Employing offices
may not ask health care providers for addi-
tional information beyond that required by
the certification form. The requirements of
the Health Insurance Portability and Ac-
countability Act (HIPAA) Privacy Rule, (See
45 CFR parts 160 and 164), which governs the
privacy of individually-identifiable health
information created or held by HIPAA-cov-
ered entities, must be satisfied when individ-
ually-identifiable health information of an
employee is shared with an employing office
by a HIPAA-covered health care provider. If
an employee chooses not to provide the em-
ploying office with authorization allowing
the employing office to clarify the certifi-
cation with the health care provider, and
does not otherwise clarify the certification,
the employing office may deny the taking of
FMLA leave if the certification is unclear.
See 825.305(d). It is the employee’s responsi-
bility to provide the employing office with a
complete and sufficient certification and to
clarify the certification if necessary.
(b) Second Opinion. (1) An employing office
that has reason to doubt the validity of a
medical certification may require the em-
ployee to obtain a second opinion at the em-
ploying office’s expense. Pending receipt of
the second (or third) medical opinion, the
employee is provisionally entitled to the
benefits of the FMLA, as made applicable by
the CAA, including maintenance of group
health benefits. If the certifications do not
ultimately establish the employee’s entitle-
ment to FMLA leave, the leave shall not be
designated as FMLA leave and may be treat-
ed as paid or unpaid leave under the employ-
ing office’s established leave policies. In ad-
dition, the consequences set forth in
825.305(d) will apply if the employee or the
employee’s family member fails to authorize
his or her health care provider to release all
relevant medical information pertaining to
the serious health condition at issue if re-
quested by the health care provider des-
ignated to provide a second opinion in order
to render a sufficient and complete second
opinion.
(2) The employing office is permitted to
designate the health care provider to furnish
the second opinion, but the selected health
care provider may not be employed on a reg-
ular basis by the employing office. The em-
ploying office may not regularly contract
with or otherwise regularly utilize the serv-
ices of the health care provider furnishing
the second opinion unless the employing of-
fice is located in an area where access to
health care is extremely limited (e.g., a rural
area where no more than one or two doctors
practice in the relevant specialty in the vi-
cinity).
(c) Third opinion. If the opinions of the em-
ployee’s and the employing office’s des-
ignated health care providers differ, the em-
ploying office may require the employee to
obtain certification from a third health care
provider, again at the employing office’s ex-
pense. This third opinion shall be final and
binding. The third health care provider must
be designated or approved jointly by the em-
ploying office and the employee. The em-
ploying office and the employee must each
act in good faith to attempt to reach agree-
ment on whom to select for the third opinion
provider. If the employing office does not at-
tempt in good faith to reach agreement, the
employing office will be bound by the first
certification. If the employee does not at-
tempt in good faith to reach agreement, the
employee will be bound by the second certifi-
cation. For example, an employee who re-
fuses to agree to see a doctor in the specialty
in question may be failing to act in good
faith. On the other hand, an employing office
that refuses to agree to any doctor on a list
of specialists in the appropriate field pro-
vided by the employee and whom the em-
ployee has not previously consulted may be
failing to act in good faith. In addition, the
consequences set forth in 825.305(d) will apply
if the employee or the employee’s family
member fails to authorize his or her health
care provider to release all relevant medical
information pertaining to the serious health
condition at issue if requested by the health
care provider designated to provide a third
opinion in order to render a sufficient and
complete third opinion.
(d) Copies of opinions. The employing office
is required to provide the employee with a
copy of the second and third medical opin-
ions, where applicable, upon request by the
employee. Requested copies are to be pro-
vided within five business days unless ex-
tenuating circumstances prevent such ac-
tion.
(e) Travel expenses. If the employing office
requires the employee to obtain either a sec-
ond or third opinion the employing office
must reimburse an employee or family mem-
ber for any reasonable ‘‘out of pocket’’ travel
expenses incurred to obtain the second and
third medical opinions. The employing office
may not require the employee or family
member to travel outside normal commuting
distance for purposes of obtaining the second
or third medical opinions except in very un-
usual circumstances.
(f) Medical certification abroad. In cir-
cumstances in which the employee or a fam-
ily member is visiting in another country, or
a family member resides in another country,
and a serious health condition develops, the
employing office shall accept a medical cer-
tification as well as second and third opin-
ions from a health care provider who prac-
tices in that country. Where a certification
by a foreign health care provider is in a lan-
guage other than English, the employee
must provide the employing office with a
written translation of the certification upon
request.
825.308 Recertifications for leave taken be-
cause of an employee’s own serious
health condition or the serious health
condition of a family member.
(a) 30-day rule. An employing office may re-
quest recertification no more often than
every 30 days and only in connection with an
absence by the employee, unless paragraphs
(b) or (c) of this section apply.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5788 November 16, 2020
(b) More than 30 days. If the medical certifi-
cation indicates that the minimum duration
of the condition is more than 30 days, an em-
ploying office must wait until that minimum
duration expires before requesting a recer-
tification, unless paragraph (c) of this sec-
tion applies. For example, if the medical cer-
tification states that an employee will be un-
able to work, whether continuously or on an
intermittent basis, for 40 days, the employ-
ing office must wait 40 days before request-
ing a recertification. In all cases, an employ-
ing office may request a recertification of a
medical condition every six months in con-
nection with an absence by the employee.
Accordingly, even if the medical certifi-
cation indicates that the employee will need
intermittent or reduced schedule leave for a
period in excess of six months (e.g., for a life-
time condition), the employing office would
be permitted to request recertification every
six months in connection with an absence.
(c) Less than 30 days. An employing office
may request recertification in less than 30
days if:
(1) The employee requests an extension of
leave;
(2) Circumstances described by the pre-
vious certification have changed signifi-
cantly (e.g., the duration or frequency of the
absence, the nature or severity of the illness,
complications). For example, if a medical
certification stated that an employee would
need leave for one to two days when the em-
ployee suffered a migraine headache and the
employee’s absences for his or her last two
migraines lasted four days each, then the in-
creased duration of absence might constitute
a significant change in circumstances allow-
ing the employing office to request a recer-
tification in less than 30 days. Likewise, if
an employee had a pattern of using unsched-
uled FMLA leave for migraines in conjunc-
tion with his or her scheduled days off, then
the timing of the absences also might con-
stitute a significant change in circumstances
sufficient for an employing office to request
a recertification more frequently than every
30 days; or
(3) The employing office receives informa-
tion that casts doubt upon the employee’s
stated reason for the absence or the con-
tinuing validity of the certification. For ex-
ample, if an employee is on FMLA leave for
four weeks due to the employee’s knee sur-
gery, including recuperation, and the em-
ployee plays in company softball league
games during the employee’s third week of
FMLA leave, such information might be suf-
ficient to cast doubt upon the continuing va-
lidity of the certification allowing the em-
ploying office to request a recertification in
less than 30 days.
(d) Timing. The employee must provide the
requested recertification to the employing
office within the time frame requested by
the employing office (which must allow at
least 15 calendar days after the employing
office’s request), unless it is not practicable
under the particular circumstances to do so
despite the employee’s diligent, good faith
efforts.
(e) Content. The employing office may ask
for the same information when obtaining re-
certification as that permitted for the origi-
nal certification as set forth in 825.306. The
employee has the same obligations to par-
ticipate and cooperate (including providing a
complete and sufficient certification or ade-
quate authorization to the health care pro-
vider) in the recertification process as in the
initial certification process. See 825.305(d). As
part of the information allowed to be ob-
tained on recertification for leave taken be-
cause of a serious health condition, the em-
ploying office may provide the health care
provider with a record of the employee’s ab-
sence pattern and ask the health care pro-
vider if the serious health condition and need
for leave is consistent with such a pattern.
(f) Any recertification requested by the
employing office shall be at the employee’s
expense unless the employing office provides
otherwise. No second or third opinion on re-
certification may be required.
825.309 Certification for leave taken because
of a qualifying exigency.
(a) Active Duty Orders. The first time an
employee requests leave because of a quali-
fying exigency arising out of the covered ac-
tive duty or call to covered active duty sta-
tus (or notification of an impending call or
order to covered active duty) of a military
member (See 825.126(a)), an employing office
may require the employee to provide a copy
of the military member’s active duty orders
or other documentation issued by the mili-
tary which indicates that the military mem-
ber is on covered active duty or call to cov-
ered active duty status, and the dates of the
military member’s covered active duty serv-
ice. This information need only be provided
to the employing office once. A copy of new
active duty orders or other documentation
issued by the military may be required by
the employing office if the need for leave be-
cause of a qualifying exigency arises out of a
different covered active duty or call to cov-
ered active duty status (or notification of an
impending call or order to covered active
duty) of the same or a different military
member;
(b) Required information. An employing of-
fice may require that leave for any quali-
fying exigency specified in 825.126 be sup-
ported by a certification from the employee
that sets forth the following information:
(1) A statement or description, signed by
the employee, of appropriate facts regarding
the qualifying exigency for which FMLA
leave is requested. The facts must be suffi-
cient to support the need for leave. Such
facts should include information on the type
of qualifying exigency for which leave is re-
quested and any available written docu-
mentation which supports the request for
leave; such documentation, for example, may
include a copy of a meeting announcement
for informational briefings sponsored by the
military, a document confirming an appoint-
ment with a counselor or school official, or a
copy of a bill for services for the handling of
legal or financial affairs;
(2) The approximate date on which the
qualifying exigency commenced or will com-
mence;
(3) If an employee requests leave because of
a qualifying exigency for a single, contin-
uous period of time, the beginning and end
dates for such absence;
(4) If an employee requests leave because of
a qualifying exigency on an intermittent or
reduced schedule basis, an estimate of the
frequency and duration of the qualifying exi-
gency;
(5) If the qualifying exigency involves
meeting with a third party, appropriate con-
tact information for the individual or entity
with whom the employee is meeting (such as
the name, title, organization, address, tele-
phone number, fax number, and email ad-
dress) and a brief description of the purpose
of the meeting; and
(6) If the qualifying exigency involves Rest
and Recuperation leave, a copy of the mili-
tary member’s Rest and Recuperation or-
ders, or other documentation issued by the
military which indicates that the military
member has been granted Rest and Recuper-
ation leave, and the dates of the military
member’s Rest and Recuperation leave.
(c) The Office of Congressional Workplace
Rights has developed an optional form (Form
E) for employees’ use in obtaining a certifi-
cation that meets FMLA’s certification re-
quirements. This optional form reflects cer-
tification requirements so as to permit the
employee to furnish appropriate information
to support his or her request for leave be-
cause of a qualifying exigency. Form E, or
Form WH–384 (developed by the Department
of Labor), or another form containing the
same basic information, may be used by the
employing office; however, no information
may be required beyond that specified in this
section. (d) Verification. If an employee sub-
mits a complete and sufficient certification
to support his or her request for leave be-
cause of a qualifying exigency, the employ-
ing office may not request additional infor-
mation from the employee. However, if the
qualifying exigency involves meeting with a
third party, the employing office may con-
tact the individual or entity with whom the
employee is meeting for purposes of
verifying a meeting or appointment schedule
and the nature of the meeting between the
employee and the specified individual or en-
tity. The employee’s permission is not re-
quired in order to verify meetings or ap-
pointments with third parties, but no addi-
tional information may be requested by the
employing office. An employing office also
may contact an appropriate unit of the De-
partment of Defense to request verification
that a military member is on covered active
duty or call to covered active duty status (or
has been notified of an impending call or
order to covered active duty); no additional
information may be requested and the em-
ployee’s permission is not required.
825.310 Certification for leave taken to care
for a covered servicemember (military
caregiver leave).
(a) Required information from health care
provider. When leave is taken to care for a
covered servicemember with a serious injury
or illness, an employing office may require
an employee to obtain a certification com-
pleted by an authorized health care provider
of the covered servicemember. For purposes
of leave taken to care for a covered service-
member, any one of the following health care
providers may complete such a certification:
(1) A United States Department of Defense
(‘‘DOD’’) health care provider;
(2) A United States Department of Vet-
erans Affairs (‘‘VA’’) health care provider;
(3) A DOD TRICARE network authorized
private health care provider;
(4) A DOD non-network TRICARE author-
ized private health care provider; or
(5) Any health care provider as defined in
825.125.
(b) If the authorized health care provider is
unable to make certain military-related de-
terminations outlined below, the authorized
health care provider may rely on determina-
tions from an authorized DOD representative
(such as a DOD recovery care coordinator) or
an authorized VA representative. An employ-
ing office may request that the health care
provider provide the following information:
(1) The name, address, and appropriate con-
tact information (telephone number, fax
number, and/or email address) of the health
care provider, the type of medical practice,
the medical specialty, and whether the
health care provider is one of the following:
(i) A DOD health care provider;
(ii) A VA health care provider;
(iii) A DOD TRICARE network authorized
private health care provider;
(iv) A DOD non-network TRICARE author-
ized private health care provider; or
(v) A health care provider as defined in
825.125.
(2) Whether the covered servicemember’s
injury or illness was incurred in the line of
duty on active duty or, if not, whether the
covered servicemember’s injury or illness ex-
isted before the beginning of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5789
November 16, 2020
servicemember’s active duty and was aggra-
vated by service in the line of duty on active
duty;
(3) The approximate date on which the se-
rious injury or illness commenced, or was ag-
gravated, and its probable duration;
(4) A statement or description of appro-
priate medical facts regarding the covered
servicemember’s health condition for which
FMLA leave is requested. The medical facts
must be sufficient to support the need for
leave.
(i) In the case of a current member of the
Armed Forces, such medical facts must in-
clude information on whether the injury or
illness may render the covered servicemem-
ber medically unfit to perform the duties of
the servicemember’s office, grade, rank, or
rating and whether the member is receiving
medical treatment, recuperation, or therapy;
(ii) In the case of a covered veteran, such
medical facts must include:
(A) Information on whether the veteran is
receiving medical treatment, recuperation,
or therapy for an injury or illness that is the
continuation of an injury or illness that was
incurred or aggravated when the covered vet-
eran was a member of the Armed Forces and
rendered the servicemember medically unfit
to perform the duties of the servicemember’s
office, grade, rank, or rating; or
(B) Information on whether the veteran is
receiving medical treatment, recuperation,
or therapy for an injury or illness that is a
physical or mental condition for which the
covered veteran has received a U.S. Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs Service-Related
Disability Rating (VASRD) of 50 percent or
greater, and that such VASRD rating is
based, in whole or in part, on the condition
precipitating the need for military caregiver
leave; or
(C) Information on whether the veteran is
receiving medical treatment, recuperation,
or therapy for an injury or illness that is a
physical or mental condition that substan-
tially impairs the covered veteran’s ability
to secure or follow a substantially gainful
occupation by reason of a disability or dis-
abilities related to military service, or would
do so absent treatment; or
(D) Documentation of enrollment in the
Department of Veterans Affairs Program of
Comprehensive Assistance for Family Care-
givers.
(5) Information sufficient to establish that
the covered servicemember is in need of care,
as described in 825.124, and whether the cov-
ered servicemember will need care for a sin-
gle continuous period of time, including any
time for treatment and recovery, and an es-
timate as to the beginning and ending dates
for this period of time;
(6) If an employee requests leave on an
intermittent or reduced schedule basis for
planned medical treatment appointments for
the covered servicemember, whether there is
a medical necessity for the covered service-
member to have such periodic care and an es-
timate of the treatment schedule of such ap-
pointments;
(7) If an employee requests leave on an
intermittent or reduced schedule basis to
care for a covered servicemember other than
for planned medical treatment (e.g., episodic
flare-ups of a medical condition), whether
there is a medical necessity for the covered
servicemember to have such periodic care,
which can include assisting in the covered
servicemember’s recovery, and an estimate
of the frequency and duration of the periodic
care.
(c) Required information from employee
and/or covered servicemember. In addition to
the information that may be requested under
825.310(b), an employing office may also re-
quest that such certification set forth the
following information provided by an em-
ployee and/or covered servicemember:
(1) The name and address of the employing
office of the employee requesting leave to
care for a covered servicemember, the name
of the employee requesting such leave, and
the name of the covered servicemember for
whom the employee is requesting leave to
care;
(2) The relationship of the employee to the
covered servicemember for whom the em-
ployee is requesting leave to care;
(3) Whether the covered servicemember is a
current member of the Armed Forces, the
National Guard or Reserves, and the covered
servicemember’s military branch, rank, and
current unit assignment;
(4) Whether the covered servicemember is
assigned to a military medical facility as an
outpatient or to a unit established for the
purpose of providing command and control of
members of the Armed Forces receiving med-
ical care as outpatients (such as a medical
hold or warrior transition unit), and the
name of the medical treatment facility or
unit;
(5) Whether the covered servicemember is
on the temporary disability retired list;
(6) Whether the covered servicemember is a
veteran, the date of separation from military
service, and whether the separation was
other than dishonorable. The employing of-
fice may require the employee to provide
documentation issued by the military which
indicates that the covered servicemember is
a veteran, the date of separation, and that
the separation is other than dishonorable.
Where an employing office requires such doc-
umentation, an employee may provide a
copy of the veteran’s Certificate of Release
or Discharge from Active Duty issued by the
U.S. Department of Defense (DD Form 214) or
other proof of veteran status. See
825.127(c)(2).
(7) A description of the care to be provided
to the covered servicemember and an esti-
mate of the leave needed to provide the care.
(d) The Office of Congressional Workplace
Rights has developed an optional form (Form
F) for employees’ use in obtaining certifi-
cation that meets FMLA’s certification re-
quirements. (See Form F). This optional form
reflects certification requirements so as to
permit the employee to furnish appropriate
information to support his or her request for
leave to care for a covered servicemember
with a serious injury or illness. Form F, or
Form WH–385 (developed by the Department
of Labor), or another form containing the
same basic information, may be used by the
employing office; however, no information
may be required beyond that specified in this
section. In all instances the information on
the certification must relate only to the se-
rious injury or illness for which the current
need for leave exists. An employing office
may seek authentication and/or clarification
of the certification under 825.307. Second and
third opinions under 825.307 are not per-
mitted for leave to care for a covered serv-
icemember when the certification has been
completed by one of the types of healthcare
providers identified in section 825.310(a)(1–4).
However, second and third opinions under
825.307 are permitted when the certification
has been completed by a health care provider
as defined in 825.125 that is not one of the
types identified in 825.310(a)(1)–(4). Addition-
ally, recertifications under 825.308 are not
permitted for leave to care for a covered
servicemember. An employing office may re-
quire an employee to provide confirmation of
covered family relationship to the seriously
injured or ill servicemember pursuant to
825.122(k) of the FMLA.
(e) An employing office requiring an em-
ployee to submit a certification for leave to
care for a covered servicemember must ac-
cept as sufficient certification, in lieu of the
Office of Congressional Workplace Rights’s
optional certification form (Form F) or an
employing office’s own certification form,
invitational travel orders (ITOs) or invita-
tional travel authorizations (ITAs) issued to
any family member to join an injured or ill
servicemember at his or her bedside. An ITO
or ITA is sufficient certification for the du-
ration of time specified in the ITO or ITA.
During that time period, an eligible em-
ployee may take leave to care for the cov-
ered servicemember in a continuous block of
time or on an intermittent basis. An eligible
employee who provides an ITO or ITA to sup-
port his or her request for leave may not be
required to provide any additional or sepa-
rate certification that leave taken on an
intermittent basis during the period of time
specified in the ITO or ITA is medically nec-
essary. An ITO or ITA is sufficient certifi-
cation for an employee entitled to take
FMLA leave to care for a covered service-
member regardless of whether the employee
is named in the order or authorization.
(1) If an employee will need leave to care
for a covered servicemember beyond the ex-
piration date specified in an ITO or ITA, an
employing office may request that the em-
ployee have one of the authorized health
care providers listed under 825.310(a) com-
plete the Office of Congressional Workplace
Rights optional certification form (Form F)
or an employing office’s own form, as req-
uisite certification for the remainder of the
employee’s necessary leave period.
(2) An employing office may seek authen-
tication and clarification of the ITO or ITA
under 825.307. An employing office may not
utilize the second or third opinion process
outlined in 825.307 or the recertification
process under 825.308 during the period of
time in which leave is supported by an ITO
or ITA.
(3) An employing office may require an em-
ployee to provide confirmation of covered
family relationship to the seriously injured
or ill servicemember pursuant to 825.122(k)
when an employee supports his or her re-
quest for FMLA leave with a copy of an ITO
or ITA.
(f) An employing office requiring an em-
ployee to submit a certification for leave to
care for a covered servicemember must ac-
cept as sufficient certification of the
servicemember’s serious injury or illness
documentation indicating the
servicemember’s enrollment in the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs Program of Com-
prehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers.
Such documentation is sufficient certifi-
cation of the servicemember’s serious injury
or illness to support the employee’s request
for military caregiver leave regardless of
whether the employee is the named care-
giver in the enrollment documentation.
(1) An employing office may seek authen-
tication and clarification of the documenta-
tion indicating the servicemember’s enroll-
ment in the Department of Veterans Affairs
Program of Comprehensive Assistance for
Family Caregivers under 825.307. An employ-
ing office may not utilize the second or third
opinion process outlined in 825.307 or the re-
certification process under 825.308 when the
servicemember’s serious injury or illness is
shown by documentation of enrollment in
this program.
(2) An employing office may require an em-
ployee to provide confirmation of covered
family relationship to the seriously injured
or ill servicemember pursuant to 825.122(k)
when an employee supports his or her re-
quest for FMLA leave with a copy of such en-
rollment documentation. An employing of-
fice may also require an employee to provide
documentation, such as a veteran’s Form
DD–214, showing that the discharge was
other than dishonorable and the date of the
veteran’s discharge.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5790 November 16, 2020
(g) Where medical certification is re-
quested by an employing office, an employee
may not be held liable for administrative
delays in the issuance of military docu-
ments, despite the employee’s diligent, good-
faith efforts to obtain such documents. See
825.305(b). In all instances in which certifi-
cation is requested, it is the employee’s re-
sponsibility to provide the employing office
with complete and sufficient certification
and failure to do so may result in the denial
of FMLA leave. See 825.305(d).
825.311 Intent to return to work.
(a) An employing office may require an
employee on FMLA leave to report periodi-
cally on the employee’s status and intent to
return to work. The employing office’s pol-
icy regarding such reports may not be dis-
criminatory and must take into account all
of the relevant facts and circumstances re-
lated to the individual employee’s leave situ-
ation.
(b) If an employee gives unequivocal notice
of intent not to return to work, the employ-
ing office’s obligations under FMLA, as
made applicable by the CAA, to maintain
health benefits (subject to COBRA require-
ments) and to restore the employee cease.
However, these obligations continue if an
employee indicates he or she may be unable
to return to work but expresses a continuing
desire to do so.
(c) It may be necessary for an employee to
take more leave than originally anticipated.
Conversely, an employee may discover after
beginning leave that the circumstances have
changed and the amount of leave originally
anticipated is no longer necessary. An em-
ployee may not be required to take more
FMLA leave than necessary to resolve the
circumstance that precipitated the need for
leave. In both of these situations, the em-
ploying office may require that the employee
provide the employing office reasonable no-
tice (i.e., within two business days) of the
changed circumstances where foreseeable.
The employing office may also obtain infor-
mation on such changed circumstances
through requested status reports.
825.312 Fitness-for-duty certification.
(a) As a condition of restoring an employee
whose FMLA leave was occasioned by the
employee’s own serious health condition
that made the employee unable to perform
the employee’s job, an employing office may
have a uniformly-applied policy or practice
that requires all similarly-situated employ-
ees (i.e., same occupation, same serious
health condition) who take leave for such
conditions to obtain and present certifi-
cation from the employee’s health care pro-
vider that the employee is able to resume
work. The employee has the same obliga-
tions to participate and cooperate (including
providing a complete and sufficient certifi-
cation or providing sufficient authorization
to the health care provider to provide the in-
formation directly to the employing office)
in the fitness-for-duty certification process
as in the initial certification process. See
825.305(d).
(b) An employing office may seek a fitness-
for-duty certification only with regard to the
particular health condition that caused the
employee’s need for FMLA leave. The certifi-
cation from the employee’s health care pro-
vider must certify that the employee is able
to resume work. Additionally, an employing
office may require that the certification spe-
cifically address the employee’s ability to
perform the essential functions of the em-
ployee’s job. In order to require such a cer-
tification, an employing office must provide
an employee with a list of the essential func-
tions of the employee’s job no later than
with the designation notice required by
825.300(d), and must indicate in the designa-
tion notice that the certification must ad-
dress the employee’s ability to perform those
essential functions. If the employing office
satisfies these requirements, the employee’s
health care provider must certify that the
employee can perform the identified essen-
tial functions of his or her job. Following the
procedures set forth in 825.307(a), the em-
ploying office may contact the employee’s
health care provider for purposes of clari-
fying and authenticating the fitness-for-duty
certification. Clarification may be requested
only for the serious health condition for
which FMLA leave was taken. The employ-
ing office may not delay the employee’s re-
turn to work while contact with the health
care provider is being made. No second or
third opinions on a fitness-for-duty certifi-
cation may be required.
(c) The cost of the certification shall be
borne by the employee, and the employee is
not entitled to be paid for the time or travel
costs spent in acquiring the certification.
(d) The designation notice required in
825.300(d) shall advise the employee if the
employing office will require a fitness-for-
duty certification to return to work and
whether that fitness-for-duty certification
must address the employee’s ability to per-
form the essential functions of the employ-
ee’s job.
(e) An employing office may delay restora-
tion to employment until an employee sub-
mits a required fitness-for-duty certification
unless the employing office has failed to pro-
vide the notice required in paragraph (d) of
this section. If an employing office provides
the notice required, an employee who does
not provide a fitness-for-duty certification
or request additional FMLA leave is no
longer entitled to reinstatement under the
FMLA. See 825.313(d).
(f) An employing office is not entitled to a
certification of fitness to return to duty for
each absence taken on an intermittent or re-
duced leave schedule. However, an employing
office is entitled to a certification of fitness
to return to duty for such absences up to
once every 30 days if reasonable safety con-
cerns exist regarding the employee’s ability
to perform his or her duties, based on the se-
rious health condition for which the em-
ployee took such leave. If an employing of-
fice chooses to require a fitness-for-duty cer-
tification under such circumstances, the em-
ploying office shall inform the employee at
the same time it issues the designation no-
tice that for each subsequent instance of
intermittent or reduced schedule leave, the
employee will be required to submit a fit-
ness-for-duty certification unless one has al-
ready been submitted within the past 30
days. Alternatively, an employing office can
set a different interval for requiring a fit-
ness-for-duty certification as long as it does
not exceed once every 30 days and as long as
the employing office advises the employee of
the requirement in advance of the employee
taking the intermittent or reduced schedule
leave. The employing office may not termi-
nate the employment of the employee while
awaiting such a certification of fitness to re-
turn to duty for an intermittent or reduced
schedule leave absence. Reasonable safety
concerns means a reasonable belief of signifi-
cant risk of harm to the individual employee
or others. In determining whether reasonable
safety concerns exist, an employing office
should consider the nature and severity of
the potential harm and the likelihood that
potential harm will occur.
(g) If the terms of a collective bargaining
agreement govern an employee’s return to
work, those provisions shall be applied.
(h) Requirements under the Americans
with Disabilities Act (ADA), as amended and
as made applicable by the CAA, apply. After
an employee returns from FMLA leave, the
ADA requires any medical examination at an
employing office’s expense by the employing
office’s health care provider be job-related
and consistent with business necessity. For
example, an attorney could not be required
to submit to a medical examination or in-
quiry just because her leg had been ampu-
tated. The essential functions of an attor-
ney’s job do not require use of both legs;
therefore such an inquiry would not be job
related. An employing office may require a
warehouse laborer, whose back impairment
affects the ability to lift, to be examined by
an orthopedist, but may not require this em-
ployee to submit to an HIV test where the
test is not related to either the essential
functions of his or her job or to his/her im-
pairment. If an employee’s serious health
condition may also be a disability within the
meaning of the ADA, as made applicable by
the CAA, the FMLA does not prevent the
employing office from following the proce-
dures for requesting medical information
under the ADA.
825.313 Failure to provide certification.
(a) Foreseeable leave. In the case of foresee-
able leave, if an employee fails to provide
certification in a timely manner as required
by 825.305, then an employing office may
deny FMLA coverage until the required cer-
tification is provided. For example, if an em-
ployee has 15 days to provide a certification
and does not provide the certification for 45
days without sufficient reason for the delay,
the employing office can deny FMLA protec-
tions for the 30-day period following the ex-
piration of the 15-day time period, if the em-
ployee takes leave during such period.
(b) Unforeseeable leave. In the case of un-
foreseeable leave, an employing office may
deny FMLA coverage for the requested leave
if the employee fails to provide a certifi-
cation within 15 calendar days from receipt
of the request for certification unless not
practicable due to extenuating cir-
cumstances. For example, in the case of a
medical emergency, it may not be prac-
ticable for an employee to provide the re-
quired certification within 15 calendar days.
Absent such extenuating circumstances, if
the employee fails to timely return the cer-
tification, the employing office can deny
FMLA protections for the leave following
the expiration of the 15-day time period until
a sufficient certification is provided. If the
employee never produces the certification,
the leave is not FMLA leave.
(c) Recertification. An employee must pro-
vide recertification within the time re-
quested by the employing office (which must
allow at least 15 calendar days after the re-
quest) or as soon as practicable under the
particular facts and circumstances. If an em-
ployee fails to provide a recertification with-
in a reasonable time under the particular
facts and circumstances, then the employing
office may deny continuation of the FMLA
leave protections until the employee pro-
duces a sufficient recertification. If the em-
ployee never produces the recertification,
the leave is not FMLA leave. Recertification
does not apply to leave taken for a quali-
fying exigency or to care for a covered serv-
icemember.
(d) Fitness-for-duty certification. When re-
quested by the employing office pursuant to
a uniformly applied policy for similarly-situ-
ated employees, the employee must provide
medical certification, at the time the em-
ployee seeks reinstatement at the end of
FMLA leave taken for the employee’s serious
health condition, that the employee is fit for
duty and able to return to work (See
825.312(a)) if the employing office has pro-
vided the required notice (See 825.300(e)); the
employing office may delay restoration until
the certification is provided. Unless the em-
ployee provides either a fitness-for-duty cer-
tification or a new medical certification for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5791
November 16, 2020
a serious health condition at the time FMLA
leave is concluded, the employee may be ter-
minated. See also 825.213(a)(3).
SUBPART D—ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESS
825.400 Administrative process, general rules.
(a) The Procedural Rules of the Office of
Congressional Workplace Rights set forth
the procedures for considering and resolving
alleged violations of the laws made applica-
ble by the CAA, including the FMLA. The
Rules include procedures for filing claims
and participating in administrative dispute
resolution proceedings at the Office of Con-
gressional Workplace Rights, including pro-
cedures for the conduct of hearings and for
appeals to the Board of Directors. The Proce-
dural Rules also address other matters of
general applicability to the dispute resolu-
tion process and to the operations of the Of-
fice.
(b) If an employing office has violated one
or more provisions of FMLA, and if justified
by the facts of a particular case, an em-
ployee may receive one or more of the fol-
lowing: wages, employment benefits, or
other compensation denied or lost to such
employee by reason of the violation; or,
where no such tangible loss has occurred,
such as when FMLA leave was unlawfully de-
nied, any actual monetary loss sustained by
the employee as a direct result of the viola-
tion, such as the cost of providing care, up to
a sum equal to 26 weeks of wages for the em-
ployee in a case involving leave to care for a
covered servicemember or 12 weeks of wages
for the employee in a case involving leave
for any other FMLA qualifying reason. In ad-
dition, the employee may be entitled to in-
terest on such sum, calculated at the pre-
vailing rate. An amount equaling the pre-
ceding sums may also be awarded as liq-
uidated damages unless such amount is re-
duced by the court because the violation was
in good faith and the employer had reason-
able grounds for believing the employer had
not violated the Act. When appropriate, the
employee may also obtain appropriate equi-
table relief, such as employment, reinstate-
ment and promotion. When the employer is
found in violation, the employee may re-
cover a reasonable attorney’s fee, reasonable
expert witness fees, and other costs of the
action from the employer in addition to any
judgment awarded by the court.
(c) The Procedural Rules of the Office of
Congressional Workplace Rights are found at
165 Cong. Rec. H4896 (daily ed. June 19, 2019)
and 165 Cong. Rec. S4105 (daily ed. June 19,
2019), and may also be found on the Office’s
website at www.ocwr.gov.
825.401 [Reserved]
825.402 [Reserved]
825.403 [Reserved]
825.404 [Reserved]
SUBPART E—PAID PARENTAL LEAVE
825.500 Purpose, applicability, and employing
office responsibilities.
(a) Purpose. This subpart provides regula-
tions to govern the granting of paid parental
leave to eligible employees. Since paid pa-
rental leave may only be substituted for un-
paid leave granted following a birth or place-
ment under specific provisions of the Family
and Medical Leave Act in title 29, United
States Code—specifically, section
2612(a)(1)(A) and (B) in 5 U.S.C. chapter 29—
this subpart links to subpart B (Family and
Medical Leave) of this part.
(b) Applicability. (1) Except as otherwise
provided in this paragraph (b), this subpart
applies to employees to whom subpart B of
this part applies, as provided in 825.111.
(2) The OCWR will defer to supplemental
regulations on paid parental leave issued by
the Library of Congress pursuant to the au-
thority in 29 USC 2617, provided those supple-
mental regulations are consistent with the
regulations in this subpart.
(3) This subpart applies to a birth or place-
ment occurring on or after October 1, 2020.
(c) Employing office responsibilities. The head
of an employing office having employees cov-
ered by this subpart is responsible for the
proper administration of this subpart, in-
cluding the responsibility of informing em-
ployees of their entitlements and obliga-
tions.
825.501 Definitions.
(a) Applicability of subpart B definitions. The
definitions of terms in 825.102 are applicable
in this subpart to the extent the terms are
used, except that, to the extent any defini-
tions of terms have been further revised in
825.501(b), the provisions of that section shall
apply for purposes of this subpart.
(b) Other definitions. In this subpart—
Employing Office means an employing office
as defined in 2 U.S.C. 1301(a)(9). When the
term ‘‘employing office’’ is used in the con-
text of an employing office making deter-
minations or taking actions, it means the
employing office head or management offi-
cials who are authorized (including by dele-
gation) to make the given determination or
take the given action.
Child means a son or daughter as defined in
825.102 whose birth or placement is the basis
for entitlement to paid parental leave.
Paid parental leave means paid time off
from an employee’s scheduled tour of duty
that is authorized under 2 U.S.C. 1312(d)(2)(A)
and this subpart and that is granted to an
employee who has a current parental role in
connection with the child whose birth or
placement was the basis for granting unpaid
FMLA leave under 825.120 or 825.121. This
leave is not available to an employee who
does not have a current parental role.
Unpaid FMLA leave means leave without
pay granted under the Family and Medical
Leave Act (FMLA) regulations in subpart B
of this part.
825.502 Leave entitlement.
(a) Election. An employee may elect to sub-
stitute available paid parental leave for any
unpaid FMLA leave granted under 825.120 or
825.121 (which correspond to 29 U.S.C.
2612(a)(1)(A) or (B), respectively) in connec-
tion with the occurrence of a birth or place-
ment. See 825.208.
(b) Available paid parental leave. (1) The
paid parental leave that is available for pur-
poses of paragraph (a) of this section is 12
workweeks in connection with the birth or
placement involved.
(2) Since an employee may use only 12
weeks of unpaid FMLA leave in any 12-
month period under 825.200(a), any use of un-
paid FMLA leave not associated with paid
parental leave may affect an employee’s
ability to use the full 12 weeks of paid paren-
tal leave. Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(1)
of this section, an employee will be able to
use the full amount of paid parental leave
only to the extent that there are 12 weeks of
available unpaid FMLA leave granted under
the birth or placement provisions in
825.112(a)(1); or (2) during the 12-month pe-
riod referred to in section 102(a)(1) of the
FMLA (29 U.S.C. 2612(a)(1)) to which it re-
lates. The availability of paid parental leave
will depend on when the employee uses var-
ious types of unpaid FMLA leave relative to
any 12-month period established under
825.200(b).
(c) Leave usage. (1) An employing office
may not require an employee to use accrued
paid annual, vacation, personal, family, med-
ical, or sick leave as a condition to be met
before the employee uses paid parental leave.
An employee may request to use annual
leave or sick leave without invoking unpaid
FMLA leave under subpart B of this part,
and, if the request is granted, the employing
office exercises its normal authority with re-
spect to approving or disapproving the tim-
ing of when the leave may be used.
(2) An employee with a seasonal work
schedule may not use paid parental leave
during the off-season period designated by
the employing office—the period during
which the employee is scheduled to be re-
leased from work and placed in nonpay sta-
tus.
(d) Treatment of unused leave. If an em-
ployee has any unused balance of paid paren-
tal leave that remains at the end of the 12-
month period following the birth or place-
ment involved, the entitlement to the un-
used leave elapses at that time. No payment
may be made for unused paid parental leave
that has expired. Paid parental leave may
not be considered annual leave for purposes
of making a lump-sum payment for annual
leave or for any other purpose.
825.503 Pay during leave.
(a) The pay an employee receives when
using paid parental leave shall be the same
pay the employee would receive if the em-
ployee were using annual leave.
(b) The pay received during paid parental
leave may not include Sunday premium pay.
(See section 624 of the Treasury and General
Government Appropriations Act, 1999, Public
Law 105–277, div. A, 101(h), October 21, 1998.)
825.504 Work obligation.
Paid parental leave under this subpart
shall apply without regard to:
(a) the limitations in subparagraphs (E),
(F), or (G) of section 6382(d)(2) of title 5,
United States Code (requiring employees of
executive branch agencies to agree in writ-
ing to work for the executive branch agency
for at least 12 months after returning from
leave); or
(b) the limitations in 825.213 (permitting
employing offices to recover an amount
equal to the total amount of government
contributions for maintaining such employ-
ee’s health coverage if the employee fails to
return from leave).
825.505 Cases of employee incapacitation.
(a) If an employing office determines that
an otherwise eligible employee who could
have made an election during a past period
to substitute paid parental leave (as provided
in 825.502) was physically or mentally incapa-
ble of doing so during that past period, the
employee may, within 5 workdays of the em-
ployee’s return to duty status, make an elec-
tion to substitute paid parental leave for ap-
plicable unpaid FMLA leave under 825.502(a)
on a retroactive basis. Such a retroactive
election shall be effective on the date that
such an election would have been effective if
the employee had not been incapacitated at
the time.
(b)(1) If an employing office determines
that an otherwise eligible employee is phys-
ically or mentally incapable of making an
election to substitute paid parental leave (as
provided in 825.207), the employing office
must, upon the request of a personal rep-
resentative of the employee, provide condi-
tional approval of substitution of paid paren-
tal leave for applicable unpaid FMLA leave
on a prospective basis. The conditional ap-
proval is based on the presumption that the
employee would have elected to substitute
paid parental leave for the applicable unpaid
FMLA leave.
825.506 Cases of multiple children born or
placed in the same time period.
(a) If an employee has multiple children
born or placed on the same day, the mul-
tiple-child birth/placement event is consid-
ered to be a single event that triggers a sin-
gle entitlement of up to 12 weeks of paid pa-
rental leave under 825.502(b).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5792 November 16, 2020
(b) If an employee has one or more children
born or placed during the 12-month period
following the date of an earlier birth or
placement of a child of the employee, the
provisions of this subpart shall be independ-
ently administered for each birth or place-
ment event. Any paid parental leave sub-
stituted for unpaid FMLA leave during the
12-month period beginning on the date of a
child’s birth or placement shall count to-
wards the 12-week limit on paid parental
leave described in 825.502(b) applicable in
connection with the birth or placement in-
volved. The substitution of paid parental
leave may count toward multiple 12-week
limits to the extent that there are multiple
ongoing 12-month periods beginning on the
date of an applicable birth or placement,
each of which encompasses the day on which
the leave is used. Therefore, whenever paid
parental leave is substituted during periods
of time when separate 12-month periods
(each beginning on a date of birth or place-
ment) overlap, the paid parental leave will
count toward each affected period’s 12-week
limit. For example, if an employee has a
child born on June 1 and another child
placed for adoption on October 1 of the same
year, each event would generate entitlement
to substitute up to 12 weeks of paid parental
leave during the separate 12-month periods
beginning on the date of the birth and on the
date of the placement, respectively. Those
two 12-month periods would be June 1–May
31 and October 1–September 30. The overlap
period for these two 12-month periods would
be October 1–May 31. If the employee sub-
stitutes paid parental leave during that over-
lap period, that amount of paid parental
leave would count towards both the 12-week
limit associated with the birth event and the
12-week limit associated with the placement
event.
825.507 Records.
Record of usage of paid parental leave. An
employing office must maintain an accurate
record of an employee’s usage of paid paren-
tal leave.
825.508 [Reserved]
SUBPART F—SPECIAL RULES APPLICABLE
TO EMPLOYEES OF SCHOOLS
825.600 Special rules for school employees,
definitions.
(a) Certain special rules apply to employ-
ees of local educational agencies, including
public school boards and elementary schools
under their jurisdiction, and private elemen-
tary and secondary schools. The special rules
do not apply to other kinds of educational
institutions, such as colleges and univer-
sities, trade schools, and preschools.
(b) Educational institutions are covered by
FMLA, as made applicable by the CAA (and
these special rules). The usual requirements
for employees to be eligible do apply.
(c) The special rules affect the taking of
intermittent leave or leave on a reduced
leave schedule, or leave near the end of an
academic term (semester), by instructional
employees. Instructional employees are
those whose principal function is to teach
and instruct students in a class, a small
group, or an individual setting. This term in-
cludes not only teachers, but also athletic
coaches, driving instructors, and special edu-
cation assistants such as signers for the
hearing impaired. It does not include, and
the special rules do not apply to, teacher as-
sistants or aides who do not have as their
principal job actual teaching or instructing,
nor does it include auxiliary personnel such
as counselors, psychologists, or curriculum
specialists. It also does not include cafeteria
workers, maintenance workers, or bus driv-
ers.
(d) Special rules which apply to restoration
to an equivalent position apply to all em-
ployees of local educational agencies.
825.601 Special rules for school employees,
limitations on intermittent leave.
(a) Leave taken for a period that ends with
the school year and begins the next semester
is leave taken consecutively rather than
intermittently. The period during the sum-
mer vacation when the employee would not
have been required to report for duty is not
counted against the employee’s FMLA leave
entitlement. An instructional employee who
is on FMLA leave at the end of the school
year must be provided with any benefits over
the summer vacation that employees would
normally receive if they had been working at
the end of the school year.
(1) If an eligible instructional employee
needs intermittent leave or leave on a re-
duced leave schedule to care for a family
member with a serious health condition, to
care for a covered servicemember, or for the
employee’s own serious health condition,
which is foreseeable based on planned med-
ical treatment, and the employee would be
on leave for more than 20 percent of the total
number of working days over the period the
leave would extend, the employing office
may require the employee to choose either
to:
(i) Take leave for a period or periods of a
particular duration, not greater than the du-
ration of the planned treatment; or
(ii) Transfer temporarily to an available
alternative position for which the employee
is qualified, which has equivalent pay and
benefits and which better accommodates re-
curring periods of leave than does the em-
ployee’s regular position.
(2) These rules apply only to a leave in-
volving more than 20 percent of the working
days during the period over which the leave
extends. For example, if an instructional em-
ployee who normally works five days each
week needs to take two days of FMLA leave
per week over a period of several weeks, the
special rules would apply. Employees taking
leave which constitutes 20 percent or less of
the working days during the leave period
would not be subject to transfer to an alter-
native position. Periods of a particular dura-
tion means a block, or blocks, of time begin-
ning no earlier than the first day for which
leave is needed and ending no later than the
last day on which leave is needed, and may
include one uninterrupted period of leave.
(b) If an instructional employee does not
give required notice of foreseeable FMLA
leave (See 825.302) to be taken intermittently
or on a reduced leave schedule, the employ-
ing office may require the employee to take
leave of a particular duration, or to transfer
temporarily to an alternative position. Al-
ternatively, the employing office may re-
quire the employee to delay the taking of
leave until the notice provision is met.
825.602 Special rules for school employees,
limitations on leave near the end of an
academic term.
(a) There are also different rules for in-
structional employees who begin leave more
than five weeks before the end of a term, less
than five weeks before the end of a term, and
less than three weeks before the end of a
term. Regular rules apply except in cir-
cumstances when:
(1) An instructional employee begins leave
more than five weeks before the end of a
term. The employing office may require the
employee to continue taking leave until the
end of the term if—
(i) The leave will last at least three weeks,
and
(ii) The employee would return to work
during the three-week period before the end
of the term.
(2) The employee begins leave during the
five-week period before the end of a term be-
cause of the birth of a son or daughter; the
placement of a son or daughter for adoption
or foster care; to care for a spouse, son,
daughter, or parent with a serious health
condition; or to care for a covered service-
member. The employing office may require
the employee to continue taking leave until
the end of the term if—
(i) The leave will last more than two
weeks, and
(ii) The employee would return to work
during the two-week period before the end of
the term.
(3) The employee begins leave during the
three-week period before the end of a term
because of the birth of a son or daughter; the
placement of a son or daughter for adoption
or foster care; to care for a spouse, son,
daughter, or parent with a serious health
condition; or to care for a covered service-
member. The employing office may require
the employee to continue taking leave until
the end of the term if the leave will last
more than five working days.
(b) For purposes of these provisions, aca-
demic term means the school semester,
which typically ends near the end of the cal-
endar year and the end of spring each school
year. In no case may a school have more
than two academic terms or semesters each
year for purposes of FMLA, as made applica-
ble by the CAA. An example of leave falling
within these provisions would be where an
employee plans two weeks of leave to care
for a family member which will begin three
weeks before the end of the term. In that sit-
uation, the employing office could require
the employee to stay out on leave until the
end of the term.
825.603 Special rules for school employees,
duration of FMLA leave.
(a) If an employee chooses to take leave for
periods of a particular duration in the case
of intermittent or reduced schedule leave,
the entire period of leave taken will count as
FMLA leave.
(b) In the case of an employee who is re-
quired to take leave until the end of an aca-
demic term, only the period of leave until
the employee is ready and able to return to
work shall be charged against the employee’s
FMLA leave entitlement. The employing of-
fice has the option not to require the em-
ployee to stay on leave until the end of the
school term. Therefore, any additional leave
required by the employing office to the end
of the school term is not counted as FMLA
leave; however, the employing office shall be
required to maintain the employee’s group
health insurance and restore the employee to
the same or equivalent job including other
benefits at the conclusion of the leave.
825.604 Special rules for school employees,
restoration to an equivalent position.
The determination of how an employee is
to be restored to an equivalent position upon
return from FMLA leave will be made on the
basis of ‘‘established school board policies
and practices, private school policies and
practices, and collective bargaining agree-
ments.’’ The ‘‘established policies’’ and col-
lective bargaining agreements used as a
basis for restoration must be in writing,
must be made known to the employee prior
to the taking of FMLA leave, and must
clearly explain the employee’s restoration
rights upon return from leave. Any estab-
lished policy which is used as the basis for
restoration of an employee to an equivalent
position must provide substantially the same
protections as provided in the FMLA, as
made applicable by the CAA, for reinstated
employees. See 825.215. In other words, the
policy or collective bargaining agreement
must provide for restoration to an equiva-
lent position with equivalent employment
benefits, pay, and other terms and conditions
of employment. For example, an employee
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5793
November 16, 2020
may not be restored to a position requiring
additional licensure or certification.
SUBPART G—EFFECT OF OTHER LAWS,
EMPLOYING OFFICE PRACTICES, AND
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREE-
MENTS ON EMPLOYEE RIGHTS UNDER
THE FMLA, AS MADE APPLICABLE BY
THE CAA.
825.700 Interaction with employing office’s
policies.
(a) An employing office must observe any
employment benefit program or plan that
provides greater family or medical leave
rights to employees than the rights estab-
lished by the FMLA. Conversely, the rights
established by the FMLA, as made applicable
by the CAA, may not be diminished by any
employment benefit program or plan. For ex-
ample, a provision of a collective bargaining
agreement (CBA) which provides for rein-
statement to a position that is not equiva-
lent because of seniority (e.g., provides less-
er pay) is superseded by FMLA. If an employ-
ing office provides greater unpaid family
leave rights than are afforded by FMLA, the
employing office is not required to extend
additional rights afforded by FMLA, such as
maintenance of health benefits (other than
through COBRA or 5 U.S.C. 8905a, whichever
is applicable), to the additional leave period
not covered by FMLA.
(b) Nothing in the FMLA, as made applica-
ble by the CAA, prevents an employing office
from amending existing leave and employee
benefit programs, provided they comply with
FMLA, as made applicable by the CAA. How-
ever, nothing in the FMLA, as made applica-
ble by the CAA, is intended to discourage
employing offices from adopting or retaining
more generous leave policies.
825.701 [Reserved]
825.702 Interaction with anti-discrimination
laws, as applied by section 201 of the
CAA.
(a) Nothing in the FMLA modifies or af-
fects any applicable law prohibiting dis-
crimination on the basis of race, religion,
color, national origin, sex, age, or disability
(e.g., Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964,
as amended by the Pregnancy Discrimina-
tion Act and as made applicable by the
CAA). FMLA’s legislative history explains
that FMLA is ‘‘not intended to modify or af-
fect the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as
amended, the regulations concerning em-
ployment which have been promulgated pur-
suant to that statute, or the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 [as amended] or the
regulations issued under that act. Thus, the
leave provisions of the [FMLA] are wholly
distinct from the reasonable accommodation
obligations of employers covered under the
[ADA] . . . or the Federal government itself.
The purpose of the FMLA, as applied by the
CAA, is to make leave available to eligible
employees and [employing offices] within its
coverage, and not to limit already existing
rights and protection.’’ S. Rep. No. 3, 103d
Cong., 1st Sess. 38 (1993). An employing office
must therefore provide leave under which-
ever statutory provision provides the greater
rights to employees. When an employer vio-
lates both FMLA and a discrimination law,
an employee may be able to recover under ei-
ther or both statutes (double relief may not
be awarded for the same loss; when remedies
coincide a claimant may be allowed to uti-
lize whichever avenue of relief is desired.
Laffey v. Northwest Airlines, Inc., 567 F.2d 429,
445 (D.C. Cir. 1976), cert. denied, 434 U.S. 1086
(1978).
(b) If an employee is a qualified individual
with a disability within the meaning of the
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), as
made applicable by the CAA, the employing
office must make reasonable accommoda-
tions, etc., barring undue hardship, in ac-
cordance with the ADA. At the same time,
the employing office must afford an em-
ployee his or her FMLA rights, as made ap-
plicable by the CAA. ADA’s ‘‘disability’’ and
FMLA’s ‘‘serious health condition’’ are dif-
ferent concepts, and must be analyzed sepa-
rately. FMLA entitles eligible employees to
12 weeks of leave in any 12-month period due
to their own serious health condition, where-
as the ADA allows an indeterminate amount
of leave, barring undue hardship, as a reason-
able accommodation. FMLA requires em-
ploying offices to maintain employees’ group
health plan coverage during FMLA leave on
the same conditions as coverage would have
been provided if the employee had been con-
tinuously employed during the leave period,
whereas ADA does not require maintenance
of health insurance unless other employees
receive health insurance during leave under
the same circumstances.
(c)(1) A reasonable accommodation under
the ADA might be accomplished by providing
an individual with a disability with a part-
time job with no health benefits, assuming
the employing office did not ordinarily pro-
vide health insurance for part-time employ-
ees. However, FMLA would permit an em-
ployee to work a reduced leave schedule
until the equivalent of 12 workweeks of leave
were used, with group health benefits main-
tained during this period. FMLA permits an
employing office to temporarily transfer an
employee who is taking leave intermittently
or on a reduced leave schedule to an alter-
native position, whereas the ADA allows an
accommodation of reassignment to an equiv-
alent, vacant position only if the employee
cannot perform the essential functions of the
employee’s present position and an accom-
modation is not possible in the employee’s
present position, or an accommodation in
the employee’s present position would cause
an undue hardship. The examples in the fol-
lowing paragraphs of this section dem-
onstrate how the two laws would interact
with respect to a qualified individual with a
disability.
(2) A qualified individual with a disability
who is also an eligible employee entitled to
FMLA leave requests 10 weeks of medical
leave as a reasonable accommodation, which
the employing office grants because it is not
an undue hardship. The employing office ad-
vises the employee that the 10 weeks of leave
is also being designated as FMLA leave and
will count towards the employee’s FMLA
leave entitlement. This designation does not
prevent the parties from also treating the
leave as a reasonable accommodation and re-
instating the employee into the same job, as
required by the ADA, rather than an equiva-
lent position under FMLA, if that is the
greater right available to the employee. At
the same time, the employee would be enti-
tled under FMLA to have the employing of-
fice maintain group health plan coverage
during the leave, as that requirement pro-
vides the greater right to the employee.
(3) If the same employee needed to work
part-time (a reduced leave schedule) after re-
turning to his or her same job, the employee
would still be entitled under FMLA to have
group health plan coverage maintained for
the remainder of the two-week equivalent of
FMLA leave entitlement, notwithstanding
an employing office policy that part-time
employees do not receive health insurance.
This employee would be entitled under the
ADA to reasonable accommodations to en-
able the employee to perform the essential
functions of the part-time position. In addi-
tion, because the employee is working a
part-time schedule as a reasonable accom-
modation, the FMLA’s provision for tem-
porary assignment to a different alternative
position would not apply. Once the employee
has exhausted his or her remaining FMLA
leave entitlement while working the reduced
(part-time) schedule, if the employee is a
qualified individual with a disability, and if
the employee is unable to return to the same
full-time position at that time, the employee
might continue to work part-time as a rea-
sonable accommodation, barring undue hard-
ship; the employee would then be entitled to
only those employment benefits ordinarily
provided by the employing office to part-
time employees.
(4) At the end of the FMLA leave entitle-
ment, an employing office is required under
FMLA to reinstate the employee in the same
or an equivalent position, with equivalent
pay and benefits, to that which the employee
held when leave commenced. The employing
office’s FMLA obligations would be satisfied
if the employing office offered the employee
an equivalent full-time position. If the em-
ployee were unable to perform the essential
functions of that equivalent position even
with reasonable accommodation, because of
a disability, the ADA may require the em-
ploying office to make a reasonable accom-
modation at that time by allowing the em-
ployee to work part-time or by reassigning
the employee to a vacant position, barring
undue hardship.
(d)(1) If FMLA entitles an employee to
leave, an employing office may not, in lieu of
FMLA leave entitlement, require an em-
ployee to take a job with a reasonable ac-
commodation. However, ADA may require
that an employing office offer an employee
the opportunity to take such a position. An
employing office may not change the essen-
tial functions of the job in order to deny
FMLA leave. See 825.220(b).
(2) An employee may be on a workers’ com-
pensation absence due to an on-the-job in-
jury or illness which also qualifies as a seri-
ous health condition under FMLA. The
workers’ compensation absence and FMLA
leave may run concurrently (subject to prop-
er notice and designation by the employing
office). At some point the health care pro-
vider providing medical care pursuant to the
workers’ compensation injury may certify
the employee is able to return to work in a
light duty position. If the employing office
offers such a position, the employee is per-
mitted but not required to accept the posi-
tion. See 825.220(d). As a result, the employee
may no longer qualify for payments from the
workers’ compensation benefit plan, but the
employee is entitled to continue on unpaid
FMLA leave either until the employee is
able to return to the same or equivalent job
the employee left or until the 12-week FMLA
leave entitlement is exhausted. See 825.207(e).
If the employee returning from the workers’
compensation injury is a qualified individual
with a disability, he or she will have rights
under the ADA, as made applicable by the
CAA.
(e) If an employing office requires certifi-
cations of an employee’s fitness for duty to
return to work, as permitted by FMLA under
a uniform policy, it must comply with the
ADA requirement that a fitness for duty
physical be job-related and consistent with
business necessity.
(f) Under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act
of 1964, as amended by the Pregnancy Dis-
crimination Act, and as made applicable by
the CAA, an employing office should provide
the same benefits for women who are preg-
nant as the employing office provides to
other employees with short-term disabil-
ities. Because Title VII does not require em-
ployees to be employed for a certain period
of time to be protected, an employee em-
ployed for less than 12 months by the em-
ploying office may not be denied maternity
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5794 November 16, 2020
leave if the employing office normally pro-
vides short-term disability benefits to em-
ployees with the same tenure who are experi-
encing other short-term disabilities.
(g) Under the Uniformed Services Employ-
ment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994
(USERRA), 38 U.S.C. 4301, et seq., veterans
are entitled to receive all rights and benefits
of employment that they would have ob-
tained if they had been continuously em-
ployed. Therefore, under USERRA, a return-
ing servicemember would be eligible for
FMLA leave if the months and hours that he
or she would have worked for the civilian
employing office during the period of ab-
sence due to or necessitated by USERRA-
covered service, combined with the months
employed and the hours actually worked,
meet the FMLA eligibility threshold of 12
months of employment and the hours of
service requirement. See 825.110(b)(2)(i) and
(c)(2) and 825.802(c).
(h) For further information on Federal
antidiscrimination laws applied by section
201 of the CAA (2 U.S.C. 1311), including Title
VII, the Rehabilitation Act, and the ADA, in-
dividuals are encouraged to contact the Of-
fice of Congressional Workplace Rights.
f
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
Cheryl L. Johnson, Clerk of the
House, reported and found truly en-
rolled bills of the House of the fol-
lowing titles, which were thereupon
signed by the Speaker:
H.R. 8247. An Act to make certain improve-
ments relating to the transition of individ-
uals to services from the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs, suicide prevention for vet-
erans, and care and services for women vet-
erans, and for other purposes.
H.R. 8276. An Act to authorize the Presi-
dent to posthumously award the Medal of
Honor to Alwyn C. Cashe for acts of valor
during Operation Iraqi Freedom.
f
BILLS PRESENTED TO THE
PRESIDENT
Cheryl L. Johnson, Clerk of the
House, reported that on October 20,
2020, she presented to the President of
the United States, for his approval, the
following bills:
H.R. 561. To amend title 38, United States
Code, to improve the oversight of contracts
awarded by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
to small business concerns owned and con-
trolled by veterans, and for other purposes.
H.R. 1952. To amend the Intercountry
Adoption Act of 2000 to require the Secretary
of State to report on intercountry adoptions
from countries which have significantly re-
duced adoption rates involving immigration
to the United States, and for other purposes.
H.R. 3399. To amend the Nutria Eradication
and Control Act of 2003 to include California
in the program, and for other purposes.
H.R. 2359. To direct the Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs to submit to Congress a report
on the Department of Veterans Affairs ad-
vancing of whole health transformation.
H.R. 4183. To direct the Comptroller Gen-
eral of the United States to conduct a study
on disability and pension benefits provided
to members of the National Guard and mem-
bers of reserve components of the Armed
Forces by the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs, and for other purposes.
f
ADJOURNMENT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to section 4(b) of House Resolution
967, the House stands adjourned until 10
a.m. tomorrow for morning-hour de-
bate and noon for legislative business.
Thereupon (at 9 o’clock and 12 min-
utes p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow, Tues-
day, November 17, 2020, at 10 a.m. for
morning-hour debate.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
EC-5605. A letter from the Chief, Regu-
latory Coordination Division, U.S. Citizen-
ship and Immigration Services, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting the De-
partment’s Major interim final rule —
Strengthening the H-1B Nonimmigrant Visa
Classification Program [CIS No. 2658-20 DHS
Docket No. USCIS-2020-0018] (RIN 1615-AC13)
received November 4, 2020, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
EC-5606. A letter from the President of the
United States, transmitting a notification of
the intention to suspend the duty-free treat-
ment accorded to Thailand under the Gener-
alized System of Preferences program, pur-
suant to 19 U.S.C. 2462(d)(3); Public Law 93-
618, Sec. 502(d)(3) (as added by Public Law
104-188, Sec. 1952(a)); (110 Stat. 1917) (H. Doc.
No. 116—171); to the Committee on Ways and
Means and ordered to be printed.
EC-5607. A letter from the Regulations Co-
ordinator, Center for Consumer Information
and Insurance Oversight, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting
the Department’s Major final rule — Trans-
parency in Coverage [CMS-9915-F] (RIN 0938-
AU04) received November 5, 2020, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); jointly to the Committees
on Energy and Commerce and Ways and
Means.
EC-5608. A letter from the Regulations Co-
ordinator, Center for Consumer Information
and Insurance Oversight, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting
the Department’s Major final rule — Addi-
tional Policy and Regulatory Revisions in
Response to the COVID-19 Public Health
Emergency [CMS-9912- IFC] (RIN 0938-AU35)
received November 5, 2020, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); jointly to the Committees
on Energy and Commerce and Ways and
Means.
EC-5609. A letter from the Regulations Co-
ordinator, Centers for Medicare and Med-
icaid Services, Department of Health and
Human Services, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s Major final rule — Medicare and Med-
icaid Programs; CY 2021 Home Health Pro-
spective Payment System Rate Update,
Home Health Quality Reporting Program Re-
quirements, and Home Infusion Therapy
Services and Supplier Enrollment Require-
ments; and Home Health Value-Based Pur-
chasing Model Data Submission
Requirments [CMS-1730-F, CMS-1744-IFC,
and CMS-5531- IFC] (RIN 0938-AU06, 0938-
AU31, and 0938-AU32) received November 5,
2020, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); jointly
to the Committees on Energy and Commerce
and Ways and Means.
EC-5610. A letter from the Regulations Co-
ordinator, Centers for Medicare and Med-
icaid Services, Department of Health and
Human Services, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s Major final rule — Medicare Pro-
gram; End-Stage Renal Disease Prospective
Payment System, Payment for Renal Dialy-
sis Services Furnished to Individuals with
Acute Kidney Injury, and End-Stage Renal
Disease Quality Incentive Program [CMS-
1732-F] (RIN 0938-AU08) received November 5,
2020, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); jointly
to the Committees on Energy and Commerce
and Ways and Means.
EC-5611. A letter from the President of the
United States, transmitting an Executive
Order addressing the threat from securities
investments that finance communist Chinese
military companies, pursuant to 50 U.S.C.
1703(b); Public Law 95-223, Sec. 204(b); (91
Stat. 1627) and 50 U.S.C. 1621(a); Public Law
94-412, Sec. 201(a); (90 Stat. 1255) (H. Doc. No.
116—170); jointly to the Committees on For-
eign Affairs and Financial Services, and or-
dered to be printed.
EC-5612. A letter from the Chair of the
Board of Directors, Office of Congressional
Workplace Rights, transmitting a Notice of
Proposed Rulemaking regarding modifica-
tions to the rights and protections under the
Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993
(FMLA), as required by 2 U.S.C. 1312, Con-
gressional Accountability Act of 1995, as
amended (CAA), for publication in the Con-
gressional Record, pursuant to 2 U.S.C.
1384(b)(1); Public Law 104-1, Sec. 304(b)(1); (109
Stat. 29); jointly to the Committees on
House Administration and Education and
Labor.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. GRIJALVA: Committee on Natural Re-
sources. H.R. 6237. A bill to amend the Indian
Health Care Improvement Act to clarify the
requirement of the Department of Veterans
Affairs and the Department of Defense to re-
imburse the Indian Health Service for cer-
tain health care services (Rept. 116–569, Pt.
1). Referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
Mr. DEFAZIO: Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure. H.R. 5919. A bill to
amend title 40, United States Code, to re-
quire the Administrator of General Services
to enter into a cooperative agreement with
the National Children’s Museum to provide
the National Children’s Museum rental space
without charge in the Ronald Reagan Build-
ing and International Trade Center, and for
other purposes; with an amendment (Rept.
116–570). Referred to the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union.
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 4499. A bill to amend the
Public Health Service Act to provide that
the authority of the Director of the National
Institute on Minority Health and Health Dis-
parities to make certain research endow-
ments applies with respect to both current
and former centers of excellence, and for
other purposes (Rept. 116–571). Referred to
the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union.
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 4712. A bill to amend the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act with
respect to limitations on exclusive approval
or licensure of orphan drugs, and for other
purposes; with an amendment (Rept. 116–572).
Referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 5668. A bill to amend the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:44 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.029 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5795
November 16, 2020
modernize the labeling of certain generic
drugs, and for other purposes; with an
amendment (Rept. 116–573). Referred to the
Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union.
Mr. DEFAZIO: Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure. H.R. 2914. A bill to
make available necessary disaster assistance
for families affected by major disasters, and
for other purposes; with an amendment
(Rept. 116–574). Referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the Union.
Mr. DEFAZIO: Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure. H.R. 4358. A bill to
direct the Administrator of the Federal
Emergency Management Agency to submit
to Congress a report on preliminary damage
assessment and to establish damage assess-
ment teams in the Federal Emergency Man-
agement Agency, and for other purposes;
with an amendment (Rept. 116–575). Referred
to the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union.
Mr. DEFAZIO: Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure. H.R. 4611. A bill to
modify permitting requirements with re-
spect to the discharge of any pollutant from
the Point Loma Wastewater Treatment
Plant in certain circumstances, and for other
purposes; with an amendment (Rept. 116–576,
Pt. 1). Referred to the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union.
Mr. DEFAZIO: Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure. H.R. 5953. A bill to
amend the Disaster Recovery Reform Act of
2018 to require the Administrator of the Fed-
eral Emergency Management Agency to
waive certain debts owed to the United
States related to covered assistance provided
to an individual or household, and for other
purposes; with an amendment (Rept. 116–577).
Referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
Mr. DEFAZIO: Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure. H.R. 8326. A bill to
amend the Public Works and Economic De-
velopment Act of 1965 to require eligible re-
cipients of certain grants to develop a com-
prehensive economic development strategy
that directly or indirectly increases the ac-
cessibility of affordable, quality child care,
and for other purposes (Rept. 116–578, Pt. 1).
Referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
Mr. DEFAZIO: Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure. H.R. 8408. A bill to
direct the Administrator of the Federal
Aviation Administration to require certain
safety standards relating to aircraft, and for
other purposes (Rept. 116–579). Referred to
the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union.
Mr. DEFAZIO: Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure. H.R. 8266. A bill to
modify the Federal cost share of certain
emergency assistance provided under the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act, to modify the activi-
ties eligible for assistance under the emer-
gency declaration issued by the President on
March 13, 2020, relating to COVID–19, and for
other purposes; with an amendment (Rept.
116–580). Referred to the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union.
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 2117. A bill to improve the
health and safety of Americans living with
food allergies and related disorders, includ-
ing potentially life-threatening anaphylaxis,
food protein-induced enterocolitis syndrome,
and eosinophilic gastrointestinal diseases,
and for other purposes, with an amendment
(Rept. 116–581). Referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the Union.
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 6096. A bill to improve over-
sight by the Federal Communications Com-
mission of the wireless and broadcast emer-
gency alert systems (Rept. 116–582 Pt. 1). Re-
ferred to the Committee of the Whole House
on the state of the Union.
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 3878. A bill to amend the
Controlled Substances Act to clarify the
process for registrants to exercise due dili-
gence upon discovering a suspicious order,
and for other purposes, with an amendment
Rept. 116–583 Pt. 1). Referred to the Com-
mittee of the Whole House on the state of
the Union.
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 4812. A bill to amend the
Controlled Substances Act to provide for the
modification, transfer, and termination of a
registration to manufacture, distribute, or
dispense controlled substances or list I
chemicals, and for other purposes(Rept. 116–
584, Pt. 1). Referred to the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union.
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 4806. A bill to amend the
Controlled Substances Act to authorize the
debarment of certain registrants, and for
other purposes; with an amendment (Rept.
116–585 Pt. 1). Referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the Union.
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 5855. A bill to amend the
Public Health Service Act to establish a
grant program supporting trauma center vio-
lence intervention and violence prevention
programs, and for other purposes (Rept. 116–
586). Referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 2281. A bill to direct the At-
torney General to amend certain regulations
so that practitioners may administer not
more than 3 days’ medication to a person at
one time when administering narcotic drugs
for the purpose of relieving acute withdrawal
symptoms, with amendments (Rept. 116–587,
Pt. 1). Referred to the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union.
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 8121. A bill to require the
Consumer Product Safety Commission to
study the effect of the COVID–19 pandemic
on injuries and deaths associated with con-
sumer products, and for other purposes; with
amendments (Rept. 116–588). Referred to the
Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union.
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 6624. A bill to support sup-
ply chain innovation and multilateral secu-
rity, and for other purposes (Rept. 116–589).
Referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 2610. A bill to establish a
Senior Scams Prevention Advisory Council
to collect and disseminate model educational
materials useful in identifying and pre-
venting scams that affect seniors; with
amendments (Rept. 116–590). Referred to the
Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union.
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 6435. A bill to direct the
Federal Trade Commission to develop and
disseminate information to the public about
scams related to COVID–19, and for other
purposes (Rept. 116–591). Referred to the
Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union.
DISCHARGE OF COMMITTEE
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committee on the Judiciary discharged
from further consideration. H.R. 2281
referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committee on the Judiciary discharged
from further consideration. H.R. 3878
referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committee on Natural Resources dis-
charged from further consideration.
H.R. 4611 referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the
Union.
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committee on the Judiciary discharged
from further consideration. H.R. 4806
referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committee on the Judiciary discharged
from further consideration. H.R. 4812
referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committee on Transportation and In-
frastructure discharged from further
consideration. H.R. 6096 referred to the
Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union.
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committee on Energy and Commerce
discharged from further consideration.
H.R. 6237 referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the
Union.
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committee on Financial Services dis-
charged from further consideration.
H.R. 8326 referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the
Union.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. HUDSON (for himself and Mr.
PANETTA):
H.R. 8752. A bill to authorize the National
Medal of Honor Museum Foundation to es-
tablish a commemorative work in the Dis-
trict of Columbia and its environs, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Natural
Resources.
By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania:
H.R. 8753. A bill to amend the Help Amer-
ica Vote Act of 2002 to provide for the estab-
lishment of election integrity measures by
States and to prohibit ballot harvesting in
Federal elections; to the Committee on the
Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee
on House Administration, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Ms. SCANLON (for herself, Ms.
ESCOBAR, and Ms. GARCIA of Texas):
H.R. 8754. A bill to require States to pro-
vide a minimum number of in-person, se-
cured drop boxes in each county in the State
at which individuals may drop off voted ab-
sentee ballots in elections for Federal office,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
House Administration.
By Ms. SHERRILL (for herself, Mr.
MCKINLEY, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr.
RIGGLEMAN, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. CARSON
of Indiana, Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. KIM, Mr. MORELLE, Mr.
RUSH, Mr. SIRES, Mr. KEVIN HERN of
Oklahoma, Mr. TIMMONS, and Mr.
TONKO):
H.R. 8755. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to expand the scope of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:44 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.030 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5796 November 16, 2020
practitioners eligible for payment for tele-
health services under the Medicare program,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce, and in addition to
the Committee on Ways and Means, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. ADERHOLT (for himself, Ms.
SHALALA, Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. KING of Iowa, Mr.
WEBER of Texas, Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr.
LOUDERMILK, Mr. STAUBER, Mr.
BACON, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mr. LAMALFA, Mr.
WELCH, Mr. MITCHELL, Mr. COMER,
Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New
York, Ms. CRAIG, Mr. SCHWEIKERT,
Mrs. BEATTY, Ms. SHERRILL, Mr.
PERLMUTTER, Mr. BROWN of Mary-
land, Mr. LAMBORN, Mr. LYNCH, Mr.
MCHENRY, Mr. MARSHALL, Ms. BASS,
Mr. HARDER of California, Mr. HICE of
Georgia, Mr. OLSON, Mr. DAVID P.
ROE of Tennessee, Mr. BALDERSON,
Mr. CLOUD, Mr. JOHNSON of Lou-
isiana, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. GOHMERT,
Mr. HASTINGS, and Mr. BISHOP of
Utah):
H. Res. 1220. A resolution expressing sup-
port for the goals of National Adoption
Month and National Adoption Day by pro-
moting national awareness of adoption and
the children waiting for adoption, cele-
brating children and families involved in
adoption, and encouraging the people of the
United States to secure safety, permanency,
and well-being for all children; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
By Ms. BASS (for herself, Ms. NORTON,
Ms. WATERS, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia,
Mr. CLYBURN, Mr. HASTINGS, Ms.
JOHNSON of Texas, Mr. RUSH, Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi, Ms. JACK-
SON LEE, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illi-
nois, Mr. MEEKS, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Mr. CLAY, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of
Georgia, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mr.
CLEAVER, Mr. GREEN of Texas, Ms.
MOORE, Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr. CARSON of
Indiana, Ms. FUDGE, Mr. RICHMOND,
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Ms. WILSON
of Florida, Mr. PAYNE, Mrs. BEATTY,
Mr. JEFFRIES, Mr. VEASEY, Ms. KELLY
of Illinois, Ms. ADAMS, Mrs. LAW-
RENCE, Ms. PLASKETT, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, Mr. EVANS, Ms. BLUNT
ROCHESTER, Mr. BROWN of Maryland,
Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Mr.
MCEACHIN, Mr. HORSFORD, Mr.
ALLRED, Mr. NEGUSE, Ms. OMAR, Ms.
PRESSLEY, Mr. MFUME, Mr. MCGOV-
ERN, Ms. SPEIER, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr.
KIND, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. CASTRO of
Texas, and Ms. JUDY CHU of Cali-
fornia):
H. Res. 1221. A resolution urging the
United States to uphold its commitments
under international treaties related to refu-
gees and asylum-seekers and halt deporta-
tions of Cameroonian citizens; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, and in addition to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. BEYER:
H. Res. 1222. A resolution reaffirming the
sense of the House of Representatives that
the United States must lead the world in
preventing further nuclear proliferation,
while also reducing and eventually elimi-
nating all nuclear weapons; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
By Ms. LEE of California (for herself,
Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico,
Mr. GREEN of Texas, Ms. BARRAGÁN,
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr. CARSON
of Indiana, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama,
Mr. TRONE, Ms. WILSON of Florida,
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Ms. MENG, Mr.
HASTINGS, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr.
MCKINLEY, Ms. HAALAND, Mr. SMITH
of Washington, Mr. SERRANO, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr. ESPAILLAT,
Mr. POCAN, Ms. BASS, and Ms. JUDY
CHU of California):
H. Res. 1223. A resolution supporting the
goals of World AIDS Day; to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. HUDSON:
H.R. 8762.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8
By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania:
H.R. 8753.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 4 and Section 8
By Ms. SCANLON:
H.R. 8754.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section VIII.
By Ms. SHERRILL:
H.R. 8755.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 18 of Section 8 or Article 1 of the
Constitution of the United States of Amer-
ica.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 11: Mrs. MILLER.
H.R. 40: Mr. TRONE and Mrs. KIRKPATRICK.
H.R. 913: Mr. PHILLIPS and Ms. SPEIER.
H.R. 1002: Mr. LAHOOD.
H.R. 1274: Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 1321: Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 1573: Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 1880: Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 1966: Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, Mr.
MORELLE, Mr. MOOLENAAR, Mr. KEVIN HERN
of Oklahoma, and Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio.
H.R. 2117: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 2235: Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma.
H.R. 2350: Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, Mr.
CUELLAR, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. GUEST, Ms.
SCHRIER, and Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 2610: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 2741: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 2825: Mr. EVANS.
H.R. 2878: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 3229: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 3472: Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 3654: Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania.
H.R. 3674: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 3879: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 4150: Mr. MCCAUL, Mr. WALBERG, and
Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas.
H.R. 4499: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 4681: Miss RICE of New York and Mr.
GOHMERT.
H.R. 4712: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 4729: Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 5212: Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma.
H.R. 5312: Mr. RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 5343: Mr. PALLONE.
H.R. 5563: Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. CICILLINE,
and Mr. CÁRDENAS.
H.R. 5586: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 5605: Mr. BALDERSON.
H.R. 5668: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 5774: Mr. JOYCE of Ohio.
H.R. 5957: Mr. FOSTER, Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of
Tennessee, and Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 6104: Mr. RYAN.
H.R. 6179: Mr. BILIRAKIS.
H.R. 6239: Mrs. TRAHAN.
H.R. 6240: Mr. CARSON of Indiana and Ms.
HAALAND.
H.R. 6334: Mr. COHEN and Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 6364: Mr. DESJARLAIS, Mr. DAVIDSON of
Ohio, and Mr. ARMSTRONG.
H.R. 6495: Mr. CORREA.
H.R. 6606: Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 6644: Mr. CASTRO of Texas.
H.R. 6720: Mr. NADLER.
H.R. 6757: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 7029: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 7066: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 7078: Mr. CARSON of Indiana.
H.R. 7225: Mrs. KIRKPATRICK.
H.R. 7483: Mr. LAMB and Mr. LARSEN of
Washington.
H.R. 7521: Ms. SÁNCHEZ.
H.R. 7552: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 7566: Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 7761: Mr. NADLER.
H.R. 7854: Mr. JOYCE of Ohio and Mr.
MORELLE.
H.R. 7935: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 7950: Mr. KILDEE.
H.R. 7990: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 8044: Mr. DEFAZIO.
H.R. 8053: Ms. GARCIA of Texas.
H.R. 8099: Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 8141: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 8179: Mr. PANETTA and Mr. SEAN PAT-
RICK MALONEY of New York.
H.R. 8242: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi.
H.R. 8254: Ms. STEVENS, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ,
Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr. RYAN, Mr. AMODEI, Mr.
KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma, Mr. DANNY K.
DAVIS of Illinois, and Mr. RIGGLEMAN.
H.R. 8326: Ms. WATERS.
H.R. 8339: Ms. HOULAHAN.
H.R. 8346: Mr. BAIRD, Mr. KELLER, Mr.
YOHO, Mr. FLORES, Mr. STEWART, and Mr.
KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma.
H.R. 8361: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 8363: Mr. AGUILAR, Mr. PHILLIPS, Ms.
FRANKEL, and Ms. BONAMICI.
H.R. 8396: Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 8401: Ms. NORTON and Mrs. NAPOLI-
TANO.
H.R. 8438: Ms. WATERS.
H.R. 8455: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 8487: Mr. PENCE and Mrs. WAGNER.
H.R. 8500: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 8527: Mr. BANKS.
H.R. 8531: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 8568: Mr. PANETTA.
H.R. 8614: Mr. BROOKS of Alabama, Mr.
BANKS, Mr. GOSAR, Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio,
Mrs. WAGNER, and Mr. WESTERMAN.
H.R. 8626: Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania and Mr. KIM.
H.R. 8632: Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms. KUSTER of
New Hampshire, and Mr. BROWN of Maryland.
H.R. 8633: Mr. NEAL.
H.R. 8662: Mr. PAYNE, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Ms.
SHERRILL, Mr. VAN DREW, Mr. RUPPERS-
BERGER, Mr. KILDEE, Mrs. MILLER, Mr.
CUELLAR, Ms. STEVENS, Mr. BAIRD, Mr.
POSEY, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. LAN-
GEVIN, and Mr. HILL of Arkansas.
H.R. 8675: Mr. POSEY and Mr. MOONEY of
West Virginia.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L16NO7.100 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5797
November 16, 2020
H.R. 8690: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 8696: Mr. REED and Ms. JUDY CHU of
California.
H.R. 8702: Mr. POSEY, Mrs. MCBATH, Mr.
VAN DREW, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mr. RYAN,
Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr.
GONZALEZ of Ohio, Mrs. AXNE, Mr. BAIRD,
Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. HARRIS, and Mr. YOUNG.
H.R. 8707: Mr. ALLRED.
H.R. 8712: Ms. JOHNSON of Texas.
H.R. 8744: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. CARSON of
Indiana, and Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 8745: Ms. HAALAND.
H. Con. Res. 116: Ms. STEFANIK.
H. Res. 114: Mr. MCKINLEY.
H. Res. 256: Mr. SERRANO, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, and Mr. RUSH.
H. Res. 349: Mr. TAYLOR.
H. Res. 672: Mr. TAYLOR.
H. Res. 697: Mr. TAYLOR.
H. Res. 809: Mr. COHEN.
H. Res. 835: Mr. GOMEZ and Mr. CLEAVER.
H. Res. 1033: Mr. TAYLOR.
H. Res. 1102: Mr. SHERMAN and Mr. DOG-
GETT.
H. Res. 1110: Mr. LEVIN of Michigan.
H. Res. 1114: Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. GALLEGO,
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. MEEKS,
Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY
of New York, Mr. COSTA, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr.
SAN NICOLAS, Mr. RASKIN, Mrs. LAWRENCE,
Ms. SPEIER, Mr. MCGOVERN, and Ms.
DELAURO.
H. Res. 1145: Mr. TAYLOR.
H. Res. 1147: Mr. CASTRO of Texas, Mr.
HUFFMAN, and Mr. CORREA.
H. Res. 1165: Mr. BERA, Mr. MOOLENAAR,
Mr. KELLER, and Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H. Res. 1207: Mr. TAYLOR.
H. Res. 1209: Mr. HUFFMAN and Mr.
BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania.
H. Res. 1213: Mrs. HAYES, Ms. CASTOR of
Florida, Mr. TED LIEU of California, Mrs.
LURIA, Mrs. RADEWAGEN, Mr. LYNCH, Ms.
HAALAND, and Ms. JUDY CHU of California.
H. Res. 1216: Mr. COOPER and Ms. OMAR.
H. Res. 1218: Ms. FINKENAUER and Mrs.
AXNE.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO7.039 H16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S6687
Vol. 166 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2020 No. 194
Senate
The Senate met at 3 p.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Eternal Redeemer, provide our law-
makers with Your grace, mercy, and
peace. By Your grace, may they forget
the challenges behind them. By Your
mercy, may they reach for the opportu-
nities that beckon. By Your peace, may
they possess an equanimity of tempera-
ment during life’s fluctuating intrica-
cies.
Lord, give them a passion for truth
and a reluctance to major in minors.
Use their exemplary lives to inspire
people to live with faith, purpose and
power.
Remind us all that though we may
plan, You determine what will finally
happen.
We pray in Your Great Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
HAWLEY). The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent for 1 minute for
morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
CORONAVIRUS
Mr. GRASSLEY. Although promising
vaccines for the coronavirus are on the
horizon, it is more important than ever
to stop the surge. Countries across the
world are seeing cases explode.
It is critical for Iowans to step up
their personal responsibilities to stay
safe and healthy for themselves and
their loved ones. And that, of course,
includes our tireless healthcare profes-
sionals—those on the frontlines, work-
ing to save lives.
This virus is hitting rural and urban
areas alike. No community is immune.
I ask every Iowan to continue to do
their part to keep their family and
neighbors safe: Wash your hands; limit
your activity outside your household;
social distance; wear a mask.
We are going to get through this to-
gether, but we need everyone to do
their part.
I yield the floor.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
f
CORONAVIRUS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President,
once again, this morning brought two
different sets of headlines on the pan-
demic we have been battling for the
last 9 months.
On one hand, rates of infection and
hospitalization are rising rapidly na-
tionwide. We must all continue taking
smart precautions, such as wearing
masks and practicing social distancing.
But at the same time, we continue to
receive hopeful signs that victory may
actually be on the horizon.
This morning, the American biotech
firm Moderna and our National Insti-
tutes of Health announced that early
trials suggest the vaccine they are
jointly developing may be both safe
and more than 94 percent effective.
This follows Pfizer’s similar an-
nouncement last week. As former FDA
Commissioner Scott Gottlieb summed
it up this morning, ‘‘when the full data
comes out, we may have two highly ef-
fective vaccines against COVID.’’
If these results hold, we are told the
first doses of a vaccine could be admin-
istered to certain vulnerable people as
soon as next month, with wider dis-
tribution by next spring. This is a re-
markable testament to American inge-
nuity: to bright researchers and brave
test participants, to bold commitments
from the private sector, and historic
support from smart public policy like
Operation Warp Speed from the Trump
administration and from this Senate.
As Moderna’s CEO said this morning,
‘‘I want to thank our partners at
BARDA and Operation Warp Speed who
have been instrumental in accelerating
our progress to this point.’’
Operation Warp Speed spent billions
in funding to expedite research and de-
velopment. It provided a streamlined
regulatory environment and
prepurchase agreements to reduce risk.
It has mobilized the compilation of the
basic supplies—things like needles and
swabs—that need to travel with the
vaccine itself.
We have every indication that this
historic public-private partnership is
on track to deliver a scientific miracle
and help us defeat the virus in the
months ahead.
Certainly there is no time to waste.
Kentucky just announced our highest
ever weekly count of new positive
cases. The numbers are troubling in
places all across our country. So, for
now, our job is to continue doing all we
can to stay safe and slow the spread.
f
MILITARY WITHDRAWAL
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, on
a totally different matter, the last sev-
eral days have brought renewed specu-
lation about the prospect of rapidly
withdrawing all U.S. military forces
from Syria, Iraq, and Afghanistan.
Here in Congress, a small minority in
both parties seem to think it is in
America’s power to unilaterally re-
move conflicts by simply walking away
from them.
Let me say that again. A small mi-
nority in both parties seem to think it
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.000 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6688 November 16, 2020
is in America’s power to unilaterally
resolve conflicts by simply walking
away from them.
Of course all wars must end. The
question is now how they end and
whether the terms on which they end
are favorable or unfavorable to the se-
curity and interests of the United
States.
And nothing about the circumstances
we face today suggests that if we lose
resolve, the terrorists will simply leave
us alone.
Over the last 4 years, the Trump ad-
ministration has made tremendous
headway in creating the conditions
that will secure the enduring defeat of
the terrorists. This President and his
policies have strengthened America’s
hand in multiple Middle East conflicts
while reducing the risks and costs to
our country. The ISIS caliphate has
been shattered, and millions have been
liberated from their brutal rule. We
have removed master terrorists like al-
Baghdadi, Soleimani, and senior al-
Qaida and ISIS leaders from the battle-
field.
The Trump administration has bro-
kered diplomatic successes that should
help bring long-term stability and
more economic opportunity to a trou-
bled region. The Abraham Accords are
a geostrategic game changer.
The last 4 years have also brought in-
creased skin in the game from our al-
lies and our partners. Our friends in
Europe and elsewhere have a shared in-
terest in stopping safe havens for ter-
ror. Today, in Africa, our limited
American presence supports a multi-
national initiative led by France to
combat radical Islamic terrorists.
Likewise, in places where American
forces continue to play roles in ongoing
conflicts across the broader Middle
East, Secretaries Mattis and Esper
worked hard and successfully to secure
renewed contributions from European
partners and to transition our posture
more and more toward a supporting
role.
Our local partners are demonstrably
shouldering the lion’s share of the bur-
den in the fight. In neither Afghanistan
nor Iraq nor Syria are American com-
bat forces playing a primary role.
We have scored major battlefield suc-
cesses by supporting and working with
and through local partners, such as the
Afghan National Security Forces, the
elite Iraqi Counter Terrorism Service,
and the local Kurdish and Arab fighters
of the Syrian Democratic Forces.
So the situation we face today is to-
tally different than what we faced 10
years ago. We do not have hundreds of
thousands of soldiers engaged in com-
bat abroad.
We do not have hundreds of thou-
sands of soldiers engaged in combat
abroad. We are not an occupying force.
Today, our limited American mili-
tary presence in the Middle East is sup-
porting local forces and enabling mul-
tinational efforts.
We are playing a limited—limited
but important role in defending Amer-
ican national security and American
interests against terrorists who would
like nothing more than for the most
powerful force for good in the world to
simply pick up our ball and go home.
They would love that. That is why,
last year, 70 Senators—a bipartisan
supermajority—voted for an amend-
ment I authored that acknowledged the
progress made in Syria and Afghani-
stan, identified the risks that remain,
and cautioned that precipitous with-
drawal would create vacuums that
Iran, Russia, and the terrorists would
be delighted—delighted—to fill.
There is no American who does not
wish the war in Afghanistan against
terrorists and their enablers had al-
ready been conclusively won. But that
does not change the actual choice be-
fore us now.
A rapid withdrawal of U.S. forces
from Afghanistan now would hurt our
allies and delight—delight—the people
who wish us harm. Violence affecting
Afghans is still rampant. The Taliban
is not abiding by the conditions of the
so-called peace deal.
The consequences of a premature
American exit would likely be even
worse than President Obama’s with-
drawal from Iraq back in 2011, which
fueled—fueled—the rise of ISIS and a
new round of global terrorism. It would
be reminiscent of the humiliating
American departure from Saigon in
1975.
We would be abandoning our partners
in Afghanistan, the brave Afghans who
are fighting the terrorists and destroy-
ing the government’s leverage in their
talks with the Taliban that are de-
signed to end the fighting.
Our retreat would embolden the
Taliban, especially the deadly Haqqani
wing, and risk plunging Afghan women
and girls back into what they experi-
enced back in the 1990s. It would hand
a weakened and scattered al-Qaida a
big, big propaganda victory and a re-
newed safe haven for plotting attacks
against America. And it would be wel-
come news to Iran, which has long pro-
vided arms and support to the Taliban
and explicitly seeks our retreat from
the Middle East.
A disorganized retreat would jeop-
ardize the track record of major suc-
cesses this administration has worked
hard to compile. A number of former
officials and Ambassadors recently
stated: ‘‘The spectacle of U.S. troops
abandoning facilities and equipment,
leaving the field in Afghanistan to the
Taliban and ISIS, would be broadcast
around the world as a symbol of U.S.
defeat and humiliation, and a victory
for Islamist extremism.’’
President Trump deserves major
credit—major credit—for reducing U.S.
forces in Afghanistan to a sustainable
level, scoring major victories against
terrorists across the region, and ensur-
ing the Afghans themselves are at the
front of the fight.
That same successful approach
should continue until the conditions
for the long-term defeat of ISIS and al-
Qaida have been achieved.
NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZA-
TION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2021
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 505, H.R. 6395.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 6395) to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2021 for military activi-
ties of the Department of Defense and for
military construction, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and
for other purposes.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the Inhofe substitute
amendment at the desk be considered
and agreed to and that the bill, as
amended, be considered read a third
time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment (No. 2682), in the na-
ture of a substitute, was agreed to as
follows:
(The amendment is printed in today’s
RECORD under ‘‘Text of Amendments.’’)
The amendment was ordered to be
engrossed and the bill to be read a
third time.
The bill was read the third time.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I know of no fur-
ther debate on the bill, as amended.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. If there
is no further debate, the bill having
been read the third time, the question
is, Shall the bill pass?
The bill (H.R. 6395), as amended, was
passed.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the motion to reconsider
be considered made and laid upon the
table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
f
NOMINATION OF JUDY SHELTON
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, to-
morrow, the Senate will vote on the
nomination of Judy Shelton to serve
on the Board of Governors of the Fed-
eral Reserve. Judy Shelton’s views are
breathtakingly extreme and retro-
grade. She actually seems to prefer the
economic policies that foregrounded
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6689
November 16, 2020
the Great Depression. She has openly
advocated a return to the gold stand-
ard. She has long questioned the need
for Federal deposit insurance, and, in
March 2009, in the midst of our last
economic crisis, she questioned: Why
do we need a central bank?
Imagine someone like Ms. Shelton,
with her retrograde views, sitting on
the Federal Reserve during a time of
economic crisis? Imagine someone like
that making decisions about monetary
policy back in April, when our econ-
omy was in free fall? We should not
confirm to the Federal Reserve some-
one who would likely stymie efforts to
dig ourselves out of this economic cri-
sis.
I urge every one of my colleagues,
Democratic and Republican, to reject
this terrible, terrible nomination.
f
CORONAVIRUS
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President,
COVID–19, as we know, unfortunately,
has upended nearly every aspect of
American life for the better part of a
year. But as impatient as we all are for
our lives to return to normal, the harsh
truth of the matter is that the coming
months may be, by far, the worst of the
pandemic.
Cases have skyrocketed to well over
150,000 Americans per day. We are now
recording more than 1 million new
COVID cases a week. Hospital ICUs and
morgues in many parts of the country
are approaching or even beyond capac-
ity.
Americans must brace themselves for
a long winter. We cannot tire of the
simple precautions that limit the
spread of the disease and save lives.
Wear a mask, social distance, avoid
large indoor gatherings, and stay vigi-
lant. We must all continue to do our
part to prevent this next surge from
overwhelming our health systems and
endangering our fellow citizens. Con-
gress, as well, should be doing all that
is necessary to support those efforts
and prevent the worst from happening.
Too many Americans have lost
healthcare coverage as a result of los-
ing their jobs this year. Medicaid has
seen a huge increase in new enrollees
and needs resources. As unemployment
remains in the tens of millions, extend-
ing unemployment insurance is para-
mount, and many more things besides.
Speaker PELOSI and I have been in
regular communication with Presi-
dent-Elect Biden and his transition
team. Unlike the current administra-
tion, the incoming administration
wants to move rapidly to get a handle
on the virus and recover our economy.
Today, President-Elect Biden urged the
Senate to pass the Heroes Act—com-
prehensive legislation that leaves no
one behind. That is just the right ap-
proach. Our country deserves a bill
that meets the needs of the American
people and that meets the needs of the
moment.
If Leader MCCONNELL and our Repub-
lican colleagues want to sit down and
negotiate a bipartisan solution with a
bipartisan process, Democrats are
ready and willing and able to do so,
but, unfortunately, it has been 2 weeks
since Leader MCCONNELL said he was in
charge of negotiating the next COVID–
19 relief bill, and he still hasn’t spoken
to Speaker PELOSI or myself.
We have 14 votes on the floor this
week on nominations for a lameduck
President, but we have nothing—noth-
ing—pertaining to COVID. There is,
however, a bit of good news today. A
second U.S. company announced that it
has discovered an effective vaccine in
phase 3 trials. Early figures suggest it
is close to 95 percent effective. As these
two vaccines move through the final
approval process, we should prepare the
country to produce and distribute them
to everyone in a comprehensive bill
that includes robust vaccine funding.
Finally, there is light at the end of
the tunnel, but we are still in that tun-
nel and may be so for several months.
So we must pull together, once again,
to do everything in our individual
power to turn the tide of the virus.
f
2020 ELECTIONS
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, in-
stead of working to pull the country
back together so we can fight our com-
mon enemy, COVID–19, the Republican
majority is busy spreading conspiracy
theories denying reality and poisoning
the well of our democracy.
It seems like Republicans all over
Washington are auditioning for ‘‘Pro-
files in Cowardice,’’ nudging each other
aside to say who can say the most out-
landish thing in support of President
Trump’s baseless claims of election
fraud. Two Members of this Chamber
went so far as to accuse their State’s
election result of not being delivered
honestly because President Trump
didn’t win. They demanded their own
Secretary of State, a fellow Repub-
lican, resign. The two Senators pro-
vided no evidence—not a shred—to sup-
port the claim that the election wasn’t
conducted honestly.
A Republican Governor this weekend
supported the idea of States sending al-
ternative slates of electors to the elec-
toral college. He encouraged Repub-
lican State legislators and States that
voted for Joe Biden to literally ignore
the will of the voters to send electors
who would vote for Donald Trump.
I understand my Republican col-
leagues dislike the results of the Presi-
dential election, but this has gone be-
yond ridiculous. This is reckless. Presi-
dent Trump is working to convince
millions of Americans that the election
wasn’t fair and was stolen without a
scrap of evidence. Whatever fears my
colleagues might have about President
Trump abandoning their party if they
don’t show sufficient support, that is
no excuse for sanctioning his efforts to
discredit our democratic elections.
The percentage of Republicans who
now believe that the election was not
free and fair has doubled to 70 per-
cent—7–0—in the United States of
America. How much longer will Senate
Republicans stand by while President
Trump shreds Americans’ faith in our
democracy.
So I have a very simple message for
my colleagues. The election is over.
President Trump lost. Joe Biden will
be the next President of the United
States. KAMALA HARRIS will be the
next Vice President of the United
States. All over the country legal
claims by the President are being
laughed out of court. Ironically, the
President’s legal challenges have ac-
complished one thing: They have re-
vealed just how secure our elections
were. As courts from Pennsylvania to
Michigan, to Arizona dismiss these
claims, they are confirming there is no
credible evidence of fraud or irregular-
ities. So far, not one vote has been
tossed out. These are facts, and the
longer Republicans refuse to acknowl-
edge them, the more damage is done.
In order to keep up this charade, the
Trump administration is now actually
denying national security briefings to
President-Elect Biden. It is actively re-
fusing to coordinate with the incoming
administration on the coronavirus.
How unimaginably stupid is that? We
shouldn’t even be discussing for 1
minute whether or not Republicans
will accept the democratic results of
our Presidential election or whether
the next President should receive secu-
rity briefings. That should be a given.
But it appears, sadly, unfortunately,
my Republican colleagues will follow
President Trump all the way down the
rabbit hole to the very bitter end of his
very bitter Presidency. And every day
that goes by, the more damage is done
to our country, to our national secu-
rity, to our ability to fight COVID, and
to America’s faith in our democracy.
So I plead with my Republican col-
leagues: Stop denying reality. Stop
recklessly sowing doubt about our
democratic process. Stop going down to
the lowest common denominator that
President Trump seems to live with all
the time, and start focusing on COVID.
Let’s bring this country together and
get some things done.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16NO6.004 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6690 November 16, 2020
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to resume
consideration of the following nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Kristi Haskins Johnson, of
Mississippi, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Southern District of
Mississippi.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Vermont.
CORONAVIRUS
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I am
struck by the fact, as I call people
around my State of Vermont, which,
like your State and every State, has
suffered from COVID—although I com-
pliment our Republican Governor, who
has kept the numbers down lower than
practically any other State in the
country. But we are facing winter, and
even today, the outgoing President
does not seem to be willing to acknowl-
edge the huge mistake he made in not
accepting the fact that we had a
COVID pandemic coming to this coun-
try. We lost too much time preparing
for it. We are still not adequately pre-
pared for it. We could take some hope
in the news of new vaccinations, but
even that is going to take months be-
fore than can be fully implemented.
The reason I mention this is that the
Senate time and again is voting on ju-
dicial nominees who have been rec-
ommended predominantly by a special
interest group or a couple of different
special interest groups. We have to
vote on these special interest judges
for lifetime appointments, but we can’t
do a single thing to help the average
people who are suffering because of
COVID. It should not be a Republican
or a Democratic issue.
In my State, I hear from business
people who have small B&Bs, may have
a restaurant and a small business—
they don’t identify themselves as Re-
publicans or Democrats; they just say:
We can’t open. What are we going to
do?
I hear from parents who say: What is
being done so our kids can go back to
school? The schools say they could
probably do something, but they need
the money to set up various COVID
protections.
Small hospitals are overwhelmed. We
have seen this in States all over the
country. The hospitals are being over-
whelmed, and the people working there
are being overwhelmed.
The U.S. Senate hasn’t done a single
thing. We had a bill before us from the
House in June and July. We could have
voted on it. The Republican leader
said: No, we can’t, because there are
some parts we Republicans may not
like. Well, that is why you vote. Bring
it up. Vote it up or vote it down. Bring
up amendments. Vote for them or vote
against them, but do it. Instead, we
spend our time day after day after day
voting on special interest judges—peo-
ple who have been proposed by special
interests groups, who are picked be-
cause they feel they would vote with
these special interests groups. What we
should be doing is taking a little time
off from that and voting for the Amer-
ican people.
In my State, we have Republicans
and Democrats. We have a Republican
Governor who is doing an excellent job.
He has just been reelected. We have a
wonderful Democratic woman who has
been elected as the new Lieutenant
Governor. They both want to work to-
gether to get people back to school,
back to work, protect their health.
They keep saying: When is the help
coming from Washington?
I think that instead of spending all of
this time talking about fanciful
thoughts—I saw one of the Trump sup-
porters on television saying that she
was there to rally for Donald Trump,
to resist those millions of votes that
came in at the last minute from China,
into these voting booths. She thor-
oughly believed it, and she seemed like
a really intelligent person. But let’s
talk about reality.
The reality is that COVID did not go
away in the spring, as the President
said. The reality is that you have to
wear masks. The reality is that you
have to take steps to keep from getting
COVID. The reality is that our schools
are suffering, our families are suf-
fering, our small businesses are suf-
fering, our government agencies are
suffering—America is suffering.
I think about a few years ago when
we had the Ebola plague, and the
Obama administration put in place,
with strong bipartisan support, a spe-
cial unit at the White House to react to
plagues or serious novel diseases com-
ing here. As a result, America was pro-
tected. But what we also did, as Amer-
ica does best, is we helped other coun-
tries to handle the question of Ebola.
What did we do when this adminis-
tration came in? Well, because Presi-
dent Obama set up that infectious dis-
ease unit, they quickly disbanded it.
For months, as these reports were com-
ing in making it very clear we were
facing a serious threat to the United
States, they ignored it and refused to
acknowledge it. Now at least they have
acknowledged it somewhat but are un-
willing to take the steps necessary to
fight it.
So I suggest that the U.S. Senate do
its job. Hold off for a while on these
special interest judges and actually
vote for the things that help people
who don’t have special interests—the
vast majority of Republicans and
Democrats, men and women, families
throughout the United States of Amer-
ica. Do something to help them. Bring
up the bills. Bring up the COVID bills.
Bring up the appropriations bills. Cer-
tainly, Senator SHELBY and I are pre-
pared to bring them to the floor. If peo-
ple don’t like a particular bill, then
bring up an amendment. Vote it up or
down. What are we afraid of? Why are
we afraid to vote? Vote it up or down.
Let the American people see what we
are doing.
Certainly, I do not know a single per-
son, Republican or Democrat, in my
State who would tell me: Well, I would
much rather have you vote on these
special interest judges than to vote on
things that might actually help us
keep our businesses from closing, help
us be able to afford our kids going to
school, help us put food on our table.
That is what we should be doing.
Let’s vote on real things. Let’s vote on
the COVID appropriations. Let’s vote
on the help. Let’s bring up our appro-
priations bills. After all, in just a few
weeks, all funding for the government
stops. Bring it up and vote on it. Vote
up on down. If people don’t want to
fund the government, then vote no. If
they want to fund the government,
vote yes. If they don’t like a particular
part of the funding package, bring up
an amendment and have the courage to
put your name on it and then vote up
or down.
I will speak further on this as we go
on. I see one of my colleagues on the
floor. I think he wants to speak.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from the Kansas.
RISER ACT
Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, I am on
the floor this afternoon to encourage
us in the U.S. Senate to address at
least some of the needs related to the
consequences of COVID–19.
There is a deadline that is fast ap-
proaching. This problem was created in
the statute by legislation that was
passed, the CARES Act. I have intro-
duced legislation called the RISER Act
to offer a solution to the issue I am
about to describe.
As COVID–19 has swept across the
country, businesses and community in-
stitutions have been forced to adapt to
the virus, fundamentally changing the
way in which they operate. More peo-
ple are working from home today than
ever before, while others are being
asked to dedicate increased resources
for public health precautions and sup-
port management. Virtual education
and healthcare have also expanded
greatly as communities are forced to
conduct ordinary functions from afar
to prevent the spread of the disease.
Adapting to the realities of this
newly virtual economy is costly. To aid
in this transition, as part of the
CARES Act, Congress established the
Coronavirus Relief Fund, or CRF. It is
a multibillion-dollar fund for State and
local governments to disburse, cov-
ering a variety of expenses that have
arisen due to COVID–19. Expenses that
can be paid from the CRF funds include
providing small businesses and other
organizations with grants to reimburse
them for costs associated with han-
dling coronavirus.
This funding was partly intended to
address immediate, unforeseen costs
absorbed by our public emergency offi-
cials and healthcare providers. Kansas
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16NO6.006 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6691
November 16, 2020
counties’ health departments have in-
creasingly relied on this funding to en-
sure they are able to meet the needs of
their community now and into the fu-
ture as this pandemic stretches on.
Many States, including my own of
Kansas, have also established forward-
looking programs to distribute grants
for economic development projects
that respond to COVID–19, such as tele-
medicine, tele-education projects, and
projects that would improve broadband
infrastructure in rural and underserved
areas. These communities already face
a sharp divide in terms of broadband
availability, and this pandemic has
highlighted that. Unfortunately, for all
the work we have accomplished in
spreading the use of broadband, the
availability of broadband, increasing
its connectivity, there are still plenty
of areas that need to be improved for
access to quality internet services.
As more broadband-intensive work
like video conferencing and virtual ap-
pointments now takes place at a much
higher rate, the urgency to improve
these services increases. Rural commu-
nities stand to lose the most without
these types of projects.
Many of the projects require long
lead times to wisely plan, appropriate,
and expend Federal funding. However—
and here is the problem—the CARES
Act mandates that CRF funds be spent
by the end of this year, now just a lit-
tle more than a month away. This is
absolutely not enough time for prepa-
ration-intensive projects to be care-
fully planned and executed. The cur-
rent deadline puts several long-term
economic development plans at risk of
losing funding if they are not com-
pleted by December 31, and it also pre-
vents new, meaningful proposals from
being considered in the first place.
Many Kansans—from our county
health departments to our universities,
to our schools, to our cities and coun-
ties, to mayors and county commis-
sioners whom I have visited with—have
urged us to extend this looming dead-
line. We need to have a longer period of
time so that the Federal dollars are
not spent—I always try to avoid using
the phrase ‘‘Federal dollars.’’ They are
really taxpayer dollars or borrowed
money that has to be paid back by tax-
payers. It is a silly proposition that we
would require the money to be spent
when what it will mean is we will
spend money less effectively and less
efficiently than we otherwise would in
the absence of this near-term deadline.
That is why Senator ROBERTS and I
have introduced the Remove Impedi-
ments for a Successful Economic Re-
covery Act, or RISER. This bill would
extend that deadline for State and
local governments by 2 years for a set
of currently eligible expenditures that
meet criteria for qualified economic
development plans.
This bill would allow funds for crit-
ical projects that require additional at-
tention and time for a more thoughtful
investment to be spent more effec-
tively without cutting short a stra-
tegic investment that Congress made
back in March to support our commu-
nities that need it the most.
I believe that State and local govern-
ments know what is best for their com-
munities, including where and when to
spend these Federal dollars.
Extending the relief for CRF pay-
ments dedicated to, particularly, job
creation projects will allow Kansas and
other States to strategically target
areas of need over a longer period of
time, making more certain that our
taxpayer dollars are making the great-
est impact to help our people recover
from this pandemic. This will better
ensure that the areas in need identified
by States and localities have a stable
source of investment that will aid in
the ongoing economic recovery.
That said, I remain engaged with the
Treasury and Senate Finance Com-
mittee to improve the RISER Act to
ensure the availability of bipartisan
support. This is a bill I want to pass,
not a bill I just want to introduce.
While this thoughtful discussion with
Treasury and the Finance Committee
continues, I recognize that Congress
must urgently act to extend the dead-
line in the meantime.
While I have a particular bill that
does things that I think are hugely im-
portant in this arena, I also recognize
that we don’t have the time to wait.
Often throughout these few days that I
have been home, away from Wash-
ington, DC, I have been asked: How is
your legislation coming? The answer
is: There is broad bipartisan support.
Most Senators—most Republican Sen-
ators and most Democratic Senators—
are supportive of this measure, but the
issue is: Will we be able to extend the
deadline in time for our local units of
government to know that they have an
additional amount of time, or, in the
absence of that, will we allow them or
require them to spend money in ways
less effective or efficient than they
otherwise would?
I know that there are other pieces of
legislation introduced by a few of my
colleagues that would offer what we
would call a clean extension of the CRF
deadline, and I urge my Senate col-
leagues to support the immediate en-
actment of these legislative proposals
to provide flexibility in fostering
meaningful investments in our home
States.
Around here, too often, it seems that
if we can’t do everything to solve a
problem, we do nothing to solve a prob-
lem. I have never understood that atti-
tude or approach. The things that we
can agree on—and this is one, I think,
on which we can, this extension of the
deadline—we ought not wait for a larg-
er package that continues to be nego-
tiated between the White House and
Speaker PELOSI or between Republican
and Democratic leadership in the Sen-
ate or the Republican leadership with
the Democratic leadership in the
House.
Whatever the negotiations ongoing
today to get us to a point in which we
are addressing what we generally call
phase 4, another effort to improve the
opportunities for us to provide relief to
our constituents due to the pandemic—
whatever all those machinations are—
they will not happen quickly enough,
and they certainly will not happen
quickly enough to make certain that
our local officials and their citizens
know that they no longer would need
to spend the money that we have pro-
vided them in the next 5 or 6 weeks.
By including the coronavirus relief
fund in the CARES Act, Congress ex-
tended a hand to States, local govern-
ments, and areas in need across the
country that are looking to adapt to
the new realities of the ongoing pan-
demic. In the absence of an extension
of the deadline, money will be misspent
and will certainly not be spent in the
most effective and valuable way.
I urge my colleagues not only to sup-
port the legislation that I have intro-
duced, the RISER Act, but to work
with others—all of us—to come to a
point in which we are capable this
week—if it doesn’t get done this week,
it probably means very little in an ex-
tension—to this week pass an exten-
sion beyond December 31 for the use of
those CARES dollars in States across
the Nation.
I urge my colleagues to join my legis-
lation. I urge my colleagues to join to
ensure that the hand we offered under
the CARES Act won’t be withdrawn
way too soon. I am thankful for the op-
portunity to address my colleagues in
the Senate.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms.
ERNST). The Senator from Iowa.
REMEMBERING ROGER JEPSEN
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President,
today I pay tribute to our former col-
league and my friend, former U.S. Sen-
ator Roger Jepsen. Roger Jepsen
passed away last Friday, at age 91, at
Clarissa C. Cook Hospice House in Quad
Cities, IA.
An Iowa native and an American pa-
triot, Roger devoted his life in service
to his family, faith, and community.
He spent his youth on his family farm
near Cedar Falls, about 5 miles from
where I was born and grew up. I still re-
side within 4 miles of the farmhouse
where I was born.
Regardless of the close proximity of
us as young people, I didn’t become ac-
quainted with Roger until he rep-
resented Scott County in the Iowa Leg-
islature. I wish I had known him ear-
lier when we were neighbors, as chil-
dren.
For 14 years, Roger served our coun-
try in the U.S. Army. He was a para-
trooper in the 82nd Airborne Division,
and then he later served in the Army
Reserve.
Roger worked for 20 years in the life
insurance business and was a member
of the National Association of Life Un-
derwriters. Along the way, Roger an-
swered the call to public service and
civic leadership. For more than two
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16NO6.007 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6692 November 16, 2020
decades, he climbed the ranks of elect-
ed officials in service to his community
and the State of Iowa.
He started out as a county supervisor
in Scott County, IA, and went on to
represent his neighbors in Iowa Senate
District 15. An active, grassroots leader
in the Republican Party of Iowa, Roger
served as a delegate to the national
GOP convention of 1972 and 1980.
In 1968, he was elected as Iowa’s 39th
Lieutenant Governor, where he served
with Governor Bob Ray for two terms.
Until Iowa adopted reforms under a
constitutional amendment in 1972, the
office for Governor and Lieutenant
Governor were on the ballot every 2
years in my home State.
In 1978, when I won reelection to
Iowa’s then Third Congressional Dis-
trict in the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, Roger Jepsen flipped Iowa’s U.S.
Senate seat. He defeated incumbent
Senator Dick Clark. At the time, polit-
ical observers gave Roger scant chance
of a victory that year, but on election
day, Roger Jepsen pulled off the upset,
beating his opponent by more than
26,000 votes.
In that same election, Roger re-
turned both houses of the State legisla-
ture to Republican control for what
would be Governor Ray’s final term in
office. In the previous legislative ses-
sion, Iowa expanded its historic ‘‘right
to work’’ law. For decades, this instru-
mental policy has enhanced Iowa’s
ability to attract businesses, create
jobs, and grow wages across the State.
It was under attack in the last elec-
tion. Iowa voters responded by expand-
ing the Republican majority at the
Iowa State House under a Republican
administration led by Governor Kim
Reynolds.
During his 6 years here in the U.S.
Senate, Roger Jepsen solidified his pro-
life, pro-family credentials. He was a
fiscal conservative. He flexed steadfast
support for the military, and he
worked to put money back in the tax-
payers’ pockets.
In 1981, he voted to end ‘‘bracket
creep’’ by indexing for inflation across-
the-board tax rate cuts.
An outspoken advocate for rural
America, Roger Jepsen fought to boost
the economic recovery across the farm
belt. He championed farm exports, ex-
panded lending and tax relief for farm-
ers.
He was chairman of the Joint Eco-
nomic Committee and served on the
Senate Agriculture and Armed Services
Committees.
After losing his bid for reelection in
1984, President Reagan nominated
Roger Jepsen to serve as Chairman of
the National Credit Union Administra-
tion, where he served from the years
1985 to 1993.
Although he and his wife Dee retired
to Florida, Scott County was what he
considered his home. Roger and Dee de-
voted considerable time and effort to
end religious persecution and promote
religious liberty. Alongside Congress-
man Jack Kemp, they cofounded the
Christian Rescue Effort for the Eman-
cipation of Dissidents, known as
CREED, to promote religious freedom
as a human freedom around the world.
Each time I return home by way of
Cedar Falls, IA, I pass Jepsen Road. In
fact, it intersects my street. Over the
years, Roger’s and my paths crossed
many times in service to Iowans. See-
ing that street sign reminds me that no
dream is too big for an Iowa farm kid.
Roger and Dee celebrated 62 years of
marriage in September. Together they
raised 6 children.
Barbara and I extend our condolences
to his family and loved ones. On behalf
of the State of Iowa, we thank Roger
for his service here on Earth as he is
welcomed home into the hands of the
Lord.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
CORONAVIRUS
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, it is
no secret that in parts of Texas and in
cities across the country, COVID–19
cases and hospitalizations are on the
rise. Dr. Angela Clendenin is an epi-
demiologist at Texas A&M University’s
School of Public Health, and she at-
tributes this increase to what she calls
pandemic fatigue.
After months of vigorous
handwashing and mask wearing, it
seems that people are becoming less
and less vigilant. She said, if we con-
tinue in the behaviors that we are be-
having in right now without regulatory
intervention, we are going to continue
in the direction we are headed. I guess
that is one way of saying if we don’t
shape up, the present spread of the
virus will continue with, perhaps, in
some instances, dangerous, even fatal,
consequences.
That is a path we should not head
down and one that will put an even
greater strain on our healthcare work-
ers. I guess, as I think about it, there
are two ways to approach this pan-
demic. One is to leave it to government
to tell us what we can and cannot do,
to engage in more and more lockdowns
and deprivation of our individual lib-
erty or we can take personal responsi-
bility. Speaking for myself, and I hope
others, I hope the personal responsi-
bility route is the one we will take.
From staffing shortages due to the
coronavirus exposure to short supplies
of personal protective equipment, to a
lack of critical equipment like ventila-
tors, our frontline healthcare workers
have carried on this fight in the face of
tremendous challenges. Now, with
cases climbing in parts of my State and
around the country, these heroes are in
dire need of another line of defense.
The public—meaning Congress—on
their behalf has the power to provide
that help. Through the same simple
steps we heard about since the begin-
ning of the pandemic, we can stop or at
least dramatically slow the trans-
mission of COVID–19.
Again, it gets back to the basics we
have all been taught and I think more
or less most of us have been employing:
washing your hands, wearing a mask,
practice social distancing, and don’t let
the pandemic fatigue win.
We need to all remain vigilant and
committed to these basic practices
until the experts tell us that COVID–19
is no longer a threat—likely, a point
after which the vaccine has been wide-
ly deployed. None of us knows exactly
when that might happen, but we have
been getting some great news this last
week or so about scientific develop-
ments that have been funded by the ef-
forts that we in Congress have taken
together on a bipartisan basis.
On Friday, in my State, the Governor
announced the Department of Health
and Human Services will distribute a
new COVID–19 therapy to hospitals
across the State as early as this week.
The antibody treatment is produced by
Eli Lilly and will be critical in reduc-
ing hospitalizations. It is meant for
those who are known to be at a higher
risk of developing severe symptoms,
like the elderly or those with under-
lying chronic illness. For those who are
diagnosed with COVID–19, this drug
may be effective in preventing the
onset of severe symptoms. The anti-
body treatment received emergency
use authorization from the Food and
Drug Administration last week, and I
am hopeful it will help stop or at least
slow dramatically the alarming rise in
hospitalizations that we have seen
across parts of my State.
So far, about 80,000 doses are ready
for distribution nationwide, and we
should have that up to a million doses
a day by the end of the year. While the
quantity is limited at this point, every
single dose could mean a life saved.
This alone is cause for hope.
But the good news doesn’t stop there.
Last week, Pfizer announced its
COVID–19 vaccine has been more than
90 percent effective in clinical trials.
Just this morning, Moderna announced
its vaccine candidate is nearly 95 per-
cent effective—just incredible results.
This is exactly why we invested bil-
lions of dollars in developing these life-
saving drugs earlier this year. The
funding that we have appropriated has
supported not only research and devel-
opment but manufacturing of vaccines
and therapeutics. We wanted to be sure
that distribution could begin as soon as
these drugs were approved as safe and
effective, and that is exactly the direc-
tion we are headed in.
We are on track to have tens of mil-
lions of doses of vaccine available by
the end of the year, likely from at least
two different drug makers. This his-
toric investment has led to historic
progress.
I could not be more proud of the men
and women who have made this pos-
sible. I am incredibly grateful to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16NO6.009 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6693
November 16, 2020
healthcare workers who are continuing
to fight this serious infection on the
frontlines.
I want to thank the researchers and
scientists and thousands of volunteers
who are supporting the development of
vaccines and therapeutics. Beyond the
physical toll this virus has taken, it is
also having a profound impact on this
country’s mental health. This pan-
demic has brought on a range of new
stressors, including isolation, financial
struggles, health anxiety, and the
stress of teaching children from home.
In a Kaiser Family Foundation poll
in March, roughly, one-third of adults
reported that their mental health was
negatively affected by pandemic-re-
lated stresses. By July, that number
has risen to more than half of the
adults in the United States.
As we continue to discuss what fu-
ture coronavirus legislation will look
like, we should not—we must not—ig-
nore the mental health impact.
I have spoken at length about the
need to support community mental
health centers and community behav-
ioral health organizations, which are
vital mental health providers across
much of my State and across the Na-
tion. These providers are a critical
source of care and support for those
who battle mental health and sub-
stance abuse disorders, and the need
for their services has only risen during
the pandemic.
The one group that is too often ig-
nored in conversations about mental
health care is made up of those
transitioning from the criminal justice
system as well. More than half of those
in the criminal justice system have ex-
perienced a mental health issue, and
our criminal justice system is ill-suit-
ed to provide the sort of treatment and
support they need. Yet, even when
these individuals do receive treatment
while they are incarcerated, they are
rarely given the tools they need to suc-
ceed upon their release. Approximately
80 percent of these people are unin-
sured after being released, making it
nearly impossible for them to continue
their mental health treatment.
Earlier this year, I and Senator
BLUMENTHAL of Connecticut introduced
the Crisis Stabilization and Commu-
nity Reentry Act to support those who
have become part of the criminal jus-
tice system and provide a stable source
of treatment for them after they leave
incarceration.
Most prisoners who receive treat-
ment for a mental health or substance
abuse disorder are released without
their having plans to keep up with
their regimes. This leads to higher re-
cidivism rates, which could be avoided.
It also means that law enforcement is
too often left to be the first responder
to a mental health crisis, which can es-
calate those scenarios and put both the
officers and the individuals at risk.
Our bill creates grants to connect
law enforcement officials to State,
Federal, and local resources to help in-
dividuals who are either engaged in the
criminal justice system or who are
being released from prison get access
to the support they need. These grants
connect those services to make sure
that people who are suffering acute epi-
sodes can access treatment without
there being the risk of unnecessary in-
carceration. Many times, these people
need help. They don’t need to go back
to jail. It has the ability to strengthen
our community-based crisis response,
reduce suicides during incarceration,
and close the revolving door that leads
people back to prison.
I hope the Senate can pass this legis-
lation soon and that our colleagues in
the House will follow suit. With the on-
going mental health challenges that
have been brought on by COVID–19,
there could not be a more critical time
to strengthen our Nation’s mental
health resources.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session and
be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
GREG LEMOND CONGRESSIONAL
GOLD MEDAL ACT
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs be discharged from fur-
ther consideration of H.R. 3589 and that
the Senate proceed to its immediate
consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 3589) to award a Congressional
Gold Medal to Greg LeMond, in recognition
of his service to the Nation as an athlete, ac-
tivist, role model, and community leader.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. CORNYN. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the bill be considered read a
third time and passed and that the mo-
tion to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill (H.R. 3589) was ordered to a
third reading, was read the third time,
and passed.
f
RODCHENKOV ANTI-DOPING ACT
OF 2019
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 509, H.R. 835.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 835) to impose criminal sanc-
tions on certain persons involved in inter-
national doping fraud conspiracies, to pro-
vide restitution for victims of such conspir-
acies, and to require sharing of information
with the United States Anti-Doping Agency
to assist its fight against doping, and for
other purposes.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill, which
had been reported from the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
Mr. CORNYN. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the bill be considered read a
third time and passed and that the mo-
tion to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill (H.R. 835) was ordered to a
third reading, was read the third time,
and passed.
f
NEGRO LEAGUES BASEBALL CEN-
TENNIAL COMMEMORATIVE COIN
ACT
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of H.R. 4104, which was received
from the House.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 4104) to require the Secretary
of the Treasury to mint a coin in commemo-
ration of the 100th anniversary of the estab-
lishment of the Negro Leagues baseball.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. CORNYN. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the bill be considered read a
third time and passed and that the mo-
tion to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill (H.R. 4104) was ordered to a
third reading, was read the third time,
and passed.
f
NATIONAL PURPLE HEART HALL
OF HONOR COMMEMORATIVE
COIN ACT
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs be discharged and that
the Senate proceed to the immediate
consideration of H.R. 1830.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 1830) to require the Secretary
of the Treasury to mint coins in commemo-
ration of the National Purple Heart Hall of
Honor.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. CORNYN. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the Schumer amendment be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16NO6.010 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6694 November 16, 2020
considered and agreed to; that the bill,
as amended, be considered read a third
time and passed; and that the motion
to reconsider be considered made and
laid upon the table with no intervening
action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment (No. 2687) in the na-
ture of a substitute was agreed to, as
follows:
(Purpose: In the nature of a substitute)
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘National
Purple Heart Hall of Honor Commemorative
Coin Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
The Congress finds the following:
(1) The National Purple Heart Hall of Hon-
or’s mission is—
(A) to commemorate the extraordinary
sacrifice of America’s servicemen and serv-
icewomen who were killed or wounded by
enemy action; and
(B) to collect and preserve the stories of
Purple Heart recipients from all branches of
service and across generations to ensure that
all recipients are represented.
(2) The National Purple Heart Hall of
Honor first opened its doors on November 10,
2006, in New Windsor, NY.
(3) The National Purple Heart Hall of
Honor is co-located with the New Windsor
Cantonment State Historic Site.
(4) The National Purple Heart Hall of
Honor is the first to recognize the estimated
1.8 million U.S. servicemembers wounded or
killed in action representing recipients from
the Civil War to the present day, serving as
a living memorial to their sacrifice by shar-
ing their stories through interviews, exhibits
and the Roll of Honor, an interactive com-
puter database of each recipient enrolled.
SEC. 3. COIN SPECIFICATIONS.
(a) DENOMINATIONS.—The Secretary of the
Treasury (hereafter in this Act referred to as
the ‘‘Secretary’’) shall mint and issue the
following coins:
(1) $5 GOLD COINS.—Not more than 50,000 $5
coins, which shall—
(A) weigh 8.359 grams;
(B) have a diameter of 0.850 inches; and
(C) contain 90 percent gold and 10 percent
alloy.
(2) $1 SILVER COINS.—Not more than 400,000
$1 coins, which shall—
(A) weigh 26.73 grams;
(B) have a diameter of 1.500 inches; and
(C) contain not less than 90 percent silver.
(3) HALF-DOLLAR CLAD COINS.—Not more
than 750,000 half-dollar coins which shall—
(A) weigh 11.34 grams;
(B) have a diameter of 1.205 inches; and
(C) be minted to the specifications for half-
dollar coins contained in section 5112(b) of
title 31, United States Code.
(b) LEGAL TENDER.—The coins minted
under this Act shall be legal tender, as pro-
vided in section 5103 of title 31, United States
Code.
(c) NUMISMATIC ITEMS.—For purposes of
section 5134 of title 31, United States Code,
all coins minted under this Act shall be con-
sidered to be numismatic items.
SEC. 4. DESIGNS OF COINS.
(a) DESIGNS REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The designs of the coins
minted under this Act shall be emblematic
of the National Purple Heart Hall of Honor.
(2) DESIGNATION AND INSCRIPTIONS.—On
each coin minted under this Act there shall
be—
(A) a designation of the value of the coin;
(B) an inscription of the year ‘‘2022’’; and
(C) inscriptions of the words ‘‘Liberty’’,
‘‘In God We Trust’’, ‘‘United States of Amer-
ica’’, and ‘‘E Pluribus Unum’’.
(b) SELECTION.—The design for the coins
minted under this Act shall be—
(1) selected by the Secretary after con-
sultation with the Commission of Fine Arts
and the National Purple Heart Hall of Honor,
Inc.; and
(2) reviewed by the Citizens Coinage Advi-
sory Committee.
SEC. 5. ISSUANCE OF COINS.
(a) QUALITY OF COINS.—Coins minted under
this Act shall be issued in uncirculated and
proof qualities.
(b) MINT FACILITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Only 1 facility of the
United States Mint may be used to strike
any particular quality of the coins minted
under this Act.
(2) USE OF THE UNITED STATES MINT AT WEST
POINT, NEW YORK.—It is the sense of Congress
that the coins minted under this Act should
be struck at the United States Mint at West
Point, New York, to the greatest extent pos-
sible.
(c) PERIOD FOR ISSUANCE.—The Secretary
may issue coins minted under this Act only
during the 1-year period beginning on Janu-
ary 1, 2022.
SEC. 6. SALE OF COINS.
(a) SALE PRICE.—The coins issued under
this Act shall be sold by the Secretary at a
price equal to the sum of—
(1) the face value of the coins;
(2) the surcharge provided in section 7(a)
with respect to such coins; and
(3) the cost of designing and issuing the
coins (including labor, materials, dies, use of
machinery, overhead expenses, marketing,
and shipping).
(b) BULK SALES.—The Secretary shall
make bulk sales of the coins issued under
this Act at a reasonable discount.
(c) PREPAID ORDERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ac-
cept prepaid orders for the coins minted
under this Act before the issuance of such
coins.
(2) DISCOUNT.—Sale prices with respect to
prepaid orders under paragraph (1) shall be
at a reasonable discount.
SEC. 7. SURCHARGES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—All sales of coins issued
under this Act shall include a surcharge of—
(1) $35 per coin for the $5 coin;
(2) $10 per coin for the $1 coin; and
(3) $5 per coin for the half-dollar coin.
(b) DISTRIBUTION.—Subject to section
5134(f)(1) of title 31, United States Code, all
surcharges received by the Secretary from
the sale of coins issued under this Act shall
be promptly paid by the Secretary to the Na-
tional Purple Heart Hall of Honor, Inc., to
support the mission of the National Purple
Heart Hall of Honor, Inc., including capital
improvements to the National Purple Heart
Hall of Honor facilities.
(c) AUDITS.—The National Purple Heart
Hall of Honor, Inc., shall be subject to the
audit requirements of section 5134(f)(2) of
title 31, United States Code, with regard to
the amounts received under subsection (b).
(d) LIMITATION.—Notwithstanding sub-
section (a), no surcharge may be included
with respect to the issuance under this Act
of any coin during a calendar year if, as of
the time of such issuance, the issuance of
such coin would result in the number of com-
memorative coin programs issued during
such year to exceed the annual 2 commemo-
rative coin program issuance limitation
under section 5112(m)(1) of title 31, United
States Code (as in effect on the date of the
enactment of this Act). The Secretary of the
Treasury may issue guidance to carry out
this subsection.
SEC. 8. FINANCIAL ASSURANCES. The Secretary
shall take such actions as may be nec-
essary to ensure that—
(1) minting and issuing coins under this
Act result in no net cost to the Federal Gov-
ernment; and
(2) no funds, including applicable sur-
charges, are disbursed to any recipient des-
ignated in section 7(b) until the total cost of
designing and issuing all of the coins author-
ized by this Act, including labor, materials,
dies, use of machinery, overhead expenses,
marketing, and shipping, is recovered by the
United States Treasury, consistent with sec-
tions 5112(m) and 5134(f) of title 31, United
States Code.
The amendment was ordered to be
engrossed and the bill to be read a
third time.
The bill was read the third time.
The bill (H.R. 1830), as amended, was
passed.
f
FLOOD LEVEL OBSERVATION, OP-
ERATIONS, AND DECISION SUP-
PORT ACT
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 556, S. 4462.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 4462) to establish a national inte-
grated flood information system within the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration, and for other purposes.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill, which
had been reported from the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation, with an amendment to strike
all after the enacting clause and insert
in lieu thereof the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Flood Level Observation, Operations, and
Decision Support Act’’ or the ‘‘FLOODS Act’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
Sec. 3. National Integrated Flood Information
System.
Sec. 4. Observations and modeling for total
water prediction.
Sec. 5. Service coordination hydrologists at
River Forecast Centers of the Na-
tional Weather Service.
Sec. 6. Improving National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration commu-
nication of future flood risks and
hazardous flash flood events.
Sec. 7. Freshwater monitoring along the coast.
Sec. 8. Tornado warning improvement.
Sec. 9. Hurricane forecast improvement pro-
gram.
Sec. 10. Weather and water research and devel-
opment planning.
Sec. 11. Forecast communication coordinators.
Sec. 12. Estimates of precipitation frequency in
the United States.
Sec. 13. Interagency Coordinating Committee on
Water Management.
Sec. 14. National Weather Service hydrologic
research fellowship program.
Sec. 15. Identification and support of con-
sistent, Federal set of forward-
looking, long-term meteorological
information.
Sec. 16. Gap analysis on availability of snow-
related data to assess and predict
flood and flood impacts.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 6343 E:\CR\FM\G16NO6.012 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6695
November 16, 2020
Sec. 17. Availability to the public of flood-re-
lated data.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means each
State of the United States, the District of Co-
lumbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico,
American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of
the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Is-
lands of the United States, and any other terri-
tory or possession of the United States.
(2) UNDER SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Under Sec-
retary’’ means the Under Secretary of Commerce
for Oceans and Atmosphere.
SEC. 3. NATIONAL INTEGRATED FLOOD INFORMA-
TION SYSTEM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Under Secretary shall
establish a system, to be known as the ‘‘Na-
tional Integrated Flood Information System’’, to
better inform and provide for more timely deci-
sion making to reduce flood-related effects and
costs.
(b) SYSTEM FUNCTIONS.—The Under Secretary,
through the National Integrated Flood Informa-
tion System, shall—
(1) provide an effective flood early warning
system that—
(A) collects and integrates information on the
key indicators of floods and flood impacts, in-
cluding streamflow, reservoir release and diver-
sion, precipitation, soil moisture, snow water
equivalent, land cover, and evaporative de-
mand;
(B) makes usable, reliable, and timely fore-
casts of floods;
(C) assesses the severity of flood conditions
and effects;
(D) issues flood watches and warnings when
necessary;
(E) provides information described in subpara-
graph (A), forecasts described in subparagraph
(B), and assessments described in subparagraph
(C) at the national, regional, and local levels, as
appropriate; and
(F) communicates flood forecasts, flood condi-
tions, and flood impacts to public and private
entities engaged in flood planning, prepared-
ness, and response, including—
(i) decision makers at the Federal, State,
local, and Tribal levels of government;
(ii) the private sector; and
(iii) the public;
(2) provide timely data, information, and
products that reflect differences in flood condi-
tions among localities, regions, watersheds, and
States;
(3) coordinate and integrate, through inter-
agency agreements as practicable, Federal re-
search and monitoring in support of the flood
early warning information system provided
under paragraph (1);
(4) use existing forecasting and assessment
programs and partnerships;
(5) make improvements in seasonal precipita-
tion and temperature, subseasonal precipitation
and temperature, and flood water prediction;
and
(6) continue ongoing research and monitoring
activities relating to floods, including research
activities relating to—
(A) the prediction, length, severity, and im-
pacts of floods and improvement of the accu-
racy, timing, and specificity of flash flood warn-
ings;
(B) the role of extreme weather events and cli-
mate variability in floods; and
(C) how water travels over and through sur-
faces.
(c) PARTNERSHIPS.—The Under Secretary,
through the National Integrated Flood Informa-
tion System, may—
(1) engage with the private sector to improve
flood monitoring, forecasts, land and topog-
raphy data, and communication, if the Under
Secretary determines that such engagement is
appropriate, cost effective, and beneficial to the
public and decision makers described in sub-
section (b)(1)(F)(i);
(2) facilitate the development of 1 or more aca-
demic cooperative partnerships to assist in car-
rying out the functions of the National Inte-
grated Flood Information System described in
subsection (b);
(3) use and support monitoring by citizen sci-
entists, including by developing best practices to
facilitate maximum data integration, as the
Under Secretary considers appropriate; and
(4) engage with, and leverage the resources of,
entities within the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration in existence as of the date
of the enactment of this Act, such as the Na-
tional Integrated Drought Information System,
the Regional Climate Center, and the National
Mesonet Program, to improve coordination of
water monitoring, forecasting, and management.
(d) CONSULTATION.—In developing and main-
taining the National Integrated Flood Informa-
tion System, the Under Secretary shall consult
with relevant Federal, State, local, and Tribal
government agencies, research institutions, and
the private sector.
(e) COOPERATION FROM OTHER FEDERAL
AGENCIES.—Each Federal agency shall cooper-
ate as appropriate with the Under Secretary in
carrying out this section.
SEC. 4. OBSERVATIONS AND MODELING FOR
TOTAL WATER PREDICTION.
(a) PARTNERSHIPS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Under Secretary shall
establish partnerships with 1 or more institu-
tions of higher education (as defined in section
101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20
U.S.C. 1001)) to evaluate observations that
would improve total water prediction.
(2) PRIORITY OBSERVATIONS.—In establishing
partnerships under paragraph (1), the Under
Secretary shall prioritize partnerships to evalu-
ate observations from unmanned aerial systems.
(b) MAINTAINED OBSERVATIONS.—If the Under
Secretary determines that incorporating addi-
tional observations improves total water pre-
diction, the Under Secretary shall, to the extent
practicable, continue incorporating those obser-
vations.
(c) MODELING IMPROVEMENTS.—The Under
Secretary shall advance geographic coverage,
resolution, skill, and efficiency of coastal ocean-
ographic modeling, including efforts that im-
prove the coupling of and interoperability be-
tween hydrological models and coastal ocean
models.
(d) GEOSPATIAL DATA.—The Under Secretary
shall advance the development of models to
vertically transform geospatial data into a com-
mon system for use as the Federal standard for
surveys and mapping.
SEC. 5. SERVICE COORDINATION HYDROLOGISTS
AT RIVER FORECAST CENTERS OF
THE NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE.
(a) DESIGNATION OF SERVICE COORDINATION
HYDROLOGISTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Director of the National
Weather Service (in this section referred to as
the ‘‘Director’’) shall designate at least 1 service
coordination hydrologist at each River Forecast
Center of the National Weather Service.
(2) PERFORMANCE BY OTHER EMPLOYEES.—Per-
formance of the responsibilities outlined in this
section is not limited to the service coordination
hydrologist position.
(b) PRIMARY ROLE OF SERVICE COORDINATION
HYDROLOGISTS.—The primary role of the service
coordination hydrologist shall be to carry out
the responsibilities required by this section.
(c) RESPONSIBILITIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
consistent with the analysis described in section
409 of the Weather Research and Forecasting
Innovation Act of 2017 (Public Law 115–25; 131
Stat. 112), and in order to increase impact-based
decision support services, each service coordina-
tion hydrologist designated under subsection (a)
shall, with respect to hydrology—
(A) be responsible for providing service to the
geographic area of responsibility covered by the
River Forecast Center at which the service co-
ordination hydrologist is employed to help en-
sure that users of products and services of the
National Weather Service can respond effec-
tively to improve outcomes from flood events;
(B) liaise with users of products and services
of the National Weather Service, such as the
public, academia, media outlets, users in the hy-
dropower, transportation, recreation, and agri-
cultural communities, and forestry, land, fish-
eries, and water management interests, to evalu-
ate the adequacy and usefulness of the products
and services of the National Weather Service;
(C) collaborate with such River Forecast Cen-
ters and Weather Forecast Offices and Federal,
State, local, and Tribal government agencies as
the Director considers appropriate in devel-
oping, proposing, and implementing plans to de-
velop, modify, or tailor products and services of
the National Weather Service to improve the
usefulness of such products and services;
(D) engage in interagency partnerships with
Federal, State, local, and Tribal government
agencies to explore the use of forecast-informed
reservoir operations to reduce flood risk;
(E) ensure the maintenance and accuracy of
flooding call lists, appropriate office flooding
policy or procedures, and other flooding infor-
mation or dissemination methodologies or strate-
gies; and
(F) work closely with Federal, State, local,
and Tribal emergency and floodplain manage-
ment agencies, and other agencies relating to
disaster management, to ensure a planned, co-
ordinated, and effective preparedness and re-
sponse effort.
(2) OTHER STAFF.—The Director may assign a
responsibility set forth in paragraph (1) to such
other staff as the Director considers appropriate
to carry out such responsibility.
(d) ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2), a
service coordination hydrologist designated
under subsection (a) may, with respect to hy-
drology—
(A) work with a State agency to develop plans
for promoting more effective use of products and
services of the National Weather Service
throughout the State;
(B) identify priority community preparedness
objectives;
(C) develop plans to meet the objectives identi-
fied under subparagraph (B); and
(D) conduct flooding event preparedness plan-
ning and citizen education efforts with and
through various State, local, and Tribal govern-
ment agencies and other disaster management-
related organizations.
(2) OTHER STAFF.—The Director may assign a
responsibility set forth in paragraph (1) to such
other staff as the Director considers appropriate
to carry out such responsibility.
(e) PLACEMENT WITH STATE AND LOCAL EMER-
GENCY AND FLOODPLAIN MANAGERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In carrying out this section,
the Director may place a service coordination
hydrologist designated under subsection (a)
with a State or local emergency or floodplain
manager, if the Director determines that such
placement is necessary or convenient to carry
out this section.
(2) TREATMENT.—If the Director determines
that the placement of a service coordination hy-
drologist with a State or local emergency or
floodplain manager under paragraph (1) is near
a River Forecast Center of the National Weather
Service, such placement shall be treated as des-
ignation of the service coordination hydrologist
at such River Forecast Center for purposes of
subsection (a).
SEC. 6. IMPROVING NATIONAL OCEANIC AND AT-
MOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION COM-
MUNICATION OF FUTURE FLOOD
RISKS AND HAZARDOUS FLASH
FLOOD EVENTS.
(a) ASSESSMENT OF FLASH FLOOD WATCHES
AND WARNINGS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Under
Secretary shall—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.025 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6696 November 16, 2020
(A) conduct an assessment of—
(i) the flash flood watches and warnings of
the National Weather Service; and
(ii) the information delivery to support prepa-
ration and responses to floods; and
(B) submit to Congress a report on the find-
ings of the Under Secretary with respect to the
assessment required by subparagraph (A).
(2) ELEMENTS.—The assessment required by
paragraph (1)(A) shall include the following:
(A) An evaluation of whether the watches,
warnings, and information described in para-
graph (1)(A)—
(i) communicate risk to the general public;
(ii) inform action to prevent loss of life and
property;
(iii) inform action to support flood prepara-
tion and response; and
(iv) deliver information in a manner designed
to lead to appropriate action.
(B) Subject to subsection (b)(2), such rec-
ommendations as the Under Secretary may have
for—
(i) legislative and administrative action to im-
prove the watches and warnings described in
paragraph (1)(A)(i); and
(ii) such research as the Under Secretary con-
siders necessary to address the focus areas de-
scribed in paragraph (3).
(3) FOCUS AREAS.—The assessment required by
paragraph (1)(A) shall focus on the following
areas:
(A) Ways to communicate the risks posed by
hazardous flash flood events to the public that
are most likely to result in informed decision
making regarding the mitigation of those risks.
(B) Ways to provide actionable geographic in-
formation to the recipient of a watch or warning
for a flash flood, including partnering with
emergency response agencies, as appropriate.
(C) Evaluation of information delivery to sup-
port the preparation for and response to floods.
(4) CONSULTATION.—In conducting the assess-
ment required by paragraph (1)(A), the Under
Secretary shall consult with—
(A) such line offices of the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration as the Under
Secretary considers relevant, including—
(i) the National Ocean Service;
(ii) the National Weather Service; and
(iii) the Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric
Research;
(B) individuals in the academic sector, includ-
ing individuals in the field of social and behav-
ioral sciences;
(C) other weather services;
(D) media outlets and other entities that dis-
tribute the watches and warnings described in
paragraph (1)(A)(i);
(E) floodplain managers and emergency plan-
ners and responders, including State, local, and
Tribal emergency management agencies;
(F) other government users of the watches and
warnings described in paragraph (1)(A)(i), in-
cluding the Federal Highway Administration;
and
(G) such other Federal agencies as the Under
Secretary determines rely on watches and warn-
ings regarding flash floods for operational deci-
sions.
(5) NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES.—The
Under Secretary shall engage with the National
Academy of Sciences, as the Under Secretary
considers necessary and practicable, including
by contracting with the National Research
Council to review the scientific and technical
soundness of the assessment required by para-
graph (1)(A), including the recommendations
under paragraph (2)(B).
(6) METHODOLOGIES.—In conducting the as-
sessment required by paragraph (1)(A), the
Under Secretary shall use such methodologies as
the Under Secretary considers are generally ac-
cepted by the weather enterprise, including so-
cial and behavioral sciences.
(b) IMPROVEMENTS TO FLASH FLOOD WATCHES
AND WARNINGS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Based on the assessment re-
quired by subsection (a)(1)(A), the Under Sec-
retary shall make such improvements to the
watches and warnings described in that sub-
section as the Under Secretary considers nec-
essary—
(A) to improve the communication of the risks
posed by hazardous flash flood events; and
(B) to provide actionable geographic informa-
tion to the recipient of a watch or warning for
a flash flood.
(2) REQUIREMENTS REGARDING RECOMMENDA-
TIONS.—In conducting the assessment required
by subsection (a)(1)(A), the Under Secretary
shall ensure that any recommendation under
subsection (a)(2)(B) that the Under Secretary
considers a major change—
(A) is validated by social and behavioral
science using a generalizable sample;
(B) accounts for the needs of various demo-
graphics, vulnerable populations, and geo-
graphic regions;
(C) responds to the needs of Federal, State,
local, and Tribal government partners and
media partners; and
(D) accounts for necessary changes to feder-
ally operated watch and warning propagation
and dissemination infrastructure and protocols.
(c) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) WATCH; WARNING.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in sub-
paragraph (B), the terms ‘‘watch’’ and ‘‘warn-
ing’’, with respect to a hazardous flash flood
event, mean products issued by the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, in-
tended for use by the general public—
(i) to alert the general public to the potential
for or presence of the event; and
(ii) to inform action to prevent loss of life and
property.
(B) EXCLUSION.—The terms ‘‘watch’’ and
‘‘warning’’ do not include technical or special-
ized meteorological and hydrological forecasts,
outlooks, or model guidance products.
(2) WEATHER ENTERPRISE.—The term ‘‘weather
enterprise’’ has the meaning given that term in
section 2 of the Weather Research and Fore-
casting Innovation Act of 2017 (15 U.S.C. 8501).
SEC. 7. FRESHWATER MONITORING ALONG THE
COAST.
(a) DATA AVAILABILITY ASSESSMENT.—The
Under Secretary shall assess the availability of
short- and long-term data on large-scale fresh-
water flooding into oceans, bays, and estuaries,
including data on—
(1) flow rate, including discharge;
(2) conductivity;
(3) oxygen concentration;
(4) nutrient load;
(5) water temperature; and
(6) sediment load.
(b) DATA NEEDS ASSESSMENT.—The Under Sec-
retary shall assess the need for additional data
to assess and predict the effect of the flooding
and freshwater discharge described in sub-
section (a).
(c) INVENTORY OF DATA NEEDS.—Based on the
assessments required by subsections (a) and (b),
the Under Secretary shall create an inventory of
data needs with respect to the flooding and
freshwater discharge described in subsections
(a) and (b).
(d) PLANNING.—In planning for the collection
of additional data necessary for ecosystem-
based modeling of the effect of the flooding and
freshwater discharge described in subsections
(a) and (b), the Under Secretary shall use the
inventory created under subsection (c).
SEC. 8. TORNADO WARNING IMPROVEMENT.
Section 103 of the Weather Research and
Forecasting Innovation Act of 2017 (15 U.S.C.
8513) is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as
subsections (d) and (e), respectively; and
(2) by inserting after subsection (b) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(c) INNOVATIVE OBSERVATIONS.—The Under
Secretary shall ensure that the program periodi-
cally examines the value of incorporating inno-
vative observations, such as acoustic or
infrasonic measurements, observations from
phased array radars, and observations from
mesonets, with respect to the improvement of
tornado forecasts, predictions, and warnings.’’.
SEC. 9. HURRICANE FORECAST IMPROVEMENT
PROGRAM.
Section 104(b) of the Weather Research and
Forecasting Innovation Act of 2017 (15 U.S.C.
8514(b)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘; and’’ and
inserting a semicolon;
(2) in paragraph (3), by striking the period at
the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(4) evaluating and incorporating, as appro-
priate, innovative observations, including
acoustic or infrasonic measurements.’’.
SEC. 10. WEATHER AND WATER RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT PLANNING.
Section 105(2) of the Weather Research and
Forecasting Innovation Act of 2017 (15 U.S.C.
8515(2)) is amended by inserting ‘‘and flood-
event’’ after ‘‘operational weather’’.
SEC. 11. FORECAST COMMUNICATION COORDINA-
TORS.
Section 1762(f)(1) of the Food Security Act of
1985 (15 U.S.C. 8521(f)(1)) is amended, in the sec-
ond sentence, by striking ‘‘may’’ and inserting
‘‘shall’’.
SEC. 12. ESTIMATES OF PRECIPITATION FRE-
QUENCY IN THE UNITED STATES.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) FREELY ASSOCIATED STATES.—The term
‘‘Freely Associated States’’ means the Republic
of Palau, the Republic of the Marshall Islands,
and the Federated States of Micronesia, which
have each entered into a Compact of Free Asso-
ciation with the United States.
(2) UNITED STATES.—The term ‘‘United States’’
means the 50 States of the United States, the
District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands,
Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of
the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Freely
Associated States.
(b) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator of the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion shall establish a program, to be known as
the ‘‘NOAA Precipitation Frequency Atlas of
the United States’’, to compile, estimate, ana-
lyze, and communicate the frequency of precipi-
tation in the United States.
(c) FUNCTIONS.—The NOAA Precipitation Fre-
quency Atlas of the United States—
(1) shall better inform the public and provide
information on—
(A) temporal and spatial distribution of heavy
precipitation;
(B) analyses of seasonality in precipitation;
and
(C) trends in annual maximum series data;
and
(2) may serve as the official source of the Fed-
eral Government on estimates of precipitation
frequency and associated information with re-
spect to the United States.
(d) REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) COVERAGE.—The NOAA Precipitation Fre-
quency Atlas of the United States shall include
such estimates of the frequency of precipitation
in the United States as the Administrator deter-
mines appropriate.
(2) FREQUENCY.—Such estimates—
(A) shall be conducted not less frequently
than once every 10 years; and
(B) may be conducted more frequently if de-
termined appropriate by the Administrator.
(3) PUBLICATION.—Such estimates and meth-
odologies used to conduct such estimates shall
be—
(A) subject to an appropriate, scientific proc-
ess, as determined by the Administrator; and
(B) published on a publicly accessible website
of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration.
(e) PARTNERSHIPS.—The Administrator may
partner with other Federal agencies, members of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.025 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6697
November 16, 2020
the private sector, academic cooperative part-
nerships, or nongovernment associations to as-
sist in carrying out the functions described in
subsection (c).
(f) CONSULTATION.—In carrying out this sec-
tion, the Administrator may consult with rel-
evant Federal, State, local, Tribal, and Terri-
torial government agencies, research institu-
tions, and the private sector, as the Adminis-
trator determines necessary.
(g) COORDINATION.—In carrying out this sec-
tion, the Administrator may coordinate with
other Federal agencies.
(h) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry
out this section, from amounts otherwise au-
thorized to be appropriated to the Administrator
to carry out this Act, $3,500,000 for each of fiscal
years 2021 through 2030.
SEC. 13. INTERAGENCY COORDINATING COM-
MITTEE ON WATER MANAGEMENT.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established a
committee, to be known as the ‘‘Interagency Co-
ordinating Committee on Water Management’’
(in this section referred to as the ‘‘Committee’’).
(b) MEMBERSHIP.—The Committee shall be
composed of the following members:
(1) The Under Secretary.
(2) The Assistant Secretary for Water and
Science of the Department of the Interior.
(3) The head of each of the following:
(A) The Federal Emergency Management
Agency.
(B) The Army Corps of Engineers.
(C) The National Science Foundation.
(D) The Office of Science and Technology Pol-
icy.
(E) The Council on Environmental Quality.
(F) The Department of Energy.
(G) The Department of Agriculture.
(H) Any other Federal agency, as the co-
chairs consider appropriate.
(c) CO-CHAIRS.—The Committee shall be co-
chaired by the Secretary of the Interior and the
Administrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency.
(d) MEETINGS.—The Committee shall meet not
less frequently than once each year at the call
of the co-chairs.
(e) GENERAL PURPOSE AND DUTIES.—The Com-
mittee shall ensure that agencies across the Fed-
eral Government that engage in water-related
matters, including water storage and supplies,
water quality and restoration activities, water
infrastructure, transportation on United States
rivers and inland waterways, and water fore-
casting, work together where such agencies
have joint or overlapping responsibilities to—
(1) improve interagency coordination by Fed-
eral agencies on water resource management
and water-related infrastructure issues;
(2) coordinate existing water-related Federal
task forces, working groups, and other formal
cross-agency initiatives, as appropriate;
(3) designate and consolidate repositories re-
sponsible for archiving and managing water-re-
lated matters;
(4) improve interagency coordination of data
management, access, modeling, and visualiza-
tion with respect to water-related matters;
(5) conduct integrated planning for Federal
investments in water-related infrastructure; and
(6) support workforce development and efforts
to recruit, train, and retain professionals to op-
erate and maintain essential water facilities in
the United States.
(f) CROSS-AGENCY PRIORITY RESEARCH
NEEDS.—Not later than 1 year after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Committee shall
develop and submit to Congress a list of research
needs that includes needs for cross-agency re-
search and coordination.
SEC. 14. NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE HYDRO-
LOGIC RESEARCH FELLOWSHIP PRO-
GRAM.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) DECISION SUPPORT SERVICES.—The term
‘‘decision support services’’ means information,
including data and refined products, that sup-
ports water resources-related decision-making
processes.
(2) INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION.—The
term ‘‘institution of higher education’’ has the
meaning given that term in section 101 of the
Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001)).
(b) HYDROLOGIC RESEARCH FELLOWSHIP PRO-
GRAM.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Under Secretary,
acting through the Director of the National
Weather Service (in this section referred to as
the ‘‘Director’’) shall establish a hydrologic re-
search fellowship program (in this section re-
ferred to as the ‘‘program’’) for qualified indi-
viduals.
(2) QUALIFIED INDIVIDUAL.—For purposes of
this section, a qualified individual is an indi-
vidual who is—
(A) a citizen of the United States; and
(B) enrolled in a research-based graduate pro-
gram, at an institution of higher education, in
a field that advances the research priorities de-
veloped by the Under Secretary under para-
graph (7), such as—
(i) hydrology;
(ii) earth sciences;
(iii) atmospheric sciences;
(iv) computer sciences;
(v) engineering;
(vi) environmental sciences;
(vii) geosciences;
(viii) urban planning; or
(ix) related social sciences.
(3) AWARD GUIDELINES.—Fellowships under
the program shall be awarded pursuant to
guidelines established by the Under Secretary.
(4) SELECTION PREFERENCE.—In selecting
qualified individuals for participation in the
program, the Under Secretary, acting through
the Director, shall give preference to applicants
from historically Black colleges and universities
and minority-serving institutions.
(5) PLACEMENT.—The program shall support
the placement of qualified individuals in posi-
tions within the executive branch of the Federal
Government where such individuals can address
and advance the research priorities developed
by the Under Secretary under paragraph (7).
(6) FELLOWSHIP TERM.—A fellowship under
the program shall be for a period of up to 2
years.
(7) FELLOWSHIP RESEARCH PRIORITIES.—The
Under Secretary, acting through the Director,
and in consultation with representatives from
the United States Geological Survey, the Federal
Emergency Management Agency, and the Army
Corps of Engineers, as appropriate, shall de-
velop and publish priorities for the conduct of
research by fellows, which may include the fol-
lowing:
(A) Advance the collaborative development of
a flexible community-based water resources
modeling system.
(B) Apply artificial intelligence and machine
learning capabilities to advance existing hydro-
logic modeling capabilities.
(C) Support the evolution and integration of
hydrologic modeling within an Earth Systems
Modeling Framework.
(D) Improve visualizations of hydrologic
model outputs.
(E) Advance the state of coupled freshwater
and salt water modeling and forecasting capa-
bilities.
(F) Advance understanding and process rep-
resentation of water quality parameters.
(G) Advance the assimilation of in-situ and
remotely sensed observations and data.
(H) Support the integration of social science
to advance decision support services.
(I) Develop methods to study groundwater
sustainability and estimate the efficiency of re-
charge management.
(c) DIRECT HIRING.—
(1) AUTHORITY.—During fiscal year 2021 and
any fiscal year thereafter, the head of any Fed-
eral agency may appoint, without regard to the
provisions of subchapter I of chapter 33 of title
5, United States Code, other than sections 3303
and 3328 of that title, to a position with the
Federal agency a recipient of a fellowship under
the program who—
(A) earned a degree from a program described
in subsection (b)(2)(B);
(B) successfully fulfilled the requirements of
the fellowship within the executive branch of
the Federal Government; and
(C) meets qualification standards established
by the Office of Personnel Management.
(2) EXERCISE OF AUTHORITY.—The direct hire
authority provided by this subsection shall be
exercised with respect to an individual described
in paragraph (1) not later than 2 years after the
date on which the individual completed the fel-
lowship under the program.
SEC. 15. IDENTIFICATION AND SUPPORT OF CON-
SISTENT, FEDERAL SET OF FOR-
WARD-LOOKING, LONG-TERM METE-
OROLOGICAL INFORMATION.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) EXTREME WEATHER.—The term ‘‘extreme
weather’’ includes observed or anticipated se-
vere and unseasonable atmospheric conditions,
including drought, heavy precipitation, hurri-
canes, tornadoes and other windstorms (includ-
ing derechos), extreme heat, extreme cold, flood-
ing, sustained temperatures or precipitation that
deviate substantially from historical averages,
and any other weather event that the Under
Secretary determines qualifies as extreme weath-
er.
(2) LONG-TERM.—The term ‘‘long-term’’ shall
have such meaning as the Director of the Na-
tional Institute of Standards and Technology,
in consultation with the Under Secretary, con-
siders appropriate for purposes of this section.
(3) OTHER ENVIRONMENTAL TRENDS.—The term
‘‘other environmental trends’’ means wildfires,
coastal flooding, inland flooding, land subsid-
ence, rising sea levels, and any other challenges
relating to changes in environmental systems
over time that the Under Secretary determines
qualify as environmental challenges other than
extreme weather.
(b) IDENTIFICATION AND SUPPORT OF CON-
SISTENT, FEDERAL SET OF FORWARD-LOOKING,
LONG-TERM METEOROLOGICAL INFORMATION.—
The Under Secretary shall identify, and support
research that enables, a consistent, Federal set
of forward-looking, long-term meteorological in-
formation that models future extreme weather
events, other environmental trends, projections,
and up-to-date observations, including
mesoscale information as determined appro-
priate by the Under Secretary.
SEC. 16. GAP ANALYSIS ON AVAILABILITY OF
SNOW-RELATED DATA TO ASSESS
AND PREDICT FLOOD AND FLOOD
IMPACTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Under Secretary, in
consultation with the Department of Agri-
culture, the Department of the Interior, and the
Army Corps of Engineers, shall conduct an
analysis of gaps in the availability of snow-re-
lated data to assess and predict floods and flood
impacts, including data on the following:
(1) Snow water equivalent.
(2) Snow depth.
(3) Snowpack temperature.
(4) Snow precipitation.
(5) Snow melt.
(6) Rain-snow line.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after the
date of the enactment of this Act, the Under
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation of the Sen-
ate and the Committee on Science, Space, and
Technology of the House of Representatives a
report on—
(1) the findings of the gap analysis required
by subsection (a); and
(2) opportunities for additional collaboration
among Federal agencies to collect snow-related
data to better assess and predict floods and
flood impacts.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.025 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6698 November 16, 2020
SEC. 17. AVAILABILITY TO THE PUBLIC OF FLOOD-
RELATED DATA.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Under Secretary shall
make flood-related data available to the public
on the website of the National Oceanic and At-
mospheric Administration.
(b) COST.—The Under Secretary may make the
data under subsection (a) freely accessible or
available at a cost that does not exceed the cost
of preparing the data.
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the com-
mittee-reported substitute amendment
be agreed to; that the bill, as amended,
be considered read a third time and
passed; and that the motion to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The committee-reported amendment,
in the nature of a substitute, was
agreed to.
The bill (S. 4462), as amended, was or-
dered to be engrossed for a third read-
ing, was read the third time, and
passed.
f
NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOS-
PHERIC ADMINISTRATION COM-
MISSIONED OFFICER CORPS
AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2019
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 561, S. 2981.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 2981) to reauthorize and amend
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration Commissioned Officer Corps
Act of 2002, and for other purposes.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill which
had been reported from the Committee
on Commerce, Science and Transpor-
tation with an amendment, as follows:
(The parts of the bill intended to be
stricken are shown in boldface brack-
ets and the parts of the bill intended to
be inserted are shown in italics.)
S. 2981
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
øSECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘National Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration Commissioned Officer Corps
Amendments Act of 2019’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. References to National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration
Commissioned Officer Corps
Act of 2002.
TITLE I—GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 101. Strength and distribution in grade.
Sec. 102. Recalled officers.
Sec. 103. Obligated service requirement.
Sec. 104. Training and physical fitness.
Sec. 105. Aviation accession training pro-
grams.
Sec. 106. Recruiting materials.
Sec. 107. Procurement of charting and sur-
vey services.
Sec. 108. Technical correction.
TITLE II—PARITY AND RECRUITMENT
Sec. 201. Education loans.
Sec. 202. Interest payments.
Sec. 203. Student pre-commissioning pro-
gram.
Sec. 204. Limitation on educational assist-
ance.
Sec. 205. Applicability of certain provisions
of title 10, United States Code,
and extension of certain au-
thorities applicable to members
of the Armed Forces to com-
missioned officer corps.
Sec. 206. Applicability of certain provisions
of title 37, United States Code.
Sec. 207. Prohibition on retaliatory per-
sonnel actions.
Sec. 208. Application of certain provisions of
competitive service law.
Sec. 209. Employment and reemployment
rights.
Sec. 210. Treatment of commission in com-
missioned officer corps for pur-
poses of certain hiring deci-
sions.
TITLE III—APPOINTMENTS AND
PROMOTION OF OFFICERS
Sec. 301. Appointments.
Sec. 302. Personnel boards.
Sec. 303. Positions of importance and re-
sponsibility.
Sec. 304. Temporary appointments.
Sec. 305. Officer candidates.
Sec. 306. Procurement of personnel.
Sec. 307. Career intermission program.
TITLE IV—SEPARATION AND
RETIREMENT OF OFFICERS
Sec. 401. Involuntary retirement or separa-
tion.
Sec. 402. Separation pay.
øSEC. 2. REFERENCES TO NATIONAL OCEANIC
AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRA-
TION COMMISSIONED OFFICER
CORPS ACT OF 2002.
Except as otherwise expressly provided,
whenever in this Act an amendment or re-
peal is expressed in terms of an amendment
to, or repeal of, a section or other provision,
the reference shall be considered to be made
to a section or other provision of the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion Commissioned Officer Corps Act of 2002
(33 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.).
TITLE I—GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 101. STRENGTH AND DISTRIBUTION IN
GRADE.
Section 214 (33 U.S.C. 3004) is amended to
read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 214. STRENGTH AND DISTRIBUTION IN
GRADE.
‘‘(a) GRADES.—The commissioned grades in
the commissioned officer corps of the Ad-
ministration are the following, in relative
rank with officers of the Navy:
‘‘(1) Vice admiral.
‘‘(2) Rear admiral.
‘‘(3) Rear admiral (lower half).
‘‘(4) Captain.
‘‘(5) Commander.
‘‘(6) Lieutenant commander.
‘‘(7) Lieutenant.
‘‘(8) Lieutenant (junior grade).
‘‘(9) Ensign.
‘‘(b) GRADE DISTRIBUTION.—The Secretary
shall prescribe, with respect to the distribu-
tion on the lineal list in grade, the percent-
ages applicable to the grades set forth in
subsection (a).
‘‘(c) ANNUAL COMPUTATION OF NUMBER IN
GRADE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not less frequently than
once each year, the Secretary shall make a
computation to determine the number of of-
ficers on the lineal list authorized to be serv-
ing in each grade.
‘‘(2) METHOD OF COMPUTATION.—The number
in each grade shall be computed by applying
the applicable percentage to the total num-
ber of such officers serving on active duty on
the date the computation is made.
‘‘(3) FRACTIONS.—If a final fraction occurs
in computing the authorized number of offi-
cers in a grade, the nearest whole number
shall be taken. If the fraction is 1⁄2, the next
higher whole number shall be taken.
‘‘(d) TEMPORARY INCREASE IN NUMBERS.—
The total number of officers authorized by
law to be on the lineal list during a fiscal
year may be temporarily exceeded if the av-
erage number on that list during that fiscal
year does not exceed the authorized number.
‘‘(e) POSITIONS OF IMPORTANCE AND RESPON-
SIBILITY.—Officers serving in positions des-
ignated under section 228(a) and officers re-
called from retired status shall not be count-
ed when computing authorized strengths
under subsection (c) and shall not count
against those strengths.
‘‘(f) PRESERVATION OF GRADE AND PAY.—No
officer may be reduced in grade or pay or
separated from the commissioned officer
corps of the Administration as the result of
a computation made to determine the au-
thorized number of officers in the various
grades.’’.
SEC. 102. RECALLED OFFICERS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 215 (33 U.S.C.
3005) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 215. NUMBER OF AUTHORIZED COMMIS-
SIONED OFFICERS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The total number of au-
thorized commissioned officers on the lineal
list of the commissioned officer corps of the
Administration shall not exceed 500.
‘‘(b) POSITIONS OF IMPORTANCE AND RESPON-
SIBILITY.—Officers serving in positions des-
ignated under section 228 and officers re-
called from retired status or detailed to an
agency other than the Administration—
‘‘(1) may not be counted in determining the
total number of authorized officers on the
lineal list under this section; and
‘‘(2) may not count against such number.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to authorize the Hydrographic Services
Improvement Act of 1998, and for other pur-
poses’’ (Public Law 107–372) is amended by
striking the item relating to section 215 and
inserting the following:
‘‘Sec. 215. Number of authorized commis-
sioned officers.’’.
SEC. 103. OBLIGATED SERVICE REQUIREMENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle A (33 U.S.C. 3001
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘SEC. 216. OBLIGATED SERVICE REQUIREMENT.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—
‘‘(1) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary shall
prescribe the obligated service requirements
for appointments, training, promotions, sep-
arations, continuations, and retirement of
officers not otherwise covered by law.
‘‘(2) WRITTEN AGREEMENTS.—The Secretary
and officers shall enter into written agree-
ments that describe the officers’ obligated
service requirements prescribed under para-
graph (1) in return for such appointments,
training, promotions, separations, and re-
tirements as the Secretary considers appro-
priate.
‘‘(b) REPAYMENT FOR FAILURE TO SATISFY
REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may re-
quire an officer who fails to meet the service
requirements prescribed under subsection
(a)(1) to reimburse the Secretary in an
amount that bears the same ratio to the
total costs of the training provided to that
officer by the Secretary as the unserved por-
tion of active duty bears to the total period
of active duty the officer agreed to serve.
‘‘(2) OBLIGATION AS DEBT TO UNITED
STATES.—An obligation to reimburse the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.025 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6699
November 16, 2020
Secretary under paragraph (1) is, for all pur-
poses, a debt owed to the United States.
‘‘(3) DISCHARGE IN BANKRUPTCY.—A dis-
charge in bankruptcy under title 11 that is
entered less than 5 years after the termi-
nation of a written agreement entered into
under subsection (a)(2) does not discharge
the individual signing the agreement from a
debt arising under such agreement.
‘‘(c) WAIVER OR SUSPENSION OF COMPLI-
ANCE.—The Secretary may waive the service
obligation of an officer who—
‘‘(1) becomes unqualified to serve on active
duty in the commissioned officer corps of the
Administration because of a circumstance
not within the control of that officer; or
‘‘(2) is—
‘‘(A) not physically qualified for appoint-
ment; and
‘‘(B) determined to be unqualified for serv-
ice in the commissioned officer corps of the
Administration because of a physical or
medical condition that was not the result of
the officer’s own misconduct or grossly neg-
ligent conduct.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to authorize the Hydrographic Services
Improvement Act of 1998, and for other pur-
poses’’ (Public Law 107–372) is amended by in-
serting after the item relating to section 215
the following:
‘‘Sec. 216. Obligated service requirement.’’.
SEC. 104. TRAINING AND PHYSICAL FITNESS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle A (33 U.S.C. 3001
et seq.), as amended by section 103(a), is fur-
ther amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 217. TRAINING AND PHYSICAL FITNESS.
‘‘(a) TRAINING.—The Secretary may take
such measures as may be necessary to ensure
that officers are prepared to carry out their
duties in the commissioned officer corps of
the Administration and proficient in the
skills necessary to carry out such duties.
Such measures may include the following:
‘‘(1) Carrying out training programs and
correspondence courses, including estab-
lishing and operating a basic officer training
program to provide initial indoctrination
and maritime vocational training for officer
candidates as well as refresher training, mid-
career training, aviation training, and such
other training as the Secretary considers
necessary for officer development and pro-
ficiency.
‘‘(2) Providing officers and officer can-
didates with educational materials.
‘‘(3) Acquiring such equipment as may be
necessary for training and instructional pur-
poses.
‘‘(b) PHYSICAL FITNESS.—The Secretary
shall ensure that officers maintain a high
physical state of readiness by establishing
standards of physical fitness for officers that
are substantially equivalent to those pre-
scribed for officers in the Coast Guard.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to authorize the Hydrographic Services
Improvement Act of 1998, and for other pur-
poses’’ (Public Law 107–372), as amended by
section 103(b), is further amended by insert-
ing after the item relating to section 216 the
following:
‘‘Sec. 217. Training and physical fitness.’’.
SEC. 105. AVIATION ACCESSION TRAINING PRO-
GRAMS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle A (33 U.S.C. 3001
et seq.), as amended by section 104(a), is fur-
ther amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 218. AVIATION ACCESSION TRAINING PRO-
GRAMS.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) ADMINISTRATOR.—The term ‘Adminis-
trator’ means the Under Secretary of Com-
merce for Oceans and Atmosphere and the
Administrator of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration.
‘‘(2) MEMBER OF THE PROGRAM.—The term
‘member of the program’ means a student
who is enrolled in the program.
‘‘(3) PROGRAM.—The term ‘program’ means
an aviation accession training program of
the commissioned officer corps of the Ad-
ministration established pursuant to sub-
section (b).
‘‘(b) AVIATION ACCESSION TRAINING PRO-
GRAMS.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT AUTHORIZED.—The Ad-
ministrator, under regulations prescribed by
the Secretary, shall establish and maintain
one or more aviation accession training pro-
grams for the commissioned officer corps of
the Administration at institutions described
in paragraph (2).
‘‘(2) INSTITUTIONS DESCRIBED.—An institu-
tion described in this paragraph is an edu-
cational institution—
‘‘(A) that requests to enter into an agree-
ment with the Administrator providing for
the establishment of the program at the in-
stitution;
‘‘(B) that has, as a part of its curriculum,
a 4-year baccalaureate program of profes-
sional flight and piloting instruction that is
accredited by the Aviation Accreditation
Board International;
‘‘(C) that is located—
‘‘(i) not more than 250 miles from the Na-
tional Weather Service Training Center; and
‘‘(ii) in a geographic area that—
‘‘(I) experiences a wide variation in cli-
mate-related activity, including frequent
high winds, convective activity (including
tornadoes), periods of low visibility, heat,
and snow and ice episodes, to provide oppor-
tunities for pilots to demonstrate skill in all
weather conditions compatible with future
encounters during their service in the com-
missioned officer corps; and
‘‘(II) has a climate that can accommodate
both primary and advanced flight training
activity at least 75 percent of the year; and
‘‘(D) at which the Administrator deter-
mines that—
‘‘(i) there will be at least 1 student enrolled
in the program; and
‘‘(ii) the provisions of this section are oth-
erwise satisfied.
‘‘(3) LIMITATIONS IN CONNECTION WITH PAR-
TICULAR INSTITUTIONS.—The program may
not be established or maintained at an insti-
tution unless—
‘‘(A) the senior commissioned officer or
employee of the commissioned officer corps
who is assigned as an advisor to the program
at that institution is given the academic
rank of adjunct professor; and
‘‘(B) the institution fulfills the terms of its
agreement with the Administrator.
‘‘(4) MEMBERSHIP IN CONNECTION WITH STA-
TUS AS STUDENT.—At institutions at which
the program is established, the membership
of students in the program shall be elective,
as provided by State law or the authorities
of the institution concerned.
‘‘(c) MEMBERSHIP.—
‘‘(1) ELIGIBILITY.—To be eligible for mem-
bership in the program an individual must—
‘‘(A) be a student at an institution at
which the program is established;
‘‘(B) be a citizen of the United States;
‘‘(C) contract in writing, with the consent
of a parent or guardian if a minor, with the
Administrator, to—
‘‘(i) accept an appointment, if offered, as a
commissioned officer in the commissioned
officer corps of the Administration; and
‘‘(ii) to serve in the commissioned officer
corps for not fewer than 4 years;
‘‘(D) enroll in—
‘‘(i) a 4-year baccalaureate program of pro-
fessional flight and piloting instruction; and
‘‘(ii) other training or education, including
basic officer training, which is prescribed by
the Administrator as meeting the prelimi-
nary requirement for admission to the com-
missioned officer corps; and
‘‘(E) execute a certificate or take an oath
relating to morality and conduct in such
form as the Administrator prescribes.
‘‘(2) COMPLETION OF PROGRAM.—A member
of the program may be appointed as a reg-
ular officer in the commissioned officer
corps if the member meets all requirements
for appointment as such an officer.
‘‘(d) FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FOR QUALIFIED
MEMBERS.—
‘‘(1) EXPENSES OF COURSE OF INSTRUCTION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a member
of the program who meets such qualifica-
tions as the Administrator establishes for
purposes of this subsection, the Adminis-
trator may pay the expenses of the member
in connection with pursuit of a course of pro-
fessional flight and piloting instruction
under the program, including tuition, fees,
educational materials such as books, train-
ing, certifications, travel, and laboratory ex-
penses.
‘‘(B) ASSISTANCE AFTER FOURTH ACADEMIC
YEAR.—In the case of a member of the pro-
gram described in subparagraph (A) who is
enrolled in a course described in that sub-
paragraph that has been approved by the Ad-
ministrator and requires more than 4 aca-
demic years for completion, including elec-
tive requirements of the program, assistance
under this subsection may also be provided
during a fifth academic year or during a
combination of a part of a fifth academic
year and summer sessions.
‘‘(2) ROOM AND BOARD.—In the case of a
member eligible to receive assistance under
paragraph (1), the Administrator may, in
lieu of payment of all or part of such assist-
ance, pay the room and board expenses of the
member, and other educational expenses, of
the educational institution concerned.
‘‘(3) FAILURE TO COMPLETE PROGRAM OR AC-
CEPT COMMISSION.—A member of the program
who receives assistance under this sub-
section and who does not complete the
course of instruction, or who completes the
course but declines to accept a commission
in the commissioned officer corps when of-
fered, shall be subject to the repayment pro-
visions of subsection (e).
‘‘(e) REPAYMENT OF UNEARNED PORTION OF
FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE WHEN CONDITIONS OF
PAYMENT NOT MET.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A member of the pro-
gram who receives or benefits from assist-
ance under subsection (d), and whose receipt
of or benefit from such assistance is subject
to the condition that the member fully sat-
isfy the requirements of subsection (c), shall
repay to the United States an amount equal
to the assistance received or benefitted from
if the member fails to fully satisfy such re-
quirements and may not receive or benefit
from any unpaid amounts of such assistance
after the member fails to satisfy such re-
quirements, unless the Administrator deter-
mines that the imposition of the repayment
requirement and the termination of payment
of unpaid amounts of such assistance with
regard to the member would be—
‘‘(A) contrary to a personnel policy or
management objective;
‘‘(B) against equity and good conscience; or
‘‘(C) contrary to the best interests of the
United States.
‘‘(2) REGULATIONS.—The Administrator
may establish, by regulations, procedures for
determining the amount of the repayment
required under this subsection and the cir-
cumstances under which an exception to re-
payment may be granted. The Administrator
may specify in the regulations the condi-
tions under which financial assistance to be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.027 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6700 November 16, 2020
paid to a member of the program will not be
made if the member no longer satisfies the
requirements in subsection (c) or qualifica-
tions in subsection (d) for such assistance.
‘‘(3) OBLIGATION AS DEBT TO UNITED
STATES.—An obligation to repay the United
States under this subsection is, for all pur-
poses, a debt owed to the United States.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to authorize the Hydrographic Services
Improvement Act of 1998, and for other pur-
poses’’ (Public Law 107–372), as amended by
section 104(b), is further amended by insert-
ing after the item relating to section 217 the
following:
‘‘Sec. 218. Aviation accession training pro-
grams.’’.
SEC. 106. RECRUITING MATERIALS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle A (33 U.S.C. 3001
et seq.), as amended by section 105(a), is fur-
ther amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 219. USE OF RECRUITING MATERIALS FOR
PUBLIC RELATIONS.
‘‘The Secretary may use for public rela-
tions purposes of the Department of Com-
merce any advertising materials developed
for use for recruitment and retention of per-
sonnel for the commissioned officer corps of
the Administration. Any such use shall be
under such conditions and subject to such re-
strictions as the Secretary shall prescribe.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to authorize the Hydrographic Services
Improvement Act of 1998, and for other pur-
poses’’ (Public Law 107–372), as amended by
section 105(b), is further amended by insert-
ing after the item relating to section 217 the
following:
‘‘Sec. 219. Use of recruiting materials for
public relations.’’.
SEC. 107. PROCUREMENT OF CHARTING AND
SURVEY SERVICES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the development of the strategy re-
quired by section 1002(b) of the Frank LoBi-
ondo Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018
(Public Law 115–282; 132 Stat. 4365), the Sec-
retary of Commerce shall enter into not
fewer than 2 multi-year contracts with 1 or
more private entities for the performance of
charting and survey services by vessels.
(b) CHARTING AND SURVEYS IN THE ARCTIC.—
In soliciting and engaging the services of
vessels under subsection (a), the Secretary
shall particularly emphasize the need for
charting and surveys in the Arctic.
SEC. 108. TECHNICAL CORRECTION.
Section 101(21)(C) of title 38, United States
Code, is amended by inserting ‘‘in the com-
missioned officer corps’’ before ‘‘of the Na-
tional’’.
TITLE II—PARITY AND RECRUITMENT
SEC. 201. EDUCATION LOANS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle E (33 U.S.C. 3071
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘SEC. 267. EDUCATION LOAN REPAYMENT PRO-
GRAM.
‘‘(a) AUTHORITY TO REPAY EDUCATION
LOANS.—For the purpose of maintaining ade-
quate numbers of officers of the commis-
sioned officer corps of the Administration on
active duty who have skills required by the
commissioned officer corps, the Secretary
may repay, in the case of a person described
in subsection (b), a loan that—
‘‘(1) was used by the person to finance edu-
cation; and
‘‘(2) was obtained from a governmental en-
tity, private financial institution, edu-
cational institution, or other authorized en-
tity.
‘‘(b) ELIGIBLE PERSONS.—To be eligible to
obtain a loan repayment under this section,
a person must—
‘‘(1) satisfy 1 of the requirements specified
in subsection (c);
‘‘(2) be fully qualified for, or hold, an ap-
pointment as a commissioned officer in the
commissioned officer corps of the Adminis-
tration; and
‘‘(3) sign a written agreement to serve on
active duty, or, if on active duty, to remain
on active duty for a period in addition to any
other incurred active duty obligation.
‘‘(c) ACADEMIC AND PROFESSIONAL REQUIRE-
MENTS.—One of the following academic re-
quirements must be satisfied for purposes of
determining the eligibility of an individual
for a loan repayment under this section:
‘‘(1) The person is fully qualified in a pro-
fession that the Secretary has determined to
be necessary to meet identified skill short-
ages in the commissioned officer corps.
‘‘(2) The person is enrolled as a full-time
student in the final year of a course of study
at an accredited educational institution (as
determined by the Secretary of Education)
leading to a degree in a profession that will
meet identified skill shortages in the com-
missioned officer corps.
‘‘(d) LOAN REPAYMENTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the limits es-
tablished under paragraph (2), a loan repay-
ment under this section may consist of the
payment of the principal, interest, and re-
lated expenses of a loan obtained by a person
described in subsection (b).
‘‘(2) LIMITATION ON AMOUNT.—For each year
of obligated service that a person agrees to
serve in an agreement described in sub-
section (b)(3), the Secretary may pay not
more than the amount specified in section
2173(e)(2) of title 10, United States Code.
‘‘(e) ACTIVE DUTY SERVICE OBLIGATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A person entering into
an agreement described in subsection (b)(3)
incurs an active duty service obligation.
‘‘(2) LENGTH OF OBLIGATION DETERMINED
UNDER REGULATIONS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), the length of the obliga-
tion under paragraph (1) shall be determined
under regulations prescribed by the Sec-
retary.
‘‘(B) MINIMUM OBLIGATION.—The regula-
tions prescribed under subparagraph (A) may
not provide for a period of obligation of less
than 1 year for each maximum annual
amount, or portion thereof, paid on behalf of
the person for qualified loans.
‘‘(3) PERSONS ON ACTIVE DUTY BEFORE EN-
TERING INTO AGREEMENT.—The active duty
service obligation of persons on active duty
before entering into the agreement shall be
served after the conclusion of any other obli-
gation incurred under the agreement.
‘‘(4) CONCURRENT COMPLETION OF SERVICE
OBLIGATIONS.—A service obligation under
this section may be completed concurrently
with a service obligation under section 216.
‘‘(f) EFFECT OF FAILURE TO COMPLETE OBLI-
GATION.—
‘‘(1) ALTERNATIVE OBLIGATIONS.—An officer
who is relieved of the officer’s active duty
obligation under this section before the com-
pletion of that obligation may be given any
alternative obligation, at the discretion of
the Secretary.
‘‘(2) REPAYMENT.—An officer who does not
complete the period of active duty specified
in the agreement entered into under sub-
section (b)(3), or the alternative obligation
imposed under paragraph (1), shall be subject
to the repayment provisions under section
216.
‘‘(g) RULEMAKING.—The Secretary shall
prescribe regulations to carry out this sec-
tion, including—
‘‘(1) standards for qualified loans and au-
thorized payees; and
‘‘(2) other terms and conditions for the
making of loan repayments.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to authorize the Hydrographic Services
Improvement Act of 1998, and for other pur-
poses’’ (Public Law 107–372) is amended by in-
serting after the item relating to section 266
the following:
‘‘Sec. 267. Education loan repayment pro-
gram.’’.
SEC. 202. INTEREST PAYMENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle E (33 U.S.C. 3071
et seq.), as amended by section 201(a), is fur-
ther amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 268. INTEREST PAYMENT PROGRAM.
‘‘(a) AUTHORITY.—The Secretary may pay
the interest and any special allowances that
accrue on 1 or more student loans of an eligi-
ble officer, in accordance with this section.
‘‘(b) ELIGIBLE OFFICERS.—An officer is eli-
gible for the benefit described in subsection
(a) while the officer—
‘‘(1) is serving on active duty;
‘‘(2) has not completed more than 3 years
of service on active duty;
‘‘(3) is the debtor on 1 or more unpaid loans
described in subsection (c); and
‘‘(4) is not in default on any such loan.
‘‘(c) STUDENT LOANS.—The authority to
make payments under subsection (a) may be
exercised with respect to the following loans:
‘‘(1) A loan made, insured, or guaranteed
under part B of title IV of the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1071 et seq.).
‘‘(2) A loan made under part D of such title
(20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq.).
‘‘(3) A loan made under part E of such title
(20 U.S.C. 1087aa et seq.).
‘‘(d) MAXIMUM BENEFIT.—Interest and any
special allowance may be paid on behalf of
an officer under this section for any of the 36
consecutive months during which the officer
is eligible under subsection (b).
‘‘(e) FUNDS FOR PAYMENTS.—The Secretary
may use amounts appropriated for the pay
and allowances of personnel of the commis-
sioned officer corps of the Administration for
payments under this section.
‘‘(f) COORDINATION WITH SECRETARY OF
EDUCATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall con-
sult with the Secretary of Education regard-
ing the administration of this section.
‘‘(2) TRANSFER OF FUNDS.—The Secretary
shall transfer to the Secretary of Education
the funds necessary—
‘‘(A) to pay interest and special allowances
on student loans under this section (in ac-
cordance with sections 428(o), 455(l), and
464(j) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20
U.S.C. 1078(o), 1087e(l), and 1087dd(j)); and
‘‘(B) to reimburse the Secretary of Edu-
cation for any reasonable administrative
costs incurred by the Secretary in coordi-
nating the program under this section with
the administration of the student loan pro-
grams under parts B, D, and E of title IV of
the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
1071 et seq., 1087a et seq., 1087aa et seq.).
‘‘(g) SPECIAL ALLOWANCE DEFINED.—In this
section, the term ‘special allowance’ means a
special allowance that is payable under sec-
tion 438 of the Higher Education Act of 1965
(20 U.S.C. 1087–1).’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) Section 428(o) of the Higher Education
Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1078(o)) is amended—
(A) by striking the subsection heading and
inserting ‘‘ARMED FORCES AND NOAA COM-
MISSIONED OFFICER CORPS STUDENT LOAN IN-
TEREST PAYMENT PROGRAMS’’; and
(B) in paragraph (1)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘or section 268 of the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion Commissioned Officer Corps Act of 2002’’
after ‘‘Code,’’; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.027 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6701
November 16, 2020
(ii) by inserting ‘‘or an officer in the com-
missioned officer corps of the National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration, re-
spectively,’’ after ‘‘Armed Forces’’.
(2) Sections 455(l) and 464(j) of the Higher
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087e(l) and
1087dd(j)) are each amended—
(A) by striking the subsection heading and
inserting ‘‘ARMED FORCES AND NOAA COM-
MISSIONED OFFICER CORPS STUDENT LOAN IN-
TEREST PAYMENT PROGRAMS’’; and
(B) in paragraph (1)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘or section 268 of the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion Commissioned Officer Corps Act of 2002’’
after ‘‘Code,’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘or an officer in the com-
missioned officer corps of the National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration, re-
spectively’’ after ‘‘Armed Forces’’.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to authorize the Hydrographic Services
Improvement Act of 1998, and for other pur-
poses’’ (Public Law 107–372), as amended by
section 201(b), is further amended by insert-
ing after the item relating to section 267 the
following:
‘‘Sec. 268. Interest payment program.’’.
SEC. 203. STUDENT PRE-COMMISSIONING PRO-
GRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle E (33 U.S.C. 3071
et seq.), as amended by section 202(a), is fur-
ther amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 269. STUDENT PRE-COMMISSIONING EDU-
CATION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.
‘‘(a) AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE FINANCIAL AS-
SISTANCE.—For the purpose of maintaining
adequate numbers of officers of the commis-
sioned officer corps of the Administration on
active duty, the Secretary may provide fi-
nancial assistance to a person described in
subsection (b) for expenses of the person
while the person is pursuing on a full-time
basis at an accredited educational institu-
tion (as determined by the Secretary of Edu-
cation) a program of education approved by
the Secretary that leads to—
‘‘(1) a baccalaureate degree in not more
than 5 academic years; or
‘‘(2) a postbaccalaureate degree.
‘‘(b) ELIGIBLE PERSONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A person is eligible to
obtain financial assistance under subsection
(a) if the person—
‘‘(A) is enrolled on a full-time basis in a
program of education referred to in sub-
section (a) at any educational institution de-
scribed in such subsection;
‘‘(B) meets all of the requirements for ac-
ceptance into the commissioned officer corps
of the Administration except for the comple-
tion of a baccalaureate degree; and
‘‘(C) enters into a written agreement with
the Secretary described in paragraph (2).
‘‘(2) AGREEMENT.—A written agreement re-
ferred to in paragraph (1)(C) is an agreement
between the person and the Secretary in
which the person—
‘‘(A) agrees to accept an appointment as an
officer, if tendered; and
‘‘(B) upon completion of the person’s edu-
cational program, agrees to serve on active
duty, immediately after appointment, for—
‘‘(i) up to 3 years if the person received less
than 3 years of assistance; and
‘‘(ii) up to 5 years if the person received at
least 3 years of assistance.
‘‘(c) QUALIFYING EXPENSES.—Expenses for
which financial assistance may be provided
under subsection (a) are the following:
‘‘(1) Tuition and fees charged by the edu-
cational institution involved.
‘‘(2) The cost of educational materials.
‘‘(3) In the case of a program of education
leading to a baccalaureate degree, labora-
tory expenses.
‘‘(4) Such other expenses as the Secretary
considers appropriate.
‘‘(d) LIMITATION ON AMOUNT.—The Sec-
retary shall prescribe the amount of finan-
cial assistance provided to a person under
subsection (a), which may not exceed the
amount specified in section 2173(e)(2) of title
10, United States Code, for each year of obli-
gated service that a person agrees to serve in
an agreement described in subsection (b)(2).
‘‘(e) DURATION OF ASSISTANCE.—Financial
assistance may be provided to a person under
subsection (a) for not more than 5 consecu-
tive academic years.
‘‘(f) SUBSISTENCE ALLOWANCE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A person who receives fi-
nancial assistance under subsection (a) shall
be entitled to a monthly subsistence allow-
ance at a rate prescribed under paragraph (2)
for the duration of the period for which the
person receives such financial assistance.
‘‘(2) DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT.—The Sec-
retary shall prescribe monthly rates for sub-
sistence allowance provided under paragraph
(1), which shall be equal to the amount speci-
fied in section 2144(a) of title 10, United
States Code.
‘‘(g) INITIAL CLOTHING ALLOWANCE.—
‘‘(1) TRAINING.—The Secretary may pre-
scribe a sum which shall be credited to each
person who receives financial assistance
under subsection (a) to cover the cost of the
person’s initial clothing and equipment
issue.
‘‘(2) APPOINTMENT.—Upon completion of
the program of education for which a person
receives financial assistance under sub-
section (a) and acceptance of appointment in
the commissioned officer corps of the Ad-
ministration, the person may be issued a
subsequent clothing allowance equivalent to
that normally provided to a newly appointed
officer.
‘‘(h) TERMINATION OF FINANCIAL ASSIST-
ANCE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ter-
minate the assistance provided to a person
under this section if—
‘‘(A) the Secretary accepts a request by the
person to be released from an agreement de-
scribed in subsection (b)(2);
‘‘(B) the misconduct of the person results
in a failure to complete the period of active
duty required under the agreement; or
‘‘(C) the person fails to fulfill any term or
condition of the agreement.
‘‘(2) REIMBURSEMENT.—The Secretary may
require a person who receives assistance de-
scribed in subsection (c), (f), or (g) under an
agreement entered into under subsection
(b)(1)(C) to reimburse the Secretary in an
amount that bears the same ratio to the
total costs of the assistance provided to that
person as the unserved portion of active duty
bears to the total period of active duty the
officer agreed to serve under the agreement.
‘‘(3) WAIVER.—The Secretary may waive
the service obligation of a person through an
agreement entered into under subsection
(b)(1)(C) if the person—
‘‘(A) becomes unqualified to serve on ac-
tive duty in the commissioned officer corps
of the Administration because of a cir-
cumstance not within the control of that
person; or
‘‘(B) is—
‘‘(i) not physically qualified for appoint-
ment; and
‘‘(ii) determined to be unqualified for serv-
ice in the commissioned officer corps of the
Administration because of a physical or
medical condition that was not the result of
the person’s own misconduct or grossly neg-
ligent conduct.
‘‘(4) OBLIGATION AS DEBT TO UNITED
STATES.—An obligation to reimburse the
Secretary imposed under paragraph (2) is, for
all purposes, a debt owed to the United
States.
‘‘(5) DISCHARGE IN BANKRUPTCY.—A dis-
charge in bankruptcy under title 11, United
States Code, that is entered less than 5 years
after the termination of a written agreement
entered into under subsection (b)(1)(C) does
not discharge the person signing the agree-
ment from a debt arising under such agree-
ment or under paragraph (2).
‘‘(i) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary may
prescribe such regulations and orders as the
Secretary considers appropriate to carry out
this section.
‘‘(j) CONCURRENT COMPLETION OF SERVICE
OBLIGATIONS.—A service obligation under
this section may be completed concurrently
with a service obligation under section 216.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to authorize the Hydrographic Services
Improvement Act of 1998, and for other pur-
poses’’ (Public Law 107–372), as amended by
section 202(c), is further amended by insert-
ing after the item relating to section 268 the
following:
‘‘Sec. 269. Student pre-commissioning edu-
cation assistance program.’’.
SEC. 204. LIMITATION ON EDUCATIONAL ASSIST-
ANCE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Each fiscal year, begin-
ning with the fiscal year in which this Act is
enacted, the Secretary of Commerce shall
ensure that the total amount expended by
the Secretary under section 267 of the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion Commissioned Officer Corps Act of 2002
(as added by section 201(a)), section 268 of
such Act (as added by section 202(a)), and
section 269 of such Act (as added by section
203(a)) does not exceed the amount by
which—
(1) the total amount the Secretary would
pay in that fiscal year to officer candidates
under section 203(f)(1) of title 37, United
States Code (as added by section 305(d)), if
such section entitled officer candidates to
pay at monthly rates equal to the basic pay
of a commissioned officer in the pay grade O–
1 with less than 2 years of service, exceeds
(2) the total amount the Secretary actu-
ally pays in that fiscal year to officer can-
didates under section 203(f)(1) of such title
(as so added).
(b) OFFICER CANDIDATE DEFINED.—In this
section, the term ‘‘officer candidate’’ has the
meaning given the term in paragraph (4) of
section 212(b) of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration Commissioned
Officer Corps Act of 2002 (33 U.S.C. 3002), as
added by section 305(c).
SEC. 205. APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN PROVI-
SIONS OF TITLE 10, UNITED STATES
CODE, AND EXTENSION OF CERTAIN
AUTHORITIES APPLICABLE TO MEM-
BERS OF THE ARMED FORCES TO
COMMISSIONED OFFICER CORPS.
(a) APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS
OF TITLE 10.—Section 261(a) (33 U.S.C. 3071(a))
is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (13)
through (16) as paragraphs (22) through (25),
respectively;
(2) by redesignating paragraphs (7) through
(12) as paragraphs (14) through (19), respec-
tively;
(3) by redesignating paragraphs (4) through
(6) as paragraphs (8) through (10), respec-
tively;
(4) by inserting after paragraph (3) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(4) Section 771, relating to unauthorized
wearing of uniforms.
‘‘(5) Section 774, relating to wearing reli-
gious apparel while in uniform.
‘‘(6) Section 982, relating to service on
State and local juries.
‘‘(7) Section 1031, relating to administra-
tion of oaths.’’;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.027 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6702 November 16, 2020
(5) by inserting after paragraph (10), as re-
designated, the following:
‘‘(11) Section 1074n, relating to annual
mental health assessments.
‘‘(12) Section 1090a, relating to referrals for
mental health evaluations.
‘‘(13) Chapter 58, relating to the Benefits
and Services for members being separated or
recently separated.’’; and
(6) by inserting after paragraph (19), as re-
designated, the following:
‘‘(20) Subchapter I of chapter 88, relating to
Military Family Programs.
‘‘(21) Section 2005, relating to advanced
education assistance, active duty agree-
ments, and reimbursement requirements.’’.
(b) EXTENSION OF CERTAIN AUTHORITIES.—
(1) NOTARIAL SERVICES.—Section 1044a of
title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(A) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ‘‘armed
forces’’ and inserting ‘‘uniformed services’’;
and
(B) in subsection (b)(4), by striking ‘‘armed
forces’’ both places it appears and inserting
‘‘uniformed services’’.
(2) ACCEPTANCE OF VOLUNTARY SERVICES
FOR PROGRAMS SERVING MEMBERS AND THEIR
FAMILIES.—Section 1588 of such title is
amended—
(A) in subsection (a)(3), in the matter be-
fore subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘armed
forces’’ and inserting ‘‘uniformed services’’;
and
(B) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(g) SECRETARY CONCERNED FOR ACCEPT-
ANCE OF SERVICES FOR PROGRAMS SERVING
MEMBERS OF NOAA CORPS AND THEIR FAMI-
LIES.—For purposes of the acceptance of
services described in subsection (a)(3), the
term ‘Secretary concerned’ in subsection (a)
shall include the Secretary of Commerce
with respect to members of the commis-
sioned officer corps of the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration.’’.
(3) CAPSTONE COURSE FOR NEWLY SELECTED
FLAG OFFICERS.—Section 2153 of such title is
amended—
(A) in subsection (a)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘or the commissioned offi-
cer corps of the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration’’ after ‘‘in the case of
the Navy’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘other armed forces’’ and
inserting ‘‘other uniformed services’’; and
(B) in subsection (b)(1), in the matter be-
fore subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘or the
Secretary of Commerce, as applicable,’’ after
‘‘the Secretary of Defense’’.
SEC. 206. APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN PROVI-
SIONS OF TITLE 37, UNITED STATES
CODE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle E (33 U.S.C. 3071
et seq.) is amended by inserting after section
261 the following:
‘‘SEC. 261A. APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN PROVI-
SIONS OF TITLE 37, UNITED STATES
CODE.
‘‘(a) PROVISIONS MADE APPLICABLE TO COM-
MISSIONED OFFICER CORPS.—The provisions of
law applicable to the Armed Forces under
the following provisions of title 37, United
States Code, shall apply to the commissioned
officer corps of the Administration:
‘‘(1) Section 324, relating to accession bo-
nuses for new officers in critical skills.
‘‘(2) Section 403(f)(3), relating to pre-
scribing regulations defining the terms ‘field
duty’ and ‘sea duty’.
‘‘(3) Section 403(l), relating to temporary
continuation of housing allowance for de-
pendents of members dying on active duty.
‘‘(4) Section 415, relating to initial uniform
allowances.
‘‘(5) Section 488, relating to allowances for
recruiting expenses.
‘‘(6) Section 495, relating to allowances for
funeral honors duty.
‘‘(b) REFERENCES.—The authority vested by
title 37, United States Code, in the ‘military
departments’, ‘the Secretary concerned’, or
‘the Secretary of Defense’ with respect to
the provisions of law referred to in sub-
section (a) shall be exercised, with respect to
the commissioned officer corps of the Ad-
ministration, by the Secretary of Commerce
or the Secretary’s designee.’’.
(b) PERSONAL MONEY ALLOWANCE.—Section
414(a)(2) of title 37, United States Code, is
amended by inserting ‘‘or the director of the
commissioned officer corps of the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’’
after ‘‘Health Service’’.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to authorize the Hydrographic Services
Improvement Act of 1998, and for other pur-
poses’’ (Public Law 107–372) is amended by in-
serting after the item relating to section 261
the following:
‘‘Sec. 261A. Applicability of certain provi-
sions of title 37, United States
Code.’’.
SEC. 207. PROHIBITION ON RETALIATORY PER-
SONNEL ACTIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (a) of section
261 (33 U.S.C. 3071), as amended by section
205(a), is further amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (8) through
(25) as paragraphs (9) through (26), respec-
tively; and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (7) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(8) Section 1034, relating to protected
communications and prohibition of retalia-
tory personnel actions.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Subsection
(b) of such section is amended by adding at
the end the following: ‘‘For purposes of para-
graph (8) of subsection (a), the term ‘Inspec-
tor General’ in section 1034 of such title 10
shall mean the Inspector General of the De-
partment of Commerce.’’.
(c) REGULATIONS.—Such section is further
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(c) REGULATIONS REGARDING PROTECTED
COMMUNICATIONS AND PROHIBITION OF RETAL-
IATORY PERSONNEL ACTIONS.—The Secretary
may prescribe regulations to carry out the
application of section 1034 of title 10, United
States Code, to the commissioned officer
corps of the Administration, including by
prescribing such administrative procedures
for investigation and appeal within the com-
missioned officer corps as the Secretary con-
siders appropriate.’’.
SEC. 208. APPLICATION OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS
OF COMPETITIVE SERVICE LAW.
Section 3304(f) of title 5, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘and
members of the commissioned officer corps
of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration (or its predecessor organization
the Coast and Geodetic Survey) separated
from such uniformed service’’ after ‘‘sepa-
rated from the armed forces’’;
(2) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘or vet-
eran’’ and inserting ‘‘, veteran, or member’’;
and
(3) in paragraph (4), by inserting ‘‘and
members of the commissioned officer corps
of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration (or its predecessor organization
the Coast and Geodetic Survey) separated
from such uniformed service’’ after ‘‘sepa-
rated from the armed forces’’.
SEC. 209. EMPLOYMENT AND REEMPLOYMENT
RIGHTS.
Section 4303(16) of title 38, United States
Code, is amended by inserting ‘‘the commis-
sioned officer corps of the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration,’’ after
‘‘Public Health Service,’’.
SEC. 210. TREATMENT OF COMMISSION IN COM-
MISSIONED OFFICER CORPS FOR
PURPOSES OF CERTAIN HIRING DE-
CISIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle E (33 U.S.C. 3071
et seq.), as amended by this title, is further
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 269A. TREATMENT OF COMMISSION IN COM-
MISSIONED OFFICER CORPS AS EM-
PLOYMENT IN ADMINISTRATION
FOR PURPOSES OF CERTAIN HIRING
DECISIONS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—In any case in which the
Secretary accepts an application for a posi-
tion of employment with the Administration
and limits consideration of applications for
such position to applications submitted by
individuals serving in a career or career-con-
ditional position in the competitive service
within the Administration, the Secretary
shall deem an officer who has served as an
officer in the commissioned officer corps for
at least 3 years to be serving in a career or
career-conditional position in the competi-
tive service within the Administration for
purposes of such limitation.
‘‘(b) CAREER APPOINTMENTS.—If the Sec-
retary selects an application submitted by
an officer described in subsection (a) for a
position described in such subsection, the
Secretary shall give such officer a career or
career-conditional appointment in the com-
petitive service, as appropriate.
‘‘(c) COMPETITIVE SERVICE DEFINED.—In
this section, the term ‘competitive service’
has the meaning given the term in section
2102 of title 5, United States Code.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to authorize the Hydrographic Services
Improvement Act of 1998, and for other pur-
poses’’ (Public Law 107–372) is amended by in-
serting after the item relating to section 269,
as added by section 203, the following new
item:
‘‘Sec. 269A. Treatment of commission in
commissioned officer corps as
employment in Administration
for purposes of certain hiring
decisions.’’.
TITLE III—APPOINTMENTS AND
PROMOTION OF OFFICERS
SEC. 301. APPOINTMENTS.
(a) ORIGINAL APPOINTMENTS.—Section 221
(33 U.S.C. 3021) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 221. ORIGINAL APPOINTMENTS AND RE-
APPOINTMENTS.
‘‘(a) ORIGINAL APPOINTMENTS.—
‘‘(1) GRADES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), an original appointment of
an officer may be made in such grades as
may be appropriate for—
‘‘(i) the qualification, experience, and
length of service of the appointee; and
‘‘(ii) the commissioned officer corps of the
Administration.
‘‘(B) APPOINTMENT OF OFFICER CAN-
DIDATES.—
‘‘(i) LIMITATION ON GRADE.—An original ap-
pointment of an officer candidate, upon grad-
uation from the basic officer training pro-
gram of the commissioned officer corps of
the Administration, may not be made in any
other grade than ensign.
‘‘(ii) RANK.—Officer candidates receiving
appointments as ensigns upon graduation
from basic officer training program shall
take rank according to their proficiency as
shown by the order of their merit at date of
graduation.
‘‘(2) SOURCE OF APPOINTMENTS.—An original
appointment may be made from among the
following:
‘‘(A) Graduates of the basic officer training
program of the commissioned officer corps of
the Administration.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.027 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6703
November 16, 2020
‘‘(B) Graduates of the military service
academies of the United States who other-
wise meet the academic standards for enroll-
ment in the training program described in
subparagraph (A).
‘‘(C) Graduates of the maritime academies
of the States who—
‘‘(i) otherwise meet the academic stand-
ards for enrollment in the training program
described in subparagraph (A);
‘‘(ii) completed at least 3 years of regi-
mented training while at a maritime acad-
emy of a State; and
‘‘(iii) obtained an unlimited tonnage or un-
limited horsepower Merchant Mariner Cre-
dential from the United States Coast Guard.
‘‘(D) Licensed officers of the United States
merchant marine who have served 2 or more
years aboard a vessel of the United States in
the capacity of a licensed officer, who other-
wise meet the academic standards for enroll-
ment in the training program described in
subparagraph (A).
‘‘(3) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
‘‘(A) MARITIME ACADEMIES OF THE STATES.—
The term ‘maritime academies of the States’
means the following:
‘‘(i) California Maritime Academy, Vallejo,
California.
‘‘(ii) Great Lakes Maritime Academy, Tra-
verse City, Michigan.
‘‘(iii) Maine Maritime Academy, Castine,
Maine.
‘‘(iv) Massachusetts Maritime Academy,
Buzzards Bay, Massachusetts.
‘‘(v) State University of New York Mari-
time College, Fort Schuyler, New York.
‘‘(vi) Texas A&M Maritime Academy, Gal-
veston, Texas.
‘‘(B) MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMIES OF THE
UNITED STATES.—The term ‘military service
academies of the United States’ means the
following:
‘‘(i) The United States Military Academy,
West Point, New York.
‘‘(ii) The United States Naval Academy,
Annapolis, Maryland.
‘‘(iii) The United States Air Force Acad-
emy, Colorado Springs, Colorado.
‘‘(iv) The United States Coast Guard Acad-
emy, New London, Connecticut.
‘‘(v) The United States Merchant Marine
Academy, Kings Point, New York.
‘‘(b) REAPPOINTMENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), an individual who previously
served in the commissioned officer corps of
the Administration may be appointed by the
Secretary to the grade the individual held
prior to separation.
‘‘(2) REAPPOINTMENTS TO HIGHER GRADES.—
An appointment under paragraph (1) to a po-
sition of importance and responsibility des-
ignated under section 228 may only be made
by the President.
‘‘(c) QUALIFICATIONS.—An appointment
under subsection (a) or (b) may not be given
to an individual until the individual’s men-
tal, moral, physical, and professional fitness
to perform the duties of an officer has been
established under such regulations as the
Secretary shall prescribe.
‘‘(d) PRECEDENCE OF APPOINTEES.—Ap-
pointees under this section shall take prece-
dence in the grade to which appointed in ac-
cordance with the dates of their commissions
as commissioned officers in such grade. Ap-
pointees whose dates of commission are the
same shall take precedence with each other
as the Secretary shall determine.
‘‘(e) INTER-SERVICE TRANSFERS.—For inter-
service transfers (as described in the Depart-
ment of Defense Directive 1300.4 (dated De-
cember 27, 2006)) the Secretary shall—
‘‘(1) coordinate with the Secretary of De-
fense and the Secretary of the Department in
which the Coast Guard is operating to pro-
mote and streamline inter-service transfers;
‘‘(2) give preference to such inter-service
transfers for recruitment purposes as deter-
mined appropriate by the Secretary; and
‘‘(3) reappoint such inter-service transfers
to the equivalent grade in the commissioned
officer corps.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to authorize the Hydrographic Services
Improvement Act of 1998, and for other pur-
poses’’ (Public Law 107–372) is amended by
striking the item relating to section 221 and
inserting the following:
‘‘Sec. 221. Original appointments and re-
appointments.’’.
SEC. 302. PERSONNEL BOARDS.
Section 222 (33 U.S.C. 3022) is amended to
read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 222. PERSONNEL BOARDS.
‘‘(a) CONVENING.—Not less frequently than
once each year and at such other times as
the Secretary determines necessary, the Sec-
retary shall convene a personnel board.
‘‘(b) MEMBERSHIP.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A board convened under
subsection (a) shall consist of 5 or more offi-
cers who are serving in or above the perma-
nent grade of the officers under consider-
ation by the board.
‘‘(2) RETIRED OFFICERS.—Officers on the re-
tired list may be recalled to serve on such
personnel boards as the Secretary considers
necessary.
‘‘(3) NO MEMBERSHIP ON 2 SUCCESSIVE
BOARDS.—No officer may be a member of 2
successive personnel boards convened to con-
sider officers of the same grade for pro-
motion or separation.
‘‘(c) DUTIES.—Each personnel board shall—
‘‘(1) recommend to the Secretary such
changes as may be necessary to correct any
erroneous position on the lineal list that was
caused by administrative error; and
‘‘(2) make selections and recommendations
to the Secretary and the President for the
appointment, promotion, involuntary sepa-
ration, continuation, and involuntary retire-
ment of officers in the commissioned officer
corps of the Administration as prescribed in
this title.
‘‘(d) ACTION ON RECOMMENDATIONS NOT AC-
CEPTABLE.—If any recommendation by a
board convened under subsection (a) is not
accepted by the Secretary or the President,
the board shall make such further rec-
ommendations as the Secretary or the Presi-
dent considers appropriate.
‘‘(e) AUTHORITY FOR OFFICERS TO OPT OUT
OF PROMOTION CONSIDERATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Director of the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion Commissioned Officer Corps may pro-
vide that an officer, upon the officer’s re-
quest and with the approval of the Director,
be excluded from consideration for pro-
motion by a personnel board convened under
this section.
‘‘(2) APPROVAL.—The Director shall ap-
prove a request made by an officer under
subsection (a) only if—
‘‘(A) the basis for the request is to allow
the officer to complete a broadening assign-
ment, advanced education, another assign-
ment of significant value to the Administra-
tion, a career progression requirement de-
layed by the assignment or education, or a
qualifying personal or professional cir-
cumstance, as determined by the Director;
‘‘(B) the Director determines the exclusion
from consideration is in the best interest of
the Administration; and
‘‘(C) the officer has not previously failed
selection for promotion to the grade for
which the officer requests the exclusion from
consideration.’’.
SEC. 303. POSITIONS OF IMPORTANCE AND RE-
SPONSIBILITY.
Section 228 (33 U.S.C. 3028) is amended—
(1) in subsection (c)—
(A) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘The
Secretary shall designate one position under
this section’’ and inserting ‘‘The President
shall designate one position’’; and
(B) in the second sentence, by striking
‘‘That position shall be filled by’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘The President shall fill that position by
appointing, by and with the advice and con-
sent of the Senate,’’;
(2) in subsection (d)(2), by inserting ‘‘or im-
mediately beginning a period of terminal
leave’’ after ‘‘for which a higher grade is des-
ignated’’;
(3) by amending subsection (e) to read as
follows:
‘‘(e) LIMIT ON NUMBER OF OFFICERS AP-
POINTED.—The total number of officers serv-
ing on active duty at any one time in the
grade of rear admiral (lower half) or above
may not exceed five, with only one serving in
the grade of vice admiral.’’; and
(4) in subsection (f), by inserting ‘‘or in a
period of annual leave used at the end of the
appointment’’ after ‘‘serving in that grade’’.
SEC. 304. TEMPORARY APPOINTMENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 229 (33 U.S.C.
3029) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 229. TEMPORARY APPOINTMENTS.
‘‘(a) APPOINTMENTS BY PRESIDENT.—Tem-
porary appointments in the grade of ensign,
lieutenant junior grade, or lieutenant may
be made by the President.
‘‘(b) TERMINATION.—A temporary appoint-
ment to a position under subsection (a) shall
terminate upon approval of a permanent ap-
pointment for such position made by the
President.
‘‘(c) ORDER OF PRECEDENCE.—Appointees
under subsection (a) shall take precedence in
the grade to which appointed in accordance
with the dates of their appointments as offi-
cers in such grade. The order of precedence
of appointees who are appointed on the same
date shall be determined by the Secretary.
‘‘(d) ANY ONE GRADE.—When determined by
the Secretary to be in the best interest of
the commissioned officer corps, officers in
any permanent grade may be temporarily
promoted one grade by the President. Any
such temporary promotion terminates upon
the transfer of the officer to a new assign-
ment.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to authorize the Hydrographic Services
Improvement Act of 1998, and for other pur-
poses’’ (Public Law 107–372) is amended by
striking the item relating to section 229 and
inserting the following:
‘‘Sec. 229. Temporary appointments.’’.
SEC. 305. OFFICER CANDIDATES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle B (33 U.S.C. 3021
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘SEC. 234. OFFICER CANDIDATES.
‘‘(a) DETERMINATION OF NUMBER.—The Sec-
retary shall determine the number of ap-
pointments of officer candidates.
‘‘(b) APPOINTMENT.—Appointment of officer
candidates shall be made under regulations,
which the Secretary shall prescribe, includ-
ing regulations with respect to determining
age limits, methods of selection of officer
candidates, term of service as an officer can-
didate before graduation from the program,
and all other matters affecting such appoint-
ment.
‘‘(c) DISMISSAL.—The Secretary may dis-
miss from the basic officer training program
of the Administration any officer candidate
who, during the officer candidate’s term as
an officer candidate, the Secretary considers
unsatisfactory in either academics or con-
duct, or not adapted for a career in the com-
missioned officer corps of the Administra-
tion. Officer candidates shall be subject to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.027 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6704 November 16, 2020
rules governing discipline prescribed by the
Director of the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration Commissioned Officer
Corps.
‘‘(d) AGREEMENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Each officer candidate
shall sign an agreement with the Secretary
in accordance with section 216(a)(2) regard-
ing the officer candidate’s term of service in
the commissioned officer corps of the Ad-
ministration.
‘‘(2) ELEMENTS.—An agreement signed by
an officer candidate under paragraph (1)
shall provide that the officer candidate
agrees to the following:
‘‘(A) That the officer candidate will com-
plete the course of instruction at the basic
officer training program of the Administra-
tion.
‘‘(B) That upon graduation from such pro-
gram, the officer candidate—
‘‘(i) will accept an appointment, if ten-
dered, as an officer; and
‘‘(ii) will serve on active duty for at least
4 years immediately after such appointment.
‘‘(e) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary shall
prescribe regulations to carry out this sec-
tion. Such regulations shall include—
‘‘(1) standards for determining what con-
stitutes a breach of an agreement signed
under subsection (d)(1); and
‘‘(2) procedures for determining whether
such a breach has occurred.
‘‘(f) REPAYMENT.—An officer candidate or
former officer candidate who does not fulfill
the terms of the obligation to serve as speci-
fied under subsection (d) shall be subject to
the repayment provisions of section 216(b).’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to authorize the Hydrographic Services
Improvement Act of 1998, and for other pur-
poses’’ (Public Law 107–372) is amended by in-
serting after the item relating to section 233
the following:
‘‘Sec. 234. Officer candidates.’’.
(c) OFFICER CANDIDATE DEFINED.—Section
212(b) (33 U.S.C. 3002(b)) is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (4) through
(6) as paragraphs (5) through (7), respec-
tively; and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (3) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(4) OFFICER CANDIDATE.—The term ‘officer
candidate’ means an individual who is en-
rolled in the basic officer training program
of the Administration and is under consider-
ation for appointment as an officer under
section 221(a)(2)(A).’’.
(d) PAY FOR OFFICER CANDIDATES.—Section
203 of title 37, United States Code, is amend-
ed by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(f)(1) An officer candidate enrolled in the
basic officer training program of the com-
missioned officer corps of the National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration is en-
titled, while participating in such program,
to monthly officer candidate pay at monthly
rates equal to the basic pay of an enlisted
member in the pay grade E–5 with less than
2 years of service.
‘‘(2) An individual who graduates from
such program shall receive credit for the
time spent participating in such program as
if such time were time served while on active
duty as a commissioned officer. If the indi-
vidual does not graduate from such program,
such time shall not be considered creditable
for active duty or pay.’’.
SEC. 306. PROCUREMENT OF PERSONNEL.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle B (33 U.S.C. 3021
et seq.), as amended by section 305(a), is fur-
ther amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 235. PROCUREMENT OF PERSONNEL.
‘‘The Secretary may make such expendi-
tures as the Secretary considers necessary in
order to obtain recruits for the commis-
sioned officer corps of the Administration,
including advertising.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to authorize the Hydrographic Services
Improvement Act of 1998, and for other pur-
poses’’ (Public Law 107–372), as amended by
section 305(b), is further amended by insert-
ing after the item relating to section 234 the
following:
‘‘235. Procurement of personnel.’’.
SEC. 307. CAREER INTERMISSION PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle B (33 U.S.C. 3021
et seq.), as amended by section 306(a), is fur-
ther amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 236. CAREER FLEXIBILITY TO ENHANCE RE-
TENTION OF OFFICERS.
‘‘(a) PROGRAMS AUTHORIZED.—The Sec-
retary may carry out a program under which
officers may be inactivated from active duty
in order to meet personal or professional
needs and returned to active duty at the end
of such period of inactivation from active
duty.
‘‘(b) PERIOD OF INACTIVATION FROM ACTIVE
DUTY; EFFECT OF INACTIVATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The period of inactiva-
tion from active duty under a program under
this section of an officer participating in the
program shall be such period as the Sec-
retary shall specify in the agreement of the
officer under subsection (c), except that such
period may not exceed 3 years.
‘‘(2) EXCLUSION FROM RETIREMENT.—Any pe-
riod of participation of an officer in a pro-
gram under this section shall not count to-
ward eligibility for retirement or computa-
tion of retired pay under subtitle C.
‘‘(c) AGREEMENT.—Each officer who partici-
pates in a program under this section shall
enter into a written agreement with the Sec-
retary under which that officer shall agree
as follows:
‘‘(1) To undergo during the period of the in-
activation of the officer from active duty
under the program such inactive duty train-
ing as the Director of the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration Commis-
sioned Officer Corps shall require in order to
ensure that the officer retains proficiency, at
a level determined by the Director to be suf-
ficient, in the technical skills, professional
qualifications, and physical readiness of the
officer during the inactivation of the officer
from active duty.
‘‘(2) Following completion of the period of
the inactivation of the officer from active
duty under the program, to serve 2 months
on active duty for each month of the period
of the inactivation of the officer from active
duty under the program.
‘‘(d) CONDITIONS OF RELEASE.—The Sec-
retary shall—
‘‘(1) prescribe regulations specifying the
guidelines regarding the conditions of re-
lease that must be considered and addressed
in the agreement required by subsection (c);
and
‘‘(2) at a minimum, prescribe the proce-
dures and standards to be used to instruct an
officer on the obligations to be assumed by
the officer under paragraph (2) of such sub-
section while the officer is released from ac-
tive duty.
‘‘(e) ORDER TO ACTIVE DUTY.—Under regu-
lations prescribed by the Secretary, an offi-
cer participating in a program under this
section may, in the discretion of the Sec-
retary, be required to terminate participa-
tion in the program and be ordered to active
duty.
‘‘(f) PAY AND ALLOWANCES.—
‘‘(1) BASIC PAY.—During each month of par-
ticipation in a program under this section,
an officer who participates in the program
shall be paid basic pay in an amount equal to
two-thirtieths of the amount of monthly
basic pay to which the officer would other-
wise be entitled under section 204 of title 37,
United States Code, as a member of the uni-
formed services on active duty in the grade
and years of service of the officer when the
officer commences participation in the pro-
gram.
‘‘(2) SPECIAL OR INCENTIVE PAY OR BONUS.—
‘‘(A) PROHIBITION.—An officer who partici-
pates in a program under this section shall
not, while participating in the program, be
paid any special or incentive pay or bonus to
which the officer is otherwise entitled under
an agreement under chapter 5 of title 37,
United States Code, that is in force when the
officer commences participation in the pro-
gram.
‘‘(B) NOT TREATED AS FAILURE TO PERFORM
SERVICES.—The inactivation from active
duty of an officer participating in a program
under this section shall not be treated as a
failure of the officer to perform any period of
service required of the officer in connection
with an agreement for a special or incentive
pay or bonus under chapter 5 of title 37,
United States Code, that is in force when the
officer commences participation in the pro-
gram.
‘‘(3) RETURN TO ACTIVE DUTY.—
‘‘(A) SPECIAL OR INCENTIVE PAY OR BONUS.—
Subject to subparagraph (B), upon the return
of an officer to active duty after completion
by the officer of participation in a program
under this section—
‘‘(i) any agreement entered into by the of-
ficer under chapter 5 of title 37, United
States Code, for the payment of a special or
incentive pay or bonus that was in force
when the officer commenced participation in
the program shall be revived, with the term
of such agreement after revival being the pe-
riod of the agreement remaining to run when
the officer commenced participation in the
program; and
‘‘(ii) any special or incentive pay or bonus
shall be payable to the officer in accordance
with the terms of the agreement concerned
for the term specified in clause (i).
‘‘(B) LIMITATION.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (A) shall
not apply to any special or incentive pay or
bonus otherwise covered by that subpara-
graph with respect to an officer if, at the
time of the return of the officer to active
duty as described in that subparagraph—
‘‘(I) such pay or bonus is no longer author-
ized by law; or
‘‘(II) the officer does not satisfy eligibility
criteria for such pay or bonus as in effect at
the time of the return of the officer to active
duty.
‘‘(ii) PAY OR BONUS CEASES BEING AUTHOR-
IZED.—Subparagraph (A) shall cease to apply
to any special or incentive pay or bonus oth-
erwise covered by that subparagraph with re-
spect to an officer if, during the term of the
revived agreement of the officer under sub-
paragraph (A)(i), such pay or bonus ceases
being authorized by law.
‘‘(C) REPAYMENT.—An officer who is ineli-
gible for payment of a special or incentive
pay or bonus otherwise covered by this para-
graph by reason of subparagraph (B)(i)(II)
shall be subject to the requirements for re-
payment of such pay or bonus in accordance
with the terms of the applicable agreement
of the officer under chapter 5 of title 37,
United States Code.
‘‘(D) REQUIRED SERVICE IS ADDITIONAL.—
Any service required of an officer under an
agreement covered by this paragraph after
the officer returns to active duty as de-
scribed in subparagraph (A) shall be in addi-
tion to any service required of the officer
under an agreement under subsection (c).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.027 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6705
November 16, 2020
‘‘(4) TRAVEL AND TRANSPORTATION ALLOW-
ANCE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B), an officer who participates in a program
under this section is entitled, while partici-
pating in the program, to the travel and
transportation allowances authorized by sec-
tion 474 of title 37, United States Code, for—
‘‘(i) travel performed from the residence of
the officer, at the time of release from active
duty to participate in the program, to the lo-
cation in the United States designated by
the officer as the officer’s residence during
the period of participation in the program;
and
‘‘(ii) travel performed to the residence of
the officer upon return to active duty at the
end of the participation of the officer in the
program.
‘‘(B) SINGLE RESIDENCE.—An allowance is
payable under this paragraph only with re-
spect to travel of an officer to and from a
single residence.
‘‘(5) LEAVE BALANCE.—An officer who par-
ticipates in a program under this section is
entitled to carry forward the leave balance
existing as of the day on which the officer
begins participation and accumulated in ac-
cordance with section 701 of title 10, but not
to exceed 60 days.
‘‘(g) PROMOTION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—An officer participating
in a program under this section shall not,
while participating in the program, be eligi-
ble for consideration for promotion under
subtitle B.
‘‘(2) RETURN TO SERVICE.—Upon the return
of an officer to active duty after completion
by the officer of participation in a program
under this section—
‘‘(A) the Secretary may adjust the date of
rank of the officer in such manner as the
Secretary shall prescribe in regulations for
purposes of this section; and
‘‘(B) the officer shall be eligible for consid-
eration for promotion when officers of the
same competitive category, grade, and se-
niority are eligible for consideration for pro-
motion.
‘‘(h) CONTINUED ENTITLEMENTS.—An officer
participating in a program under this section
shall, while participating in the program, be
treated as a member of the uniformed serv-
ices on active duty for a period of more than
30 days for purposes of—
‘‘(1) the entitlement of the officer and of
the dependents of the officer to medical and
dental care under the provisions of chapter
55 of title 10; and
‘‘(2) retirement or separation for physical
disability under the provisions of subtitle
C.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to authorize the Hydrographic Services
Improvement Act of 1998, and for other pur-
poses’’ (Public Law 107–372), as amended by
section 306(b), is further amended by insert-
ing after the item relating to section 235 the
following:
‘‘Sec. 236. Career flexibility to enhance re-
tention of officers.’’.
TITLE IV—SEPARATION AND RETIREMENT
OF OFFICERS
SEC. 401. INVOLUNTARY RETIREMENT OR SEPA-
RATION.
Section 241 (33 U.S.C. 3041) is amended by
adding at the end the following:¿
1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘National Oceanic and Atmospheric Admin-
istration Commissioned Officer Corps Amend-
ments Act of 2019’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. References to National Oceanic and At-
mospheric Administration Com-
missioned Officer Corps Act of
2002.
TITLE I—GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 101. Strength and distribution in grade.
Sec. 102. Recalled officers.
Sec. 103. Obligated service requirement.
Sec. 104. Training and physical fitness.
Sec. 105. Aviation accession training programs.
Sec. 106. Recruiting materials.
Sec. 107. Technical correction.
TITLE II—PARITY AND RECRUITMENT
Sec. 201. Education loans.
Sec. 202. Interest payments.
Sec. 203. Student pre-commissioning program.
Sec. 204. Limitation on educational assistance.
Sec. 205. Applicability of certain provisions of
title 10, United States Code, and
extension of certain authorities
applicable to members of the
Armed Forces to commissioned of-
ficer corps.
Sec. 206. Applicability of certain provisions of
title 37, United States Code.
Sec. 207. Prohibition on retaliatory personnel
actions.
Sec. 208. Application of certain provisions of
competitive service law.
Sec. 209. Employment and reemployment rights.
Sec. 210. Treatment of commission in commis-
sioned officer corps for purposes
of certain hiring decisions.
TITLE III—APPOINTMENTS AND
PROMOTION OF OFFICERS
Sec. 301. Appointments.
Sec. 302. Personnel boards.
Sec. 303. Positions of importance and responsi-
bility.
Sec. 304. Temporary appointments.
Sec. 305. Officer candidates.
Sec. 306. Procurement of personnel.
Sec. 307. Career intermission program.
TITLE IV—SEPARATION AND RETIREMENT
OF OFFICERS
Sec. 401. Involuntary retirement or separation.
Sec. 402. Separation pay.
TITLE V—OTHER NATIONAL OCEANIC AND
ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION MAT-
TERS
Sec. 501. Charting and survey services.
Sec. 502. Leases and co-location agreements.
Sec. 503. Satellite and data management.
SEC. 2. REFERENCES TO NATIONAL OCEANIC AND
ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION
COMMISSIONED OFFICER CORPS ACT
OF 2002.
Except as otherwise expressly provided, when-
ever in this Act an amendment or repeal is ex-
pressed in terms of an amendment to, or repeal
of, a section or other provision, the reference
shall be considered to be made to a section or
other provision of the National Oceanic and At-
mospheric Administration Commissioned Officer
Corps Act of 2002 (33 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.).
TITLE I—GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 101. STRENGTH AND DISTRIBUTION IN
GRADE.
Section 214 (33 U.S.C. 3004) is amended to read
as follows:
‘‘SEC. 214. STRENGTH AND DISTRIBUTION IN
GRADE.
‘‘(a) GRADES.—The commissioned grades in
the commissioned officer corps of the Adminis-
tration are the following, in relative rank with
officers of the Navy:
‘‘(1) Vice admiral.
‘‘(2) Rear admiral.
‘‘(3) Rear admiral (lower half).
‘‘(4) Captain.
‘‘(5) Commander.
‘‘(6) Lieutenant commander.
‘‘(7) Lieutenant.
‘‘(8) Lieutenant (junior grade).
‘‘(9) Ensign.
‘‘(b) GRADE DISTRIBUTION.—The Secretary
shall prescribe, with respect to the distribution
on the lineal list in grade, the percentages appli-
cable to the grades set forth in subsection (a).
‘‘(c) ANNUAL COMPUTATION OF NUMBER IN
GRADE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not less frequently than
once each year, the Secretary shall make a com-
putation to determine the number of officers on
the lineal list authorized to be serving in each
grade.
‘‘(2) METHOD OF COMPUTATION.—The number
in each grade shall be computed by applying the
applicable percentage to the total number of
such officers serving on active duty on the date
the computation is made.
‘‘(3) FRACTIONS.—If a final fraction occurs in
computing the authorized number of officers in
a grade, the nearest whole number shall be
taken. If the fraction is one-half, the next high-
er whole number shall be taken.
‘‘(d) TEMPORARY INCREASE IN NUMBERS.—The
total number of officers authorized by law to be
on the lineal list during a fiscal year may be
temporarily exceeded if the average number on
that list during that fiscal year does not exceed
the authorized number.
‘‘(e) POSITIONS OF IMPORTANCE AND RESPONSI-
BILITY.—Officers serving in positions designated
under section 228(a) and officers recalled from
retired status shall not be counted when com-
puting authorized strengths under subsection (c)
and shall not count against those strengths.
‘‘(f) PRESERVATION OF GRADE AND PAY.—No
officer may be reduced in grade or pay or sepa-
rated from the commissioned officer corps of the
Administration as the result of a computation
made to determine the authorized number of of-
ficers in the various grades.’’.
SEC. 102. RECALLED OFFICERS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 215 (33 U.S.C. 3005)
is amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 215. NUMBER OF AUTHORIZED COMMIS-
SIONED OFFICERS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The total number of au-
thorized commissioned officers on the lineal list
of the commissioned officer corps of the Admin-
istration shall not exceed 500.
‘‘(b) POSITIONS OF IMPORTANCE AND RESPONSI-
BILITY.—Officers serving in positions designated
under section 228 and officers recalled from re-
tired status or detailed to an agency other than
the Administration—
‘‘(1) may not be counted in determining the
total number of authorized officers on the lineal
list under this section; and
‘‘(2) may not count against such number.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of con-
tents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An Act to
reauthorize the Hydrographic Services Improve-
ment Act of 1998, and for other purposes’’ (Pub-
lic Law 107–372) is amended by striking the item
relating to section 215 and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘Sec. 215. Number of authorized commissioned
officers.’’.
SEC. 103. OBLIGATED SERVICE REQUIREMENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle A (33 U.S.C. 3001 et
seq.) is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 216. OBLIGATED SERVICE REQUIREMENT.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—
‘‘(1) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary shall pre-
scribe the obligated service requirements for ap-
pointments, training, promotions, separations,
continuations, and retirements of officers not
otherwise covered by law.
‘‘(2) WRITTEN AGREEMENTS.—The Secretary
and officers shall enter into written agreements
that describe the officers’ obligated service re-
quirements prescribed under paragraph (1) in
return for such appointments, training, pro-
motions, separations, continuations, and retire-
ments as the Secretary considers appropriate.
‘‘(b) REPAYMENT FOR FAILURE TO SATISFY RE-
QUIREMENTS.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.027 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6706 November 16, 2020
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may require
an officer who fails to meet the service require-
ments prescribed under subsection (a)(1) to reim-
burse the Secretary in an amount that bears the
same ratio to the total costs of the training pro-
vided to that officer by the Secretary as the
unserved portion of active duty bears to the
total period of active duty the officer agreed to
serve.
‘‘(2) OBLIGATION AS DEBT TO UNITED STATES.—
An obligation to reimburse the Secretary under
paragraph (1) is, for all purposes, a debt owed
to the United States.
‘‘(3) DISCHARGE IN BANKRUPTCY.—A discharge
in bankruptcy under title 11 that is entered less
than five years after the termination of a writ-
ten agreement entered into under subsection
(a)(2) does not discharge the individual signing
the agreement from a debt arising under such
agreement.
‘‘(c) WAIVER OR SUSPENSION OF COMPLI-
ANCE.—The Secretary may waive the service ob-
ligation of an officer who—
‘‘(1) becomes unqualified to serve on active
duty in the commissioned officer corps of the
Administration because of a circumstance not
within the control of that officer; or
‘‘(2) is—
‘‘(A) not physically qualified for appointment;
and
‘‘(B) determined to be unqualified for service
in the commissioned officer corps of the Admin-
istration because of a physical or medical condi-
tion that was not the result of the officer’s own
misconduct or grossly negligent conduct.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of con-
tents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An Act to
reauthorize the Hydrographic Services Improve-
ment Act of 1998, and for other purposes’’ (Pub-
lic Law 107–372) is amended by inserting after
the item relating to section 215 the following:
‘‘Sec. 216. Obligated service requirement.’’.
SEC. 104. TRAINING AND PHYSICAL FITNESS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle A (33 U.S.C. 3001 et
seq.), as amended by section 103(a), is further
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 217. TRAINING AND PHYSICAL FITNESS.
‘‘(a) TRAINING.—The Secretary may take such
measures as may be necessary to ensure that of-
ficers are prepared to carry out their duties in
the commissioned officer corps of the Adminis-
tration and proficient in the skills necessary to
carry out such duties. Such measures may in-
clude the following:
‘‘(1) Carrying out training programs and cor-
respondence courses, including establishing and
operating a basic officer training program to
provide initial indoctrination and maritime vo-
cational training for officer candidates as well
as refresher training, mid-career training, avia-
tion training, and such other training as the
Secretary considers necessary for officer devel-
opment and proficiency.
‘‘(2) Providing officers and officer candidates
with educational materials.
‘‘(3) Acquiring such equipment as may be nec-
essary for training and instructional purposes.
‘‘(b) PHYSICAL FITNESS.—The Secretary shall
ensure that officers maintain a high physical
state of readiness by establishing standards of
physical fitness for officers that are substan-
tially equivalent to those prescribed for officers
in the Coast Guard.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of con-
tents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An Act to
reauthorize the Hydrographic Services Improve-
ment Act of 1998, and for other purposes’’ (Pub-
lic Law 107–372), as amended by section 103(b),
is further amended by inserting after the item
relating to section 216 the following:
‘‘Sec. 217. Training and physical fitness.’’.
SEC. 105. AVIATION ACCESSION TRAINING PRO-
GRAMS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle A (33 U.S.C. 3001 et
seq.), as amended by section 104(a), is further
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 218. AVIATION ACCESSION TRAINING PRO-
GRAMS.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) ADMINISTRATOR.—The term ‘Adminis-
trator’ means the Under Secretary of Commerce
for Oceans and Atmosphere and the Adminis-
trator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration.
‘‘(2) MEMBER OF THE PROGRAM.—The term
‘member of the program’ means a student who is
enrolled in the program.
‘‘(3) PROGRAM.—The term ‘program’ means an
aviation accession training program of the com-
missioned officer corps of the Administration es-
tablished pursuant to subsection (b).
‘‘(b) AVIATION ACCESSION TRAINING PRO-
GRAMS.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT AUTHORIZED.—The Ad-
ministrator, under regulations prescribed by the
Secretary, shall establish and maintain one or
more aviation accession training programs for
the commissioned officer corps of the Adminis-
tration at institutions described in paragraph
(2).
‘‘(2) INSTITUTIONS DESCRIBED.—An institution
described in this paragraph is an educational
institution—
‘‘(A) that requests to enter into an agreement
with the Administrator providing for the estab-
lishment of the program at the institution;
‘‘(B) that has, as a part of its curriculum, a
four-year baccalaureate program of professional
flight and piloting instruction that is accredited
by the Aviation Accreditation Board Inter-
national;
‘‘(C) that is located in a geographic area
that—
‘‘(i) experiences a wide variation in climate-
related activity, including frequent high winds,
convective activity (including tornadoes), peri-
ods of low visibility, heat, and snow and ice epi-
sodes, to provide opportunities for pilots to dem-
onstrate skill in all weather conditions compat-
ible with future encounters during their service
in the commissioned officer corps of the Admin-
istration; and
‘‘(ii) has a climate that can accommodate both
primary and advanced flight training activity at
least 75 percent of the year; and
‘‘(D) at which the Administrator determines
that—
‘‘(i) there will be at least one student enrolled
in the program; and
‘‘(ii) the provisions of this section are other-
wise satisfied.
‘‘(3) LIMITATIONS IN CONNECTION WITH PAR-
TICULAR INSTITUTIONS.—The program may not
be established or maintained at an institution
unless—
‘‘(A) the senior commissioned officer or em-
ployee of the commissioned officer corps of the
Administration who is assigned as an advisor to
the program at that institution is given the aca-
demic rank of adjunct professor; and
‘‘(B) the institution fulfills the terms of its
agreement with the Administrator.
‘‘(4) MEMBERSHIP IN CONNECTION WITH STATUS
AS STUDENT.—At institutions at which the pro-
gram is established, the membership of students
in the program shall be elective, as provided by
State law or the authorities of the institution
concerned.
‘‘(c) MEMBERSHIP.—
‘‘(1) ELIGIBILITY.—To be eligible for member-
ship in the program, an individual must—
‘‘(A) be a student at an institution at which
the program is established;
‘‘(B) be a citizen of the United States;
‘‘(C) contract in writing, with the consent of
a parent or guardian if a minor, with the Ad-
ministrator, to—
‘‘(i) accept an appointment, if offered, as a
commissioned officer in the commissioned officer
corps of the Administration; and
‘‘(ii) serve in the commissioned officer corps of
the Administration for not fewer than four
years;
‘‘(D) enroll in—
‘‘(i) a four-year baccalaureate program of pro-
fessional flight and piloting instruction; and
‘‘(ii) other training or education, including
basic officer training, which is prescribed by the
Administrator as meeting the preliminary re-
quirement for admission to the commissioned of-
ficer corps of the Administration; and
‘‘(E) execute a certificate or take an oath re-
lating to morality and conduct in such form as
the Administrator prescribes.
‘‘(2) COMPLETION OF PROGRAM.—A member of
the program may be appointed as a regular offi-
cer in the commissioned officer corps of the Ad-
ministration if the member meets all require-
ments for appointment as such an officer.
‘‘(d) FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FOR QUALIFIED
MEMBERS.—
‘‘(1) EXPENSES OF COURSE OF INSTRUCTION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a member of
the program who meets such qualifications as
the Administrator establishes for purposes of
this subsection, the Administrator may pay the
expenses of the member in connection with pur-
suit of a course of professional flight and pilot-
ing instruction under the program, including
tuition, fees, educational materials such as
books, training, certifications, travel, and lab-
oratory expenses.
‘‘(B) ASSISTANCE AFTER FOURTH ACADEMIC
YEAR.—In the case of a member of the program
described in subparagraph (A) who is enrolled
in a course described in that subparagraph that
has been approved by the Administrator and re-
quires more than four academic years for com-
pletion, including elective requirements of the
program, assistance under this subsection may
also be provided during a fifth academic year or
during a combination of a part of a fifth aca-
demic year and summer sessions.
‘‘(2) ROOM AND BOARD.—In the case of a mem-
ber eligible to receive assistance under para-
graph (1), the Administrator may, in lieu of
payment of all or part of such assistance, pay
the room and board expenses of the member, and
other educational expenses, of the educational
institution concerned.
‘‘(3) FAILURE TO COMPLETE PROGRAM OR AC-
CEPT COMMISSION.—A member of the program
who receives assistance under this subsection
and who does not complete the course of in-
struction, or who completes the course but de-
clines to accept a commission in the commis-
sioned officer corps of the Administration when
offered, shall be subject to the repayment provi-
sions of subsection (e).
‘‘(e) REPAYMENT OF UNEARNED PORTION OF
FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE WHEN CONDITIONS OF
PAYMENT NOT MET.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A member of the program
who receives or benefits from assistance under
subsection (d), and whose receipt of or benefit
from such assistance is subject to the condition
that the member fully satisfy the requirements
of subsection (c), shall repay to the United
States an amount equal to the assistance re-
ceived or benefitted from if the member fails to
fully satisfy such requirements and may not re-
ceive or benefit from any unpaid amounts of
such assistance after the member fails to satisfy
such requirements, unless the Administrator de-
termines that the imposition of the repayment
requirement and the termination of payment of
unpaid amounts of such assistance with regard
to the member would be—
‘‘(A) contrary to a personnel policy or man-
agement objective;
‘‘(B) against equity and good conscience; or
‘‘(C) contrary to the best interests of the
United States.
‘‘(2) REGULATIONS.—The Administrator may
establish, by regulations, procedures for deter-
mining the amount of the repayment required
under this subsection and the circumstances
under which an exception to repayment may be
granted. The Administrator may specify in the
regulations the conditions under which finan-
cial assistance to be paid to a member of the
program will not be made if the member no
longer satisfies the requirements in subsection
(c) or qualifications in subsection (d) for such
assistance.
‘‘(3) OBLIGATION AS DEBT TO UNITED STATES.—
An obligation to repay the United States under
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.027 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6707
November 16, 2020
this subsection is, for all purposes, a debt owed
to the United States.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of con-
tents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An Act to
reauthorize the Hydrographic Services Improve-
ment Act of 1998, and for other purposes’’ (Pub-
lic Law 107–372), as amended by section 104(b),
is further amended by inserting after the item
relating to section 217 the following:
‘‘Sec. 218. Aviation accession training pro-
grams.’’.
SEC. 106. RECRUITING MATERIALS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle A (33 U.S.C. 3001 et
seq.), as amended by section 105(a), is further
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 219. USE OF RECRUITING MATERIALS FOR
PUBLIC RELATIONS.
‘‘The Secretary may use for public relations
purposes of the Department of Commerce any
advertising materials developed for use for re-
cruitment and retention of personnel for the
commissioned officer corps of the Administra-
tion. Any such use shall be under such condi-
tions and subject to such restrictions as the Sec-
retary shall prescribe.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of con-
tents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An Act to
reauthorize the Hydrographic Services Improve-
ment Act of 1998, and for other purposes’’ (Pub-
lic Law 107–372), as amended by section 105(b),
is further amended by inserting after the item
relating to section 218 the following:
‘‘Sec. 219. Use of recruiting materials for public
relations.’’.
SEC. 107. TECHNICAL CORRECTION.
Section 101(21)(C) of title 38, United States
Code, is amended by inserting ‘‘in the commis-
sioned officer corps’’ before ‘‘of the National’’.
TITLE II—PARITY AND RECRUITMENT
SEC. 201. EDUCATION LOANS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle E (33 U.S.C. 3071 et
seq.) is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 267. EDUCATION LOAN REPAYMENT PRO-
GRAM.
‘‘(a) AUTHORITY TO REPAY EDUCATION
LOANS.—For the purpose of maintaining ade-
quate numbers of officers of the commissioned
officer corps of the Administration on active
duty who have skills required by the commis-
sioned officer corps, the Secretary may repay, in
the case of a person described in subsection (b),
a loan that—
‘‘(1) was used by the person to finance edu-
cation; and
‘‘(2) was obtained from a governmental entity,
private financial institution, educational insti-
tution, or other authorized entity.
‘‘(b) ELIGIBLE PERSONS.—To be eligible to ob-
tain a loan repayment under this section, a per-
son must—
‘‘(1) satisfy one of the requirements specified
in subsection (c);
‘‘(2) be fully qualified for, or hold, an ap-
pointment as a commissioned officer in the com-
missioned officer corps of the Administration;
and
‘‘(3) sign a written agreement to serve on ac-
tive duty, or, if on active duty, to remain on ac-
tive duty for a period in addition to any other
incurred active duty obligation.
‘‘(c) ACADEMIC AND PROFESSIONAL REQUIRE-
MENTS.—One of the following academic require-
ments must be satisfied for purposes of deter-
mining the eligibility of an individual for a loan
repayment under this section:
‘‘(1) The person is fully qualified in a profes-
sion that the Secretary has determined to be
necessary to meet identified skill shortages in
the commissioned officer corps of the Adminis-
tration.
‘‘(2) The person is enrolled as a full-time stu-
dent in the final year of a course of study at an
accredited educational institution (as deter-
mined by the Secretary of Education) leading to
a degree in a profession that will meet identified
skill shortages in the commissioned officer corps
of the Administration.
‘‘(d) LOAN REPAYMENTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the limits estab-
lished under paragraph (2), a loan repayment
under this section may consist of the payment of
the principal, interest, and related expenses of a
loan obtained by a person described in sub-
section (b).
‘‘(2) LIMITATION ON AMOUNT.—For each year
of obligated service that a person agrees to serve
in an agreement described in subsection (b)(3),
the Secretary may pay not more than the
amount specified in section 2173(e)(2) of title 10,
United States Code.
‘‘(e) ACTIVE DUTY SERVICE OBLIGATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A person entering into an
agreement described in subsection (b)(3) incurs
an active duty service obligation.
‘‘(2) LENGTH OF OBLIGATION DETERMINED
UNDER REGULATIONS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in sub-
paragraph (B), the length of the obligation
under paragraph (1) shall be determined under
regulations prescribed by the Secretary.
‘‘(B) MINIMUM OBLIGATION.—The regulations
prescribed under subparagraph (A) may not pro-
vide for a period of obligation of less than one
year for each maximum annual amount, or por-
tion thereof, paid on behalf of the person for
qualified loans.
‘‘(3) PERSONS ON ACTIVE DUTY BEFORE ENTER-
ING INTO AGREEMENT.—The active duty service
obligation of persons on active duty before en-
tering into the agreement shall be served after
the conclusion of any other obligation incurred
under the agreement.
‘‘(4) CONCURRENT COMPLETION OF SERVICE OB-
LIGATIONS.—A service obligation under this sec-
tion may be completed concurrently with a serv-
ice obligation under section 216.
‘‘(f) EFFECT OF FAILURE TO COMPLETE OBLI-
GATION.—
‘‘(1) ALTERNATIVE OBLIGATIONS.—An officer
who is relieved of the officer’s active duty obli-
gation under this section before the completion
of that obligation may be given any alternative
obligation, at the discretion of the Secretary.
‘‘(2) REPAYMENT.—An officer who does not
complete the period of active duty specified in
the agreement entered into under subsection
(b)(3), or the alternative obligation imposed
under paragraph (1), shall be subject to the re-
payment provisions under section 216.
‘‘(g) RULEMAKING.—The Secretary shall pre-
scribe regulations to carry out this section, in-
cluding—
‘‘(1) standards for qualified loans and author-
ized payees; and
‘‘(2) other terms and conditions for the mak-
ing of loan repayments.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of con-
tents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An Act to
reauthorize the Hydrographic Services Improve-
ment Act of 1998, and for other purposes’’ (Pub-
lic Law 107–372) is amended by inserting after
the item relating to section 266 the following:
‘‘Sec. 267. Education loan repayment pro-
gram.’’.
SEC. 202. INTEREST PAYMENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle E (33 U.S.C. 3071 et
seq.), as amended by section 201(a), is further
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 268. INTEREST PAYMENT PROGRAM.
‘‘(a) AUTHORITY.—The Secretary may pay the
interest and any special allowances that accrue
on one or more student loans of an eligible offi-
cer, in accordance with this section.
‘‘(b) ELIGIBLE OFFICERS.—An officer is eligible
for the benefit described in subsection (a) while
the officer—
‘‘(1) is serving on active duty;
‘‘(2) has not completed more than three years
of service on active duty;
‘‘(3) is the debtor on one or more unpaid loans
described in subsection (c); and
‘‘(4) is not in default on any such loan.
‘‘(c) STUDENT LOANS.—The authority to make
payments under subsection (a) may be exercised
with respect to the following loans:
‘‘(1) A loan made, insured, or guaranteed
under part B of title IV of the Higher Education
Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1071 et seq.).
‘‘(2) A loan made under part D of such title
(20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq.).
‘‘(3) A loan made under part E of such title
(20 U.S.C. 1087aa et seq.).
‘‘(d) MAXIMUM BENEFIT.—Interest and any
special allowance may be paid on behalf of an
officer under this section for any of the 36 con-
secutive months during which the officer is eli-
gible under subsection (b).
‘‘(e) FUNDS FOR PAYMENTS.—The Secretary
may use amounts appropriated for the pay and
allowances of personnel of the commissioned of-
ficer corps of the Administration for payments
under this section.
‘‘(f) COORDINATION WITH SECRETARY OF EDU-
CATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall consult
with the Secretary of Education regarding the
administration of this section.
‘‘(2) TRANSFER OF FUNDS.—The Secretary
shall transfer to the Secretary of Education the
funds necessary—
‘‘(A) to pay interest and special allowances on
student loans under this section (in accordance
with sections 428(o), 455(l), and 464(j) of the
Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1078(o),
1087e(l), and 1087dd(j)); and
‘‘(B) to reimburse the Secretary of Education
for any reasonable administrative costs incurred
by the Secretary in coordinating the program
under this section with the administration of
the student loan programs under parts B, D,
and E of title IV of the Higher Education Act of
1965 (20 U.S.C. 1071 et seq., 1087a et seq., 1087aa
et seq.).
‘‘(g) SPECIAL ALLOWANCE DEFINED.—In this
section, the term ‘special allowance’ means a
special allowance that is payable under section
438 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20
U.S.C. 1087–1).’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) Section 428(o) of the Higher Education Act
of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1078(o)) is amended—
(A) by striking the subsection heading and in-
serting ‘‘ARMED FORCES AND NOAA COMMIS-
SIONED OFFICER CORPS STUDENT LOAN INTEREST
PAYMENT PROGRAMS’’; and
(B) in paragraph (1)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘or section 268 of the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Com-
missioned Officer Corps Act of 2002’’ after
‘‘Code,’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘or an officer in the commis-
sioned officer corps of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration, respectively,’’ after
‘‘Armed Forces’’.
(2) Sections 455(l) and 464(j) of the Higher
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087e(l) and
1087dd(j)) are each amended—
(A) by striking the subsection heading and in-
serting ‘‘ARMED FORCES AND NOAA COMMIS-
SIONED OFFICER CORPS STUDENT LOAN INTEREST
PAYMENT PROGRAMS’’; and
(B) in paragraph (1)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘or section 268 of the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Com-
missioned Officer Corps Act of 2002’’ after
‘‘Code,’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘or an officer in the commis-
sioned officer corps of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration, respectively’’ after
‘‘Armed Forces’’.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of con-
tents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An Act to
reauthorize the Hydrographic Services Improve-
ment Act of 1998, and for other purposes’’ (Pub-
lic Law 107–372), as amended by section 201(b),
is further amended by inserting after the item
relating to section 267 the following:
‘‘Sec. 268. Interest payment program.’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 6343 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.027 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6708 November 16, 2020
SEC. 203. STUDENT PRE-COMMISSIONING PRO-
GRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle E (33 U.S.C. 3071 et
seq.), as amended by section 202(a), is further
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 269. STUDENT PRE-COMMISSIONING EDU-
CATION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.
‘‘(a) AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE FINANCIAL AS-
SISTANCE.—For the purpose of maintaining ade-
quate numbers of officers of the commissioned
officer corps of the Administration on active
duty, the Secretary may provide financial as-
sistance to a person described in subsection (b)
for expenses of the person while the person is
pursuing on a full-time basis at an accredited
educational institution (as determined by the
Secretary of Education) a program of education
approved by the Secretary that leads to—
‘‘(1) a baccalaureate degree in not more than
five academic years; or
‘‘(2) a postbaccalaureate degree.
‘‘(b) ELIGIBLE PERSONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A person is eligible to ob-
tain financial assistance under subsection (a) if
the person—
‘‘(A) is enrolled on a full-time basis in a pro-
gram of education referred to in subsection (a)
at any educational institution described in such
subsection;
‘‘(B) meets all of the requirements for accept-
ance into the commissioned officer corps of the
Administration except for the completion of a
baccalaureate degree; and
‘‘(C) enters into a written agreement with the
Secretary described in paragraph (2).
‘‘(2) AGREEMENT.—A written agreement re-
ferred to in paragraph (1)(C) is an agreement
between the person and the Secretary in which
the person—
‘‘(A) agrees to accept an appointment as an
officer, if tendered; and
‘‘(B) upon completion of the person’s edu-
cational program, agrees to serve on active duty,
immediately after appointment, for—
‘‘(i) up to three years if the person received
less than three years of assistance; and
‘‘(ii) up to five years if the person received at
least three years of assistance.
‘‘(c) QUALIFYING EXPENSES.—Expenses for
which financial assistance may be provided
under subsection (a) are the following:
‘‘(1) Tuition and fees charged by the edu-
cational institution involved.
‘‘(2) The cost of educational materials.
‘‘(3) In the case of a program of education
leading to a baccalaureate degree, laboratory
expenses.
‘‘(4) Such other expenses as the Secretary con-
siders appropriate.
‘‘(d) LIMITATION ON AMOUNT.—The Secretary
shall prescribe the amount of financial assist-
ance provided to a person under subsection (a),
which may not exceed the amount specified in
section 2173(e)(2) of title 10, United States Code,
for each year of obligated service that a person
agrees to serve in an agreement described in
subsection (b)(2).
‘‘(e) DURATION OF ASSISTANCE.—Financial as-
sistance may be provided to a person under sub-
section (a) for not more than five consecutive
academic years.
‘‘(f) SUBSISTENCE ALLOWANCE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A person who receives fi-
nancial assistance under subsection (a) shall be
entitled to a monthly subsistence allowance at a
rate prescribed under paragraph (2) for the du-
ration of the period for which the person re-
ceives such financial assistance.
‘‘(2) DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT.—The Sec-
retary shall prescribe monthly rates for subsist-
ence allowance provided under paragraph (1),
which shall be equal to the amount specified in
section 2144(a) of title 10, United States Code.
‘‘(g) INITIAL CLOTHING ALLOWANCE.—
‘‘(1) TRAINING.—The Secretary may prescribe
a sum which shall be credited to each person
who receives financial assistance under sub-
section (a) to cover the cost of the person’s ini-
tial clothing and equipment issue.
‘‘(2) APPOINTMENT.—Upon completion of the
program of education for which a person re-
ceives financial assistance under subsection (a)
and acceptance of appointment in the commis-
sioned officer corps of the Administration, the
person may be issued a subsequent clothing al-
lowance equivalent to that normally provided to
a newly appointed officer.
‘‘(h) TERMINATION OF FINANCIAL ASSIST-
ANCE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall termi-
nate the assistance provided to a person under
this section if—
‘‘(A) the Secretary accepts a request by the
person to be released from an agreement de-
scribed in subsection (b)(2);
‘‘(B) the misconduct of the person results in a
failure to complete the period of active duty re-
quired under the agreement; or
‘‘(C) the person fails to fulfill any term or
condition of the agreement.
‘‘(2) REIMBURSEMENT.—The Secretary may re-
quire a person who receives assistance described
in subsection (c), (f), or (g) under an agreement
entered into under subsection (b)(1)(C) to reim-
burse the Secretary in an amount that bears the
same ratio to the total costs of the assistance
provided to that person as the unserved portion
of active duty bears to the total period of active
duty the officer agreed to serve under the agree-
ment.
‘‘(3) WAIVER.—The Secretary may waive the
service obligation of a person through an agree-
ment entered into under subsection (b)(1)(C) if
the person—
‘‘(A) becomes unqualified to serve on active
duty in the commissioned officer corps of the
Administration because of a circumstance not
within the control of that person; or
‘‘(B) is—
‘‘(i) not physically qualified for appointment;
and
‘‘(ii) determined to be unqualified for service
in the commissioned officer corps of the Admin-
istration because of a physical or medical condi-
tion that was not the result of the person’s own
misconduct or grossly negligent conduct.
‘‘(4) OBLIGATION AS DEBT TO UNITED STATES.—
An obligation to reimburse the Secretary im-
posed under paragraph (2) is, for all purposes,
a debt owed to the United States.
‘‘(5) DISCHARGE IN BANKRUPTCY.—A discharge
in bankruptcy under title 11, United States
Code, that is entered less than five years after
the termination of a written agreement entered
into under subsection (b)(1)(C) does not dis-
charge the person signing the agreement from a
debt arising under such agreement or under
paragraph (2).
‘‘(i) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary may pre-
scribe such regulations and orders as the Sec-
retary considers appropriate to carry out this
section.
‘‘(j) CONCURRENT COMPLETION OF SERVICE OB-
LIGATIONS.—A service obligation under this sec-
tion may be completed concurrently with a serv-
ice obligation under section 216.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of con-
tents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An Act to
reauthorize the Hydrographic Services Improve-
ment Act of 1998, and for other purposes’’ (Pub-
lic Law 107–372), as amended by section 202(c),
is further amended by inserting after the item
relating to section 268 the following:
‘‘Sec. 269. Student pre-commissioning education
assistance program.’’.
SEC. 204. LIMITATION ON EDUCATIONAL ASSIST-
ANCE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Each fiscal year, beginning
with the fiscal year in which this Act is enacted,
the Secretary of Commerce shall ensure that the
total amount expended by the Secretary under
section 267 of the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration Commissioned Officer
Corps Act of 2002 (as added by section 201(a)),
section 268 of such Act (as added by section
202(a)), and section 269 of such Act (as added by
section 203(a)) does not exceed the amount by
which—
(1) the total amount the Secretary would pay
in that fiscal year to officer candidates under
section 203(f)(1) of title 37, United States Code
(as added by section 305(d)), if such section enti-
tled officer candidates to pay at monthly rates
equal to the basic pay of a commissioned officer
in the pay grade O–1 with less than 2 years of
service, exceeds
(2) the total amount the Secretary actually
pays in that fiscal year to officer candidates
under section 203(f)(1) of such title (as so
added).
(b) OFFICER CANDIDATE DEFINED.—In this sec-
tion, the term ‘‘officer candidate’’ has the mean-
ing given the term in paragraph (4) of section
212(b) of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration Commissioned Officer Corps Act
of 2002 (33 U.S.C. 3002), as added by section
305(c).
SEC. 205. APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN PROVI-
SIONS OF TITLE 10, UNITED STATES
CODE, AND EXTENSION OF CERTAIN
AUTHORITIES APPLICABLE TO MEM-
BERS OF THE ARMED FORCES TO
COMMISSIONED OFFICER CORPS.
(a) APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF
TITLE 10.—Section 261(a) (33 U.S.C. 3071(a)) is
amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (13) through
(16) as paragraphs (22) through (25), respec-
tively;
(2) by redesignating paragraphs (7) through
(12) as paragraphs (14) through (19), respec-
tively;
(3) by redesignating paragraphs (4) through
(6) as paragraphs (8) through (10), respectively;
(4) by inserting after paragraph (3) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(4) Section 771, relating to unauthorized
wearing of uniforms.
‘‘(5) Section 774, relating to wearing religious
apparel while in uniform.
‘‘(6) Section 982, relating to service on State
and local juries.
‘‘(7) Section 1031, relating to administration of
oaths.’’;
(5) by inserting after paragraph (10), as redes-
ignated, the following:
‘‘(11) Section 1074n, relating to annual mental
health assessments.
‘‘(12) Section 1090a, relating to referrals for
mental health evaluations.
‘‘(13) Chapter 58, relating to the Benefits and
Services for members being separated or recently
separated.’’; and
(6) by inserting after paragraph (19), as redes-
ignated, the following:
‘‘(20) Subchapter I of chapter 88, relating to
Military Family Programs.
‘‘(21) Section 2005, relating to advanced edu-
cation assistance, active duty agreements, and
reimbursement requirements.’’.
(b) EXTENSION OF CERTAIN AUTHORITIES.—
(1) NOTARIAL SERVICES.—Section 1044a of title
10, United States Code, is amended—
(A) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ‘‘armed
forces’’ and inserting ‘‘uniformed services’’; and
(B) in subsection (b)(4), by striking ‘‘armed
forces’’ both places it appears and inserting
‘‘uniformed services’’.
(2) ACCEPTANCE OF VOLUNTARY SERVICES FOR
PROGRAMS SERVING MEMBERS AND THEIR FAMI-
LIES.—Section 1588 of such title is amended—
(A) in subsection (a)(3), in the matter before
subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘armed forces’’
and inserting ‘‘uniformed services’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(g) SECRETARY CONCERNED FOR ACCEPTANCE
OF SERVICES FOR PROGRAMS SERVING MEMBERS
OF NOAA CORPS AND THEIR FAMILIES.—For
purposes of the acceptance of services described
in subsection (a)(3), the term ‘Secretary con-
cerned’ in subsection (a) shall include the Sec-
retary of Commerce with respect to members of
the commissioned officer corps of the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.027 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6709
November 16, 2020
(3) CAPSTONE COURSE FOR NEWLY SELECTED
FLAG OFFICERS.—Section 2153 of such title is
amended—
(A) in subsection (a)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘or the commissioned officer
corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration’’ after ‘‘in the case of the
Navy’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘other armed forces’’ and in-
serting ‘‘other uniformed services’’; and
(B) in subsection (b)(1), in the matter before
subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘or the Sec-
retary of Commerce, as applicable,’’ after ‘‘the
Secretary of Defense’’.
SEC. 206. APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN PROVI-
SIONS OF TITLE 37, UNITED STATES
CODE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle E (33 U.S.C. 3071 et
seq.) is amended by inserting after section 261
the following:
‘‘SEC. 261A. APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN PROVI-
SIONS OF TITLE 37, UNITED STATES
CODE.
‘‘(a) PROVISIONS MADE APPLICABLE TO COM-
MISSIONED OFFICER CORPS.—The provisions of
law applicable to the Armed Forces under the
following provisions of title 37, United States
Code, shall apply to the commissioned officer
corps of the Administration:
‘‘(1) Section 324, relating to accession bonuses
for new officers in critical skills.
‘‘(2) Section 403(f)(3), relating to prescribing
regulations defining the terms ‘field duty’ and
‘sea duty’.
‘‘(3) Section 403(l), relating to temporary con-
tinuation of housing allowance for dependents
of members dying on active duty.
‘‘(4) Section 415, relating to initial uniform al-
lowances.
‘‘(5) Section 488, relating to allowances for re-
cruiting expenses.
‘‘(6) Section 495, relating to allowances for fu-
neral honors duty.
‘‘(b) REFERENCES.—The authority vested by
title 37, United States Code, in the ‘military de-
partments’, ‘the Secretary concerned’, or ‘the
Secretary of Defense’ with respect to the provi-
sions of law referred to in subsection (a) shall be
exercised, with respect to the commissioned offi-
cer corps of the Administration, by the Secretary
of Commerce or the Secretary’s designee.’’.
(b) PERSONAL MONEY ALLOWANCE.—Section
414(a)(2) of title 37, United States Code, is
amended by inserting ‘‘or the director of the
commissioned officer corps of the National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration’’ after
‘‘Health Service’’.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of con-
tents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An Act to
reauthorize the Hydrographic Services Improve-
ment Act of 1998, and for other purposes’’ (Pub-
lic Law 107–372) is amended by inserting after
the item relating to section 261 the following:
‘‘Sec. 261A. Applicability of certain provisions
of title 37, United States Code.’’.
SEC. 207. PROHIBITION ON RETALIATORY PER-
SONNEL ACTIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (a) of section 261
(33 U.S.C. 3071), as amended by section 205(a), is
further amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (8) through
(25) as paragraphs (9) through (26), respectively;
and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (7) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(8) Section 1034, relating to protected commu-
nications and prohibition of retaliatory per-
sonnel actions.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Subsection (b)
of such section 261 is amended by adding at the
end the following: ‘‘For purposes of paragraph
(8) of subsection (a), the term ‘Inspector Gen-
eral’ in section 1034 of such title 10 shall mean
the Inspector General of the Department of
Commerce.’’.
(c) REGULATIONS.—Such section is further
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(c) REGULATIONS REGARDING PROTECTED
COMMUNICATIONS AND PROHIBITION OF RETALIA-
TORY PERSONNEL ACTIONS.—The Secretary may
prescribe regulations to carry out the applica-
tion of section 1034 of title 10, United States
Code, to the commissioned officer corps of the
Administration, including by prescribing such
administrative procedures for investigation and
appeal within the commissioned officer corps as
the Secretary considers appropriate.’’.
SEC. 208. APPLICATION OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS
OF COMPETITIVE SERVICE LAW.
Section 3304(f) of title 5, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘and mem-
bers of the commissioned officer corps of the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
(or its predecessor organization the Coast and
Geodetic Survey) separated from such uniformed
service’’ after ‘‘separated from the armed
forces’’;
(2) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘or veteran’’
and inserting ‘‘, veteran, or member’’; and
(3) in paragraph (4), by inserting ‘‘and mem-
bers of the commissioned officer corps of the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
(or its predecessor organization the Coast and
Geodetic Survey) separated from such uniformed
service’’ after ‘‘separated from the armed
forces’’.
SEC. 209. EMPLOYMENT AND REEMPLOYMENT
RIGHTS.
Section 4303(16) of title 38, United States Code,
is amended by inserting ‘‘the commissioned offi-
cer corps of the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration,’’ after ‘‘Public Health
Service,’’.
SEC. 210. TREATMENT OF COMMISSION IN COM-
MISSIONED OFFICER CORPS FOR
PURPOSES OF CERTAIN HIRING DE-
CISIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle E (33 U.S.C. 3071 et
seq.), as amended by this title, is further amend-
ed by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 269A. TREATMENT OF COMMISSION IN COM-
MISSIONED OFFICER CORPS AS EM-
PLOYMENT IN ADMINISTRATION FOR
PURPOSES OF CERTAIN HIRING DE-
CISIONS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—In any case in which the
Secretary accepts an application for a position
of employment with the Administration and lim-
its consideration of applications for such posi-
tion to applications submitted by individuals
serving in a career or career-conditional posi-
tion in the competitive service within the Ad-
ministration, the Secretary shall deem an officer
who has served as an officer in the commis-
sioned officer corps of the Administration for at
least three years to be serving in a career or ca-
reer-conditional position in the competitive serv-
ice within the Administration for purposes of
such limitation.
‘‘(b) CAREER APPOINTMENTS.—If the Secretary
selects an application submitted by an officer
described in subsection (a) for a position de-
scribed in such subsection, the Secretary shall
give such officer a career or career-conditional
appointment in the competitive service, as ap-
propriate.
‘‘(c) COMPETITIVE SERVICE DEFINED.—In this
section, the term ‘competitive service’ has the
meaning given the term in section 2102 of title 5,
United States Code.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of con-
tents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An Act to
reauthorize the Hydrographic Services Improve-
ment Act of 1998, and for other purposes’’ (Pub-
lic Law 107–372) is amended by inserting after
the item relating to section 269, as added by sec-
tion 203(b), the following new item:
‘‘Sec. 269A. Treatment of commission in com-
missioned officer corps as employ-
ment in Administration for pur-
poses of certain hiring deci-
sions.’’.
TITLE III—APPOINTMENTS AND
PROMOTION OF OFFICERS
SEC. 301. APPOINTMENTS.
(a) ORIGINAL APPOINTMENTS.—Section 221 (33
U.S.C. 3021) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 221. ORIGINAL APPOINTMENTS AND RE-
APPOINTMENTS.
‘‘(a) ORIGINAL APPOINTMENTS.—
‘‘(1) GRADES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in sub-
paragraph (B), an original appointment of an
officer may be made in such grades as may be
appropriate for—
‘‘(i) the qualification, experience, and length
of service of the appointee; and
‘‘(ii) the commissioned officer corps of the Ad-
ministration.
‘‘(B) APPOINTMENT OF OFFICER CANDIDATES.—
‘‘(i) LIMITATION ON GRADE.—An original ap-
pointment of an officer candidate, upon gradua-
tion from the basic officer training program of
the commissioned officer corps of the Adminis-
tration, may not be made in any other grade
than ensign.
‘‘(ii) RANK.—Officer candidates receiving ap-
pointments as ensigns upon graduation from the
basic officer training program shall take rank
according to their proficiency as shown by the
order of their merit at date of graduation.
‘‘(2) SOURCE OF APPOINTMENTS.—An original
appointment may be made from among the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(A) Graduates of the basic officer training
program of the commissioned officer corps of the
Administration.
‘‘(B) Graduates of the military service acad-
emies of the United States who otherwise meet
the academic standards for enrollment in the
training program described in subparagraph
(A).
‘‘(C) Graduates of the maritime academies of
the States who—
‘‘(i) otherwise meet the academic standards
for enrollment in the training program described
in subparagraph (A);
‘‘(ii) completed at least three years of regi-
mented training while at a maritime academy of
a State; and
‘‘(iii) obtained an unlimited tonnage or unlim-
ited horsepower Merchant Mariner Credential
from the United States Coast Guard.
‘‘(D) Licensed officers of the United States
merchant marine who have served two or more
years aboard a vessel of the United States in the
capacity of a licensed officer, who otherwise
meet the academic standards for enrollment in
the training program described in subparagraph
(A).
‘‘(3) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
‘‘(A) MARITIME ACADEMIES OF THE STATES.—
The term ‘maritime academies of the States’
means the following:
‘‘(i) California Maritime Academy, Vallejo,
California.
‘‘(ii) Great Lakes Maritime Academy, Traverse
City, Michigan.
‘‘(iii) Maine Maritime Academy, Castine,
Maine.
‘‘(iv) Massachusetts Maritime Academy, Buz-
zards Bay, Massachusetts.
‘‘(v) State University of New York Maritime
College, Fort Schuyler, New York.
‘‘(vi) Texas A&M Maritime Academy, Gal-
veston, Texas.
‘‘(B) MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMIES OF THE
UNITED STATES.—The term ‘military service
academies of the United States’ means the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(i) The United States Military Academy,
West Point, New York.
‘‘(ii) The United States Naval Academy, An-
napolis, Maryland.
‘‘(iii) The United States Air Force Academy,
Colorado Springs, Colorado.
‘‘(iv) The United States Coast Guard Acad-
emy, New London, Connecticut.
‘‘(v) The United States Merchant Marine
Academy, Kings Point, New York.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.027 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6710 November 16, 2020
‘‘(b) REAPPOINTMENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in para-
graph (2), an individual who previously served
in the commissioned officer corps of the Admin-
istration may be appointed by the Secretary to
the grade the individual held prior to separa-
tion.
‘‘(2) REAPPOINTMENTS TO HIGHER GRADES.—An
appointment under paragraph (1) to a position
of importance and responsibility designated
under section 228 may only be made by the
President.
‘‘(c) QUALIFICATIONS.—An appointment under
subsection (a) or (b) may not be given to an in-
dividual until the individual’s mental, moral,
physical, and professional fitness to perform the
duties of an officer has been established under
such regulations as the Secretary shall pre-
scribe.
‘‘(d) ORDER OF PRECEDENCE.—Appointees
under this section shall take precedence in the
grade to which appointed in accordance with
the dates of their commissions as commissioned
officers in such grade. The order of precedence
of appointees whose dates of commission are the
same shall be determined by the Secretary.
‘‘(e) INTER-SERVICE TRANSFERS.—For inter-
service transfers (as described in Department of
Defense Directive 1300.4 (dated December 27,
2006)) the Secretary shall—
‘‘(1) coordinate with the Secretary of Defense
and the Secretary of the Department in which
the Coast Guard is operating to promote and
streamline inter-service transfers;
‘‘(2) give preference to such inter-service
transfers for recruitment purposes as determined
appropriate by the Secretary; and
‘‘(3) reappoint such inter-service transfers to
the equivalent grade in the commissioned officer
corps of the Administration.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of con-
tents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An Act to
reauthorize the Hydrographic Services Improve-
ment Act of 1998, and for other purposes’’ (Pub-
lic Law 107–372) is amended by striking the item
relating to section 221 and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘Sec. 221. Original appointments and re-
appointments.’’.
SEC. 302. PERSONNEL BOARDS.
Section 222 (33 U.S.C. 3022) is amended to read
as follows:
‘‘SEC. 222. PERSONNEL BOARDS.
‘‘(a) CONVENING.—Not less frequently than
once each year and at such other times as the
Secretary determines necessary, the Secretary
shall convene a personnel board.
‘‘(b) MEMBERSHIP.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A board convened under
subsection (a) shall consist of five or more offi-
cers who are serving in or above the permanent
grade of the officers under consideration by the
board.
‘‘(2) RETIRED OFFICERS.—Officers on the re-
tired list may be recalled to serve on such per-
sonnel boards as the Secretary considers nec-
essary.
‘‘(3) NO MEMBERSHIP ON TWO SUCCESSIVE
BOARDS.—No officer may be a member of two
successive personnel boards convened to con-
sider officers of the same grade for promotion or
separation.
‘‘(c) DUTIES.—Each personnel board shall—
‘‘(1) recommend to the Secretary such changes
as may be necessary to correct any erroneous
position on the lineal list that was caused by
administrative error; and
‘‘(2) make selections and recommendations to
the Secretary and the President for the appoint-
ment, promotion, involuntary separation, con-
tinuation, and involuntary retirement of officers
in the commissioned officer corps of the Admin-
istration as prescribed in this title.
‘‘(d) ACTION ON RECOMMENDATIONS NOT AC-
CEPTABLE.—If any recommendation by a board
convened under subsection (a) is not accepted
by the Secretary or the President, the board
shall make such further recommendations as the
Secretary or the President considers appro-
priate.
‘‘(e) AUTHORITY FOR OFFICERS TO OPT OUT OF
PROMOTION CONSIDERATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Director of the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Commissioned Officer Corps may provide that
an officer, upon the officer’s request and with
the approval of the Director, be excluded from
consideration for promotion by a personnel
board convened under this section.
‘‘(2) APPROVAL.—The Director shall approve a
request made by an officer under paragraph (1)
only if—
‘‘(A) the basis for the request is to allow the
officer to complete a broadening assignment, ad-
vanced education, another assignment of sig-
nificant value to the Administration, a career
progression requirement delayed by the assign-
ment or education, or a qualifying personal or
professional circumstance, as determined by the
Director;
‘‘(B) the Director determines the exclusion
from consideration is in the best interest of the
Administration; and
‘‘(C) the officer has not previously failed se-
lection for promotion to the grade for which the
officer requests the exclusion from consider-
ation.’’.
SEC. 303. POSITIONS OF IMPORTANCE AND RE-
SPONSIBILITY.
Section 228 (33 U.S.C. 3028) is amended—
(1) in subsection (c)—
(A) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘The Sec-
retary shall designate one position under this
section’’ and inserting ‘‘The President shall des-
ignate one position’’; and
(B) in the second sentence, by striking ‘‘That
position shall be filled by’’ and inserting ‘‘The
President shall fill that position by appointing,
by and with the advice and consent of the Sen-
ate,’’;
(2) in subsection (d)(2), by inserting ‘‘or imme-
diately beginning a period of terminal leave’’
after ‘‘for which a higher grade is designated’’;
(3) by amending subsection (e) to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘(e) LIMIT ON NUMBER OF OFFICERS AP-
POINTED.—The total number of officers serving
on active duty at any one time in the grade of
rear admiral (lower half) or above may not ex-
ceed five, with only one serving in the grade of
vice admiral.’’; and
(4) in subsection (f), by inserting ‘‘or in a pe-
riod of annual leave used at the end of the ap-
pointment’’ after ‘‘serving in that grade’’.
SEC. 304. TEMPORARY APPOINTMENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 229 (33 U.S.C. 3029)
is amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 229. TEMPORARY APPOINTMENTS.
‘‘(a) APPOINTMENTS BY PRESIDENT.—Tem-
porary appointments in the grade of ensign,
lieutenant junior grade, or lieutenant may be
made by the President.
‘‘(b) TERMINATION.—A temporary appointment
to a position under subsection (a) shall termi-
nate upon approval of a permanent appoint-
ment for such position made by the President.
‘‘(c) ORDER OF PRECEDENCE.—Appointees
under subsection (a) shall take precedence in
the grade to which appointed in accordance
with the dates of their appointments as officers
in such grade. The order of precedence of ap-
pointees who are appointed on the same date
shall be determined by the Secretary.
‘‘(d) ANY ONE GRADE.—When determined by
the Secretary to be in the best interest of the
commissioned officer corps of the Administra-
tion, officers in any permanent grade may be
temporarily promoted one grade by the Presi-
dent. Any such temporary promotion terminates
upon the transfer of the officer to a new assign-
ment.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of con-
tents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An Act to
reauthorize the Hydrographic Services Improve-
ment Act of 1998, and for other purposes’’ (Pub-
lic Law 107–372) is amended by striking the item
relating to section 229 and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘Sec. 229. Temporary appointments.’’.
SEC. 305. OFFICER CANDIDATES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle B (33 U.S.C. 3021 et
seq.) is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 234. OFFICER CANDIDATES.
‘‘(a) DETERMINATION OF NUMBER.—The Sec-
retary shall determine the number of appoint-
ments of officer candidates.
‘‘(b) APPOINTMENT.—Appointment of officer
candidates shall be made under regulations,
which the Secretary shall prescribe, including
regulations with respect to determining age lim-
its, methods of selection of officer candidates,
term of service as an officer candidate before
graduation from the basic officer training pro-
gram of the Administration, and all other mat-
ters affecting such appointment.
‘‘(c) DISMISSAL.—The Secretary may dismiss
from the basic officer training program of the
Administration any officer candidate who, dur-
ing the officer candidate’s term as an officer
candidate, the Secretary considers unsatisfac-
tory in either academics or conduct, or not
adapted for a career in the commissioned officer
corps of the Administration. Officer candidates
shall be subject to rules governing discipline
prescribed by the Director of the National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration Commis-
sioned Officer Corps.
‘‘(d) AGREEMENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Each officer candidate
shall sign an agreement with the Secretary in
accordance with section 216(a)(2) regarding the
officer candidate’s term of service in the commis-
sioned officer corps of the Administration.
‘‘(2) ELEMENTS.—An agreement signed by an
officer candidate under paragraph (1) shall pro-
vide that the officer candidate agrees to the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(A) That the officer candidate will complete
the course of instruction at the basic officer
training program of the Administration.
‘‘(B) That upon graduation from such pro-
gram, the officer candidate—
‘‘(i) will accept an appointment, if tendered,
as an officer; and
‘‘(ii) will serve on active duty for at least four
years immediately after such appointment.
‘‘(e) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary shall pre-
scribe regulations to carry out this section. Such
regulations shall include—
‘‘(1) standards for determining what con-
stitutes a breach of an agreement signed under
subsection (d)(1); and
‘‘(2) procedures for determining whether such
a breach has occurred.
‘‘(f) REPAYMENT.—An officer candidate or
former officer candidate who does not fulfill the
terms of the obligation to serve as specified
under subsection (d) shall be subject to the re-
payment provisions of section 216(b).’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of con-
tents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An Act to
reauthorize the Hydrographic Services Improve-
ment Act of 1998, and for other purposes’’ (Pub-
lic Law 107–372) is amended by inserting after
the item relating to section 233 the following:
‘‘Sec. 234. Officer candidates.’’.
(c) OFFICER CANDIDATE DEFINED.—Section
212(b) (33 U.S.C. 3002(b)) is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (4) through
(6) as paragraphs (5) through (7), respectively;
and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (3) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(4) OFFICER CANDIDATE.—The term ‘officer
candidate’ means an individual who is enrolled
in the basic officer training program of the Ad-
ministration and is under consideration for ap-
pointment as an officer under section
221(a)(2)(A).’’.
(d) PAY FOR OFFICER CANDIDATES.—Section
203 of title 37, United States Code, is amended
by adding at the end the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.027 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6711
November 16, 2020
‘‘(f)(1) An officer candidate enrolled in the
basic officer training program of the commis-
sioned officer corps of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration is entitled, while
participating in such program, to monthly offi-
cer candidate pay at monthly rates equal to the
basic pay of an enlisted member in the pay
grade E–5 with less than two years of service.
‘‘(2) An individual who graduates from such
program shall receive credit for the time spent
participating in such program as if such time
were time served while on active duty as a com-
missioned officer. If the individual does not
graduate from such program, such time shall
not be considered creditable for active duty or
pay.’’.
SEC. 306. PROCUREMENT OF PERSONNEL.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle B (33 U.S.C. 3021 et
seq.), as amended by section 305(a), is further
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 235. PROCUREMENT OF PERSONNEL.
‘‘The Secretary may make such expenditures
as the Secretary considers necessary in order to
obtain recruits for the commissioned officer
corps of the Administration, including adver-
tising.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of con-
tents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An Act to
reauthorize the Hydrographic Services Improve-
ment Act of 1998, and for other purposes’’ (Pub-
lic Law 107–372), as amended by section 305(b),
is further amended by inserting after the item
relating to section 234 the following:
‘‘Sec. 235. Procurement of personnel.’’.
SEC. 307. CAREER INTERMISSION PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle B (33 U.S.C. 3021 et
seq.), as amended by section 306(a), is further
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 236. CAREER FLEXIBILITY TO ENHANCE RE-
TENTION OF OFFICERS.
‘‘(a) PROGRAMS AUTHORIZED.—The Secretary
may carry out a program under which officers
may be inactivated from active duty in order to
meet personal or professional needs and re-
turned to active duty at the end of such period
of inactivation from active duty.
‘‘(b) PERIOD OF INACTIVATION FROM ACTIVE
DUTY; EFFECT OF INACTIVATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The period of inactivation
from active duty under a program under this
section of an officer participating in the pro-
gram shall be such period as the Secretary shall
specify in the agreement of the officer under
subsection (c), except that such period may not
exceed three years.
‘‘(2) EXCLUSION FROM RETIREMENT.—Any pe-
riod of participation of an officer in a program
under this section shall not count toward eligi-
bility for retirement or computation of retired
pay under subtitle C.
‘‘(c) AGREEMENT.—Each officer who partici-
pates in a program under this section shall enter
into a written agreement with the Secretary
under which that officer shall agree as follows:
‘‘(1) To undergo during the period of the inac-
tivation of the officer from active duty under
the program such inactive duty training as the
Director of the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration Commissioned Officer
Corps shall require in order to ensure that the
officer retains proficiency, at a level determined
by the Director to be sufficient, in the technical
skills, professional qualifications, and physical
readiness of the officer during the inactivation
of the officer from active duty.
‘‘(2) Following completion of the period of the
inactivation of the officer from active duty
under the program, to serve two months on ac-
tive duty for each month of the period of the in-
activation of the officer from active duty under
the program.
‘‘(d) CONDITIONS OF RELEASE.—The Secretary
shall—
‘‘(1) prescribe regulations specifying the
guidelines regarding the conditions of release
that must be considered and addressed in the
agreement required by subsection (c); and
‘‘(2) at a minimum, prescribe the procedures
and standards to be used to instruct an officer
on the obligations to be assumed by the officer
under paragraph (1) of such subsection while
the officer is released from active duty.
‘‘(e) ORDER TO ACTIVE DUTY.—Under regula-
tions prescribed by the Secretary, an officer par-
ticipating in a program under this section may,
in the discretion of the Secretary, be required to
terminate participation in the program and be
ordered to active duty.
‘‘(f) PAY AND ALLOWANCES.—
‘‘(1) BASIC PAY.—During each month of par-
ticipation in a program under this section, an
officer who participates in the program shall be
paid basic pay in an amount equal to two-
thirtieths of the amount of monthly basic pay to
which the officer would otherwise be entitled
under section 204 of title 37, United States Code,
as a member of the uniformed services on active
duty in the grade and years of service of the of-
ficer when the officer commences participation
in the program.
‘‘(2) SPECIAL OR INCENTIVE PAY OR BONUS.—
‘‘(A) PROHIBITION.—An officer who partici-
pates in a program under this section shall not,
while participating in the program, be paid any
special or incentive pay or bonus to which the
officer is otherwise entitled under an agreement
under chapter 5 of title 37, United States Code,
that is in force when the officer commences par-
ticipation in the program.
‘‘(B) NOT TREATED AS FAILURE TO PERFORM
SERVICES.—The inactivation from active duty of
an officer participating in a program under this
section shall not be treated as a failure of the
officer to perform any period of service required
of the officer in connection with an agreement
for a special or incentive pay or bonus under
chapter 5 of title 37, United States Code, that is
in force when the officer commences participa-
tion in the program.
‘‘(3) RETURN TO ACTIVE DUTY.—
‘‘(A) SPECIAL OR INCENTIVE PAY OR BONUS.—
Subject to subparagraph (B), upon the return of
an officer to active duty after completion by the
officer of participation in a program under this
section—
‘‘(i) any agreement entered into by the officer
under chapter 5 of title 37, United States Code,
for the payment of a special or incentive pay or
bonus that was in force when the officer com-
menced participation in the program shall be re-
vived, with the term of such agreement after re-
vival being the period of the agreement remain-
ing to run when the officer commenced partici-
pation in the program; and
‘‘(ii) any special or incentive pay or bonus
shall be payable to the officer in accordance
with the terms of the agreement concerned for
the term specified in clause (i).
‘‘(B) LIMITATION.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (A) shall not
apply to any special or incentive pay or bonus
otherwise covered by that subparagraph with
respect to an officer if, at the time of the return
of the officer to active duty as described in that
subparagraph—
‘‘(I) such pay or bonus is no longer authorized
by law; or
‘‘(II) the officer does not satisfy eligibility cri-
teria for such pay or bonus as in effect at the
time of the return of the officer to active duty.
‘‘(ii) PAY OR BONUS CEASES BEING AUTHOR-
IZED.—Subparagraph (A) shall cease to apply to
any special or incentive pay or bonus otherwise
covered by that subparagraph with respect to an
officer if, during the term of the revived agree-
ment of the officer under subparagraph (A)(i),
such pay or bonus ceases being authorized by
law.
‘‘(C) REPAYMENT.—An officer who is ineligible
for payment of a special or incentive pay or
bonus otherwise covered by this paragraph by
reason of subparagraph (B)(i)(II) shall be sub-
ject to the requirements for repayment of such
pay or bonus in accordance with the terms of
the applicable agreement of the officer under
chapter 5 of title 37, United States Code.
‘‘(D) REQUIRED SERVICE IS ADDITIONAL.—Any
service required of an officer under an agree-
ment covered by this paragraph after the officer
returns to active duty as described in subpara-
graph (A) shall be in addition to any service re-
quired of the officer under an agreement under
subsection (c).
‘‘(4) TRAVEL AND TRANSPORTATION ALLOW-
ANCE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B), an officer who participates in a program
under this section is entitled, while partici-
pating in the program, to the travel and trans-
portation allowances authorized by section 474
of title 37, United States Code, for—
‘‘(i) travel performed from the residence of the
officer, at the time of release from active duty to
participate in the program, to the location in
the United States designated by the officer as
the officer’s residence during the period of par-
ticipation in the program; and
‘‘(ii) travel performed to the residence of the
officer upon return to active duty at the end of
the participation of the officer in the program.
‘‘(B) SINGLE RESIDENCE.—An allowance is
payable under this paragraph only with respect
to travel of an officer to and from a single resi-
dence.
‘‘(5) LEAVE BALANCE.—An officer who partici-
pates in a program under this section is entitled
to carry forward the leave balance existing as of
the day on which the officer begins participa-
tion and accumulated in accordance with sec-
tion 701 of title 10, United States Code, but not
to exceed 60 days.
‘‘(g) PROMOTION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—An officer participating in
a program under this section shall not, while
participating in the program, be eligible for con-
sideration for promotion under subtitle B.
‘‘(2) RETURN TO SERVICE.—Upon the return of
an officer to active duty after completion by the
officer of participation in a program under this
section—
‘‘(A) the Secretary may adjust the date of
rank of the officer in such manner as the Sec-
retary shall prescribe in regulations for purposes
of this section; and
‘‘(B) the officer shall be eligible for consider-
ation for promotion when officers of the same
competitive category, grade, and seniority are
eligible for consideration for promotion.
‘‘(h) CONTINUED ENTITLEMENTS.—An officer
participating in a program under this section
shall, while participating in the program, be
treated as a member of the uniformed services on
active duty for a period of more than 30 days for
purposes of—
‘‘(1) the entitlement of the officer and of the
dependents of the officer to medical and dental
care under the provisions of chapter 55 of title
10, United States Code; and
‘‘(2) retirement or separation for physical dis-
ability under the provisions of subtitle C.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of con-
tents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An Act to
reauthorize the Hydrographic Services Improve-
ment Act of 1998, and for other purposes’’ (Pub-
lic Law 107–372), as amended by section 306(b),
is further amended by inserting after the item
relating to section 235 the following:
‘‘Sec. 236. Career flexibility to enhance reten-
tion of officers.’’.
TITLE IV—SEPARATION AND RETIREMENT
OF OFFICERS
SEC. 401. INVOLUNTARY RETIREMENT OR SEPA-
RATION.
Section 241 (33 U.S.C. 3041) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) DEFERMENT OF RETIREMENT OR SEPARA-
TION FOR MEDICAL REASONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—If the Secretary determines
that the evaluation of the medical condition of
an officer requires hospitalization or medical ob-
servation that cannot be completed with con-
fidence in a manner consistent with the officer’s
well-being before the date on which the officer
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.027 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6712 November 16, 2020
would otherwise be required to retire or be sepa-
rated under this section, the Secretary may
defer the retirement or separation of the officer.
‘‘(2) CONSENT REQUIRED.—A deferment may
only be made with the written consent of the of-
ficer involved. If the officer does not provide
written consent to the deferment, the officer
shall be retired or separated as scheduled.
‘‘(3) LIMITATION.—A deferment of retirement
or separation under this subsection may not ex-
tend for more than 30 days after completion of
the evaluation requiring hospitalization or med-
ical observation.’’.
SEC. 402. SEPARATION PAY.
Section 242 (33 U.S.C. 3042) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) EXCEPTION.—An officer discharged for
twice failing selection for promotion to the next
higher grade is not entitled to separation pay
under this section if the officer—
‘‘(1) expresses a desire not to be selected for
promotion; or
‘‘(2) requests removal from the list of select-
ees.’’.
TITLE V—OTHER NATIONAL OCEANIC AND
ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION MAT-
TERS
SEC. 501. CHARTING AND SURVEY SERVICES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 270 days
after the development of the strategy required
by section 1002(b) of the Frank LoBiondo Coast
Guard Authorization Act of 2018 (33 U.S.C. 892a
note), the Secretary of Commerce shall enter
into not fewer than 2 multi-year contracts with
1 or more private entities for the performance of
charting and survey services by vessels.
(b) CHARTING AND SURVEYS IN THE ARCTIC.—
In soliciting and engaging the services of vessels
under subsection (a), the Secretary shall par-
ticularly emphasize the need for charting and
surveys in the Arctic.
SEC. 502. LEASES AND CO-LOCATION AGREE-
MENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, in fiscal year 2020 and each
fiscal year thereafter, the Administrator of the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion may execute noncompetitive leases and co-
location agreements for real property and inci-
dental goods and services with entities described
in subsection (b) for periods of not more than 30
years, if each such lease or agreement is sup-
ported by a price reasonableness analysis.
(b) ENTITIES DESCRIBED.—An entity described
in this subsection is—
(1) the government of any State, territory,
possession, or locality in the United States;
(2) any Tribal organization (as defined in sec-
tion 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and
Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304));
(3) any subdivision of—
(A) a government described in paragraph (1);
or
(B) an organization described in paragraph
(2); or
(4) any organization that is—
(A) organized under the laws of the United
States or any jurisdiction within the United
States; and
(B) described in section 501(c) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from tax
under section 501(a) of such Code.
(c) FISCAL YEAR LIMITATION.—The obligation
of amounts for leases and agreements executed
under subsection (a) is limited to the fiscal year
for which payments are due, without regard to
sections 1341(a)(1), 1501(a)(1), 1502(a), and
1517(a) of title 31, United States Code.
(d) COLLABORATION AGREEMENTS.—Upon the
execution of a lease or agreement authorized by
subsection (a) with an entity, the Administrator
may enter into agreements with the entity to
collaborate or engage in projects or programs on
matters of mutual interest for periods not to ex-
ceed the term of the lease or agreement. The cost
of such agreements shall be apportioned equi-
tably, as determined by the Administrator.
SEC. 503. SATELLITE AND DATA MANAGEMENT.
Section 301 of the Weather Research and
Forecasting Innovation Act of 2017 (15 U.S.C.
8531) is amended—
(1) in subsection (c)(1), by striking subpara-
graph (D) and inserting the following:
‘‘(D) improve—
‘‘(i) weather and climate forecasting and pre-
dictions; and
‘‘(ii) the understanding, management, and ex-
ploration of the ocean.’’; and
(2) in subsection (d)—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) by striking ‘‘data and satellite systems’’
and inserting ‘‘data, satellite, and other observ-
ing systems’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘to carry out’’ and all that fol-
lows and inserting the following: ‘‘to carry
out—
‘‘(A) basic, applied, and advanced research
projects and ocean exploration missions to meet
the objectives described in subparagraphs (A)
through (D) of subsection (c)(1); or
‘‘(B) any other type of project to meet other
mission objectives, as determined by the Under
Secretary.’’;
(B) in paragraph (2)(B)(i), by striking ‘‘sat-
ellites’’ and all that follows and inserting ‘‘sys-
tems, including satellites, instrumentation,
ground stations, data, and data processing;’’;
and
(C) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘2023’’ and
inserting ‘‘2030’’.
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the com-
mittee-reported amendment be with-
drawn and that the Sullivan substitute
amendment at the desk be agreed to;
that the bill, as amended, be considered
read a third time and passed; and that
the motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The committee-reported amendment
was withdrawn.
The amendment (No. 2683), in the na-
ture of a substitute, was agreed to.
(The amendment is printed in today’s
RECORD under ‘‘Text of Amendments.’’)
The bill (S. 2981), as amended, was or-
dered to be engrossed for a third read-
ing, was read the third time, and
passed.
f
GREAT LAKES ENVIRONMENTAL
SENSITIVITY INDEX ACT OF 2019
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 320, S. 1342.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 1342) to require the Under Sec-
retary for Oceans and Atmosphere to update
periodically the environmental sensitivity
index products of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration for each coastal
area of the Great Lakes, and for other pur-
poses.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill, which
had been reported from the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation, with an amendment, as follows:
(The part of the bill intended to be
stricken is shown in boldface brackets
and the part of the bill intended to be
inserted is shown in italic.)
S. 1342
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Great Lakes
Environmental Sensitivity Index Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. UPDATE TO ENVIRONMENTAL SENSI-
TIVITY INDEX PRODUCTS OF NA-
TIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOS-
PHERIC ADMINISTRATION FOR
GREAT LAKES.
(a) UPDATE REQUIRED FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
SENSITIVITY INDEX PRODUCTS FOR GREAT
LAKES.—Not later than 180 days after the
date of the enactment of this Act, the Under
Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere shall
commence updating the environmental sen-
sitivity index products of the National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration for
each coastal area of the Great Lakes.
(b) PERIODIC UPDATES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
SENSITIVITY INDEX PRODUCTS GENERALLY.—
Subject to the availability of appropriations
and the priorities set forth in subsection (c),
the Under Secretary shall—
(1) periodically update the environmental
sensitivity index products of the Administra-
tion; and
(2) endeavor to do so not less frequently
than once every 7 years.
(c) PRIORITIES.—When prioritizing geo-
graphic areas to update environmental sensi-
tivity index products, the Under Secretary
shall consider—
(1) the age of existing environmental sensi-
tivity index products for the areas;
(2) the occurrence of extreme events, be it
natural or man-made, which have signifi-
cantly altered the shoreline or ecosystem
since the last update;
(3) the natural variability of shoreline and
coastal environment; and
(4) the volume of vessel traffic and general
vulnerability to spilled pollutants.
(d) ENVIRONMENTAL SENSITIVITY INDEX
PRODUCT DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘environmental sensitivity index product’’
means a map or similar tool that is utilized
to identify sensitive shoreline, coastal or off-
shore, resources prior to an oil spill event in
order to set baseline priorities for protection
and plan cleanup strategies, typically in-
cluding information relating to shoreline
type, biological resources, and human use re-
sources.
ø(e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—There is authorized to be
appropriated to the Under Secretary
$7,500,000 to carry out subsection (a).
(2) AVAILABILITY.—Amounts appropriated
or otherwise made available pursuant to
paragraph (1) shall be available to the Under
Secretary for the purposes set forth in such
paragraph until expended.¿
(e) FUNDING.—Amounts for activities under
this section shall be derived from amounts other-
wise authorized to be appropriated or made
available for the Under Secretary.
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the com-
mittee-reported amendment be agreed
to; that the bill, as amended, be consid-
ered read a third time and passed; and
that the motion to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill (S. 1342), as amended, was or-
dered to be engrossed for a third read-
ing, was read the third time, and
passed, as follows:
S. 1342
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.027 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6713
November 16, 2020
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Great Lakes
Environmental Sensitivity Index Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. UPDATE TO ENVIRONMENTAL SENSI-
TIVITY INDEX PRODUCTS OF NA-
TIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOS-
PHERIC ADMINISTRATION FOR
GREAT LAKES.
(a) UPDATE REQUIRED FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
SENSITIVITY INDEX PRODUCTS FOR GREAT
LAKES.—Not later than 180 days after the
date of the enactment of this Act, the Under
Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere shall
commence updating the environmental sen-
sitivity index products of the National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration for
each coastal area of the Great Lakes.
(b) PERIODIC UPDATES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
SENSITIVITY INDEX PRODUCTS GENERALLY.—
Subject to the availability of appropriations
and the priorities set forth in subsection (c),
the Under Secretary shall—
(1) periodically update the environmental
sensitivity index products of the Administra-
tion; and
(2) endeavor to do so not less frequently
than once every 7 years.
(c) PRIORITIES.—When prioritizing geo-
graphic areas to update environmental sensi-
tivity index products, the Under Secretary
shall consider—
(1) the age of existing environmental sensi-
tivity index products for the areas;
(2) the occurrence of extreme events, be it
natural or man-made, which have signifi-
cantly altered the shoreline or ecosystem
since the last update;
(3) the natural variability of shoreline and
coastal environment; and
(4) the volume of vessel traffic and general
vulnerability to spilled pollutants.
(d) ENVIRONMENTAL SENSITIVITY INDEX
PRODUCT DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘environmental sensitivity index product’’
means a map or similar tool that is utilized
to identify sensitive shoreline, coastal or off-
shore, resources prior to an oil spill event in
order to set baseline priorities for protection
and plan cleanup strategies, typically in-
cluding information relating to shoreline
type, biological resources, and human use re-
sources.
(e) FUNDING.—Amounts for activities under
this section shall be derived from amounts
otherwise authorized to be appropriated or
made available for the Under Secretary.
f
CRISIS STABILIZATION AND
COMMUNITY REENTRY ACT OF 2020
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration of S. 3312
and the Senate proceed to its imme-
diate consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 3312) to establish a crisis sta-
bilization and community reentry grant pro-
gram, and for other purposes.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged and the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Cor-
nyn substitute amendment at the desk
be considered and agreed to; that the
bill, as amended, be considered read a
third time and passed; and that the
motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment (No. 2684) in the na-
ture of a substitute was agreed to, as
follows:
(Purpose: In the nature of a substitute)
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Crisis Sta-
bilization and Community Reentry Act of
2020’’.
SEC. 2. MENTAL HEALTH CRISIS STABILIZATION.
(a) PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTATION
GRANTS.—Title I of the Omnibus Crime Con-
trol and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C.
10101 et seq.) is amended by inserting after
part NN the following:
‘‘PART OO—CRISIS STABILIZATION AND
COMMUNITY REENTRY PROGRAM.
‘‘SEC. 3051. GRANT AUTHORIZATION.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Attorney General
may make grants under this part to States,
for use by State and local correctional facili-
ties, for the purpose of providing clinical
services for people with serious mental ill-
ness and substance use disorders that estab-
lish treatment, suicide prevention, and con-
tinuity of recovery in the community upon
release from the correctional facility.
‘‘(b) USE OF FUNDS.—A grant awarded
under this part shall be used to support—
‘‘(1) programs involving criminal and juve-
nile justice agencies, mental health agen-
cies, community-based organizations that
focus on reentry, and community-based be-
havioral health providers that improve clin-
ical stabilization during pre-trial detention
and incarceration and continuity of care
leading to recovery in the community by
providing services and supports that may in-
clude peer support services, enrollment in
healthcare, and introduction to long-acting
injectable medications or, as clinically indi-
cated, other medications, by—
‘‘(A) providing training and education for
criminal and juvenile justice agencies, men-
tal health agencies, and community-based
behavioral health providers on interventions
that support—
‘‘(i) engagement in recovery supports and
services;
‘‘(ii) access to medication while in an in-
carcerated setting; and
‘‘(iii) continuity of care during reentry
into the community;
‘‘(B) ensuring that offenders with serious
mental illness are provided appropriate ac-
cess to evidence-based recovery supports
that may include peer support services,
medication (including long-acting injectable
medications where clinically appropriate),
and psycho-social therapies;
‘‘(C) offering technical assistance to crimi-
nal justice agencies on how to modify their
administrative and clinical processes to ac-
commodate evidence-based interventions,
such as long-acting injectable medications
and other recovery supports; and
‘‘(D) participating in data collection ac-
tivities specified by the Attorney General, in
consultation with the Secretary of Health
and Human Services;
‘‘(2) programs that support cooperative ef-
forts between criminal and juvenile justice
agencies, mental health agencies, and com-
munity-based behavioral health providers to
establish or enhance serious mental illness
recovery support by—
‘‘(A) strengthening or establishing crisis
response services delivered by hotlines, mo-
bile crisis teams, crisis stabilization and
triage centers, peer support specialists, pub-
lic safety officers, community-based behav-
ioral health providers, and other stake-
holders, including by providing technical
support for interventions that promote long-
term recovery;
‘‘(B) engaging criminal and juvenile justice
agencies, mental health agencies and com-
munity-based behavioral health providers,
preliminary qualified offenders, and family
and community members in program design,
program implementation, and training on
crisis response services, including connec-
tion to recovery services and supports;
‘‘(C) examining health care reimbursement
issues that may pose a barrier to ensuring
the long-term financial sustainability of cri-
sis response services and interventions that
promote long-term engagement with recov-
ery services and supports; and
‘‘(D) participating in data collection ac-
tivities specified by the Attorney General, in
consultation with the Secretary of Health
and Human Services; and
‘‘(3) programs that provide training and ad-
ditional resources to criminal and juvenile
justice agencies, mental health agencies, and
community-based behavioral health pro-
viders on serious mental illness, suicide pre-
vention strategies, recovery engagement
strategies, and the special health and social
needs of justice-involved individuals who are
living with serious mental illness.
‘‘(c) CONSULTATION.—The Attorney General
shall consult with the Secretary of Health
and Human Services to ensure that serious
mental illness treatment and recovery sup-
port services provided under this grant pro-
gram incorporate evidence-based approaches
that facilitate long-term engagement in re-
covery services and supports.
‘‘(d) BEHAVIORAL HEALTH PROVIDER DE-
FINED.—In this section, the term ‘behavioral
health provider’ means—
‘‘(1) a community mental health center
that meets the criteria under section 1913(c)
of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C.
300x–2(c)); or
‘‘(2) a certified community behavioral
health clinic described in section 223(d) of
the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of
2014 (42 U.S.C. 1396a note).
‘‘SEC. 3052. STATE APPLICATIONS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—To request a grant
under this part, the chief executive of a
State, or such agency as the chief executive
may designate, shall submit an application
to the Attorney General—
‘‘(1) in such form and containing such in-
formation as the Attorney General may rea-
sonably require;
‘‘(2) that includes assurances that Federal
funds received under this part shall be used
to supplement, not supplant, non-Federal
funds that would otherwise be available for
activities funded under this part; and
‘‘(3) that describes the coordination be-
tween State criminal and juvenile justice
agencies, mental health agencies and com-
munity-based behavioral health providers,
preliminary qualified offenders, and family
and community members in—
‘‘(A) program design;
‘‘(B) program implementation; and
‘‘(C) training on crisis response, medica-
tion adherence, and continuity of recovery in
the community.
‘‘(b) ELIGIBILITY FOR PREFERENCE WITH
COMMUNITY CARE COMPONENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In awarding grants under
this part, the Attorney General shall give
preference to a State that ensures that indi-
viduals who participate in a program, funded
by a grant under this part will be provided
with continuity of care, in accordance with
paragraph (2), in a community care provider
program upon release from a correctional fa-
cility.
‘‘(2) REQUIREMENTS.—For purposes of para-
graph (1), the continuity of care shall involve
the coordination of the correctional facility
treatment program with qualified commu-
nity behavioral health providers and other
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.007 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6714 November 16, 2020
recovery supports, pre-trial release pro-
grams, parole supervision programs, half-
way house programs, and participation in
peer recovery group programs, which may
aid in ongoing recovery after the individual
is released from the correctional facility.
‘‘(3) COMMUNITY CARE PROVIDER PROGRAM
DEFINED.—For purposes of this subsection,
the term ‘community care provider program’
means a community mental health center or
certified community behavioral health clinic
that directly provides to an individual, or as-
sists in connecting an individual to the pro-
vision of, appropriate community-based
treatment, medication management, and
other recovery supports, when the individual
leaves a correctional facility at the end of a
sentence or on parole.
‘‘(c) COORDINATION OF FEDERAL ASSIST-
ANCE.—Each application submitted for a
grant under this part shall include a descrip-
tion of how the funds made available under
this part will be coordinated with Federal as-
sistance for behavioral health services cur-
rently provided by the Department of Health
and Human Services’ Substance Abuse and
Mental Health Services Administration.
‘‘SEC. 3053. REVIEW OF STATE APPLICATIONS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Attorney General
shall make a grant under section 3051 to
carry out the projects described in the appli-
cation submitted under section 3052 upon de-
termining that—
‘‘(1) the application is consistent with the
requirements of this part; and
‘‘(2) before the approval of the application,
the Attorney General has made an affirma-
tive finding in writing that the proposed
project has been reviewed in accordance with
this part.
‘‘(b) APPROVAL.—Each application sub-
mitted under section 3052 shall be considered
approved, in whole or in part, by the Attor-
ney General not later than 90 days after first
received, unless the Attorney General in-
forms the applicant of specific reasons for
disapproval.
‘‘(c) RESTRICTION.—Grant funds received
under this part shall not be used for land ac-
quisition or construction projects.
‘‘(d) DISAPPROVAL NOTICE AND RECONSIDER-
ATION.—The Attorney General may not dis-
approve any application without first afford-
ing the applicant reasonable notice and an
opportunity for reconsideration.
‘‘SEC. 3054. EVALUATION.
‘‘Each State that receives a grant under
this part shall submit to the Attorney Gen-
eral an evaluation not later than 1 year after
receipt of the grant in such form and con-
taining such information as the Attorney
General, in consultation with the Secretary
of Health and Human Services, may reason-
ably require.
‘‘SEC. 3055. AUTHORIZATION OF FUNDING.
‘‘For purposes of carrying out this part,
the Attorney General is authorized to award
not more than $10,000,000 of funds appro-
priated to the Department of Justice for
State and local law enforcement activities
for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2025.’’.
(b) NATIONAL CRIMINAL JUSTICE AND MEN-
TAL HEALTH TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSIST-
ANCE.—Section 2992(c)(3) of title I of the Om-
nibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of
1968 (34 U.S.C. 10652(c)(3)) is amended by in-
serting before the semicolon at the end the
following: ‘‘, which may include interven-
tions designed to enhance access to medica-
tion.’’.
The bill (S. 3312), as amended, was or-
dered to be engrossed for a third read-
ing, was read the third time, and
passed.
MISSING PERSONS AND UNIDENTI-
FIED REMAINS ACT OF 2019
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration of S. 2174
and the Senate proceed to its imme-
diate consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 2174) to expand the grants author-
ized under Jennifer’s Law and Kristen’s Act
to include processing of unidentified re-
mains, resolving missing persons cases, and
for other purposes.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. CORNYN. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the Cornyn amendment at
the desk be considered and agreed to;
that the bill, as amended, be considered
read a third time and passed; and that
the motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment (No. 2685) was agreed
to, as follows:
(Purpose: To strike the provision giving enti-
ties in southern border States priority in
the award of grants related to the identi-
fication and processing of unidentified re-
mains)
On page 2, lines 7 and 8, strike ‘‘, with pri-
ority given to eligible entities in southern
border States,’’.
The bill (S. 2174), as amended, was or-
dered to be engrossed for a third read-
ing, was read the third time, and
passed, as follows:
S. 2174
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Missing Per-
sons and Unidentified Remains Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. USE OF GRANT FUNDS.
(a) JENNIFER’S LAW.—Jennifer’s Law (34
U.S.C. 40501 et seq.) is amended—
(1) by striking section 202 (34 U.S.C. 40501)
and inserting the following:
‘‘SEC. 202. PROGRAM AUTHORIZED.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—
‘‘(1) GRANTS AUTHORIZED.—The Attorney
General may award grants to eligible enti-
ties described in paragraph (2) to enable the
eligible entities to improve the transpor-
tation, processing, identification, and re-
porting of missing persons and unidentified
remains, including migrants.
‘‘(2) ELIGIBLE ENTITIES.—Eligible entities
described in this paragraph are the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(A) States and units of local government.
‘‘(B) Accredited, publicly funded, Combined
DNA Index System (commonly known as
‘CODIS’) forensic laboratories, which dem-
onstrate the grant funds will be used for
DNA typing and uploading biological family
DNA reference samples, including samples
from foreign nationals, into CODIS, subject
to the protocols for inclusion of such foren-
sic DNA profiles into CODIS, and the privacy
protections required under section 203(c).
‘‘(C) Medical examiners offices.
‘‘(D) Accredited, publicly funded toxi-
cology laboratories.
‘‘(E) Accredited, publicly funded crime lab-
oratories.
‘‘(F) Publicly funded university forensic
anthropology laboratories.
‘‘(G) Nonprofit organizations that have
working collaborative agreements with
State and county forensic offices, including
medical examiners, coroners, and justices of
the peace, for entry of data into CODIS or
the National Missing and Unidentified Per-
sons System (commonly known as ‘NamUs’),
or both.’’;
(2) in section 203 (34 U.S.C. 40502)—
(A) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘a State’’
and inserting ‘‘an entity described in section
202’’;
(B) in subsection (b)—
(i) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘State’’ and inserting ‘‘appli-
cant’’;
(ii) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(1) report to the National Crime Informa-
tion Center and, when possible, to law en-
forcement authorities throughout the appli-
cant’s jurisdiction regarding every deceased
unidentified person, regardless of age, found
in the applicant’s jurisdiction;’’;
(iii) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(iv) in paragraph (4), by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(v) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(5) collect and report information to the
National Missing and Unidentified Persons
System (NamUs) regarding missing persons
and unidentified remains.’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(c) PRIVACY PROTECTIONS FOR BIOLOGICAL
FAMILY REFERENCE SAMPLES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Any suspected biological
family DNA reference samples received from
citizens of the United States or foreign na-
tionals and uploaded into the Combined DNA
Index System (commonly referred to as
‘CODIS’) by an accredited, publicly funded
CODIS forensic laboratory awarded a grant
under this section may be used only for iden-
tifying missing persons and unidentified re-
mains.
‘‘(2) LIMITATION ON USE.—Any biological
family DNA reference samples from citizens
of the United States or foreign nationals en-
tered into CODIS for purposes of identifying
missing persons and unidentified remains
may not be disclosed to a Federal or State
law enforcement agency for law enforcement
purposes.’’; and
(3) by striking section 204 (34 U.S.C. 40503)
and inserting the following:
‘‘SEC. 205. USE OF FUNDS.
‘‘An applicant receiving a grant award
under this title may use such funds to—
‘‘(1) pay for the costs incurred during or
after fiscal year 2017 for the transportation,
processing, identification, and reporting of
missing persons and unidentified remains,
including migrants;
‘‘(2) establish and expand programs devel-
oped to improve the reporting of unidentified
persons in accordance with the assurances
provided in the application submitted pursu-
ant to section 203(b);
‘‘(3) hire and maintain additional DNA case
analysts and technicians, fingerprint exam-
iners, forensic odontologists, and forensic
anthropologists, needed to support such
identification programs; and
‘‘(4) procure and maintain state of the art
multi-modal, multi-purpose forensic and
DNA-typing and analytical equipment.’’.
(b) KRISTEN’S ACT.—Section 3 of Kristen’s
Act (34 U.S.C. 40504 note) is amended to read
as follows:
‘‘SEC. 3. AUTHORIZATION OF FUNDING.
‘‘The Attorney General is authorized to use
funds otherwise appropriated for the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.014 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6715
November 16, 2020
operationalization, maintenance, and expan-
sion of the National Missing and Unidenti-
fied Persons System (NamUs) for the purpose
of carrying out this Act.’’.
SEC. 3. RESCUE BEACONS.
Section 411(o) of the Homeland Security
Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 211(o)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(3) RESCUE BEACONS.—Beginning in fiscal
year 2019, in carrying out subsection (c)(8),
the Commissioner shall purchase, deploy,
and maintain not more than 170 self-
powering, 9–1–1 cellular relay rescue beacons
along the southern border of the United
States at locations determined appropriate
by the Commissioner to mitigate migrant
deaths.’’.
SEC. 4. REPORTING ON NATIONAL MISSING AND
UNIDENTIFIED PERSONS SYSTEM
(NAMUS) PROGRAM.
Not later than 18 months after the date of
enactment of this act, and every year there-
after, the Attorney General shall submit a
report to the appropriate committees of Con-
gress regarding—
(1) the number of unidentified person cases
processed;
(2) CODIS associations and identifications;
(3) the number of anthropology cases proc-
essed;
(4) the number of suspected border crossing
cases and associations made;
(5) the number of trials supported with ex-
pert testimony;
(6) the number of students trained and pro-
fessions of those students; and
(7) the turnaround time and backlog.
SEC. 5. OTHER REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
(a) UNIDENTIFIED REMAINS.—
(1) REPORTING REQUIREMENT.—Not later
than 1 year after the date of enactment of
this Act, and annually thereafter, the Com-
missioner of U.S. Customs and Border Pro-
tection shall submit a report to the appro-
priate committees of Congress regarding all
unidentified remains discovered, during the
reporting period, on or near the border be-
tween the United States and Mexico, includ-
ing—
(A) for each deceased person—
(i) the cause and manner of death, if
known;
(ii) the sex, age (at time of death), and
country of origin (if such information is de-
terminable); and
(iii) the location of each unidentified re-
main;
(B) the total number of deceased people
whose unidentified remains were discovered
by U.S. Customs and Border Protection dur-
ing the reporting period;
(C) to the extent such information is avail-
able to U.S. Customs and Border Protection,
the total number of deceased people whose
unidentified remains were discovered by Fed-
eral, State, local or Tribal law enforcement
officers, military personnel, or medical ex-
aminers offices;
(D) the efforts of U.S. Customs and Border
Protection to engage with nongovernmental
organizations, institutions of higher edu-
cation, medical examiners and coroners, and
law enforcement agencies—
(i) to identify and map the locations at
which migrant deaths occur; and
(ii) to count the number of deaths that
occur at such locations; and
(E) a detailed description of U.S. Customs
and Border Protection’s Missing Migrant
Program, including how the program helps
mitigate migrant deaths while maintaining
border security.
(2) PUBLIC DISCLOSURE.—Not later than 30
days after each report required under para-
graph (1) is submitted, the Commissioner of
U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall
publish on the website of the agency the in-
formation described in subparagraphs (A),
(B), and (C) of paragraph (1) during each re-
porting period.
(b) RESCUE BEACONS.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this Act, and
annually thereafter, the Commissioner of
U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall
submit a report to the appropriate commit-
tees of Congress regarding the use of rescue
beacons along the border between the United
States and Mexico, including, for the report-
ing period—
(1) the number of rescue beacons in each
border patrol sector;
(2) the specific location of each rescue bea-
con;
(3) the frequency with which each rescue
beacon was activated by a person in distress;
(4) a description of the nature of the dis-
tress that resulted in each rescue beacon ac-
tivation (if such information is deter-
minable); and
(5) an assessment, in consultation with
local stakeholders, including elected offi-
cials, nongovernmental organizations, and
landowners, of necessary additional rescue
beacons and recommendations for locations
for deployment to reduce migrant deaths.
(c) GAO REPORT.—Not later than 6 months
after the report required under subsection (a)
is submitted to the appropriate committees
of Congress, the Comptroller General of the
United States shall submit a report to the
same committees that describes—
(1) how U.S. Customs and Border Protec-
tion collects and records border-crossing
death data;
(2) the differences (if any) in U.S. Customs
and Border Protection border-crossing death
data collection methodology across its sec-
tors;
(3) how U.S. Customs and Border Protec-
tion’s data and statistical analysis on trends
in the numbers, locations, causes, and char-
acteristics of border-crossing deaths com-
pare to other sources of data on these deaths,
including border county medical examiners
and coroners and the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention;
(4) how U.S. Customs and Border Protec-
tion measures the effectiveness of its pro-
grams to mitigate migrant deaths; and
(5) the extent to which U.S. Customs and
Border Protection engages Federal, State,
local, and Tribal governments, foreign diplo-
matic and consular posts, and nongovern-
mental organizations—
(A) to accurately identify deceased individ-
uals;
(B) to resolve cases involving unidentified
remains;
(C) to resolve cases involving unidentified
persons; and
(D) to share information on missing per-
sons and unidentified remains, specifically
with the National Missing and Unidentified
Persons System (NamUs).
f
UNITED STATES GRAIN STAND-
ARDS REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF
2020
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 484, S. 4054.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 4054) to reauthorize the United
States Grain Standards Act, and for other
purposes.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill, which
was reported from the Committee on
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
Mr. CORNYN. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the Roberts amendment at
the desk be considered and agreed to
and that the bill, as amended, be con-
sidered read a third time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment (No. 2686) was agreed
to as follows:
(Purpose: To modify an authorization of
appropriations)
On page 5, strike lines 10 and 11 and insert
the following:
(2) in subsection (a) (as so designated)—
(A) by striking ‘‘such sums as are nec-
essary’’ and inserting ‘‘$23,000,000’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘1988 through 2020’’ and in-
serting ‘‘2021 through 2025’’; and
The bill (S. 4054), as amended, was or-
dered to be engrossed for a third read-
ing and was read the third time.
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
know of no further debate on bill, as
amended.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. There
being no further debate and the bill
having been read the third time, the
question is, Shall the bill pass?
The bill (S. 4054), as amended, was
passed, as follows:
S. 4054
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘United
States Grain Standards Reauthorization Act
of 2020’’.
SEC. 2. NOTIFICATION OF DISCONTINUANCE OF
SERVICES BY STATE AGENCIES.
Section 7 of the United States Grain
Standards Act (7 U.S.C. 79) is amended—
(1) in subsection (e)(2)(C)(i), by inserting
‘‘and affected customers or applicants for
service of official inspection or weighing
services provided by the State agency’’ after
‘‘notify the Secretary’’; and
(2) in subsection (j)(5), in the first sen-
tence, by striking ‘‘2020’’ and inserting
‘‘2025’’.
SEC. 3. WEIGHING AUTHORITY.
Section 7A(l)(4) of the United States Grain
Standards Act (7 U.S.C. 79a(l)(4)) is amended
in the first sentence by striking ‘‘2020’’ and
inserting ‘‘2025’’.
SEC. 4. LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE AND
SUPERVISORY COSTS.
Section 7D of the United States Grain
Standards Act (7 U.S.C. 79d) is amended by
striking ‘‘2020’’ and inserting ‘‘2025’’.
SEC. 5. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
Section 17B of the United States Grain
Standards Act (7 U.S.C. 87f–2) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) ENHANCEMENT OF CURRENT REPORT-
ING.—
‘‘(1) INCREASED FREQUENCY OF INSPECTION
PROGRAM DATA REPORTING.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Beginning not later
than 1 year after the date of enactment of
this subsection, the Secretary shall publish
quarterly reports describing data from the
tests and inspections for intrinsic quality
factors (including protein, oil, and starch)
and food safety factors, as reported, in the
aggregate, for fiscal years 2014 through 2018
in the tables in section V (relating to pro-
viding official grain inspection and weighing
services) of the 2016 through 2018 annual re-
ports to Congress by the Federal Grain In-
spection Service.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.020 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6716 November 16, 2020
‘‘(B) DELINEATION.—The data from the
tests and inspections under subparagraph (A)
shall be delineated to reflect whether the
tests and inspections were requested of or
performed by—
‘‘(i) the Secretary; or
‘‘(ii) a State agency delegated authority
under section 7 or 7A or an official agency.
‘‘(2) EXCEPTIONS AND WAIVERS.—Beginning
not later than 1 year after the date of enact-
ment of this subsection, the Secretary shall
publish quarterly reports describing—
‘‘(A) the number of exceptions requested
under section 7(f)(2)(B);
‘‘(B) the number of exceptions granted
under section 7(f)(2)(B);
‘‘(C) the number of waivers requested
under section 5(a)(1); and
‘‘(D) the number of waivers granted under
section 5(a)(1).
‘‘(e) ADDITIONAL REPORTING; CONSULTA-
TION.—The Secretary may, to the extent de-
termined appropriate by the Secretary, in
consultation with State agencies delegated
authority under sections 7 and 7A, official
agencies, and the grain industries described
in the second sentence of section 21(a), pub-
lish—
‘‘(1) data relating to testing for other in-
trinsic quality or food safety factors; and
‘‘(2) other data collected from inspection
and weighing activities conducted under this
Act.
‘‘(f) PROTECTION OF CONFIDENTIAL BUSINESS
INFORMATION.—Any trade secrets or informa-
tion described in section 552(b)(4) of title 5,
United States Code, that is provided to or
collected by the Secretary in carrying out
subsection (d) or (e) shall not be included in
a report under subsection (d) or (e) or other-
wise publicly disclosed.’’.
SEC. 6. APPROPRIATIONS.
Section 19 of the United States Grain
Standards Act (7 U.S.C. 87h) is amended—
(1) by striking the section heading and des-
ignation and all that follows through ‘‘There
are hereby’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘SEC. 19. FUNDING.
‘‘(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are’’;
(2) in subsection (a) (as so designated)—
(A) by striking ‘‘such sums as are nec-
essary’’ and inserting ‘‘$23,000,000’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘1988 through 2020’’ and in-
serting ‘‘2021 through 2025’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(b) LIMITATIONS ON USES OF USER FEES.—
‘‘(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
‘‘(A) OFFICIAL INSPECTION OR WEIGHING
SERVICE.—The term ‘official inspection or
weighing service’ means official inspection,
official weighing, supervision of weighing,
supervision of agency personnel, supervision
of the field office personnel of the Secretary,
testing of equipment or instruments, other
services, or registration, the cost to the Sec-
retary of which is authorized to be covered
by the collection of a user fee pursuant to
section 7, 7A, 7B, 16, or 17A, as applicable.
‘‘(B) USER FEE.—The term ‘user fee’ means
a fee collected by the Secretary under sec-
tion 7, 7A, 7B, 16, or 17A.
‘‘(2) REQUIREMENT.—A user fee—
‘‘(A) shall be used solely to cover—
‘‘(i) the cost to the Secretary for carrying
out official inspection or weighing services;
and
‘‘(ii) administrative costs to the Secretary
directly relating to official inspection or
weighing services; and
‘‘(B) shall not be used for—
‘‘(i) activities relating to the development
or maintenance of grain standards; or
‘‘(ii) any other activity that is not directly
related to the performance of official inspec-
tion or weighing services.’’.
SEC. 7. ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
Section 21 of the United States Grain
Standards Act (7 U.S.C. 87j) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), in the last sentence,
by striking ‘‘successive terms’’ and inserting
‘‘successively for more than 2 terms’’; and
(2) in subsection (e), by striking ‘‘2020’’ and
inserting ‘‘2025’’.
SEC. 8. REVIEW OF GEOGRAPHIC BOUNDARIES
FOR OFFICIAL AGENCIES.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) GRAIN HANDLING FACILITY.—The term
‘‘grain handling facility’’ means a grain ele-
vator, warehouse, or other storage or han-
dling facility.
(2) OFFICIAL AGENCY GEOGRAPHIC AREA.—
The term ‘‘official agency geographic area’’
means a geographic area for an official agen-
cy, as defined by the Secretary under section
7(f)(2)(A) or 7A(i)(2)(A) of the United States
Grain Standards Act (7 U.S.C. 79(f)(2)(A),
79a(i)(2)(A)).
(3) UNITED STATES GRAIN STANDARDS ACT
TERMS.—The terms ‘‘grain’’, ‘‘official agen-
cy’’, ‘‘official inspection’’, ‘‘officially in-
spected’’, ‘‘official weighing’’, ‘‘supervision
of weighing’’, and ‘‘Secretary’’ have the
meanings given the terms in section 3 of the
United States Grain Standards Act (7 U.S.C.
75).
(b) REVIEW.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall con-
duct a comprehensive nationwide review of
the official agency geographic areas.
(2) CONSIDERATIONS.—In conducting the re-
view under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall
take into consideration—
(A) the number of grain handling facilities,
both within the official agency geographic
areas and in areas that are not official agen-
cy geographic areas, that currently use, or,
during the 5-year period preceding the date
of submission of the report under subsection
(c), received service from, an official agency
that provides official inspection, official
weighing, supervision of weighing, or other
services under the United States Grain
Standards Act (7 U.S.C. 71 et seq.);
(B) the volume of grain for which official
agencies provide services at grain handling
facilities within the official agency geo-
graphic areas;
(C) the number of official inspections of
vessels and other carriers within the official
agency geographic areas;
(D) other related services performed by of-
ficial agencies at grain handling facilities
within the official agency geographic areas;
(E) the timeliness, accuracy, and appro-
priateness of services performed by official
agencies at grain handling facilities within
the official agency geographic areas;
(F) fees charged by official agencies for
services performed under the United States
Grain Standards Act (7 U.S.C. 71 et seq.), in-
cluding grading, weighing, sampling, stow-
age examination, and certification; and
(G) any implications of modifications to
the official agency geographic areas on en-
hancing official inspection, official weighing,
and supervision of weighing in the domestic
market.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 18 months
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on
Agriculture of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutri-
tion, and Forestry of the Senate a report
containing—
(1) the results of the review completed
under subsection (b); and
(2) any recommendations with respect to
those results that the Secretary determines
appropriate.
SEC. 9. TECHNICAL CORRECTION.
Section 4(a)(1) of the United States Grain
Standards Act (7 U.S.C. 76(a)(1)) is amended
by striking ‘‘soybeans mixed’’ and inserting
‘‘soybeans, mixed’’.
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the mo-
tion to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
METHAMPHETAMINE RESPONSE
ACT OF 2020
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration of S. 4612
and the Senate proceed to its imme-
diate consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 4612) to designate methamphet-
amine as an emerging threat, and for other
purposes.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. CORNYN. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the bill be considered read a
third time and passed and that the mo-
tion to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill (S. 4612) was ordered to be
engrossed for a third reading, was read
the third time, and passed, as follows:
S. 4612
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Meth-
amphetamine Response Act of 2020’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) Methamphetamine poses a significant
public health and safety threat and qualifies
as an emerging drug threat, as defined in
section 702 of the Office of National Drug
Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 1998
(21 U.S.C. 1701).
(2) Methamphetamine treatment admis-
sions increased from 15.1 percent of all ad-
missions in 2008 to 23.6 percent in 2017, the
latest year for which data is available.
(3) During the timeframe described in para-
graph (2)—
(A) methamphetamine-related treatment
admissions among women increased from 19.2
percent of all drug-related treatment admis-
sions to 28.3 percent; and
(B) heroin use among those admitted for
methamphetamine-related treatment in-
creased from 5.3 percent to 23.6 percent.
(4) By the end of 2019, methamphetamine
availability, use, purity, and potency had in-
creased nationally, as street-level prices de-
clined.
(5) Methamphetamine use is a nationwide
issue. Its use remains widespread in Midwest
and Western States and is becoming increas-
ingly prevalent in Northeastern States.
(6) Methamphetamine is the drug most
often associated with violent crime.
(7) According to the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention—
(A) between 2018 and 2019, drug overdose
deaths involving methamphetamine and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.018 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6717
November 16, 2020
other stimulants increased by 27 percent na-
tionally;
(B) the number of deaths described in sub-
paragraph (A) increased in 27 of the 38 States
that provide drug-specific overdose data to
the Centers for Disease Control and Preven-
tion; and
(C) between January 2019 and January 2020,
among 36 States and the District of Colum-
bia, suspected stimulant overdoses, includ-
ing methamphetamine, treated in emergency
departments increased by 23 percent.
(8) Methamphetamine-related overdose
deaths will likely continue to increase in
2020, due in part to the ongoing COVID–19
pandemic, which makes obtaining treatment
for substance use disorders, including meth-
amphetamine use, more difficult.
(9) The increase in methamphetamine use
and the negative respiratory and pulmonary
health effects associated with its use has
caused the National Institute on Drug Abuse
to warn clinicians to be prepared to monitor
adverse effects when treating individuals
using methamphetamine who also have
COVID–19.
(10) Since the onset of COVID–19 in the
United States, the number of law enforce-
ment and first responder agencies entering
data into nationwide overdose mapping ap-
plications to track real-time suspected
overdoses, including methamphetamine
overdoses, has increased.
(11) In the first 9 months of fiscal year 2020,
there was a 52 percent increase in the
amount of methamphetamine seized by U.S.
Customs and Border Protection.
(12) Public reports indicate that Mexican
cartels may be stockpiling money and illicit
drugs, including methamphetamine, on both
sides of the Southwest Border and that the
Drug Enforcement Administration is pre-
paring to respond to any potential surge in
supply.
(13) Intentional preparation to counter any
surges in production, distribution, and use
are essential in lowering methamphetamine-
related overdose deaths and substance use
disorders.
SEC. 3. DECLARATION OF EMERGING THREAT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Congress declares meth-
amphetamine an emerging drug threat, as
defined in section 702 of the Office of Na-
tional Drug Control Policy Reauthorization
Act of 1998 (21 U.S.C. 1701), in the United
States.
(b) REQUIRED EMERGING THREAT RESPONSE
PLAN.—Not later than 90 days after the date
of enactment of this Act, the Director of the
Office of National Drug Control Policy shall
establish and implement an Emerging
Threat Response Plan that is specific to
methamphetamine in accordance with sec-
tion 709(d) of the Office of National Drug
Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 1998
(21 U.S.C. 1708(d)).
f
AMBER ALERT NATIONWIDE ACT
OF 2019
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration of S. 732 and
the Senate proceed to its immediate
consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 732) to amend the PROTECT Act
to expand the national AMBER Alert system
to territories of the United States, and for
other purposes.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. CORNYN. I further ask unani-
mous consent that the bill be consid-
ered read a third time and passed and
that the motion to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table
with no intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill (S. 732) was ordered to be en-
grossed for a third reading, was read
the third time, and passed, as follows:
S. 732
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘AMBER
Alert Nationwide Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. COOPERATION WITH DEPARTMENT OF
HOMELAND SECURITY.
Subtitle A of title III of the PROTECT Act
(34 U.S.C. 20501 et seq.) is amended—
(1) in section 301—
(A) in subsection (b)—
(i) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘(includ-
ing airports, maritime ports, border crossing
areas and checkpoints, and ports of exit from
the United States)’’ after ‘‘gaps in areas of
interstate travel’’; and
(ii) in paragraphs (2) and (3), by inserting
‘‘, territories of the United States, and tribal
governments’’ after ‘‘States’’; and
(B) in subsection (d), by inserting ‘‘, the
Secretary of Homeland Security,’’ after
‘‘Secretary of Transportation’’; and
(2) in section 302—
(A) in subsection (b), in paragraphs (2), (3),
and (4) by inserting ‘‘, territorial, tribal,’’
after ‘‘State’’; and
(B) in subsection (c)—
(i) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘, the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security,’’ after ‘‘Sec-
retary of Transportation’’; and
(ii) in paragraph (2), by inserting ‘‘, terri-
torial, tribal,’’ after ‘‘State’’.
SEC. 3. AMBER ALERTS ALONG MAJOR TRANS-
PORTATION ROUTES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 303 of the PRO-
TECT Act (34 U.S.C. 20503) is amended—
(1) in the section heading, by inserting
‘‘AND MAJOR TRANSPORTATION ROUTES’’ after
‘‘ALONG HIGHWAYS’’;
(2) in subsection (a)—
(A) by inserting ‘‘(referred to in this sec-
tion as the ‘Secretary’)’’ after ‘‘Secretary of
Transportation’’; and
(B) by inserting ‘‘and at airports, maritime
ports, border crossing areas and checkpoints,
and ports of exit from the United States’’
after ‘‘along highways’’;
(3) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) by striking ‘‘other motorist information
systems to notify motorists’’ and inserting
‘‘other information systems to notify motor-
ists, aircraft passengers, ship passengers, and
travelers’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘, aircraft passengers, ship
passengers, and travelers’’ after ‘‘necessary
to notify motorists’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘other
motorist information systems to notify mo-
torists’’ and inserting ‘‘other information
systems to notify motorists, aircraft pas-
sengers, ship passengers, and travelers’’;
(ii) in subparagraph (D), by inserting ‘‘,
aircraft passengers, ship passengers, and
travelers’’ after ‘‘support the notification of
motorists’’;
(iii) in subparagraph (E), by inserting ‘‘,
aircraft passengers, ship passengers, and
travelers’’ after ‘‘motorists’’, each place it
appears;
(iv) in subparagraph (F), by inserting ‘‘,
aircraft passengers, ship passengers, and
travelers’’ after ‘‘motorists’’; and
(v) in subparagraph (G), by inserting ‘‘, air-
craft passengers, ship passengers, and trav-
elers’’ after ‘‘motorists’’;
(4) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘other
motorist information systems to notify mo-
torists’’, each place it appears, and inserting
‘‘other information systems to notify motor-
ists, aircraft passengers, ship passengers, and
travelers’’;
(5) by amending subsection (d) to read as
follows:
‘‘(d) FEDERAL SHARE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), the Federal share of the cost
of any activities funded by a grant under
this section may not exceed 80 percent.
‘‘(2) WAIVER.—If the Secretary determines
that American Samoa, Guam, the Northern
Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, or the Virgin
Islands of the United States is unable to
comply with the requirement under para-
graph (1), the Secretary shall waive such re-
quirement.’’;
(6) in subsection (g)—
(A) by striking ‘‘In this section’’ and in-
serting ‘‘In this subtitle’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘or Puerto Rico’’ and in-
serting ‘‘American Samoa, Guam, Puerto
Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Vir-
gin Islands of the United States, and any
other territory of the United States’’; and
(7) in subsection (h), by striking ‘‘fiscal
year 2004’’ and inserting ‘‘each of fiscal years
2019 through 2023’’.
(b) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMEND-
MENT.—The table of contents in section 1(b)
of the PROTECT Act (Public Law 108–21) is
amended by striking the item relating to
section 303 and inserting the following:
‘‘Sec. 303. Grant program for notification
and communications systems
along highways and major
transportation routes for recov-
ery of abducted children.’’.
SEC. 4. AMBER ALERT COMMUNICATION PLANS
IN THE TERRITORIES.
Section 304 of the PROTECT Act (34 U.S.C.
20504) is amended—
(1) in subsection (b)(4), by inserting ‘‘a ter-
ritorial government or’’ after ‘‘with’’;
(2) by amending subsection (c) to read as
follows:
‘‘(c) FEDERAL SHARE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), the Federal share of the cost
of any activities funded by a grant under
this section may not exceed 50 percent.
‘‘(2) WAIVER.—If the Attorney General de-
termines that American Samoa, Guam, the
Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, the
Virgin Islands of the United States, or an In-
dian tribe is unable to comply with the re-
quirement under paragraph (1), the Attorney
General shall waive such requirement.’’; and
(3) in subsection (d), by inserting ‘‘, includ-
ing territories of the United States’’ before
the period at the end.
SEC. 5. GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE
REPORT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 5 years
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Comptroller General shall conduct a
study assessing—
(1) the implementation of the amendments
made by this Act;
(2) any challenges related to integrating
the territories of the United States into the
AMBER Alert system;
(3) the readiness, educational, techno-
logical, and training needs of territorial law
enforcement agencies in responding to cases
involving missing, abducted, or exploited
children; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.022 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6718 November 16, 2020
(4) any other related matters the Attorney
General or the Secretary of Transportation
determines appropriate.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—The Comptroller
General shall submit a report on the findings
of the study required under subsection (a)
to—
(1) the Committee on the Judiciary and the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works of the Senate;
(2) the Committee on the Judiciary and the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure of the House of Representatives;
and
(3) each of the delegates or resident com-
missioner to the House of Representatives
from American Samoa, Guam, the Northern
Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin
Islands of the United States.
(c) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The Comptroller
General shall make the report required
under subsection (b) available on a public
Government website.
(d) OBTAINING OFFICIAL DATA.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Comptroller General
may secure information necessary to con-
duct the study under subsection (a) directly
from any Federal agency and from any terri-
torial government receiving grant funding
under the PROTECT Act. Upon request of
the Comptroller General, the head of a Fed-
eral agency or territorial government shall
furnish the requested information to the
Comptroller General.
(2) AGENCY RECORDS.—Notwithstanding
paragraph (1), nothing in this subsection
shall require a Federal agency or any terri-
torial government to produce records subject
to a common law evidentiary privilege.
Records and information shared with the
Comptroller General shall continue to be
subject to withholding under sections 552 and
552a of title 5, United States Code. The
Comptroller General is obligated to give the
information the same level of confidentiality
and protection required of the Federal agen-
cy or territorial government. The Comp-
troller General may be requested to sign a
nondisclosure or other agreement as a condi-
tion of gaining access to sensitive or propri-
etary data to which the Comptroller General
is entitled.
(3) PRIVACY OF PERSONAL INFORMATION.—
The Comptroller General, and any Federal
agency and any territorial government that
provides information to the Comptroller
General, shall take such actions as are nec-
essary to ensure the protection of the per-
sonal information of a minor.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR—Continued
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
now ask unanimous consent that the
Senate proceed to executive session
and resume consideration of the John-
son nomination.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. CORNYN. Finally, Madam Presi-
dent, I ask unanimous consent that the
mandatory quorum call with respect to
the Johnson nomination be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Mississippi.
NOMINATION OF KRISTI HASKINS JOHNSON
Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, observ-
ers of the U.S. Senate might take note
that their Senators just passed a host
of bills and cleared a host of items
from the calendar, representing bipar-
tisan accomplishments on behalf of the
leadership of the Senate—Republican
leadership and Democratic leadership—
a great deal of work by chairs and
ranking members of committees and
subcommittees, and I salute both sides
of the aisle for these accomplishments.
In the same vein, we will vote in a
few moments on a cloture motion for
the judicial nomination of Kristi
Haskins Johnson, and I would think
that this would be another opportunity
for a strong bipartisan vote. We passed
two judges last week, as I recall, and
both judges were confirmed with strong
bipartisan support—strong support and
welcome support on both sides of the
aisle. And I would think that with re-
gard to this particular nominee—our
Mississippi candidate, Kristi Haskins
Johnson—she would continue in that
vein this afternoon and later on this
week when I hope we will be voting to
confirm her.
It is noteworthy that the Southern
District of Mississippi has never had a
woman Federal judge, and so Kristi
Johnson will break new ground in that
regard, and I am particularly delighted
that this momentous accomplishment
is right upon us.
She has had the distinct honor for
the last several months of being Mis-
sissippi’s first solicitor general. So this
could turn out to be a groundbreaking
year and a barrier-shattering year in
more than one way for soon-to-be
Judge Johnson.
In her current role as solicitor gen-
eral, she serves as Mississippi’s lead ad-
vocate for appellate litigation and
works closely with the State attorney
general in crafting legal strategy for
significant legal cases in Mississippi
and on a national scale. She has re-
ceived the highest recommendation
that a candidate for U.S. district judge
can receive from the American Bar As-
sociation, and that is a ‘‘qualified’’ rat-
ing. As we know, candidates for appeals
court judge can get a rating of ‘‘highly
qualified.’’ The best you can get for
district judge is ‘‘qualified,’’ so she re-
ceived the highest rating she could pos-
sibly receive and rightly so.
She has a unique record of accom-
plishment as a public servant, a private
attorney, a scholar, and a professor.
She served over 5 years in the U.S. at-
torney’s office in Jackson. There she
prosecuted fraud and financial crimes
as part of the Civil Division. Before
that, she made her mark in private
practice at the firm of Ogletree,
Deakins, Nash, Smoak & Stewart in
Jackson, MS, focusing there on labor
law and employment issues.
Kristi Johnson is a native of Hurley,
MS, population 985, in Jackson County,
MS. She attended school there and
then went on to receive her under-
graduate degree at the University of
Mississippi, graduating in 2003. And
then she was admitted to law school at
Mississippi College School of Law,
where she graduated summa cum
laude, second in her class. As a law stu-
dent, she served not only on the law re-
view but as executive editor of the Mis-
sissippi College Law Review and re-
ceived numerous American jurispru-
dence awards in areas such as criminal
procedure, legal research and writing,
and employment discrimination.
So excellence all the way through,
including the time that she served as a
clerk, both as a clerk at the district
court level for Judge Sharion Aycock,
Mississippi’s first female district court
judge in the Northern District of Mis-
sissippi, and then for appeals court
judge, Leslie Southwick in the Fifth
Circuit.
She takes time to share her skills as
a teacher and an adjunct professor at
her alma mater of Mississippi College
School of Law. Ms. Johnson is a mem-
ber of the American Inns of Court, the
Federal Bar Association, and the Fed-
eralist Society. She resides in Brandon,
MS.
In summary, I am just delighted by
the fact that we are going to make
some news and hurdle some previously
existing barriers with this outstanding
nominee. She has the academic, judi-
cial, and personal qualifications nec-
essary for a Federal jurist. I think she
is going to make a great judge. People
back home in Mississippi believe this
also. It is my hope that we can invoke
cloture in just a few moments in a
strong bipartisan way, leading to the
confirmation later on this week of
Kristi Haskins Johnson.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Tennessee.
FREE SPEECH
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, I
think everyone has been watching a lot
of news lately, and I will tell you I
have talked to some Tennesseeans this
weekend who feel like they can tell
that the journalists working at our
mainstream media outlets are getting
frustrated by how much pressure we
are putting on big tech companies like
Facebook, Twitter, and Google. But,
you know, we are putting pressure on
them. It is important for them to be in
their lanes. It is important that if they
are going to be news sources, that they
do something like hire a news director.
I think they have fallen into the
same trap that a lot of people fall into
when a story dominates the headlines
for awhile, and then it doesn’t resolve
itself quickly. You know, they get
pretty sick of hearing about it. They
saw the initial reports of censorship,
bias, and antitrust concerns. They
didn’t feel that personal sense of out-
rage about what was happening and ei-
ther checked out of the conversation or
let their frustration breed resentment
against those who would very much
like for their tweets to stay put.
But they knew something was going
on out there that made them a little
bit uneasy. They were hearing about
censorship. They were hearing about
blocking and throttling and shadow
banning, and, you know, they were a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.019 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6719
November 16, 2020
little unsettled by lack of privacy and
data mining and data harvesting.
But we shouldn’t use these basic no-
tions of privacy, security, and open de-
bate as a political football. These are,
indeed, universal concerns that anyone
who owns a smartphone, uses social
media, or uses search engines really
should care about. And, yes, people are
right to feel a little bit uneasy about
what is going on in the virtual space.
Why shouldn’t we be allowed to ask
powerful tech CEOs questions about
what is going on behind the scenes?
We had a hearing in the Commerce
Committee a couple of weeks ago—a
few weeks ago, just prior to the elec-
tion. Chairman WICKER was in charge
of that hearing, and people listened and
thought: Why won’t they answer the
question? Why don’t they admit that
they are data mining? Why don’t they
admit their advertising practices? We
click onto our search engines, and sud-
denly our screen populates with things
that we have recently searched and
things we have been talking about.
So we have another hearing that is
coming up tomorrow at the Judiciary
Committee. We are going to receive
testimony from Facebook CEO Mark
Zuckerberg and Twitter CEO Jack Dor-
sey about their now infamous cen-
soring and throttling of the New York
Post’s social media accounts, their
blocking of a story that was relevant
to the American people and to the elec-
tion process.
Now, keep in mind, this wasn’t some
conspiracy site or some anonymous
blog known for posting hacked infor-
mation or stories that are extreme.
This was the New York Post, a trusted
source in news here in the United
States since 1801, when it was founded
by none other than Alexander Ham-
ilton. It is not sensationalism. It is
news brought to you as a trusted
source since 1801.
And you are probably thinking, that
has been around for awhile. And, yes,
indeed it has. It is America’s oldest
continuously published newspaper.
But, apparently, random fact checkers
3,000 miles away, sitting in their posh
environs in the Silicon Valley, decided
that the Post editors’ time-tested vet-
ting processes simply were not good
enough for them. They think they
know better. They think they are
smarter than everyone else. They
think—since they control and have
power in the virtual space, they think
they get to play God. They think they
can determine what qualifies as free
speech.
Now, I have spoken before at length
about why this is a problem, and right
now I want to focus on what happened
on the other side of that takedown.
The Post fought both Facebook and
Twitter on this content moderation de-
cision. They questioned it. They de-
manded answers. And after enormous
pressure, both from the Post and in the
public square, both Facebook and Twit-
ter eventually walked back their mod-
eration decisions and allowed their
users to share this article. That they
decided to censor the Post is bad
enough; that they couldn’t even cite a
policy that they could back up their
decision under pressure is even worse.
They couldn’t tell you why they took
it down, what it violated in their com-
munity standards, and what they vio-
lated in their terms of service. They
did not know.
What did they know? What they did
know was that they were on Joe
Biden’s team. They wanted him to win,
so they took issue with anything that
they did not agree with. It did not fit
their narrative.
Big Tech companies like Facebook
and Twitter have an enormous amount
of control over the flow of information.
They were designed to be this way from
the beginning. Millions of Americans
used their feeds as a main source of
news updates.
Bear in mind, the internet is a title I
function of the 1996 Telecommuni-
cations Act—a title I. It is an informa-
tion service. It is not a telecommuni-
cations service. It is not a news serv-
ice.
This is something. It is a wonderful
resource that should be the public
square but only as long as you can
count on it to put factual information
in the pipeline, to not censor, and to
not take sides.
This is why Americans have so many
questions about how the companies
make their content moderation deci-
sions, and this is why the Judiciary
Committee will hold this hearing to-
morrow. If either of their companies
had been able to come to the table with
a simple, defensible explanation of why
they chose to censor the New York
Post, I don’t think they would be in the
position they are in right now. But
they had no explanation. They didn’t
repent. They did cave, eventually, but
they could not explain why they
blocked it.
Mr. Zuckerberg and Mr. Dorsey are
competent CEOs who know their busi-
nesses inside and out, and it is time for
them to get down to the nitty-gritty
and explain what happened. How is it
that their content moderation prac-
tices are still so full of holes as to
allow a content moderator—a single in-
dividual—to put their opinion in front
of a post, to panic and blacklist an ad-
mittedly sensational but certainly
newsworthy story without any evi-
dence that it contained misinformation
or hacked information or false or de-
famatory information? They did it be-
cause they could. They just did not
like the story.
The ensuing scramble to walk back
that decision is an indictment of their
internal moderation processes. Wheth-
er it is algorithms or individuals, it is
subjective.
The people who are responsible for
this owe us answers, and we hope the
hearing tomorrow will help lead to
those answers.
It bears repeating that these compa-
nies are not just entertainment or so-
cial media companies. They have an in-
ordinate amount of control over the
flow of information, and because of
this, they control what we see, what we
hear, even what we say, and, thereby,
what we think and how we vote.
I yield the floor.
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BOOZMAN). Pursuant to rule XXII, the
Chair lays before the Senate the pend-
ing cloture motion, which the clerk
will state.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Kristi Haskins Johnson, of Mis-
sissippi, to be United States District Judge
for the Southern District of Mississippi.
Mitch McConnell, Mike Crapo, Tom Cot-
ton, David Perdue, Mike Rounds, Pat
Roberts, Cindy Hyde-Smith, Kevin
Cramer, Lindsey Graham, Thom Tillis,
Tim Scott, James E. Risch, Michael B.
Enzi, John Cornyn, Roger F. Wicker,
John Thune, John Boozman.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Kristi Haskins Johnson, of Mis-
sissippi, to be United States District
Judge for the Southern District of Mis-
sissippi, shall be brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER), the
Senator from Montana (Mr. DAINES),
the Senator from Florida (Mr. SCOTT),
and the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
YOUNG).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted yea and the
Senator from Indiana (Mr. YOUNG)
would have voted yea.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Connecticut (Mr.
BLUMENTHAL), the Senator from Mary-
land (Mr. CARDIN), the Senator from
Delaware (Mr. COONS), the Senator
from California (Ms. HARRIS), the Sen-
ator from Washington (Mrs. MURRAY),
the Senator from Vermont (Mr. SAND-
ERS), and the Senator from Rhode Is-
land (Mr. WHITEHOUSE) are necessarily
absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. SUL-
LIVAN). Are there any other Senators in
the Chamber desiring to vote or change
their vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 51,
nays 38, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 229 Ex.]
YEAS—51
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16NO6.031 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6720 November 16, 2020
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Loeffler
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
NAYS—38
Baldwin
Bennet
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Carper
Casey
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Wyden
NOT VOTING—11
Alexander
Blumenthal
Cardin
Coons
Daines
Harris
Murray
Sanders
Scott (FL)
Whitehouse
Young
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The yeas
are 51, and the nays are 38.
The motion is agreed to.
The majority leader.
ORDER OF PROCEDURE
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that notwith-
standing the provisions of rule XXII,
the postcloture time on the Johnson
nomination expire at 11 a.m. tomorrow
and the Senate vote on confirmation of
the nomination. I further ask that if
cloture is invoked on the Beaton nomi-
nation, the postcloture time expire at
2:15 p.m. tomorrow and the Senate vote
on confirmation of the nomination. Fi-
nally, if any of the nominations are
confirmed, the motions to reconsider
be considered made and laid upon the
table and the President be immediately
notified of the Senate’s action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session and
be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
NATIONAL DEFENSE
AUTHORIZATION ACT
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, the Sen-
ate recently voted to move forward on
the National Defense Authorization
Act, NDAA, the annual defense policy
bill. The Senate took this procedural
step by what is known as a voice vote,
a process that does not record the final
vote tally or how each Senator specifi-
cally voted, but a voice vote is not a
sign of unanimous support for a meas-
ure, and I am submitting this state-
ment to mark my opposition to this
year’s NDAA and to this process.
When the Senate debated and passed
this bill for the first time, earlier this
year, I voted no. I said at the time that
I could not go along with a Republican
plan to greenlight $740 billion in mili-
tary spending while providing almost
nothing to help Americans impacted by
this unprecedented global pandemic.
I said that I could not vote for a de-
fense bill with Federal agents actively
occupying Portland and treating peace-
ful protestors like foreign enemies.
Donald Trump ordered these occupiers
into my hometown, uninvited, to crack
down on Oregonians peacefully de-
manding an end to systemic racism.
Senator MERKLEY and I introduced
an amendment to the NDAA that
would have required Donald Trump to
remove these unwanted forces from our
State. The Senate majority blocked
our amendment and told us that we
were making things up while Trump’s
goons were shooting protestors with
tear gas, rubber bullets, and other
crowd control munitions.
I want to be clear that I support
plenty of provisions in this NDAA and
wrote or negotiated some of the lan-
guage to improve the bill, but I must
oppose the NDAA due to its flaws and
its timing, in light of the lack of help
for everyday Americans suffering from
the economic downfall brought about
by Donald Trump’s inept response to a
global pandemic. For this reason, I
have no choice but to oppose.
f
TRIBUTE TO DR. MARK PETERS
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, along with
my colleague Senator MIKE CRAPO, I
rise today to honor our friend Dr. Mark
Peters. Dr. Peters, who led the Idaho
National Lab INL—for 5 extraordinary
years, will be stepping down from his
position as director of the INL to pur-
sue a new role with Battelle Energy Al-
liance.
Throughout his long and distin-
guished tenure at the INL, our national
laboratories, and other highly re-
spected research institutions, Dr.
Peters has earned a reputation as a
leading voice in the U.S. nuclear com-
munity. He is highly respected by Con-
gress, the administration, industry,
and stakeholders because of his knowl-
edge and his engaging and inclusive
style. Simply put, Dr. Peters is a giant
in the nuclear industry. He has served
as a senior advise to the U.S. Depart-
ment of Energy on nuclear energy mat-
ters and as a fellow of the American
Nuclear Society, a prestigious recogni-
tion for his outstanding accomplish-
ments in nuclear science and tech-
nology.
As INL director, Mark led the State’s
fifth largest employer and skillfully
managed its team of more than 4,000
scientists, engineers, and support staff
at our country’s premiere nuclear, cy-
bersecurity, and scientific research
laboratory. Thanks to his leadership,
the Lab is thriving and its future is
bright. It would be difficult to list
every one of Mark’s many accomplish-
ments at the Lab, but there are several
key achievements that have propelled
the INL to new heights.
Mark played a pivotal role in getting
the Nuclear Energy Innovation Capa-
bilities Act signed into law. He also
succeeded in bringing the National Re-
actor Innovation Center to Idaho, en-
suring that the Lab will continue to
lead the development and deployment
of advanced nuclear reactor designs
well into the future.
Furthermore, Dr. Peters was instru-
mental in growing the mission of the
Lab. Mark invested time and energy
into making the INL a world leader in
industrial control systems cybersecu-
rity to match its well-established rep-
utation for nuclear energy. This re-
search arm has helped ensure the safe-
ty and security of our Nation’s critical
infrastructure while acting as a boon
to eastern Idaho’s economy.
Recognizing the inherent oppor-
tunity in its expanding cybersecurity
practice, Dr. Peters worked closely
with the Sate of Idaho to construct two
new buildings at the Lab’s Research
and Education Campus. These world-
class centers facilitate cutting-edge re-
search by government and private in-
dustry, while providing Idaho students
with opportunities to develop mod-
eling, simulation, and cybersecurity
skills for in-demand careers in Idaho
and beyond.
The Idaho Falls community not only
benefited from Mark’s leadership, but
that of his wife, Ann Marie Peters. Her
tireless efforts to expand programs and
acquire the latest technologies at the
College of Eastern Idaho have provided
thousands of students with unprece-
dented high-quality educational oppor-
tunities. Throughout the community,
Mark and Ann Marie are known for
their willingness to take time out of
their busy schedules to help young peo-
ple navigate college and career oppor-
tunities and for their generous support
of organizations like the Idaho Falls
Arts Council and United Way.
We wish Mark, Ann Marie, and their
family the very best in their new en-
deavor. We thank them for their serv-
ice and dedication to making the Lab
and surrounding communities such a
vibrant place to work and call home.
Eastern Idaho is a better place because
of the Peters family, and for that, all
of Idaho is deeply grateful.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO BLAKE HURST
∑ Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I rise
today to congratulate Mr. Blake Hurst
on an extraordinary career and well-de-
served retirement. Blake has been an
outstanding leader and voice for Mis-
souri’s agriculture industry and has
played a vital role to elevate our
State’s national presence among the
agricultural community when it comes
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.021 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6721
November 16, 2020
to advocacy on behalf of Missouri farm-
ers and ranchers. Among his contribu-
tions to Missouri’s agriculture indus-
try, Blake has served with the Missouri
Farm Bureau in a variety of capacities
throughout his career, including as a
district board member, vice president,
and most recently as the organization’s
president for the last 10 years.
Mr. Hurst was elected in 2010 as the
14th president of Missouri Farm Bu-
reau and will cap off a 25-year career
with the Missouri Farm Bureau upon
his well-earned retirement. A devoted
family man, Blake Hurst and his wife
Julie have three children, Lee, Ann,
and Ben. The family raises corn and
soybeans on their family operation in
northwest Missouri. Blake also oper-
ates a wholesale greenhouse business
with his wife, Julie; daughter, Lee; and
sons-in-law, Ryan Harms and Matt
Clutter. The family raises flowers in
two acres of greenhouses.
In addition to his time consuming
role at Missouri Farm Bureau, in his
spare time, Blake also contributes as a
freelance writer, with work appearing
in the Wall Street Journal, The Amer-
ican, Weekly Standard, Wilson’s Quar-
terly, Reader’s Digest, Today’s Farmer,
and the Show Me magazine of Missouri
Farm Bureau.
Mr. Hurst has had a tremendous ca-
reer with the Missouri Farm Bureau
and is one of the most forward-think-
ing agriculture leaders in America.
Over the years, I have truly valued the
working partnership and, most impor-
tantly, the friendship, that I have fos-
tered with Blake. Blake brings a cer-
tain passion and tenacity when it
comes to agriculture, whether it is
fighting against costly and burdensome
regulations from the U.S. Environ-
mental Protection Agency, advocating
for better management of our Nation’s
rivers and inland waterway system, de-
fending the Renewable Fuels Standard,
promoting healthcare services for rural
America, or delivering assistance to
producers that are impacted by natural
disaster. He has demonstrated the abil-
ity to communicate big ideas and advo-
cate for commonsense solutions that
has been a big help to me and so many
others across Missouri and the coun-
try. There is no one I would rather be
in the trenches with than with Blake.
Blake and Julie have done so much
for our State and understand it incred-
ibly well. I look forward to their con-
tinued advice, success, and friendship.
It is with great pleasure I wish Blake
continued success in retirement and
well-deserved time with his family.
Thank you, Blake, for all you have
done and will continue to do for Mis-
souri.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO JO-ANN CLARK
∑ Ms. HASSAN. Mr. President, I am
proud to recognize Jo-Ann Clark of
Stratham as November’s Granite
Stater of the Month. Jo-Ann is a Gold
Star mother who, 10 years ago, lost her
son, Army Specialist Christopher
Journeau, to suicide. After learning
about the benefits that companion ani-
mals can bring to veterans who suffer
from posttraumatic stress disorder—
PTSD—the same condition that Chris-
topher suffered from, Jo-Ann started
an organization in her son’s name to
fund adoptions of shelter animals by
veterans.
Jo-Ann’s son, Christopher, served a
year in Iraq during Operation Iraqi
Freedom and returned home with
undiagnosed PTSD. When Christopher
took his own life 6 months later, Jo-
Ann was devastated. Over time, she
learned about the symptoms of PTSD
and recognized that her son had exhib-
ited these symptoms when he returned
home from his deployment.
During her research, Jo-Ann also
learned that, for some people, a com-
panion animal can help to mitigate the
impacts of PTSD. Jo-Ann began to re-
search national organizations that help
veterans adopt pets, but she found that
many veterans faced significant hur-
dles in the process.
In response, Jo-Ann founded Chris’
Pets for Vets to make it easier for vet-
erans to adopt companion animals
from local shelters. Among other
things, the organization pays the pet
adoption fees to ensure that cost isn’t
a barrier for any veteran.
Since its founding in 2015, Jo-Ann has
helped approximately 400 veterans
adopt companion animals at various
shelters throughout New Hampshire.
Despite health concerns that she her-
self has faced, Jo-Ann has invested an
incredible amount of her time and en-
ergy into making Chris’ Pets for Vets a
success.
Jo-Ann’s determination to turn her
own loss into productive and positive
support for veterans has helped hun-
dreds of veterans avoid the confusion
and despair that accompanies PTSD.
Her commitment is also consistent
with the Granite State’s long tradition
of military service and support for vet-
erans. Jo-Ann understands the impor-
tance of supporting veterans in every
aspect of their lives, and through
Chris’ Pets for Vets, she is both hon-
oring her son’s memory while making a
real difference in veterans’ lives. I am
honored to recognize her efforts.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Ridgway, one of his
secretaries.
f
EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED
As in executive session the Presiding
Officer laid before the Senate messages
from the President of the United
States submitting sundry nominations
which were referred to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
(The messages received today are
printed at the end of the Senate pro-
ceedings.)
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
At 4:08 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the Speaker has signed
the following enrolled bills:
H.R. 8247. An act to make certain improve-
ments relating to the transition of individ-
uals to services from the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs, suicide prevention for vet-
erans, and care and services for women vet-
erans, and for other purposes.
H.R. 8276. An act to authorize the Presi-
dent to posthumously award the Medal of
Honor to Alwyn C. Cashe for acts of valor
during Operation Iraqi Freedom.
The enrolled bills were subsequently
signed by the President pro tempore
(Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. WICKER, from the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation,
with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute:
S. 1427. A bill to amend the National Insti-
tute of Standards and Technology Act to im-
prove the Network for Manufacturing Inno-
vation Program, and for other purposes
(Rept. No. 116–291).
S. 2204. A bill to allow the Federal Commu-
nications Commission to carry out a pilot
program under which voice service providers
could block certain automated calls, and for
other purposes (Rept. No. 116–292).
S. 2346. A bill to improve the Fishery Re-
source Disaster Relief program of the Na-
tional Marine Fisheries Service, and for
other purposes (Rept. No. 116–293).
By Mr. WICKER, from the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation,
without amendment:
S. 3729. A bill to provide relief for the re-
cipients of financial assistance awards from
the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Adminis-
tration, and for other purposes (Rept. No.
116–294).
By Mr. WICKER, from the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation,
with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute:
S. 2786. A bill to establish a Federal advi-
sory committee to provide policy rec-
ommendations to the Secretary of Transpor-
tation on positioning the United States to
take advantage of emerging opportunities
for Arctic maritime transportation (Rept.
No. 116–295).
By Mr. WICKER, from the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation,
without amendment:
S. 4162. A bill to provide certainty for air-
port funding (Rept. No. 116–296).
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Mr. CRAPO, and Mr.
BOOKER):
S. 4897. A bill to reestablish United States
global leadership in nuclear energy, revi-
talize domestic nuclear energy supply chain
infrastructure, support the licensing of ad-
vanced nuclear technologies, and improve
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:54 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16NO6.014 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6722 November 16, 2020
the regulation of nuclear energy, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and
Ms. HASSAN):
S. 4898. A bill to amend title VI of the So-
cial Security Act to extend the period during
which States, Indian Tribes, and local gov-
ernments may use Coronavirus Relief Fund
payments; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself, Mr.
HAWLEY, Mr. CRAMER, and Mr.
RUBIO):
S. 4899. A bill to direct the Comptroller
General of the United States to conduct a
study to evaluate the activities of sister city
partnerships operating within the United
States, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Ms. ERNST, and Mr.
WHITEHOUSE):
S. 4900. A bill to require a pilot program on
activities under the Transition Assistance
Program for a reduction in suicide among
veterans, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Ms. CORTEZ MASTO (for herself
and Mr. PORTMAN):
S. 4901. A bill to require the Director of the
National Institute of Standards and Tech-
nology to commission a study on the effect
of the activities of China on standards for
emerging technologies, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. CASEY, Mr. DURBIN, and
Mr. MORAN):
S. Res. 774. A resolution honoring the
United Nations World Food Programme on
the occasion of being awarded the 2020 Nobel
Peace Prize; to the Committee on Foreign
Relations.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 633
At the request of Mr. MORAN, the
names of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. HOEVEN), the Senator from
Wyoming (Mr. BARRASSO), the Senator
from Oklahoma (Mr. LANKFORD), the
Senator from Louisiana (Mr. KENNEDY)
and the Senator from Missouri (Mr.
HAWLEY) were added as cosponsors of S.
633, a bill to award a Congressional
Gold Medal to the members of the
Women’s Army Corps who were as-
signed to the 6888th Central Postal Di-
rectory Battalion, known as the ‘‘Six
Triple Eight’’.
S. 959
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
names of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN), the Senator from
Ohio (Mr. BROWN) and the Senator from
Wisconsin (Ms. BALDWIN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 959, a bill to establish
in the Smithsonian Institution a com-
prehensive women’s history museum,
and for other purposes.
S. 1665
At the request of Mr. HEINRICH, the
name of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. BURR) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1665, a bill to modify the pro-
cedures for issuing special recreation
permits for certain public land units,
and for other purposes.
S. 2054
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
names of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL), the Senator from
Wisconsin (Ms. BALDWIN) and the Sen-
ator from Missouri (Mr. HAWLEY) were
added as cosponsors of S. 2054, a bill to
posthumously award the Congressional
Gold Medal, collectively, to Glen
Doherty, Tyrone Woods, J. Christopher
Stevens, and Sean Smith, in recogni-
tion of their contributions to the Na-
tion.
S. 2803
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2803, a bill to provide Federal
housing assistance on behalf of youths
who are aging out of foster care, and
for other purposes.
S. 3095
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
his name was added as a cosponsor of
S. 3095, a bill to develop voluntary
guidelines for accessible postsecondary
electronic instructional materials and
related technologies, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 3221
At the request of Mr. BOOKER, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 3221, a bill to place a mor-
atorium on large concentrated animal
feeding operations, to strengthen the
Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921, to
require country of origin labeling on
beef, pork, and dairy products, and for
other purposes.
S. 3471
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 3471, a bill to ensure that goods
made with forced labor in the Xinjiang
Uyghur Autonomous Region of the
People’s Republic of China do not enter
the United States market, and for
other purposes.
S. 3824
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
3824, a bill to require the Federal Trade
Commission to submit a report to Con-
gress on scams targeting seniors, and
for other purposes.
S. 4086
At the request of Mr. INHOFE, his
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
4086, a bill amend title 38, United
States Code, to revise the definition of
Vietnam era for purposes of the laws
administered by the Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs, and for other purposes.
S. 4327
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
names of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CRUZ) and the Senator from New
Hampshire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) were added
as cosponsors of S. 4327, a bill to estab-
lish the Taiwan Fellowship Program,
and for other purposes.
S. 4384
At the request of Mr. SULLIVAN, the
names of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET), the Senator from Ohio
(Mr. PORTMAN), the Senator from New
Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN) and the Sen-
ator from New Mexico (Mr. HEINRICH)
were added as cosponsors of S. 4384, a
bill to require the Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs to address exposure by
members of the Armed Forces to toxic
substances at Karshi-Khanabad Air
Base, Uzbekistan, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 4422
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
name of the Senator from Georgia
(Mrs. LOEFFLER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 4422, a bill to establish the Of-
fice of Minority Broadband Initiatives
within the National Telecommuni-
cations and Information Administra-
tion, and for other purposes.
S. 4494
At the request of Ms. HASSAN, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms.
MURKOWSKI) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 4494, a bill to amend title VI of
the Social Security Act to extend the
period with respect to which amounts
under the Coronavirus Relief Fund may
be expended.
S. 4613
At the request of Mr. BOOZMAN, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
4613, a bill to amend the Fairness to
Contact Lens Consumers Act to pre-
vent certain automated calls and to re-
quire notice of the availability of con-
tact lens prescriptions to patients, and
for other purposes.
S. 4659
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
4659, a bill to require a determination
as to whether crimes committed
against the Rohingya in Burma
amount to genocide.
S. 4752
At the request of Ms. WARREN, the
names of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) and the Senator from Min-
nesota (Ms. SMITH) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 4752, a bill to establish
the Truth and Healing Commission on
Indian Boarding School Policy in the
United States, and for other purposes.
S. 4805
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from Tennessee (Mr.
ALEXANDER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 4805, a bill to create a point of
order against legislation modifying the
number of Justices of the Supreme
Court of the United States.
S.J. RES. 76
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from Tennessee (Mr.
ALEXANDER) was added as a cosponsor
of S.J. Res. 76, a joint resolution pro-
posing an amendment to the Constitu-
tion of the United States to require
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.008 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6723
November 16, 2020
that the Supreme Court of the United
States be composed of nine justices.
S. RES. 215
At the request of Mr. BRAUN, the
name of the Senator from Georgia
(Mrs. LOEFFLER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. Res. 215, a resolution calling
for greater religious and political free-
doms in Cuba, and for other purposes.
S. RES. 578
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
names of the Senator from Rhode Is-
land (Mr. WHITEHOUSE) and the Senator
from Rhode Island (Mr. REED) were
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 578, a
resolution condemning the Govern-
ment of Iran’s state-sponsored persecu-
tion of its Baha’i minority and its con-
tinued violation of the International
Covenants on Human Rights.
S. RES. 663
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
names of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. TILLIS) and the Senator from
New Jersey (Mr. MENENDEZ) were added
as cosponsors of S. Res. 663, a resolu-
tion supporting mask-wearing as an
important measure to limit the spread
of the Coronavirus Disease 2019
(COVID–19).
S. RES. 760
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
names of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER), the Senator from Mis-
sissippi (Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) and the
Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs.
SHAHEEN) were added as cosponsors of
S. Res. 760, a resolution expressing the
sense of the Senate that the atrocities
perpetrated by the Government of the
People’s Republic of China against
Uyghurs, ethnic Kazakhs, Kyrgyz, and
members of other Muslim minority
groups in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autono-
mous Region constitutes genocide.
S. RES. 762
At the request of Mr. BOOKER, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 762, a resolution recognizing
the disproportionate impact of COVID–
19 on women and girls globally.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 774—HON-
ORING THE UNITED NATIONS
WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME ON
THE OCCASION OF BEING
AWARDED THE 2020 NOBEL
PEACE PRIZE
Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. CASEY, Mr. DURBIN, and
Mr. MORAN) submitted the following
resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 774
Whereas, on October 9, 2020, the Norwegian
Nobel Committee announced that the Nobel
Peace Prize for 2020 has been awarded to the
United Nations World Food Programme (re-
ferred to in this preamble as the ‘‘WFP’’)
‘‘for its efforts to combat hunger, for its con-
tribution to bettering conditions for peace in
conflict-affected areas and for acting as a
driving force in efforts to prevent the use of
hunger as a weapon of war and conflict’’;
Whereas the WFP is the largest humani-
tarian organization in the world that ad-
dresses hunger and promotes food security;
Whereas, in 2019, 135,000,000 people around
the world suffered from acute hunger and the
WFP provided nutrition assistance to nearly
100,000,000 people in 88 countries;
Whereas the 2020 coronavirus pandemic has
contributed to a significant increase in the
number of victims of hunger around the
world, and the WFP has surged capacity in
order to meet that compounded need;
Whereas the United States makes avail-
able more than 40 percent of the annual re-
sources for the WFP;
Whereas the WFP has stated, ‘‘Until the
day we have a medical vaccine, food is the
best vaccine against chaos’’; and
Whereas the Norwegian Nobel Committee,
in announcing the winner of the Nobel Peace
Price for 2020, stated, ‘‘The work of the
World Food Programme to the benefit of hu-
mankind is an endeavour that all the nations
of the world should be able to endorse and
support’’: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) joins the other countries of the world
in—
(A) affirming the mission of the United Na-
tions World Food Programme (referred to in
this resolution as the ‘‘WFP’’) on the occa-
sion of being awarded the 2020 Nobel Peace
Prize; and
(B) supporting the leadership of the WFP
Executive Director, David Beasley, and the
contributions of the more than 17,000 WFP
staff worldwide; and
(2) remains committed to the goal of the
international community to end hunger,
achieve food security, and improve nutrition
through the work of the WFP.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 2682. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr. INHOFE)
proposed an amendment to the bill H.R. 6395,
to authorize appropriations for fiscal year
2021 for military activities of the Depart-
ment of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the Department
of Energy, to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other
purposes.
SA 2683. Mr. CORNYN (for Mr. SULLIVAN)
proposed an amendment to the bill S. 2981, to
reauthorize and amend the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration Commis-
sioned Officer Corps Act of 2002, and for
other purposes.
SA 2684. Mr. CORNYN proposed an amend-
ment to the bill S. 3312, to establish a crisis
stabilization and community reentry grant
program, and for other purposes.
SA 2685. Mr. CORNYN proposed an amend-
ment to the bill S. 2174, to expand the grants
authorized under Jennifer’s Law and
Kristen’s Act to include processing of un-
identified remains, resolving missing persons
cases, and for other purposes.
SA 2686. Mr. CORNYN (for Mr. ROBERTS)
proposed an amendment to the bill S. 4054, to
reauthorize the United States Grain Stand-
ards Act, and for other purposes.
SA 2687. Mr. CORNYN (for Mr. SCHUMER)
proposed an amendment to the bill H.R. 1830,
to require the Secretary of the Treasury to
mint coins in commemoration of the Na-
tional Purple Heart Hall of Honor.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 2682. Mr. McCONNELL (for Mr.
INHOFE) proposed an amendment to the
bill H.R. 6395, to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2021 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes; as fol-
lows:
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2021’’.
SEC. 2. ORGANIZATION OF ACT INTO DIVISIONS;
TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) DIVISIONS.—This Act is organized into
six divisions as follows:
(1) Division A—Department of Defense Au-
thorizations.
(2) Division B—Military Construction Au-
thorizations.
(3) Division C—Department of Energy Na-
tional Security Authorizations and Other
Authorizations.
(4) Division D—Funding Tables.
(5) Division E—Additional Provisions.
(6) Division F—Intelligence Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2021.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Organization of Act into divisions;
table of contents.
Sec. 3. Congressional defense committees.
Sec. 4. Budgetary effects of this Act.
DIVISION A—DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
AUTHORIZATIONS
TITLE I—PROCUREMENT
Subtitle A—Authorization of Appropriations
Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.
Subtitle B—Army Programs
Sec. 111. Integrated air and missile defense
assessment.
Sec. 112. Report and limitation on Inte-
grated Visual Augmentation
System acquisition.
Sec. 113. Modifications to requirement for
an interim cruise missile de-
fense capability.
Subtitle C—Navy Programs
Sec. 121. Contract authority for Columbia-
class submarine program.
Sec. 122. Limitation on Navy medium and
large unmanned surface vessels.
Sec. 123. Extension of prohibition on avail-
ability of funds for Navy water-
borne security barriers.
Sec. 124. Procurement authorities for cer-
tain amphibious shipbuilding
programs.
Sec. 125. Fighter force structure acquisition
strategy.
Sec. 126. Treatment of systems added by
Congress in future President’s
budget requests.
Sec. 127. Report on carrier wing composi-
tion.
Sec. 128. Report on strategy to use ALQ–249
Next Generation Jammer to en-
sure full spectrum electro-
magnetic superiority.
Subtitle D—Air Force Programs
Sec. 141. Economic order quantity con-
tracting authority for F–35
joint strike fighter program.
Sec. 142. Minimum aircraft levels for major
mission areas.
Sec. 143. Minimum operational squadron
level.
Sec. 144. Minimum Air Force bomber air-
craft level.
Sec. 145. F–35 gun system.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.011 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6724 November 16, 2020
Sec. 146. Prohibition on funding for Close
Air Support Integration Group.
Sec. 147. Limitation on divestment of KC–10
and KC–135 aircraft.
Sec. 148. Limitation on retirement of U–2
and RQ–4 aircraft.
Sec. 149. Limitation on divestment of F–15C
aircraft in the European the-
ater.
Sec. 150. Air base defense development and
acquisition strategy.
Sec. 151. Required solution for KC–46 air-
craft remote visual system lim-
itations.
Sec. 152. Analysis of requirements and Ad-
vanced Battle Management
System capabilities.
Sec. 153. Studies on measures to assess cost-
per-effect for key mission
areas.
Sec. 154. Plan for operational test and util-
ity evaluation of systems for
Low-Cost Attributable Aircraft
Technology program.
Sec. 155. Prohibition on retirement or di-
vestment of A–10 aircraft.
Subtitle E—Defense-wide, Joint, and
Multiservice Matters
Sec. 171. Budgeting for life-cycle cost of air-
craft for the Navy, Army, and
Air Force: annual plan and cer-
tification.
Sec. 172. Authority to use F–35 aircraft
withheld from delivery to Gov-
ernment of Turkey.
Sec. 173. Transfer from Commander of
United States Strategic Com-
mand to Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff of responsibil-
ities and functions relating to
electromagnetic spectrum oper-
ations.
Sec. 174. Cryptographic modernization
schedules.
Sec. 175. Prohibition on purchase of armed
overwatch aircraft.
Sec. 176. Special operations armed
overwatch.
Sec. 177. Autonomic Logistics Information
System redesign strategy.
Sec. 178. Contract aviation services in a
country or in airspace in which
a Special Federal Aviation Reg-
ulation applies.
Sec. 179. F–35 aircraft munitions.
Sec. 180. Airborne intelligence, surveillance,
and reconnaissance acquisition
roadmap for United States Spe-
cial Operations Command.
Sec. 181. Requirement to accelerate the
fielding and development of
counter unmanned aerial sys-
tems across the joint force.
Sec. 182. Joint All Domain Command and
Control requirements.
TITLE II—RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT,
TEST, AND EVALUATION
Subtitle A—Authorization of Appropriations
Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.
Subtitle B—Program Requirements,
Restrictions, and Limitations
Sec. 211. Designation and activities of senior
officials for critical technology
areas supportive of the Na-
tional Defense Strategy.
Sec. 212. Governance of fifth-generation
wireless networking in the De-
partment of Defense.
Sec. 213. Application of artificial intel-
ligence to the defense reform
pillar of the National Defense
Strategy.
Sec. 214. Extension of authorities to enhance
innovation at Department of
Defense laboratories.
Sec. 215. Updates to Defense Quantum Infor-
mation Science and Technology
Research and Development pro-
gram.
Sec. 216. Program of part-time and term em-
ployment at Department of De-
fense science and technology
reinvention laboratories of fac-
ulty and students from institu-
tions of higher education.
Sec. 217. Improvements to Technology and
National Security Fellowship of
Department of Defense.
Sec. 218. Department of Defense research,
development, and deployment
of technology to support water
sustainment.
Sec. 219. Development and testing of
hypersonic capabilities.
Sec. 220. Disclosure requirements for recipi-
ents of Department of Defense
research and development
grants.
Subtitle C—Plans, Reports, and Other
Matters
Sec. 231. Assessment on United States na-
tional security emerging bio-
technology efforts and capabili-
ties and comparison with adver-
saries.
Sec. 232. Independent comparative analysis
of efforts by China and the
United States to recruit and re-
tain researchers in national se-
curity-related fields.
Sec. 233. Department of Defense demonstra-
tion of virtualized radio access
network and massive multiple
input multiple output radio ar-
rays for fifth generation wire-
less networking.
Sec. 234. Independent technical review of
Federal Communications Com-
mission Order 20–48.
Sec. 235. Report on micro nuclear reactor
programs.
Sec. 236. Modification to Test Resource
Management Center strategic
plan reporting cycle and con-
tents.
Sec. 237. Limitation on contract awards for
certain unmanned vessels.
Sec. 238. Documentation relating to the Ad-
vanced Battle Management
System.
Sec. 239. Armed Services Vocational Apti-
tude Battery Test special pur-
pose adjunct to address com-
putational thinking.
Sec. 240. Report on use of testing facilities
to research and develop
hypersonic technology.
Sec. 241. Study and plan on the use of addi-
tive manufacturing and three-
dimensional bioprinting in sup-
port of the warfighter.
Sec. 242. Element in annual reports on cyber
science and technology activi-
ties on work with academic
consortia on high priority cy-
bersecurity research activities
in Department of Defense capa-
bilities.
TITLE III—OPERATION AND
MAINTENANCE
Subtitle A—Authorization of Appropriations
Sec. 301. Authorization of appropriations.
Subtitle B—Energy and Environment
Sec. 311. Modifications and technical correc-
tions to ensure restoration of
contamination by
perfluorooctane sulfonate and
perfluorooctanoic acid.
Sec. 312. Readiness and Environmental Pro-
tection Integration Program
technical edits and clarifica-
tion.
Sec. 313. Survey and market research of
technologies for phase out by
Department of Defense of use of
fluorinated aqueous film-form-
ing foam.
Sec. 314. Modification of authority to carry
out military installation resil-
ience projects.
Sec. 315. Native American Indian lands envi-
ronmental mitigation program.
Sec. 316. Energy resilience and energy secu-
rity measures on military in-
stallations.
Sec. 317. Modification to availability of en-
ergy cost savings for Depart-
ment of Defense.
Sec. 318. Long-duration demonstration ini-
tiative and joint program.
Sec. 319. Pilot program on alternative fuel
vehicle purchasing.
Sec. 320. Extension of real-time sound moni-
toring at Navy installations
where tactical fighter aircraft
operate.
Sec. 321. Study on impacts of transboundary
flows, spills, or discharges of
pollution or debris from the Ti-
juana River on personnel, ac-
tivities, and installations of De-
partment of Defense.
Sec. 322. Increase in funding for study by
Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention relating to
perfluoroalkyl and
polyfluoroalkyl substance con-
tamination in drinking water.
Subtitle C—Logistics and Sustainment
Sec. 331. Repeal of statutory requirement
for notification to Director of
Defense Logistics Agency three
years prior to implementing
changes to any uniform or uni-
form component.
Sec. 332. Clarification of limitation on
length of overseas forward de-
ployment of currently deployed
naval vessels.
Subtitle D—Reports
Sec. 351. Report on impact of permafrost
thaw on infrastructure, facili-
ties, and operations of the De-
partment of Defense.
Sec. 352. Plans and reports on emergency re-
sponse training for military in-
stallations.
Sec. 353. Report on implementation by De-
partment of Defense of require-
ments relating to renewable
fuel pumps.
Sec. 354. Report on effects of extreme weath-
er on Department of Defense.
Subtitle E—Other Matters
Sec. 371. Prohibition on divestiture of
manned intelligence, surveil-
lance, and reconnaissance air-
craft operated by United States
Special Operations Command.
Sec. 372. Information on overseas construc-
tion projects in support of con-
tingency operations using funds
for operation and maintenance.
Sec. 373. Provision of protection to the Na-
tional Museum of the Marine
Corps, the National Museum of
the United States Army, the
National Museum of the United
States Navy, and the National
Museum of the United States
Air Force.
Sec. 374. Inapplicability of congressional no-
tification and dollar limitation
requirements for advance bil-
lings for certain background in-
vestigations.
Sec. 375. Repeal of sunset for minimum an-
nual purchase amount for car-
riers participating in the Civil
Reserve Air Fleet.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6725
November 16, 2020
Sec. 376. Improvement of the Operational
Energy Capability Improve-
ment Fund of the Department
of Defense.
Sec. 377. Commission on the naming of
items of the Department of De-
fense that commemorate the
Confederate States of America
or any person who served volun-
tarily with the Confederate
States of America.
Sec. 378. Modifications to review of proposed
actions by Military Aviation
and Installation Assurance
Clearinghouse.
Sec. 379. Adjustment in availability of ap-
propriations for unusual cost
overruns and for changes in
scope of work.
Sec. 380. Requirement that Secretary of De-
fense implement security and
emergency response rec-
ommendations relating to ac-
tive shooter or terrorist at-
tacks on installations of De-
partment of Defense.
Sec. 381. Clarification of food ingredient re-
quirements for food or bev-
erages provided by the Depart-
ment of Defense.
TITLE IV—MILITARY PERSONNEL
AUTHORIZATIONS
Subtitle A—Active Forces
Sec. 401. End strengths for active forces.
Sec. 402. End strength level matters.
Subtitle B—Reserve Forces
Sec. 411. End strengths for Selected Reserve.
Sec. 412. End strengths for Reserves on ac-
tive duty in support of the re-
serves.
Sec. 413. End strengths for military techni-
cians (dual status).
Sec. 414. Maximum number of reserve per-
sonnel authorized to be on ac-
tive duty for operational sup-
port.
Sec. 415. Separate authorization by Congress
of minimum end strengths for
non-temporary military techni-
cians (dual status) and max-
imum end strengths for tem-
porary military technicians
(dual status).
Subtitle C—Authorization of Appropriations
Sec. 421. Military personnel.
TITLE V—MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY
Subtitle A—Officer Personnel Policy
Sec. 501. Repeal of codified specification of
authorized strengths of certain
commissioned officers on active
duty.
Sec. 502. Temporary expansion of avail-
ability of enhanced construc-
tive service credit in a par-
ticular career field upon origi-
nal appointment as a commis-
sioned officer.
Sec. 503. Requirement for promotion selec-
tion board recommendation of
higher placement on promotion
list of officers of particular
merit.
Sec. 504. Special selection review boards for
review of promotion of officers
subject to adverse information
identified after recommenda-
tion for promotion and related
matters.
Sec. 505. Number of opportunities for consid-
eration for promotion under al-
ternative promotion authority.
Sec. 506. Mandatory retirement for age.
Sec. 507. Clarifying and improving restate-
ment of rules on the retired
grade of commissioned officers.
Sec. 508. Repeal of authority for original ap-
pointment of regular Navy offi-
cers designated for engineering
duty, aeronautical engineering
duty, and special duty.
Subtitle B—Reserve Component
Management
Sec. 511. Exclusion of certain reserve gen-
eral and flag officers on active
duty from limitations on au-
thorized strengths.
Subtitle C—General Service Authorities
Sec. 516. Increased access to potential re-
cruits.
Sec. 517. Temporary authority to order re-
tired members to active duty in
high-demand, low-density as-
signments during war or na-
tional emergency.
Sec. 518. Certificate of Release or Discharge
from Active Duty (DD Form
214) matters.
Sec. 519. Evaluation of barriers to minority
participation in certain units of
the Armed Forces.
Sec. 520. Reports on diversity and inclusion
in the Armed Forces.
Subtitle D—Military Justice and Related
Matters
PART I—INVESTIGATION, PROSECUTION, AND
DEFENSE OF SEXUAL ASSAULT AND RELATED
MATTERS
Sec. 521. Modification of time required for
expedited decisions in connec-
tion with applications for
change of station or unit trans-
fer of members who are victims
of sexual assault or related of-
fenses.
Sec. 522. Defense Advisory Committee for
the Prevention of Sexual Mis-
conduct.
Sec. 523. Report on ability of Sexual Assault
Response Coordinators and Sex-
ual Assault Prevention and Re-
sponse Victim Advocates to
perform duties.
Sec. 524. Briefing on Special Victims’ Coun-
sel program.
Sec. 525. Accountability of leadership of the
Department of Defense for dis-
charging the sexual harassment
policies and programs of the
Department.
Sec. 526. Safe-to-report policy applicable
across the Armed Forces.
Sec. 527. Additional bases for provision of
advice by the Defense Advisory
Committee for the Prevention
of Sexual Misconduct.
Sec. 528. Additional matters for reports of
the Defense Advisory Com-
mittee for the Prevention of
Sexual Misconduct.
Sec. 529. Policy on separation of victim and
accused at military service
academies and degree-granting
military educational institu-
tions.
Sec. 530. Briefing on placement of members
of the Armed Forces in aca-
demic status who are victims of
sexual assault onto Non-Rated
Periods.
PART II—OTHER MILITARY JUSTICE MATTERS
Sec. 531. Right to notice of victims of of-
fenses under the Uniform Code
of Military Justice regarding
certain post-trial motions, fil-
ings, and hearings.
Sec. 532. Consideration of the evidence by
Courts of Criminal Appeals.
Sec. 533. Preservation of records of the mili-
tary justice system.
Sec. 534. Comptroller General of the United
States report on implementa-
tion by the Armed Forces of re-
cent GAO recommendations
and statutory requirements on
assessment of racial, ethnic,
and gender disparities in the
military justice system.
Sec. 535. Briefing on mental health support
for vicarious trauma for certain
personnel in the military jus-
tice system.
Sec. 536. Guardian ad litem program for
minor dependents of members
of the Armed Forces.
Subtitle E—Member Education, Training,
Transition, and Resilience
Sec. 541. Training on religious accommoda-
tion for members of the Armed
Forces.
Sec. 542. Additional elements with 2021 cer-
tifications on the Ready, Rel-
evant Learning initiative of the
Navy.
Sec. 543. Report on standardization and po-
tential merger of law enforce-
ment training for military and
civilian personnel across the
Department of Defense.
Sec. 544. Quarterly reports on implementa-
tion of recommendations of the
Comprehensive Review of Spe-
cial Operations Forces Culture
and Ethics.
Sec. 545. Information on nominations and
applications for military serv-
ice academies.
Sec. 546. Pilot programs in connection with
Senior Reserve Officers’ Train-
ing Corps units at Historically
Black Colleges and Universities
and minority institutions.
Sec. 547. Expansion of Junior Reserve Offi-
cers’ Training Corps Program.
Sec. 548. Department of Defense STARBASE
Program.
Subtitle F—Decorations and Awards
Sec. 551. Award or presentation of decora-
tions favorably recommended
following determination on
merits of proposals for decora-
tions not previously submitted
in a timely fashion.
Sec. 552. Honorary promotion matters.
Subtitle G—Defense Dependents’ Education
and Military Family Readiness Matters
PART I—DEFENSE DEPENDENTS’ EDUCATION
MATTERS
Sec. 561. Continuation of authority to assist
local educational agencies that
benefit dependents of members
of the Armed Forces and De-
partment of Defense civilian
employees.
Sec. 562. Impact aid for children with severe
disabilities.
Sec. 563. Staffing of Department of Defense
Education Activity schools to
maintain maximum student-to-
teacher ratios.
Sec. 564. Matters in connection with free ap-
propriate public education for
dependents of members of the
Armed Forces with special
needs.
Sec. 565. Pilot program on expanded eligi-
bility for Department of De-
fense Education Activity Vir-
tual High School program.
Sec. 566. Pilot program on expansion of eli-
gibility for enrollment at do-
mestic dependent elementary
and secondary schools.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6726 November 16, 2020
Sec. 567. Comptroller General of the United
States report on the structural
condition of Department of De-
fense Education Activity
schools.
PART II—MILITARY FAMILY READINESS
MATTERS
Sec. 571. Responsibility for allocation of cer-
tain funds for military child de-
velopment programs.
Sec. 572. Improvements to Exceptional Fam-
ily Member Program.
Sec. 573. Procedures of the Office of Special
Needs for the development of
individualized services plans for
military families with special
needs.
Sec. 574. Restatement and clarification of
authority to reimburse mem-
bers for spouse relicensing costs
pursuant to a permanent
change of station.
Sec. 575. Improvements to Department of
Defense tracking of and re-
sponse to incidents of child
abuse involving military de-
pendents on military installa-
tions.
Sec. 576. Military child care and child devel-
opment center matters.
Sec. 577. Expansion of financial assistance
under My Career Advancement
Account program.
Subtitle H—Other Matters
Sec. 586. Removal of personally identifying
and other information of cer-
tain persons from investigative
reports, the Department of De-
fense Central Index of Inves-
tigations, and other records and
databases.
Sec. 587. National emergency exception for
timing requirements with re-
spect to certain surveys of
members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 588. Sunset and transfer of functions of
the Physical Disability Board
of Review.
Sec. 589. Extension of reporting deadline for
the annual report on the assess-
ment of the effectiveness of ac-
tivities of the federal voting as-
sistance program.
Sec. 590. Pilot programs on remote provision
by National Guard to State
governments and National
Guards of other States of cyber-
security technical assistance in
training, preparation, and re-
sponse to cyber incidents.
Sec. 591. Plan on performance of funeral
honors details by members of
other Armed Forces when mem-
bers of the Armed Force of the
deceased are unavailable.
Sec. 592. Limitation on implementation of
Army Combat Fitness Test.
Sec. 593. Report on impact of children of cer-
tain Filipino World War II vet-
erans on national security, for-
eign policy, and economic and
humanitarian interests of the
United States.
TITLE VI—COMPENSATION AND OTHER
PERSONNEL BENEFITS
Subtitle A—Pay and Allowances
Sec. 601. Reorganization of certain allow-
ances other than travel and
transportation allowances.
Sec. 602. Hazardous duty pay for members of
the Armed Forces performing
duty in response to the
Coronavirus Disease 2019.
Sec. 603. Compensation and credit for retired
pay purposes for maternity
leave taken by members of the
reserve components.
Subtitle B—Bonuses and Special and
Incentive Pays
Sec. 611. One-year extension of certain ex-
piring bonus and special pay
authorities.
Sec. 612. Increase in special and incentive
pays for officers in health pro-
fessions.
Subtitle C—Disability Pay, Retired Pay, and
Survivor Benefits
Sec. 621. Inclusion of drill or training fore-
gone due to emergency travel
or duty restrictions in com-
putations of entitlement to and
amounts of retired pay for non-
regular service.
Sec. 622. Modernization and clarification of
payment of certain Reserves
while on duty.
Sec. 623. Relief of Richard W. Collins III.
Subtitle D—Other Matters
Sec. 631. Permanent authority for and en-
hancement of the Government
lodging program.
Sec. 632. Approval of certain activities by
retired and reserve members of
the uniformed services.
TITLE VII—HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS
Subtitle A—TRICARE and Other Health Care
Benefits
Sec. 701. Authority for Secretary of Defense
to manage provider type refer-
ral and supervision require-
ments under TRICARE pro-
gram.
Sec. 702. Removal of Christian Science pro-
viders as authorized providers
under the TRICARE program.
Sec. 703. Waiver of fees charged to certain
civilians for emergency medical
treatment provided at military
medical treatment facilities.
Sec. 704. Mental health resources for mem-
bers of the Armed Forces and
their dependents during the
COVID–19 pandemic.
Sec. 705. Transitional health benefits for
certain members of the Na-
tional Guard serving under or-
ders in response to the
coronavirus (COVID–19).
Sec. 706. Extramedical maternal health pro-
viders demonstration project.
Sec. 707. Pilot program on receipt of non-ge-
neric prescription maintenance
medications under TRICARE
pharmacy benefits program.
Subtitle B—Health Care Administration
Sec. 721. Modifications to transfer of Army
Medical Research and Develop-
ment Command and public
health commands to Defense
Health Agency.
Sec. 722. Delay of applicability of adminis-
tration of TRICARE dental
plans through Federal Employ-
ees Dental and Vision Insurance
Program.
Sec. 723. Authority of Secretary of Defense
to waive requirements during
national emergencies for pur-
poses of provision of health
care.
Subtitle C—Reports and Other Matters
Sec. 741. Extension of authority for Joint
Department of Defense-Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs Med-
ical Facility Demonstration
Fund.
Sec. 742. Membership of Board of Regents of
Uniformed Services University
of the Health Sciences.
Sec. 743. Military Health System Clinical
Quality Management Program.
Sec. 744. Modifications to pilot program on
civilian and military partner-
ships to enhance interoper-
ability and medical surge capa-
bility and capacity of National
Disaster Medical System.
Sec. 745. Study on force mix options and
service models to enhance read-
iness of medical force of the
Armed Forces to provide com-
bat casualty care.
Sec. 746. Comptroller General study on de-
livery of mental health services
to members of the reserve com-
ponents of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 747. Review and report on prevention of
suicide among members of the
Armed Forces stationed at re-
mote installations outside the
contiguous United States.
Sec. 748. Audit of medical conditions of ten-
ants in privatized military
housing.
Sec. 749. Comptroller General study on pre-
natal and postpartum mental
health conditions among mem-
bers of the Armed Forces and
their dependents.
Sec. 750. Plan for evaluation of flexible
spending account options for
members of the uniformed serv-
ices and their families.
Sec. 751. Assessment of receipt by civilians
of emergency medical treat-
ment at military medical treat-
ment facilities.
Sec. 752. Report on billing practices for
health care from Department of
Defense.
Sec. 753. Access of veterans to Individual
Longitudinal Exposure Record.
Sec. 754. Study on the incidence of cancer
diagnosis and mortality among
military aviators and aviation
support personnel.
Subtitle D—Mental Health Services From
Department of Veterans Affairs for Mem-
bers of Reserve Components
Sec. 761. Short title.
Sec. 762. Expansion of eligibility for read-
justment counseling and re-
lated outpatient services from
Department of Veterans Affairs
to include members of reserve
components of the Armed
Forces.
Sec. 763. Provision of mental health services
from Department of Veterans
Affairs to members of reserve
components of the Armed
Forces.
Sec. 764. Inclusion of members of reserve
components in mental health
programs of Department of Vet-
erans Affairs.
Sec. 765. Report on mental health and re-
lated services provided by De-
partment of Veterans Affairs to
members of the Armed Forces.
TITLE VIII—ACQUISITION POLICY, AC-
QUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RE-
LATED MATTERS
Subtitle A—Industrial Base Matters
Sec. 801. Policy recommendations for imple-
mentation of Executive Order
13806 (Assessing and Strength-
ening the Manufacturing and
Defense Industrial Base and
Supply Chain Resiliency).
Sec. 802. Assessment of national security in-
novation base.
Sec. 803. Improving implementation of pol-
icy pertaining to the national
technology and industrial base.
Sec. 804. Modification of framework for
modernizing acquisition proc-
esses to ensure integrity of in-
dustrial base.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6727
November 16, 2020
Sec. 805. Assessments of industrial base ca-
pabilities and capacity.
Sec. 806. Analyses of certain materials and
technology sectors for action to
address sourcing and industrial
capacity.
Sec. 807. Microelectronics manufacturing
strategy.
Sec. 808. Additional requirements pertaining
to printed circuit boards.
Sec. 809. Statement of policy with respect to
supply of strategic minerals
and metals for Department of
Defense purposes.
Sec. 810. Report on strategic and critical
minerals and metals.
Sec. 811. Stabilization of shipbuilding indus-
trial base workforce.
Sec. 812. Miscellaneous limitations on the
procurement of goods other
than United States goods.
Sec. 813. Use of domestically sourced star
trackers in national security
satellites.
Sec. 814. Modification to small purchase
threshold exception to sourcing
requirements for certain arti-
cles.
Subtitle B—Acquisition Policy and
Management
Sec. 831. Report on acquisition risk assess-
ment and mitigation as part of
Adaptive Acquisition Frame-
work implementation.
Sec. 832. Comptroller General report on im-
plementation of software acqui-
sition reforms.
Subtitle C—Amendments to General Con-
tracting Authorities, Procedures, and Lim-
itations
Sec. 841. Authority to acquire innovative
commercial products and serv-
ices using general solicitation
competitive procedures.
Sec. 842. Truth in Negotiations Act thresh-
old for Department of Defense
contracts.
Sec. 843. Revision of proof required when
using an evaluation factor for
defense contractors employing
or subcontracting with mem-
bers of the selected reserve of
the reserve components of the
Armed Forces.
Sec. 844. Contract authority for advanced
development of initial or addi-
tional prototype units.
Sec. 845. Definition of business system defi-
ciencies for contractor business
systems.
Sec. 846. Repeal of pilot program on pay-
ment of costs for denied Gov-
ernment Accountability Office
bid protests.
Subtitle D—Provisions Relating to Major
Defense Acquisition Programs
Sec. 861. Implementation of modular open
systems architecture require-
ments.
Sec. 862. Sustainment reviews.
Sec. 863. Recommendations for future direct
selections.
Sec. 864. Disclosures for certain shipbuilding
major defense acquisition pro-
gram offers.
Subtitle E—Small Business Matters
Sec. 871. Prompt payment of contractors.
Sec. 872. Extension of pilot program for
streamlined awards for innova-
tive technology programs.
Sec. 873. Reporting requirements.
Subtitle F—Provisions Related to Software-
Driven Capabilities
Sec. 881. Inclusion of software in govern-
ment performance of acquisi-
tion functions.
Sec. 882. Balancing security and innovation
in software development and
acquisition.
Sec. 883. Comptroller General report on in-
tellectual property acquisition
and licensing.
Sec. 884. Pilot program exploring the use of
consumption-based solutions to
address software-intensive
warfighting capability.
Subtitle G—Other Matters
Sec. 891. Safeguarding defense-sensitive
United States intellectual prop-
erty, technology, and other
data and information.
Sec. 892. Domestic comparative testing ac-
tivities.
Sec. 893. Repeal of apprenticeship program.
TITLE IX—DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of
Defense and Related Matters
Sec. 901. Assistant Secretary of Defense for
Special Operations and Low In-
tensity Conflict and related
matters.
Sec. 902. Redesignation and codification in
law of Office of Economic Ad-
justment.
Sec. 903. Modernization of process used by
the Department of Defense to
identify, task, and manage Con-
gressional reporting require-
ments.
Sec. 904. Inclusion of Vice Chief of the Na-
tional Guard Bureau as an advi-
sor to the Joint Requirements
Oversight Council.
Sec. 905. Assignment of responsibility for
the Arctic region within the Of-
fice of the Secretary of Defense.
Subtitle B—Department of Defense
Management Reform
Sec. 911. Termination of position of Chief
Management Officer of the De-
partment of Defense.
Sec. 912. Report on assignment of respon-
sibilities, duties, and authori-
ties of Chief Management Offi-
cer to other officers or employ-
ees of the Department of De-
fense.
Sec. 913. Performance Improvement Officer
of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 914. Assignment of certain responsibil-
ities and duties to particular
officers of the Department of
Defense.
Sec. 915. Assignment of responsibilities and
duties of Chief Management Of-
ficer to officers or employees of
the Department of Defense to
be designated.
Sec. 916. Definition of enterprise business
operations for title 10, United
States Code.
Sec. 917. Annual report on enterprise busi-
ness operations of the Depart-
ment of Defense.
Sec. 918. Conforming amendments.
Subtitle C—Space Force Matters
PART I—AMENDMENTS TO INTEGRATE THE
SPACE FORCE INTO LAW
Sec. 931. Clarification of Space Force and
Chief of Space Operations au-
thorities.
Sec. 931A. Office of the Chief of Space Oper-
ations.
Sec. 932. Amendments to Department of the
Air Force provisions in title 10,
United States Code.
Sec. 933. Amendments to other provisions of
title 10, United States Code.
Sec. 934. Amendments to provisions of law
relating to pay and allowances.
Sec. 935. Amendments relating to provisions
of law on veterans’ benefits.
Sec. 936. Amendments to other provisions of
the United States Code.
Sec. 937. Applicability to other provisions of
law.
PART II—OTHER MATTERS
Sec. 941. Matters relating to reserve compo-
nents for the Space Force.
Sec. 942. Transfers of military and civilian
personnel to the Space Force.
Sec. 943. Limitation on transfer of military
installations to the jurisdiction
of the Space Force.
Sec. 944. Clarification of procurement of
commercial satellite commu-
nications services.
Sec. 945. Temporary exemption from author-
ized daily average of members
in pay grades E–8 and E–9.
Sec. 946. Application of acquisition dem-
onstration project to Depart-
ment of the Air Force employ-
ees assigned to acquisition posi-
tions within the Space Force.
Sec. 947. Air and Space Force Medal.
Subtitle D—Organization and Management
of Other Department of Defense Offices and
Elements
Sec. 951. Annual report on establishment of
field operating agencies.
Sec. 952. Briefing on assignment of members
of the Armed Forces on active
duty to the Joint Artificial In-
telligence Center of the Depart-
ment of Defense.
Sec. 953. Threats to United States forces
from small unmanned aerial
systems worldwide.
TITLE X—GENERAL PROVISIONS
Subtitle A—Financial Matters
Sec. 1001. General transfer authority.
Sec. 1002. Application of Financial Improve-
ment and Audit Remediation
Plan to fiscal years following
fiscal year 2020.
Sec. 1003. Incentives for the achievement by
the components of the Depart-
ment of Defense of unqualified
audit opinions on the financial
statements.
Subtitle B—Counterdrug Activities
Sec. 1011. Codification of authority for joint
task forces of the Department
of Defense to support law en-
forcement agencies conducting
counterterrorism or counter-
transnational organized crime
activities.
Subtitle C—Naval Vessels and Shipyards
Sec. 1021. Modification of authority to pur-
chase used vessels with funds in
the National Defense Sealift
Fund.
Sec. 1022. Waiver during war or threat to na-
tional security of restrictions
on overhaul, repair, or mainte-
nance of vessels in foreign ship-
yards.
Sec. 1023. Modification of waiver authority
on prohibition on use of funds
for retirement of certain legacy
maritime mine countermeasure
platforms.
Sec. 1024. Extension of authority for reim-
bursement of expenses for cer-
tain Navy mess operations
afloat.
Sec. 1025. Sense of Congress on actions nec-
essary to achieve a 355-ship
Navy.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6728 November 16, 2020
Subtitle D—Counterterrorism
Sec. 1031. Extension of prohibition on use of
funds for transfer or release of
individuals detained at United
States Naval Station, Guanta-
namo Bay, Cuba, to the United
States.
Sec. 1032. Extension of prohibition on use of
funds to close or relinquish con-
trol of United States Naval Sta-
tion, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1033. Extension of prohibition on use of
funds for transfer or release of
individuals detained at United
States Naval Station, Guanta-
namo Bay, Cuba, to certain
countries.
Sec. 1034. Extension of prohibition on use of
funds to construct or modify fa-
cilities in the United States to
house detainees transferred
from United States Naval Sta-
tion, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Subtitle E—Miscellaneous Authorities and
Limitations
Sec. 1041. Inclusion of disaster-related emer-
gency preparedness activities
among law enforcement activi-
ties authorities for sale or do-
nation of excess personal prop-
erty of the Department of De-
fense.
Sec. 1042. Expenditure of funds for Depart-
ment of Defense clandestine ac-
tivities that support oper-
ational preparation of the envi-
ronment.
Sec. 1043. Clarification of authority of mili-
tary commissions under chap-
ter 47A of title 10, United
States Code, to punish con-
tempt.
Sec. 1044. Prohibition on actions to infringe
upon First Amendment rights
of peaceable assembly and peti-
tion for redress of grievances.
Sec. 1045. Arctic planning, research, and de-
velopment.
Sec. 1046. Consideration of security risks in
certain telecommunications ar-
chitecture for future overseas
basing decisions of the Depart-
ment of Defense.
Sec. 1047. Foreign military training pro-
grams.
Sec. 1048. Reporting of adverse events relat-
ing to consumer products on
military installations.
Sec. 1049. Inclusion of United States Naval
Sea Cadet Corps among youth
and charitable organizations
authorized to receive assistance
from the National Guard.
Sec. 1050. Department of Defense policy for
the regulation of dangerous
dogs.
Sec. 1051. Sense of Congress on the basing of
KC–46A aircraft outside the
contiguous United States.
Sec. 1052. Efficient use of sensitive compart-
mented information facilities.
Sec. 1053. Assistance for farmer and rancher
stress and mental health of in-
dividuals in rural areas.
Sec. 1054. Additional conditions and limita-
tions on the transfer of Depart-
ment of Defense property for
law enforcement activities.
Subtitle F—Studies and Reports
Sec. 1061. Report on potential improvements
to certain military educational
institutions of the Department
of Defense.
Sec. 1062. Reports on status and moderniza-
tion of the North Warning Sys-
tem.
Sec. 1063. Studies on the force structure for
Marine Corps aviation.
Sec. 1064. Study on unemployment rate of
female veterans who served on
active duty in the Armed
Forces after September 11, 2001.
Sec. 1065. Report on Great Lakes and inland
waterways seaports.
Sec. 1066. Report on the Chemical and Bio-
logical Defense Program of the
Department of Defense.
Sec. 1067. Report on round-the-clock avail-
ability of childcare for mem-
bers of the Armed Forces and
civilian employees of the De-
partment of Defense who work
rotating shifts.
Subtitle G—Other Matters
Sec. 1081. Department of Defense strategic
Arctic ports.
Sec. 1082. Personal protective equipment
matters.
Sec. 1083. Estimate of damages from Federal
Communications Commission
Order 20–48.
Sec. 1084. Modernization effort.
Sec. 1085. Sense of Senate on Gold Star
Families Remembrance Week.
Sec. 1086. Continuity of the Economy Plan.
Sec. 1087. Improving the authority for oper-
ations of unmanned aircraft for
educational purposes.
Sec. 1088. Requirement to post a 100 word
summary to regulations.gov.
Sec. 1089. Modification of licensure require-
ments for health care profes-
sionals providing treatment via
telemedicine.
Sec. 1090. Restrictions on Confucius Insti-
tutes.
Sec. 1090A. Additional care for newborn chil-
dren of veterans.
Sec. 1090B. Additional diseases associated
with exposure to certain herbi-
cide agents for which there is a
presumption of service connec-
tion for veterans who served in
the Republic of Vietnam.
Subtitle H—Wireless Supply Chain
Innovation and Multilateral Security
Sec. 1091. Definitions.
Sec. 1092. Communications technology secu-
rity funds.
Sec. 1093. Promoting United States leader-
ship in international organiza-
tions and communications
standards-setting bodies.
Subtitle I—Semiconductor Manufacturing
Incentives
Sec. 1094. Semiconductor incentive grants.
Sec. 1095. Department of Defense.
Sec. 1096. Department of Commerce study on
status of microelectronics tech-
nologies in the United States
industrial base.
Sec. 1097. Funding for development and
adoption of measurably secure
microelectronics and measur-
ably secure microelectronics
supply chains.
Sec. 1098. Advanced semiconductor research
and design.
Sec. 1099. Prohibition relating to foreign ad-
versaries.
TITLE XI—CIVILIAN PERSONNEL
MATTERS
Subtitle A—Department of Defense Matters
Sec. 1101. Enhanced pay authority for cer-
tain acquisition and technology
positions in the Department of
Defense.
Sec. 1102. Enhanced pay authority for cer-
tain research and technology
positions in the science and
technology reinvention labora-
tories of the Department of De-
fense.
Sec. 1103. Extension of enhanced appoint-
ment and compensation author-
ity for civilian personnel for
care and treatment of wounded
and injured members of the
Armed Forces.
Sec. 1104. Extension of overtime rate au-
thority for Department of the
Navy employees performing
work aboard or dockside in sup-
port of the nuclear-powered air-
craft carrier forward deployed
in Japan.
Sec. 1105. Expansion of direct hire authority
for certain Department of De-
fense personnel to include in-
stallation military housing of-
fice positions supervising
privatized military housing.
Sec. 1106. Extension of sunset of inapplica-
bility of certification of execu-
tive qualifications by qualifica-
tion certification review board
of Office of Personnel Manage-
ment for initial appointments
to Senior Executive Service po-
sitions in Department of De-
fense.
Sec. 1107. Pilot program on enhanced pay
authority for certain high-level
management positions in the
Department of Defense.
Sec. 1108. Pilot program on expanded au-
thority for appointment of re-
cently retired members of the
Armed Forces to positions in
the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1109. Direct hire authority and reloca-
tion incentives for positions at
remote locations.
Sec. 1110. Modification of direct hire author-
ity for certain personnel in-
volved with Department of De-
fense maintenance activities.
Sec. 1110A. Fire Fighters Alternative Work
Schedule demonstration project
for the Navy Region Mid-Atlan-
tic Fire and Emergency Serv-
ices.
Sec. 1110B. Report by Comptroller General
of the United States on diver-
sity and inclusion within the
civilian workforce of the De-
partment of Defense.
Subtitle B—Government-Wide Matters
Sec. 1111. One-year extension of temporary
authority to grant allowances,
benefits, and gratuities to civil-
ian personnel on official duty in
a combat zone.
Sec. 1112. One-year extension of authority to
waive annual limitation on pre-
mium pay and aggregate limi-
tation on pay for Federal civil-
ian employees working over-
seas.
Sec. 1113. Technical amendments to author-
ity for reimbursement of Fed-
eral, State, and local income
taxes incurred during travel,
transportation, and relocation.
TITLE XII—MATTERS RELATING TO
FOREIGN NATIONS
Subtitle A—Assistance and Training
Sec. 1201. Authority to build capacity for ad-
ditional operations.
Sec. 1202. Authority to build capacity for air
sovereignty operations.
Sec. 1203. Modification to the Inter-Euro-
pean Air Forces Academy.
Sec. 1204. Modification to support of special
operations for irregular war-
fare.
Sec. 1205. Extension and modification of au-
thority to support border secu-
rity operations of certain for-
eign countries.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6729
November 16, 2020
Sec. 1206. Modification of authority for par-
ticipation in multinational cen-
ters of excellence.
Sec. 1207. Implementation of the Women,
Peace, and Security Act of 2017.
Sec. 1208. Ted Stevens Center for Arctic Se-
curity Studies.
Sec. 1209. Functional Center for Security
Studies in Irregular Warfare.
Sec. 1210. Open Technology Fund.
Subtitle B—Matters Relating to Afghanistan
and Pakistan
Sec. 1211. Extension and modification of au-
thority for reimbursement of
certain coalition nations for
support provided to United
States military operations.
Sec. 1212. Extension and modification of
Commanders’ Emergency Re-
sponse Program.
Sec. 1213. Extension and modification of sup-
port for reconciliation activi-
ties led by the Government of
Afghanistan.
Sec. 1214. Sense of Senate on special immi-
grant visa program for Afghan
allies.
Sec. 1215. Sense of Senate and report on
United States presence in Af-
ghanistan.
Subtitle C—Matters Relating to Syria, Iraq,
and Iran
Sec. 1221. Extension of authority and limita-
tion on use of funds to provide
assistance to counter the Is-
lamic State of Iraq and Syria.
Sec. 1222. Extension and modification of au-
thority to provide assistance to
vetted Syrian groups and indi-
viduals.
Sec. 1223. Extension and modification of au-
thority to support operations
and activities of the Office of
Security Cooperation in Iraq.
Subtitle D—Matters Relating to Europe and
the Russian Federation
Sec. 1231. Extension of limitation on mili-
tary cooperation between the
United States and the Russian
Federation.
Sec. 1232. Prohibition on availability of
funds relating to sovereignty of
the Russian Federation over
Crimea.
Sec. 1233. Modification and extension of
Ukraine Security Assistance
Initiative.
Sec. 1234. Report on capability and capacity
requirements of military forces
of Ukraine and resource plan
for security assistance.
Sec. 1235. Sense of Senate on North Atlantic
Treaty Organization enhanced
opportunities partner status for
Ukraine.
Sec. 1236. Extension of authority for train-
ing for Eastern European na-
tional security forces in the
course of multilateral exer-
cises.
Sec. 1237. Sense of Senate on Kosovo and the
role of the Kosovo Force of the
North Atlantic Treaty Organi-
zation.
Sec. 1238. Sense of Senate on strategic com-
petition with the Russian Fed-
eration and related activities of
the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1239. Report on Russian Federation sup-
port of racially and ethnically
motivated violent extremists.
Sec. 1240. Participation in European pro-
gram on multilateral exchange
of surface transportation serv-
ices.
Sec. 1241. Participation in programs relating
to coordination or exchange of
air refueling and air transpor-
tation services.
Sec. 1242. Sense of Congress on support for
coordinated action to ensure
the security of Baltic allies.
Subtitle E—Matters Relating to the Indo-
Pacific Region
Sec. 1251. Pacific Deterrence Initiative.
Sec. 1252. Sense of Senate on the United
States-Vietnam defense rela-
tionship.
Sec. 1253. Authority to transfer funds for
Bien Hoa dioxin cleanup.
Sec. 1254. Cooperative program with Viet-
nam to account for Vietnamese
personnel missing in action.
Sec. 1255. Provision of goods and services at
Kwajalein Atoll, Republic of
the Marshall Islands.
Sec. 1256. Authority to establish a Move-
ment Coordination Center Pa-
cific in the Indo-Pacific region
and participate in an Air Trans-
port and Air-to-Air Refueling
and other Exchanges of Serv-
ices program.
Sec. 1257. Training of ally and partner air
forces in Guam.
Sec. 1258. Statement of policy and sense of
Senate on the Taiwan Relations
Act.
Sec. 1259. Sense of Congress on port calls in
Taiwan with the USNS Comfort
and the USNS Mercy .
Sec. 1260. Limitation on use of funds to re-
duce total number of members
of the Armed Forces serving on
active duty who are deployed to
the Republic of Korea.
Sec. 1261. Sense of Congress on co-develop-
ment with Japan of a long-
range ground-based anti-ship
cruise missile system.
Sec. 1262. Statement of policy on coopera-
tion in the Indo-Pacific region.
Sec. 1263. Extension of prohibition on com-
mercial export of certain muni-
tions to the Hong Kong Police
Force.
Sec. 1264. Implementation of the Asia Reas-
surance Initiative Act with re-
gard to Taiwan arms sales.
Subtitle F—Reports
Sec. 1271. Review of and report on overdue
acquisition and cross-servicing
agreement transactions.
Sec. 1272. Report on burden sharing con-
tributions by designated coun-
tries.
Sec. 1273. Report on risk to personnel, equip-
ment, and operations due to
Huawei 5G architecture in host
countries.
Sec. 1274. Allied burden sharing report.
Subtitle G—Other Matters
Sec. 1281. Reciprocal patient movement
agreements.
Sec. 1282. Extension of authorization of non-
conventional assisted recovery
capabilities.
Sec. 1283. Extension of Department of De-
fense support for stabilization
activities in national security
interest of the United States.
Sec. 1284. Notification with respect to with-
drawal of members of the
Armed Forces participating in
the Multinational Force and
Observers in Egypt.
Sec. 1285. Modification to initiative to sup-
port protection of national se-
curity academic researchers
from undue influence and other
security threats.
Sec. 1286. Establishment of United States-
Israel Operations-Technology
Working Group.
Sec. 1287. Improved coordination of United
States sanctions policy.
Subtitle H—Robert Levinson Hostage Recov-
ery and Hostage-Taking Accountability
Act
Sec. 1291. Short title.
Sec. 1292. Assistance for United States na-
tionals unlawfully or wrong-
fully detained abroad.
Sec. 1293. Special Envoy for Hostage Affairs.
Sec. 1294. Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell.
Sec. 1295. Hostage Response Group.
Sec. 1296. Authorization of imposition of
sanctions.
Sec. 1297. Definitions.
Sec. 1298. Rule of construction.
TITLE XIII—COOPERATIVE THREAT
REDUCTION
Sec. 1301. Funding allocations for Depart-
ment of Defense Cooperative
Threat Reduction Program.
TITLE XIV—OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS
Subtitle A—Military Programs
Sec. 1401. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1402. Chemical Agents and Munitions
Destruction, Defense.
Sec. 1403. Drug Interdiction and Counter-
Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1404. Defense Inspector General.
Sec. 1405. Defense Health Program.
Subtitle B—Armed Forces Retirement Home
Sec. 1411. Authorization of appropriations
for Armed Forces Retirement
Home.
Sec. 1412. Periodic inspections of Armed
Forces Retirement Home facili-
ties by nationally recognized
accrediting organization.
Sec. 1413. Expansion of eligibility for resi-
dence at the Armed Forces Re-
tirement Home.
Subtitle C—Other Matters
Sec. 1421. Authority for transfer of funds to
joint Department of Defense-
Department of Veterans Affairs
Medical Facility Demonstra-
tion Fund for Captain James A.
Lovell Health Care Center, Illi-
nois.
TITLE XV—AUTHORIZATION OF ADDI-
TIONAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR OVER-
SEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
Subtitle A—Authorization of Appropriations
Sec. 1501. Purpose.
Sec. 1502. Overseas contingency operations.
Sec. 1503. Procurement.
Sec. 1504. Research, development, test, and
evaluation.
Sec. 1505. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 1506. Military personnel.
Sec. 1507. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1508. Drug Interdiction and Counter-
Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1509. Defense Inspector General.
Sec. 1510. Defense Health Program.
Subtitle B—Financial Matters
Sec. 1521. Treatment as additional author-
izations.
Sec. 1522. Special transfer authority.
Subtitle C—Other Matters
Sec. 1531. Afghanistan Security Forces
Fund.
Sec. 1532. Transition and enhancement of in-
spector general authorities for
Afghanistan reconstruction.
TITLE XVI—STRATEGIC PROGRAMS,
CYBER, AND INTELLIGENCE MATTERS
Subtitle A—Space Activities
Sec. 1601. Resilient and survivable posi-
tioning, navigation, and timing
capabilities.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6730 November 16, 2020
Sec. 1602. Development efforts for National
Security Space Launch pro-
viders.
Sec. 1603. Timeline for nonrecurring design
validation for responsive space
launch.
Sec. 1604. Tactically responsive space launch
operations.
Sec. 1605. Conforming amendments relating
to reestablishment of Space
Command.
Sec. 1606. Space Development Agency devel-
opment requirements and
transfer to Space Force.
Sec. 1607. Space launch rate assessment.
Sec. 1608. Report on impact of acquisition
strategy for the National Secu-
rity Space Launch Program on
emerging foreign space launch
providers.
Sec. 1609. Leveraging commercial satellite
remote sensing.
Subtitle B—Cyberspace-Related Matters
Sec. 1611. Modification of position of Prin-
cipal Cyber Advisor.
Sec. 1612. Framework for cyber hunt forward
operations.
Sec. 1613. Modification of scope of notifica-
tion requirements for sensitive
military cyber operations.
Sec. 1614. Modification of requirements for
quarterly Department of De-
fense cyber operations briefings
for Congress.
Sec. 1615. Rationalization and integration of
parallel cybersecurity architec-
tures and operations.
Sec. 1616. Modification of acquisition au-
thority of Commander of
United States Cyber Command.
Sec. 1617. Assessment of cyber operational
planning and deconfliction poli-
cies and processes.
Sec. 1618. Pilot program on cybersecurity
capability metrics.
Sec. 1619. Assessment of effect of incon-
sistent timing and use of Net-
work Address Translation in
Department of Defense net-
works.
Sec. 1620. Matters concerning the College of
Information and Cyberspace at
National Defense University.
Sec. 1621. Modification of mission of cyber
command and assignment of
cyber operations forces.
Sec. 1622. Integration of Department of De-
fense user activity monitoring
and cybersecurity.
Sec. 1623. Defense industrial base cybersecu-
rity sensor architecture plan.
Sec. 1624. Extension of Cyberspace Solarium
Commission to track and assess
implementation.
Sec. 1625. Review of regulations and promul-
gation of guidance relating to
National Guard responses to
cyber attacks.
Sec. 1626. Improvements relating to the
quadrennial cyber posture re-
view.
Sec. 1627. Report on enabling United States
Cyber Command resource allo-
cation.
Sec. 1628. Evaluation of options for estab-
lishing a cyber reserve force.
Sec. 1629. Ensuring cyber resiliency of nu-
clear command and control sys-
tem.
Sec. 1630. Modification of requirements re-
lating to the Strategic Cyberse-
curity Program and the evalua-
tion of cyber vulnerabilities of
major weapon systems of the
Department of Defense.
Sec. 1631. Defense industrial base participa-
tion in a cybersecurity threat
intelligence sharing program.
Sec. 1632. Assessment on defense industrial
base cybersecurity threat hunt-
ing.
Sec. 1633. Assessing risk to national security
of quantum computing.
Sec. 1634. Applicability of reorientation of
Big Data Platform program to
Department of Navy.
Sec. 1635. Expansion of authority for access
and information relating to
cyber attacks on operationally
critical contractors of the
Armed Forces.
Sec. 1636. Requirements for review of and
limitations on the Joint Re-
gional Security Stacks activ-
ity.
Sec. 1637. Independent assessment of estab-
lishment of a National Cyber
Director.
Sec. 1638. Modification of authority to use
operation and maintenance
funds for cyber operations-pe-
culiar capability development
projects.
Sec. 1639. Personnel management authority
for Commander of United
States Cyber Command and de-
velopment program for offen-
sive cyber operations.
Sec. 1640. Implementation of information
operations matters.
Sec. 1641. Report on Cyber Institutes Pro-
gram.
Sec. 1642. Assistance for small manufactur-
ers in the defense industrial
supply chain on matters relat-
ing to cybersecurity.
Sec. 1643. Study on cyberexploitation of
members of the Armed Forces
and their families.
Subtitle C—Nuclear Forces
Sec. 1651. Modification to responsibilities of
Nuclear Weapons Council.
Sec. 1652. Responsibility of Nuclear Weapons
Council in preparation of Na-
tional Nuclear Security Admin-
istration budget.
Sec. 1653. Modification of Government Ac-
countability Office review of
annual reports on nuclear weap-
ons enterprise.
Sec. 1654. Prohibition on reduction of the
intercontinental ballistic mis-
siles of the United States.
Sec. 1655. Sense of the Senate on nuclear co-
operation between the United
States and the United Kingdom.
Subtitle D—Missile Defense Programs
Sec. 1661. Iron Dome short-range rocket de-
fense system and Israeli cooper-
ative missile defense program
co-development and co-produc-
tion.
Sec. 1662. Acceleration of the deployment of
hypersonic and ballistic track-
ing space sensor payload.
Sec. 1663. Extension of prohibition relating
to missile defense information
and systems.
Sec. 1664. Report on and limitation on ex-
penditure of funds for layered
homeland missile defense sys-
tem.
Sec. 1665. Extension of requirement for
Comptroller General review and
assessment of missile defense
acquisition programs.
Sec. 1666. Repeal of requirement for report-
ing structure of Missile Defense
Agency.
Sec. 1667. Ground-based midcourse defense
interim capability.
TITLE XVII—HONG KONG AUTONOMY
ACT
Sec. 1701. Short title.
Sec. 1702. Definitions.
Sec. 1703. Findings.
Sec. 1704. Sense of Congress regarding Hong
Kong.
Sec. 1705. Identification of foreign persons
involved in the erosion of the
obligations of China under the
Joint Declaration or the Basic
Law and foreign financial insti-
tutions that conduct signifi-
cant transactions with those
persons.
Sec. 1706. Sanctions with respect to foreign
persons that contravene the ob-
ligations of China under the
Joint Declaration or the Basic
Law.
Sec. 1707. Sanctions with respect to foreign
financial institutions that con-
duct significant transactions
with foreign persons that con-
travene the obligations of
China under the Joint Declara-
tion or the Basic Law.
Sec. 1708. Waiver, termination, exceptions,
and congressional review proc-
ess.
Sec. 1709. Implementation; penalties.
Sec. 1710. Rule of construction.
Sec. 1711. Exception relating to importation
of goods.
DIVISION B—MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
AUTHORIZATIONS
Sec. 2001. Short title.
Sec. 2002. Expiration of authorizations and
amounts required to be speci-
fied by law.
Sec. 2003. Effective date.
TITLE XXI—ARMY MILITARY
CONSTRUCTION
Sec. 2101. Authorized Army construction
and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2102. Family housing.
Sec. 2103. Authorization of appropriations,
Army.
Sec. 2104. Modification of authority to carry
out fiscal year 2017 project at
Camp Walker, Korea.
TITLE XXII—NAVY MILITARY
CONSTRUCTION
Sec. 2201. Authorized Navy construction and
land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2202. Family housing.
Sec. 2203. Improvements to military family
housing units.
Sec. 2204. Authorization of appropriations,
Navy.
TITLE XXIII—AIR FORCE MILITARY
CONSTRUCTION
Sec. 2301. Authorized Air Force construction
and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2302. Family housing.
Sec. 2303. Improvements to military family
housing units.
Sec. 2304. Authorization of appropriations,
Air Force.
Sec. 2305. Modification of authority to carry
out fiscal year 2018 project at
Royal Air Force Lakenheath.
Sec. 2306. Modification of authority to carry
out certain fiscal year 2019
projects.
Sec. 2307. Modification of authority to carry
out certain fiscal year 2020 fam-
ily housing projects.
Sec. 2308. Modification of authority to carry
out certain fiscal year 2020
projects.
TITLE XXIV—DEFENSE AGENCIES
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
Sec. 2401. Authorized Defense Agencies con-
struction and land acquisition
projects.
Sec. 2402. Authorized Energy Resilience and
Conservation Investment Pro-
gram projects.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6731
November 16, 2020
Sec. 2403. Authorization of appropriations,
Defense Agencies.
TITLE XXV—INTERNATIONAL
PROGRAMS
Subtitle A—North Atlantic Treaty
Organization Security Investment Program
Sec. 2501. Authorized NATO construction
and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2502. Authorization of appropriations,
NATO.
Sec. 2503. Execution of projects under the
North Atlantic Treaty Organi-
zation Security Investment
Program.
Subtitle B—Host Country In-Kind
Contributions
Sec. 2511. Republic of Korea funded con-
struction projects.
Sec. 2512. Qatar funded construction
projects.
TITLE XXVI—GUARD AND RESERVE
FORCES FACILITIES
Sec. 2601. Authorized Army National Guard
construction and land acquisi-
tion projects.
Sec. 2602. Authorized Army Reserve con-
struction and land acquisition
projects.
Sec. 2603. Authorized Navy Reserve and Ma-
rine Corps Reserve construction
and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2604. Authorized Air National Guard
construction and land acquisi-
tion projects.
Sec. 2605. Authorized Air Force Reserve con-
struction and land acquisition
projects.
Sec. 2606. Authorization of appropriations,
National Guard and Reserve.
Sec. 2607. Modification of authority to carry
out fiscal year 2020 project in
Alabama.
TITLE XXVII—BASE REALIGNMENT AND
CLOSURE ACTIVITIES
Sec. 2701. Authorization of appropriations
for base realignment and clo-
sure activities funded through
Department of Defense Base
Closure Account.
Sec. 2702. Prohibition on conducting addi-
tional base realignment and
closure (BRAC) round.
Sec. 2703. Plan to finish remediation activi-
ties conducted by the Secretary
of the Army in Umatilla, Or-
egon.
TITLE XXVIII—MILITARY CONSTRUC-
TION AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
Subtitle A—Military Construction Program
Sec. 2801. Responsibility of Navy for mili-
tary construction requirements
for certain Fleet Readiness
Centers.
Sec. 2802. Construction of ground-based stra-
tegic deterrent launch facilities
and launch centers for Air
Force.
Subtitle B—Military Family Housing
Sec. 2821. Prohibition on substandard family
housing units.
Sec. 2822. Technical corrections to
privatized military housing
program.
Sec. 2823. Requirement that Secretary of De-
fense implement recommenda-
tions relating to military fam-
ily housing contained in report
by Inspector General of Depart-
ment of Defense.
Subtitle C—Project Management and
Oversight Reforms
Sec. 2841. Promotion of energy resilience
and energy security in
privatized utility systems.
Sec. 2842. Consideration of energy security
and energy resilience in life-
cycle cost for military con-
struction.
Subtitle D—Land Conveyances
Sec. 2861. Renewal of Fallon Range Training
Complex land withdrawal and
reservation.
Sec. 2862. Renewal of Nevada Test and
Training Range land with-
drawal and reservation.
Sec. 2863. Transfer of land under the admin-
istrative jurisdiction of the De-
partment of the Interior within
Naval Support Activity Pan-
ama City, Florida.
Sec. 2864. Land conveyance, Camp Navajo,
Arizona.
Subtitle E—Other Matters
Sec. 2881. Military family readiness consid-
erations in basing decisions.
Sec. 2882. Prohibition on use of funds to re-
duce air base resiliency or de-
molish protected aircraft shel-
ters in the European theater
without creating a similar pro-
tection from attack.
Sec. 2883. Prohibitions relating to closure or
returning to host nation of ex-
isting bases under the European
Consolidation Initiative.
Sec. 2884. Enhancement of authority to ac-
cept conditional gifts of real
property on behalf of military
museums.
Sec. 2885. Equal treatment of insured deposi-
tory institutions and credit
unions operating on military
installations.
Sec. 2886. Report on operational aviation
units impacted by noise restric-
tions or noise mitigation meas-
ures.
Sec. 2887. Transfer of funds for Oklahoma
City national memorial endow-
ment fund.
TITLE XXIX—OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY
OPERATIONS MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
Sec. 2901. Authorized Navy construction and
land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2902. Authorized Air Force construction
and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2903. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 2904. Replenishment of certain military
constructions funds.
DIVISION C—DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORIZA-
TIONS AND OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS
TITLE XXXI—DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS
Subtitle A—National Security Programs and
Authorizations
Sec. 3101. National Nuclear Security Admin-
istration.
Sec. 3102. Defense environmental cleanup.
Sec. 3103. Other defense activities.
Sec. 3104. Nuclear energy.
Subtitle B—Budget of the National Nuclear
Security Administration
Sec. 3111. Review of adequacy of nuclear
weapons budget.
Subtitle C—Personnel Matters
Sec. 3121. National Nuclear Security Admin-
istration Personnel System.
Sec. 3122. Inclusion of certain employees and
contractors of Department of
Energy in definition of public
safety officer for purposes of
certain death benefits.
Sec. 3123. Reimbursement for liability insur-
ance for nuclear materials
couriers.
Sec. 3124. Transportation and moving ex-
penses for immediate family of
deceased nuclear materials
couriers.
Sec. 3125. Extension of authority for ap-
pointment of certain scientific,
engineering, and technical per-
sonnel.
Subtitle D—Cybersecurity
Sec. 3131. Reporting on penetrations of net-
works of contractors and sub-
contractors.
Sec. 3132. Clarification of responsibility for
cybersecurity of National Nu-
clear Security Administration
facilities.
Subtitle E—Defense Environmental Cleanup
Sec. 3141. Public statement of environ-
mental liabilities for facilities
undergoing defense environ-
mental cleanup.
Sec. 3142. Inclusion of missed milestones in
future-years defense environ-
mental cleanup plan.
Sec. 3143. Classification of defense environ-
mental cleanup as capital asset
projects or operations activi-
ties.
Sec. 3144. Continued analysis of approaches
for supplemental treatment of
low-activity waste at Hanford
Nuclear Reservation.
Subtitle F—Other Matters
Sec. 3151. Modifications to enhanced pro-
curement authority to manage
supply chain risk.
Sec. 3152. Prohibition on use of laboratory-
or production facility-directed
research and development funds
for general and administrative
overhead costs.
Sec. 3153. Monitoring of industrial base for
nuclear weapons components,
subsystems, and materials.
Sec. 3154. Prohibition on use of funds for ad-
vanced naval nuclear fuel sys-
tem based on low-enriched ura-
nium.
Sec. 3155. Authorization of appropriations
for W93 nuclear warhead pro-
gram.
Sec. 3156. Review of future of computing be-
yond exascale at the National
Nuclear Security Administra-
tion.
Sec. 3157. Application of requirement for
independent cost estimates and
reviews to new nuclear weapon
systems.
Sec. 3159. Integration of stockpile steward-
ship and nonproliferation mis-
sions
Sec. 3160. Technology development and inte-
gration program.
Sec. 3161. Advanced manufacturing develop-
ment program.
Sec. 3162. Materials science program.
Sec. 3163. Modifications to Inertial Confine-
ment Fusion Ignition and High
Yield Program.
Sec. 3164. Earned value management pro-
gram for life extension pro-
grams.
Sec. 3165. Use of high performance com-
puting capabilities for COVID–
19 research.
Sec. 3166. Availability of stockpile respon-
siveness funds for projects to
reduce time necessary to exe-
cute a nuclear test.
Sec. 3167. Sense of the Senate on extension
of limitations on importation
of uranium from Russian Fed-
eration.
TITLE XXXII—DEFENSE NUCLEAR
FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD
Sec. 3201. Authorization.
Sec. 3202. Nonpublic collaborative discus-
sions by Defense Nuclear Fa-
cilities Safety Board.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6732 November 16, 2020
Sec. 3203. Improvements to operations of De-
fense Nuclear Facilities Safety
Board.
TITLE XXXV—MARITIME
ADMINISTRATION
Sec. 3501. Maritime Administration.
DIVISION D—FUNDING TABLES
Sec. 4001. Authorization of amounts in fund-
ing tables.
TITLE XLI—PROCUREMENT
Sec. 4101. PROCUREMENT.
Sec. 4102. Procurement for overseas contin-
gency operations.
TITLE XLII—RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT,
TEST, AND EVALUATION
Sec. 4201. Research, development, test, and
evaluation.
Sec. 4202. Research, development, test, and
evaluation for overseas contin-
gency operations.
TITLE XLIII—OPERATION AND
MAINTENANCE
Sec. 4301. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 4302. Operation and maintenance for
overseas contingency oper-
ations.
TITLE XLIV—MILITARY PERSONNEL
Sec. 4401. Military personnel.
Sec. 4402. Military personnel for overseas
contingency operations.
TITLE XLV—OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS
Sec. 4501. Other authorizations.
Sec. 4502. Other authorizations for overseas
contingency operations.
TITLE XLVI—MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
Sec. 4601. Military construction.
Sec. 4602. Military construction for overseas
contingency operations.
TITLE XLVII—DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS
Sec. 4701. Department of Energy national se-
curity programs.
DIVISION E—ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS
TITLE LI—PROCUREMENT
Subtitle B—Army Programs
Sec. 5111. Report on CH–47F Chinook Block–
II upgrade.
Subtitle C—Navy Programs
Sec. 5121. Limitation on alteration of Navy
fleet mix.
TITLE LII—RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT,
TEST, AND EVALUATION
Subtitle B—Program Requirements,
Restrictions, and Limitations
Sec. 5211. Importance of historically Black
colleges and universities and
minority-serving institutions.
Subtitle C—Sustainable Chemistry
Sec. 5221. National coordinating entity for
sustainable chemistry.
Sec. 5222. Strategic plan for sustainable
chemistry.
Sec. 5223. Agency activities in support of
sustainable chemistry.
Sec. 5224. Partnerships in sustainable chem-
istry.
Sec. 5225. Prioritization.
Sec. 5226. Rule of construction.
Sec. 5227. Major multi-user research facility
project.
Subtitle D—Cyber Workforce Matters
Sec. 5231. Improving National Initiative for
Cybersecurity Education.
Sec. 5232. Development of standards and
guidelines for improving cyber-
security workforce of Federal
agencies.
Sec. 5233. Modifications to Federal cyber
scholarship-for-service pro-
gram.
Sec. 5234. Modifications to Federal cyber
scholarship-for-service pro-
gram.
Sec. 5235. Cybersecurity in programs of the
National Science Foundation.
Sec. 5236. Cybersecurity in STEM programs
of the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration.
Sec. 5237. Cybersecurity in Department of
Transportation programs.
Sec. 5238. National Cybersecurity Chal-
lenges.
Sec. 5239. Internet of Things.
Subtitle E—Plans, Reports, and Other
Matters
Sec. 5241. Report on Department of Defense
strategy on artificial intel-
ligence standards.
Sec. 5242. Study on establishment of
energetics program office.
Sec. 5243. Deepfake report.
Sec. 5244. CISA Director.
Sec. 5245. Agency review.
Sec. 5246. General Services Administration
review.
TITLE LIII—OPERATION AND
MAINTENANCE
Subtitle C—Logistics and Sustainment
Sec. 5331. Use of cost savings realized from
intergovernmental services
agreements for installation-
support services.
Subtitle D—Reports
Sec. 5351. Report on non-permissive, global
positioning system denied air-
field capabilities.
Subtitle E—Other Matters
Sec. 5371. Increase of amounts available to
Marine Corps for base oper-
ations and support.
Sec. 5372. Modernization of congressional re-
ports process.
TITLE LV—MILITARY PERSONNEL
POLICY
Subtitle C—General Service Authorities
Sec. 5516. Report on implementation of rec-
ommendations of the Comp-
troller General of the United
States on recruitment and re-
tention of female members of
the Armed Forces.
Subtitle F—Decorations and Awards
Sec. 5551. Report on regulations and proce-
dures to implement programs
on award of medals or com-
mendations to handlers of mili-
tary working dogs.
Subtitle G—Defense Dependents’ Education
and Military Family Readiness Matters
PART II—MILITARY FAMILY READINESS
MATTERS
Sec. 5571. Independent study and report on
military spouse underemploy-
ment.
Subtitle H—Other Matters
Sec. 5586. Questions regarding racism, anti-
Semitism, and supremacism in
workplace surveys adminis-
tered by the Secretary of De-
fense.
Sec. 5587. Briefing on the implementation of
requirements on connections of
retiring and separating mem-
bers of the Armed Forces with
community-based organizations
and related entities.
Sec. 5590. Pilot programs on remote provi-
sion by National Guard to State
governments and National
Guards of other States of cyber-
security technical assistance in
training, preparation, and re-
sponse to cyber incidents.
TITLE LVII—HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS
Subtitle A—TRICARE and Other Health Care
Provisions
Sec. 5707. Pilot program on receipt of non-
generic prescription mainte-
nance medications under
TRICARE pharmacy benefits
program.
Subtitle B—Health Care Administration
Sec. 5723. Authority of Secretary of Defense
to waive requirements during
national emergencies for pur-
poses of provision of health
care.
Subtitle C—Reports and Other Matters
Sec. 5741. Study and report on surge capac-
ity of Department of Defense to
establish negative air room
containment systems in mili-
tary medical treatment facili-
ties.
TITLE LVIII—ACQUISITION POLICY, AC-
QUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RE-
LATED MATTERS
Subtitle A—Industrial Base Matters
Sec. 5801. Report on use of domestic non-
availability determinations.
Sec. 5802. Report on the effect of the Defense
Manufacturing Communities
Support Program on the de-
fense supply chain.
Sec. 5803. Improving implementation of pol-
icy pertaining to the national
technology and industrial base.
Sec. 5808. Additional requirements per-
taining to printed circuit
boards.
Sec. 5812. Miscellaneous limitations on the
procurement of goods other
than United States goods.
Subtitle C—Amendments to General Con-
tracting Authorities, Procedures, and Lim-
itations
Sec. 5841. Waivers of certain conditions for
progress payments under cer-
tain contracts during the
COVID–19 national emergency.
Subtitle E—Small Business Matters
Sec. 5871. Office of Small Business and Dis-
advantaged Business Utiliza-
tion.
Sec. 5872. Eligibility of the Commonwealth
of the Northern Mariana Is-
lands for certain Small Busi-
ness Administration programs.
Sec. 5873. Disaster declaration in rural
areas.
Sec. 5874. Temporary extension for 8(a) par-
ticipants.
Sec. 5875. Maximum award price for sole
source manufacturing con-
tracts.
Sec. 5876. Annual reports regarding the
SBIR program of the Depart-
ment of Defense.
Sec. 5877. Small business loans for nonprofit
child care providers.
Subtitle G—Other Matters
Sec. 5891. Listing of other transaction au-
thority consortia.
Sec. 5892. Report recommending disposition
of notes to certain sections of
title 10, United States Code.
Sec. 5893. Applicability of reporting require-
ment related to notional mile-
stones and standard timelines
for foreign military sales.
Sec. 5894. Additional requirements related
to mitigating risks related to
foreign ownership, control, or
influence of Department of De-
fense contractors and sub-
contractors.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6733
November 16, 2020
TITLE LIX—DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Subtitle D—Organization and Management
of Other Department of Defense Offices and
Elements
Sec. 5951. Comptroller General of the United
States report on vulnerabilities
of the Department of Defense
resulting from offshore tech-
nical support call centers.
TITLE LX—GENERAL PROVISIONS
Subtitle A—Financial Matters
Sec. 6001. Under Secretary of Defense
(Comptroller) reports on im-
proving the budget justification
and related materials of the De-
partment of Defense.
Sec. 6002. Report on fiscal year 2022 budget
request requirements in con-
nection with Air Force oper-
ations in the Arctic.
Sec. 6003. Providing information to States
regarding undelivered savings
bonds.
Subtitle E—Miscellaneous Authorities and
Limitations
Sec. 6046. Conditions for permanently basing
United States equipment or ad-
ditional military units in host
countries with at-risk vendors
in 5G or 6G networks.
Sec. 6047. Antidiscrimination.
Subtitle F—Studies and Reports
Sec. 6061. Maritime security and domain
awareness.
Sec. 6062. Report on pandemic preparedness
and planning of the Navy.
Sec. 6063. Study and report on the afford-
ability of insulin.
Subtitle G—Other Matters
Sec. 6081. Modification to First Division
monument.
Sec. 6082. Estimate of damages from Federal
Communications Commission
Order 20–48.
Sec. 6083. Diesel emissions reduction.
Sec. 6084. Utilizing significant emissions
with innovative technologies.
Sec. 6085. Legal assistance for veterans and
surviving spouses and depend-
ents.
Sec. 6086. Silver Star Service Banner Day.
Sec. 6087. Established Program to Stimulate
Competitive Research.
Sec. 6088. Subpoena authority.
Sec. 6089. Thad Cochran headquarters build-
ing.
Sec. 6090. Comptroller General of the United
States report on handling by
Department of Veterans Affairs
of disability-related benefits
claims by veterans with type 1
diabetes who were exposed to a
herbicide agent.
Sec. 6091. Special rules for certain monthly
workers’ compensation pay-
ments and other payments for
Federal Government personnel
under chief of mission author-
ity.
Subtitle H—Industries of the Future
Sec. 6094A. Short title.
Sec. 6094B. Report on Federal research and
development focused on indus-
tries of the future.
Sec. 6094C. Industries of the Future Coordi-
nation Council.
Subtitle I—READI Act
Sec. 6096. Short title.
Sec. 6096A. Definitions.
Sec. 6096B. Wireless Emergency Alerts Sys-
tem offerings.
Sec. 6096C. State Emergency Alert System
Plans and Emergency Commu-
nications Committees.
Sec. 6096D. Integrated public alert and warn-
ing system guidance.
Sec. 6096E. False alert reporting.
Sec. 6096F. Repeating Emergency Alert Sys-
tem messages for national secu-
rity.
Sec. 6096G. Internet and online streaming
services emergency alert exam-
ination.
TITLE LXII—MATTERS RELATING TO
FOREIGN NATIONS
Subtitle B—Matters Relating to Afghanistan
and Pakistan
Sec. 6211. Congressional oversight of United
States talks with Taliban offi-
cials and Afghanistan’s com-
prehensive peace process.
Subtitle D—Matters Relating to Europe and
the Russian Federation
Sec. 6231. Clarification and expansion of
sanctions relating to construc-
tion of Nord Stream 2 or
TurkStream pipeline projects.
Sec. 6235. Sense of Senate on admission of
Ukraine to the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization Enhanced
Opportunities Partnership Pro-
gram.
Subtitle E—Matters Relating to the Indo-
Pacific Region
Sec. 6251. Pilot program to improve cyber
cooperation with Vietnam,
Thailand, and Indonesia.
Subtitle F—Reports
Sec. 6273. Report on risk to personnel, equip-
ment, and operations due to
Huawei 5G architecture in host
countries.
Subtitle G—Other Matters
Sec. 6281. Comparative studies on defense
budget transparency of the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China, the
Russian Federation, and the
United States.
Sec. 6282. Modification to initiative to sup-
port protection of national se-
curity academic researchers
from undue influence and other
security threats.
Sec. 6283. Sense of Senate on United States-
Israel cooperation on precision-
guided munitions.
Sec. 6284. Blocking deadly fentanyl imports.
Sec. 6286. Establishment of United States-
Israel Operations-Technology
Working Group.
Subtitle H—United States-Israel Security
Assistance
Sec. 6290. Short title.
Sec. 6290A. Definition.
CHAPTER 1—SECURITY ASSISTANCE FOR ISRAEL
Sec. 6291. Findings.
Sec. 6292. Statement of policy.
Sec. 6293. Security assistance for Israel.
Sec. 6294. Extension of war reserves stock-
pile authority.
Sec. 6295. Extension of loan guarantees to
Israel.
Sec. 6296. Transfer of precision guided muni-
tions to Israel.
Sec. 6297. Sense of Congress on rapid acqui-
sition and deployment proce-
dures.
Sec. 6298. Eligibility of Israel for the stra-
tegic trade authorization excep-
tion to certain export control
licensing requirements.
CHAPTER 2—ENHANCED UNITED STATES-
ISRAEL COOPERATION
Sec. 6299. United States Agency for Inter-
national Development memo-
randa of understanding to en-
hance cooperation with Israel.
Sec. 6299A. Cooperative projects among the
United States, Israel, and de-
veloping countries.
Sec. 6299B. Joint cooperative program re-
lated to innovation and high-
tech for the Middle East region.
Sec. 6299C. Sense of Congress on United
States-Israel economic coopera-
tion.
Sec. 6299D. Cooperation on directed energy
capabilities.
Sec. 6299E. Plans to provide Israel with nec-
essary defense articles and
services in a contingency.
Sec. 6299F. Other matters of cooperation.
TITLE LXVI—STRATEGIC PROGRAMS,
CYBER, AND INTELLIGENCE MATTERS
Subtitle B—Cyberspace Related Matters
Sec. 6611. Report on use of encryption by De-
partment of Defense national
security systems.
Sec. 6612. Guidance and direction on use of
direct hiring processes for arti-
ficial intelligence professionals
and other data science and soft-
ware development personnel.
Sec. 6613. Cybersecurity State Coordinator
Act.
Sec. 6614. Cybersecurity Advisory Com-
mittee.
Sec. 6615. Cybersecurity Education and
Training Assistance Program.
Subtitle C—Nuclear Forces
Sec. 6651. Report on electromagnetic pulse
hardening of ground-based stra-
tegic deterrent weapons sys-
tem.
TITLE LXVII—NUCLEAR ENERGY
LEADERSHIP
Sec. 6701. Advanced nuclear reactor research
and development goals.
Sec. 6702. Nuclear energy strategic plan.
Sec. 6703. Versatile, reactor-based fast neu-
tron source.
Sec. 6704. Advanced nuclear fuel security
program.
Sec. 6705. University Nuclear Leadership
Program.
Sec. 6706. Adjusting strategic petroleum re-
serve mandated drawdowns.
TITLE LXXVIII—MILITARY CONSTRUC-
TION AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
Subtitle A—Military Construction Program
Sec. 7801. Modification to authority for mili-
tary construction projects for
child development centers at
military installations.
Sec. 7802. Modification of construction of
ground-based strategic deter-
rent launch facilities and
launch centers for the Air
Force.
Subtitle B—Military Family Housing
Sec. 7821. Inclusion of assessment of per-
formance metrics in annual
publication on use of incentive
fees for privatized military
housing projects.
Subtitle D—Land Conveyances
Sec. 7861. Establishment of interagency
committees on joint use of cer-
tain land withdrawn from ap-
propriation under public land
laws.
Sec. 7862. Lease extension for Bryan Multi-
Sports Complex, Wayne Coun-
ty, North Carolina.
Subtitle E—Other Matters
Sec. 7881. Sense of Congress on relocation of
Joint Spectrum Center.
DIVISION F—INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZA-
TION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2021
Sec. 9001. Short title.
Sec. 9002. Definitions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6734 November 16, 2020
TITLE XCI—INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
Sec. 9101. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 9102. Classified Schedule of Authoriza-
tions.
Sec. 9103. Intelligence Community Manage-
ment Account.
TITLE XCII—CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE
AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DIS-
ABILITY SYSTEM
Sec. 9201. Authorization of appropriations.
TITLE XCIII—INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY MATTERS
Subtitle A—General Intelligence Community
Matters
Sec. 9301. Restriction on conduct of intel-
ligence activities.
Sec. 9302. Increase in employee compensa-
tion and benefits authorized by
law.
Sec. 9303. Clarification of authorities and re-
sponsibilities of National Man-
ager for National Security
Telecommunications and Infor-
mation Systems Security.
Sec. 9304. Continuity of operations plans for
certain elements of the intel-
ligence community in the case
of a national emergency.
Sec. 9305. Application of Executive Schedule
level III to position of Director
of National Reconnaissance Of-
fice.
Sec. 9306. National Intelligence University.
Sec. 9307. Requiring facilitation of establish-
ment of Social Media Data and
Threat Analysis Center.
Sec. 9308. Data collection on attrition in in-
telligence community.
Sec. 9309. Limitation on delegation of re-
sponsibility for program man-
agement of information-sharing
environment.
Sec. 9310. Improvements to provisions relat-
ing to intelligence community
information technology envi-
ronment.
Sec. 9311. Requirements and authorities for
Director of the Central Intel-
ligence Agency to improve edu-
cation in science, technology,
engineering, arts, and mathe-
matics.
Subtitle B—Reports and Assessments
Pertaining to Intelligence Community
Sec. 9321. Assessment by the Comptroller
General of the United States on
efforts of the intelligence com-
munity and the Department of
Defense to identify and miti-
gate risks posed to the intel-
ligence community and the De-
partment by the use of direct-
to-consumer genetic testing by
the Government of the People’s
Republic of China.
Sec. 9322. Report on use by intelligence com-
munity of hiring flexibilities
and expedited human resources
practices to assure quality and
diversity in the workforce of
the intelligence community.
Sec. 9323. Report on signals intelligence pri-
orities and requirements.
Sec. 9324. Assessment of demand for student
loan repayment program ben-
efit.
Sec. 9325. Assessment of intelligence com-
munity demand for child care.
Sec. 9326. Open source intelligence strate-
gies and plans for the intel-
ligence community.
TITLE XCIV—SECURITY CLEARANCES
AND TRUSTED WORKFORCE
Sec. 9401. Exclusivity, consistency, and
transparency in security clear-
ance procedures, and right to
appeal.
Sec. 9402. Establishing process parity for se-
curity clearance revocations.
Sec. 9403. Federal policy on sharing of derog-
atory information pertaining to
contractor employees in the
trusted workforce.
TITLE XCV—REPORTS AND OTHER
MATTERS
Sec. 9501. Report on attempts by foreign ad-
versaries to build telecommuni-
cations and cybersecurity
equipment and services for, or
to provide such equipment and
services to, certain allies of the
United States.
Sec. 9502. Report on threats posed by use by
foreign governments and enti-
ties of commercially available
cyber intrusion and surveil-
lance technology.
Sec. 9503. Reports on recommendations of
the Cyberspace Solarium Com-
mission.
Sec. 9504. Assessment of critical technology
trends relating to artificial in-
telligence, microchips, and
semiconductors and related
supply chains.
Sec. 9505. Combating Chinese influence oper-
ations in the United States and
strengthening civil liberties
protections.
Sec. 9506. Annual report on corrupt activi-
ties of senior officials of the
Chinese Communist Party.
Sec. 9507. Report on corrupt activities of
Russian and other Eastern Eu-
ropean oligarchs.
Sec. 9508. Report on biosecurity risk and
disinformation by the Chinese
Communist Party and the Gov-
ernment of the People’s Repub-
lic of China.
Sec. 9509. Report on effect of lifting of
United Nations arms embargo
on Islamic Republic of Iran.
Sec. 9510. Report on Iranian activities relat-
ing to nuclear nonproliferation.
Sec. 9511. Sense of Congress on Third Option
Foundation.
SEC. 3. CONGRESSIONAL DEFENSE COMMITTEES.
In this Act, the term ‘‘congressional de-
fense committees’’ has the meaning given
that term in section 101(a)(16) of title 10,
United States Code.
SEC. 4. BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF THIS ACT.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purposes of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, jointly submitted for
printing in the Congressional Record by the
Chairmen of the House and Senate Budget
Committees, provided that such statement
has been submitted prior to the vote on pas-
sage in the House acting first on the con-
ference report or amendment between the
Houses.
DIVISION A—DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
AUTHORIZATIONS
TITLE I—PROCUREMENT
Subtitle A—Authorization of Appropriations
SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
Funds are hereby authorized to be appro-
priated for fiscal year 2021 for procurement
for the Army, the Navy and the Marine
Corps, the Air Force, and Defense-wide ac-
tivities, as specified in the funding table in
section 4101.
Subtitle B—Army Programs
SEC. 111. INTEGRATED AIR AND MISSILE DE-
FENSE ASSESSMENT.
(a) ASSESSMENT BY SECRETARY OF THE
ARMY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the
Army shall conduct a classified assessment
of the capability and capacity of current and
planned integrated air and missile defense
(IAMD) capabilities to meet combatant com-
mander requirements for major operations
against great-power competitors and other
global operations in support of the National
Defense Strategy.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The assessment required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) Analysis and characterization of cur-
rent and emerging threats, including the fol-
lowing:
(i) Cruise, hypersonic, and ballistic mis-
siles.
(ii) Unmanned aerial systems.
(iii) Rockets.
(iv) Other indirect fire.
(v) Specific and meaningfully varied exam-
ples within each of subclauses (I) through
(IV).
(B) Analysis of current and planned inte-
grated air and missile defense capabilities to
counter the threats analyzed and character-
ized under subparagraph (A), including the
following:
(i) Projected timelines for development,
procurement, and fielding of planned inte-
grated air and missile defense capabilities.
(ii) Projected capability gaps.
(iii) Opportunities for acceleration or need
for incorporation of interim capabilities to
address current and projected gaps.
(C) Analysis of current and planned capac-
ity to meet major contingency plan require-
ments and ongoing global operations of the
combatant commands, including the fol-
lowing:
(i) Current and planned numbers of inte-
grated air and missile defense systems and
formations, including munitions.
(ii) Capacity gaps in addressing combatant
command requirements.
(iii) Operations tempo stress on integrated
air and missile defense formations and per-
sonnel.
(iv) Plans of the Secretary to continue to
increase integrated air and missile defense
personnel and formations.
(D) Assessment of integrated air and mis-
sile defense architecture and enabling com-
mand and control systems, including the fol-
lowing:
(i) A description of the integrated air and
missile defense architecture and component
counter unmanned aerial systems (C–UAS)
sub-architecture.
(ii) Identification of the enabling command
and control (C2) systems.
(iii) Inter-connectivity of the enabling
command and control systems.
(iv) Compatibility of the enabling com-
mand and control systems with planned
Joint All Domain Command and Control
(JADC2) architecture.
(E) Assessment of proponency within the
Army of integrated air and missile defense
and counter unmanned aerial systems, in-
cluding the following:
(i) A description of the current proponency
structure.
(ii) Adequacy of the current proponency
structure to facilitate Army executive agen-
cy integrated air and missile defense and
counter unmanned aerial systems functions
for the Department of Defense.
(iii) Benefits of establishing integrated air
and missile defense and counter unmanned
aerial systems centers of excellence to help
focus Army and joint force efforts to achiev-
ing a functional integrated air and missile
defense capability and capacity to meet re-
quirements of the combatant commands.
(3) CHARACTERIZATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—In carrying out para-
graph (2)(A), the Secretary shall avoid broad
characterizations that do not sufficiently
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6735
November 16, 2020
distinguish between distinctly different
threats in the same general class.
(B) EXAMPLE.—An example of a broad char-
acterization to be avoided under such para-
graph is ‘‘cruise missiles’’, since such charac-
terization does not sufficiently distinguish
between current cruise missiles and emerg-
ing hypersonic cruise missiles, which may
require different capabilities to counter
them.
(4) REPORT AND INTERIM BRIEFING.—
(A) INTERIM BRIEFING.—Not later than De-
cember 15, 2020, the Secretary shall provide
the Committee on Armed Services of the
Senate and Committee on Armed Services of
the House of Representatives a briefing on
the assessment being conducted by the Sec-
retary under paragraph (1).
(B) REPORT.—Not later than February 15,
2021, the Secretary shall submit to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services of the Senate and
Committee on Armed Services of the House
of Representatives a report on the findings of
the Secretary with respect to the assessment
conducted under paragraph (1).
(b) REVIEW BY VICE CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT
CHIEFS OF STAFF.—
(1) REVIEW.—The Vice Chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff shall review the assess-
ment being conducted under subsection (a)(1)
for potential gaps in capability and capacity
to meet requirements of the National De-
fense Strategy.
(2) REPORT.—Not later than April 15, 2021,
the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff shall submit to the Committee on
Armed Services of the Senate and Com-
mittee on Armed Services of the House of
Representatives a report on the finding of
the Vice Chairman with respect to the re-
view conducted under paragraph (1).
SEC. 112. REPORT AND LIMITATION ON INTE-
GRATED VISUAL AUGMENTATION
SYSTEM ACQUISITION.
(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than August 15,
2021, the Secretary of the Army shall submit
to the congressional defense committees a
report on the Integrated Visual Augmenta-
tion System (IVAS) subsequent to the com-
pletion of operational testing.
(2) ELEMENTS REQUIRED.—The report re-
quired by paragraph (1) shall include the fol-
lowing:
(A) Certification of the IVAS acquisition
strategy, to include production model costs,
full rate production schedule, and identifica-
tion of any changes resulting from oper-
ational testing.
(B) Certification of technology levels being
utilized in the full rate production model.
(C) Certification of operational suitability
and soldier acceptability of the production
model IVAS.
(b) LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS.—Not
more than 50 percent of the amounts author-
ized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal
year 2021 for procurement of the Integrated
Visual Augmentation System may be obli-
gated or expended until the Secretary sub-
mits to the congressional defense commit-
tees the report required under subsection (a).
SEC. 113. MODIFICATIONS TO REQUIREMENT FOR
AN INTERIM CRUISE MISSILE DE-
FENSE CAPABILITY.
(a) PLAN.—Not later than January 15, 2021,
the Secretary of the Army shall submit to
the congressional defense committees the
plan, including a timeline, to operationally
deploy or forward station the two batteries
of interim cruise missile defense capability
procured pursuant to section 112 of the John
S. McCain National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232;
132 Stat. 1660) in an operational theater or
theaters.
(b) MODIFICATION OF WAIVER.—Section
112(b)(4) of the John S. McCain National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019
(Public Law 115–232; 132 Stat. 1661) is amend-
ed to read as follows:
‘‘(4) WAIVER.—The Secretary of the Army
may waive the deadlines specified in para-
graph (1):
‘‘(A) For the deadline specified in para-
graph (1)(A), if the Secretary determines
that sufficient funds have not been appro-
priated to enable the Secretary to meet such
deadline.
‘‘(B) For the deadline specified in para-
graph (1)(B), if the Secretary submits to the
congressional defense committees a certifi-
cation that—
‘‘(i) allocating resources toward procure-
ment of an integrated enduring capability
would provide robust tiered and layered pro-
tection to the joint force; or
‘‘(ii) additional time is required to com-
plete training and preparation for oper-
ational capability.’’.
Subtitle C—Navy Programs
SEC. 121. CONTRACT AUTHORITY FOR COLUMBIA-
CLASS SUBMARINE PROGRAM.
(a) CONTRACT AUTHORITY.—The Secretary
of the Navy may enter into a contract, be-
ginning with fiscal year 2021, for the procure-
ment of up to two Columbia-class sub-
marines.
(b) INCREMENTAL FUNDING.—With respect
to a contract entered into under subsection
(a), the Secretary of the Navy may use incre-
mental funding to make payments under the
contract.
(c) LIABILITY.—Any contract entered into
under subsection (a) shall provide that—
(1) any obligation of the United States to
make a payment under the contract is sub-
ject to the availability of appropriations for
that purpose; and
(2) total liability of the Federal Govern-
ment for termination of any contract en-
tered into shall be limited to the total
amount of funding obligated to the contract
at time of termination.
SEC. 122. LIMITATION ON NAVY MEDIUM AND
LARGE UNMANNED SURFACE VES-
SELS.
(a) MILESTONE B APPROVAL REQUIRE-
MENTS.—Milestone B approval may not be
granted for a covered program unless such
program accomplishes prior to and incor-
porates into such approval—
(1) qualification by the Senior Technical
Authority of—
(A) at least two different main propulsion
engines and ancillary equipment, including
the fuel and lube oil systems; and
(B) at least two different electrical genera-
tors and ancillary equipment;
(2) final results of test programs of engi-
neering development models or prototypes
for critical systems specified by the Senior
Technical Authority in their final form, fit,
and function and in a realistic environment;
and
(3) a determination by the milestone deci-
sion authority of the minimum number of
vessels, discrete test events, performance pa-
rameters to be tested, and schedule required
to complete initial operational test and eval-
uation and demonstrate operational suit-
ability and operational effectiveness.
(b) QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.—The
qualification required in subsection (a)(1)
shall include a land-based operational dem-
onstration of such equipment in the vessel-
representative form, fit, and function for not
less than 1,080 continuous hours without pre-
ventative maintenance, corrective mainte-
nance, emergent repair, or any other form of
repair or maintenance.
(c) REQUIREMENT TO USE QUALIFIED EN-
GINES AND GENERATORS.—The Secretary of
the Navy shall require that covered pro-
grams use only main propulsion engines and
electrical generators that are qualified under
subsection (a)(1).
(d) LIMITATION.—The Secretary of the Navy
may not release a detail design or construc-
tion request for proposals or obligate funds
from a procurement account for a covered
program until such program receives Mile-
stone B approval and the milestone decision
authority notifies the congressional defense
committees, in writing, of the actions taken
to comply with the requirements under this
section.
(e) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) The term ‘‘covered program’’ means a
program for—
(A) medium unmanned surface vessels; or
(B) large unmanned surface vessels.
(2) The term ‘‘Milestone B approval’’ has
the meaning given the term in section
2366(e)(7) of title 10, United States Code.
(3) The term ‘‘milestone decision author-
ity’’ means the official within the Depart-
ment of Defense designated with the overall
responsibility and authority for acquisition
decisions for the program, including author-
ity to approve entry of the program into the
next phase of the acquisition process.
(4) The term ‘‘Senior Technical Authority’’
has the meaning given the term in section
8669b of title 10, United States Code.
SEC. 123. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON AVAIL-
ABILITY OF FUNDS FOR NAVY WA-
TERBORNE SECURITY BARRIERS.
Section 130(a) of the John S. McCain Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232; 132 Stat. 1665),
as amended by section 126 of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2020 (Public Law 116–92), is further amended
by striking ‘‘for fiscal year 2019 or fiscal year
2020’’ and inserting ‘‘for fiscal years 2019,
2020, or 2021’’.
SEC. 124. PROCUREMENT AUTHORITIES FOR CER-
TAIN AMPHIBIOUS SHIPBUILDING
PROGRAMS.
(a) CONTRACT AUTHORITY.—
(1) PROCUREMENT AUTHORIZED.—In fiscal
year 2021, the Secretary of the Navy may
enter into one or more contracts for the pro-
curement of three San Antonio-class am-
phibious ships and one America-class am-
phibious ship.
(2) PROCUREMENT IN CONJUNCTION WITH EX-
ISTING CONTRACTS.—The ships authorized to
be procured under paragraph (1) may be pro-
cured as additions to existing contracts cov-
ering such programs.
(b) CERTIFICATION REQUIRED.—A contract
may not be entered into under subsection (a)
unless the Secretary of the Navy certifies to
the congressional defense committees, in
writing, not later than 30 days before entry
into the contract, each of the following,
which shall be prepared by the milestone de-
cision authority for such programs:
(1) The use of such a contract is consistent
with the Department of the Navy’s projected
force structure requirements for amphibious
ships.
(2) The use of such a contract will result in
significant savings compared to the total an-
ticipated costs of carrying out the program
through annual contracts. In certifying cost
savings under the preceding sentence, the
Secretary shall include a written expla-
nation of—
(A) the estimated end cost and appro-
priated funds by fiscal year, by hull, without
the authority provided in subsection (a);
(B) the estimated end cost and appro-
priated funds by fiscal year, by hull, with the
authority provided in subsection (a);
(C) the estimated cost savings or increase
by fiscal year, by hull, with the authority
provided in subsection (a);
(D) the discrete actions that will accom-
plish such cost savings or avoidance; and
(E) the contractual actions that will en-
sure the estimated cost savings are realized.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6736 November 16, 2020
(3) There is a reasonable expectation that
throughout the contemplated contract pe-
riod the Secretary of the Navy will request
funding for the contract at the level required
to avoid contract cancellation.
(4) There is a stable design for the property
to be acquired and the technical risks associ-
ated with such property are not excessive.
(5) The estimates of both the cost of the
contract and the anticipated cost avoidance
through the use of a contract authorized
under subsection (a) are realistic.
(6) The use of such a contract will promote
the national security of the United States.
(7) During the fiscal year in which such
contract is to be awarded, sufficient funds
will be available to perform the contract in
such fiscal year, and the future-years defense
program (as defined under section 221 of title
10, United States Code) for such fiscal year
will include the funding required to execute
the program without cancellation.
(c) AUTHORITY FOR ADVANCE PROCURE-
MENT.—The Secretary of the Navy may enter
into one or more contracts for advance pro-
curement associated with a vessel or vessels
for which authorization to enter into a con-
tract is provided under subsection (a), and
for systems and subsystems associated with
such vessels in economic order quantities
when cost savings are achievable.
(d) CONDITION FOR OUT-YEAR CONTRACT
PAYMENTS.—A contract entered into under
subsection (a) shall provide that any obliga-
tion of the United States to make a payment
under the contract for a fiscal year is subject
to the availability of appropriations for that
purpose for such fiscal year.
(e) MILESTONE DECISION AUTHORITY DE-
FINED.—In this section. the term ‘‘milestone
decision authority’’ has the meaning given
the term in section 2366a(d) of title 10,
United States Code.
SEC. 125. FIGHTER FORCE STRUCTURE ACQUISI-
TION STRATEGY.
(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than
March 1, 2021, the Secretary of the Navy
shall submit to the congressional defense
committees a report with a fighter force
structure acquisition strategy that is
aligned with the results of the independent
studies required under section 1064 of the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2018 (Public Law 115–91; 131 Stat.
1576).The strategy shall establish a minimum
number of F–35 and Next Generation Air
Dominance (NGAD) aircraft that the Navy
and Marine Corps would be required to pur-
chase each year to mitigate or manage
strike fighter shortfalls.
(b) LIMITATION ON DEVIATION FROM STRAT-
EGY.—The Department of the Navy may not
deviate from the acquisition strategy estab-
lished under subsection (a) until—
(1) the Secretary of the Navy receives a
waiver and justification from the Secretary
of Defense; and
(2) 30 days after the Secretary of the Navy
notifies the congressional defense commit-
tees of the proposed deviation.
SEC. 126. TREATMENT OF SYSTEMS ADDED BY
CONGRESS IN FUTURE PRESIDENT’S
BUDGET REQUESTS.
A procurement quantity of a system au-
thorized by Congress in a National Defense
Authorization Act for a given fiscal year
that is subsequently appropriated by Con-
gress in an amount greater than the quan-
tity of such system included in the Presi-
dent’s annual budget request submitted to
Congress under section 1105 of title 31,
United States Code, for such fiscal year shall
not be included as a new procurement quan-
tity in future annual budget requests.
SEC. 127. REPORT ON CARRIER WING COMPOSI-
TION.
(a) REPORT.—Not later than May 1, 2021,
the Secretary of the Navy, in consultation
with the Chief of Naval Operations and Com-
mandant of the Marine Corps, shall submit
to the congressional defense committees a
report on the optimal composition of the
carrier air wing in 2030 and 2040, as well as
alternative force design concepts.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report required under
subsection (a) shall include the following ele-
ments:
(1) An analysis and justification used to
reach the 50–50 mix of 4th and 5th generation
aircraft for 2030.
(2) An analysis and justification for the op-
timal mix of carrier aircraft for 2040.
(3) A plan for incorporating unmanned aer-
ial vehicles and associated communication
capabilities to effectively implement the fu-
ture force design.
SEC. 128. REPORT ON STRATEGY TO USE ALQ–249
NEXT GENERATION JAMMER TO EN-
SURE FULL SPECTRUM ELECTRO-
MAGNETIC SUPERIORITY.
(a) REPORT.—Not later than July 30, 2021,
the Secretary of the Navy, in consultation
with the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs,
shall submit to the congressional defense
committees report with a strategy to ensure
full spectrum electromagnetic superiority
using the ALQ–249 Next Generation Jammer.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report required under
subsection (a) shall include the following ele-
ments:
(1) A description of the current procure-
ment strategy of the ALQ–249 and the anal-
ysis of its capability to meet the RF fre-
quency ranges required in a National Defense
Strategy (NDS) conflict.
(2) An assessment of the ALQ–249’s compat-
ibility and ability to synchronize non-ki-
netic fires using other Joint Electronic War-
fare (EW) platforms.
(3) A future model of an interlinked/inter-
dependent electronic warfare menu of op-
tions for commanders at tactical, oper-
ational, and strategic levels.
Subtitle D—Air Force Programs
SEC. 141. ECONOMIC ORDER QUANTITY CON-
TRACTING AUTHORITY FOR F–35
JOINT STRIKE FIGHTER PROGRAM.
(a) AUTHORITY FOR ADVANCE PROCUREMENT
AND ECONOMIC ORDER QUANTITY.—The Sec-
retary of Defense may enter into one or more
contracts, beginning with the fiscal year 2020
program year, for the procurement of eco-
nomic order quantities of material and
equipment for the F–35 aircraft program for
use in procurement contracts to be awarded
for such program during fiscal years 2021
through 2023.
(b) LIMITATION.—The total amount obli-
gated in fiscal year 2021 under all contracts
entered into under subsection (a) shall not
exceed $493,000,000.
(c) PRELIMINARY FINDINGS.—Before enter-
ing into a contract under subsection (a), the
Secretary shall make each of the following
findings with respect to such contract:
(1) The use of such a contract will result in
significant savings of the total anticipated
costs of carrying out the program through
annual contracts.
(2) The minimum need for the property to
be procured is expected to remain substan-
tially unchanged during the contemplated
contract period in terms of production rate,
procurement rate, and total quantities.
(3) There is a reasonable expectation that,
throughout the contemplated contract pe-
riod, the Secretary will request funding for
the contract at the level required to avoid
contract cancellation.
(4) There is a stable design for the property
to be procured, and the technical risks asso-
ciated with such property are not excessive.
(5) The estimates of both the cost of the
contract and the anticipated cost avoidance
through the use of an economic order quan-
tity contract are realistic.
(6) Entering into the contract will promote
the national security interests of the United
States.
(d) CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENT.—Except
as provided in subsection (e), the Secretary
of Defense may not enter into a contract
under subsection (a) until 30 days after the
Secretary certifies to the congressional de-
fense committees, in writing, that each of
the following conditions is satisfied:
(1) A sufficient number of end items of the
system being acquired under such contract
have been delivered at or within the most re-
cently available estimates of the program
acquisition unit cost or procurement unit
cost for such system to determine that the
estimates of the unit costs are realistic.
(2) During the fiscal year in which such
contract is to be awarded, sufficient funds
will be available to perform the contract in
such fiscal year, and the future-years defense
program submitted to Congress under sec-
tion 221 of title 10, United States Code, for
that fiscal year will include the funding re-
quired to execute the program without can-
cellation.
(3) The contract is a fixed-price type con-
tract.
(4) The proposed contract provides for pro-
duction at not less than minimum economic
rates given the existing tooling and facili-
ties.
(5) The Secretary has determined that each
of the conditions described in paragraphs (1)
through (6) of subsection (c) will be met by
such contract and has provided the basis for
such determination to the congressional de-
fense committees.
(6) The determination under paragraph (5)
was made after the completion of a cost
analysis performed by the Director of Cost
Assessment and Program Evaluation for the
purpose of section 2334(f)(2) of title 10, United
States Code, and the analysis supports that
determination.
(e) EXCEPTION.—Notwithstanding sub-
section (d), the Secretary of Defense may
enter into a contract under subsection (a) on
or after December 1, 2020, if—
(1) the Director of Cost Assessment and
Program Evaluation has not completed a
cost analysis of the preliminary findings
made by the Secretary under subsection (c)
with respect to the contract;
(2) the Secretary certifies to the congres-
sional defense committees, in writing, that
each of the conditions described in para-
graphs (1) through (5) of subsection (d) is sat-
isfied; and
(3) a period of 30 days has elapsed following
the date on which the Secretary submits the
certification under paragraph (2).
SEC. 142. MINIMUM AIRCRAFT LEVELS FOR
MAJOR MISSION AREAS.
(a) MINIMUM LEVELS.—Except as provided
under subsection (b), the Secretary of the
Air Force shall maintain the following mini-
ma, based on Primary Mission Aircraft In-
ventory (PMAI):
(1) 1,182 Fighter aircraft.
(2) 190 Attack Remotely Piloted Aircraft
(RPA).
(3) 92 Bomber aircraft.
(4) 412 Tanker aircraft.
(5) 230 Tactical airlift aircraft.
(6) 235 Strategic airlift aircraft.
(7) 84 Strategic Intelligence, Surveillance,
and Reconnaissance (ISR) aircraft.
(8) 106 Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR)
aircraft.
(b) EXCEPTIONS.—The Secretary of the Air
Force may reduce the number of aircraft in
the PMAI of the Air Force below the minima
specified in subsection (a) only if—
(1) the Secretary certifies to the congres-
sional defense committees that such reduc-
tion is justified by the results of the new ca-
pability and requirements studies; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6737
November 16, 2020
(2) a period of 30 days has elapsed following
the date on which the certification is made
to the congressional defense committees
under paragraph (1).
(c) APPLICABILITY.—The limitation in sub-
section (a) shall not apply to aircraft that
the Secretary of the Air Force determines,
on a case-by-case basis, to be no longer mis-
sion capable because of mishaps, other dam-
age, or being uneconomical to repair.
SEC. 143. MINIMUM OPERATIONAL SQUADRON
LEVEL.
As soon as practicable after the date of the
enactment of this Act and subject to the
availability of appropriations, the Secretary
of the Air Force shall seek to achieve a min-
imum of not fewer than 386 available oper-
ational squadrons, or equivalent organiza-
tional units, within the Air Force. In addi-
tion to the operational squadrons, the Sec-
retary shall strive to achieve the following
primary mission aircraft inventory (PMAI)
numbers:
(1) 1,680 Fighter aircraft.
(2) 199 Persist attack remotely piloted air-
craft (RPA).
(3) 225 Bomber aircraft.
(4) 500 Air refueling aircraft.
(5) 286 Tactical airlift aircraft.
(6) 284 Strategic airlift aircraft.
(7) 55 Command and control aircraft.
(8) 105 Combat search and rescue (CSAR)
aircraft.
(9) 30 Intelligence, surveillance, and recon-
naissance (ISR) aircraft.
(10) 179 Special operations aircraft.
(11) 40 Electronic warfare (EW) aircraft.
SEC. 144. MINIMUM AIR FORCE BOMBER AIR-
CRAFT LEVEL.
The Secretary of Defense shall submit to
the congressional defense committees rec-
ommendations for a minimum number of
bomber aircraft, including penetrating
bombers in addition to B–52H aircraft, to en-
able the Air Force to carry out its long-
range penetrating strike capability.
SEC. 145. F–35 GUN SYSTEM.
The Secretary of the Air Force shall begin
the procurement process for an alternate
25mm ammunition solution that provides a
true full-spectrum target engagement capa-
bility for the F–35A aircraft.
SEC. 146. PROHIBITION ON FUNDING FOR CLOSE
AIR SUPPORT INTEGRATION GROUP.
No funds authorized to be appropriated by
this Act may be obligated or expended for
the Close Air Support Integration Group
(CIG) or its subordinate units at Nellis Air
Force Base, Nevada, and the Air Force may
not utilize personnel or equipment in sup-
port of the CIG or its subordinate units.
SEC. 147. LIMITATION ON DIVESTMENT OF KC–10
AND KC–135 AIRCRAFT.
The Secretary of Defense may not divest
KC–10 and KC–135 aircraft in excess of the
following amounts:
(1) In fiscal year 2021, 6 KC–10 aircraft, in-
cluding only 3 from primary mission aircraft
inventory (PMAI).
(2) In fiscal year 2022, 12 KC–10 aircraft.
(3) In fiscal year 2023, 12 KC–10 and 14 KC–
135 aircraft.
SEC. 148. LIMITATION ON RETIREMENT OF U–2
AND RQ–4 AIRCRAFT.
(a) LIMITATION.—The Secretary of the Air
Force may not take any action that would
prevent the Air Force from maintaining the
fleets of U–2 aircraft or RQ–4 aircraft in their
current, or improved, configurations and ca-
pabilities until the Chairman of the Joint
Requirements Oversight Council certifies in
writing to the appropriate committees of
Congress that the capability to be fielded at
the same time or before the retirement of
the U–2 aircraft or RQ–4 aircraft (as the case
may be) would result in equal or greater ca-
pability available to the commanders of the
combatant commands and would not result
in less capacity available to the commanders
of the combatant commands.
(b) WAIVER.—The Secretary of Defense may
waive the certification requirement under
subsection (a) with respect to U–2 aircraft or
RQ–4 aircraft if the Secretary—
(1) determines, after analyzing sufficient
and relevant data, that a loss in capacity
and capability will not prevent the combat-
ant commanders from accomplishing their
missions at acceptable levels of risk; and
(2) provides to the appropriate committees
of Congress a certification of such deter-
mination and supporting analysis.
(c) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS
DEFINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘appro-
priate committees of Congress’’ means—
(1) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Appropriations, and the Se-
lect Committee on Intelligence of the Sen-
ate; and
(2) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Appropriations, and the Per-
manent Select Committee on Intelligence of
the House of Representatives.
SEC. 149. LIMITATION ON DIVESTMENT OF F–15C
AIRCRAFT IN THE EUROPEAN THE-
ATER.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the Air
Force may not divest F–15C aircraft in the
European theater until the F–15EX aircraft
is integrated into the Air Force and has
begun bed down actions in the European the-
ater.
(b) WAIVER.—The Secretary of Defense,
after consultation with the Commander of
the United States European Command
(EUCOM), may waive the limitation under
subsection (a) if the Secretary certifies to
Congress the divestment is required for the
national defense and that there exists suffi-
cient resources at all times to meet NATO
and EUCOM air superiority requirements for
the European theater.
SEC. 150. AIR BASE DEFENSE DEVELOPMENT AND
ACQUISITION STRATEGY.
(a) STRATEGY REQUIRED.—Not later than
March 1, 2021, the Chief of Staff of the Air
Force (CSAF), in consultation with the Chief
of Staff of the Army (CSA), shall submit to
the congressional defense committees a de-
velopment and acquisition strategy to pro-
cure a capability to protect air bases and
prepositioned sites in contested environ-
ments highlighted in the National Defense
Strategy. The strategy should ensure a solu-
tion that is effective against current and
emerging cruise missile and advanced
hypersonic missile threats.
(b) LIMITATION ON USE OF OPERATION AND
MAINTENANCE FUNDS.—Not more than 50 per-
cent of the funds authorized to be appro-
priated by this Act for fiscal year 2021 for op-
eration and maintenance for the Office of the
Secretary of the Air Force and the Office of
the Secretary of the Army may be obligated
or expended until 15 days after submission of
the strategy required under subsection (a).
SEC. 151. REQUIRED SOLUTION FOR KC–46 AIR-
CRAFT REMOTE VISUAL SYSTEM
LIMITATIONS.
The Secretary of the Air Force shall de-
velop and implement a complete, one-time
solution to the KC–46 aircraft remote visual
system (RVS) operational limitations. Not
later than October 1, 2020, the Secretary
shall submit to the congressional defense
committees an implementation strategy for
the solution.
SEC. 152. ANALYSIS OF REQUIREMENTS AND AD-
VANCED BATTLE MANAGEMENT SYS-
TEM CAPABILITIES.
(a) ANALYSIS.—Not later than April 1, 2021,
the Secretary of the Air Force, in consulta-
tion with the commanders of the combatant
commands, shall develop an analysis of cur-
rent and future moving target indicator re-
quirements across the combatant commands
and operational and tactical level command
and control capabilities the Advanced Battle
Management System (ABMS) will require
when fielded.
(b) JROC REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 60 days
after the Secretary of the Air Force develops
the analysis under subsection (a), the Joint
Requirements Oversight Council (JROC)
shall certify that requirements for ABMS in-
corporate the findings of the analysis.
(2) CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION.—The
Joint Requirements Oversight Council
(JROC) shall notify the congressional de-
fense committees upon making the certifi-
cation required under paragraph (1) and pro-
vide a briefing on the requirements and find-
ings described in such paragraph not later
than 30 days after such notification.
SEC. 153. STUDIES ON MEASURES TO ASSESS
COST-PER-EFFECT FOR KEY MISSION
AREAS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than January 1,
2021, the Secretary of the Air Force shall
provide for the performance of two inde-
pendent studies to devise new measures to
assess cost-per-effect for key mission areas.
One of the studies shall be conducted by an
organization described in section 501(c)(3) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and ex-
empt from tax under section 501(a) of such
Code, and one of the studies shall be con-
ducted by a federally funded research and de-
velopment center.
(b) SCOPE.—Each study conducted pursuant
to subsection (a) shall address the following
matters:
(1) Number of weapon systems required to
meet a specified mission goal.
(2) Number of personnel required to meet a
specified mission goal.
(3) Associated operation and maintenance
costs necessary to facilitate respective oper-
ational constructs.
(4) Basing requirements for respective
force constructs.
(5) Mission support elements required to
facilitate specified operations.
(6) Defensive measures required to facili-
tate viable mission operations.
(7) Attrition due to enemy counter-
measures and other loss factors associated
with respective technologies.
(8) Associated weapon effects costs com-
pared to alternative forms of power projec-
tion.
(c) IMPLEMENTATION OF MEASURES.—The
Secretary of the Air Force shall, as appro-
priate, incorporate the findings of the stud-
ies conducted pursuant to subsection (a) in
the Air Force’s future force development
process. The measures—
(1) should be domain and platform agnos-
tic;
(2) should focus on how best to achieve
mission goals in future operations; and
(3) shall consider including harnessing
cost-per-effect assessments as a key perform-
ance parameter within the Department of
Defense’s Joint Capabilities Integration and
Development System (JCIDS) requirements
process.
SEC. 154. PLAN FOR OPERATIONAL TEST AND
UTILITY EVALUATION OF SYSTEMS
FOR LOW-COST ATTRIBUTABLE AIR-
CRAFT TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM.
Not later than October 1, 2020, the Assist-
ant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisi-
tion, Technology, and Logistics shall—
(a) submit to the congressional defense
committees an executable plan for the oper-
ational test and utility evaluation of the
systems of the Low-Cost Attributable Air-
craft Technology (LCAAT) program of the
Air Force; and
(b) brief the congressional defense commit-
tees on such plan.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6738 November 16, 2020
SEC. 155. PROHIBITION ON RETIREMENT OR DI-
VESTMENT OF A–10 AIRCRAFT.
The Secretary of Defense may not during
fiscal year 2021 divest or retire any A–10 air-
craft, in order to ensure ongoing capabilities
to counter violent extremism and provide
close air support and combat search and res-
cue in accordance with the National Defense
Strategy.
Subtitle E—Defense-wide, Joint, and
Multiservice Matters
SEC. 171. BUDGETING FOR LIFE-CYCLE COST OF
AIRCRAFT FOR THE NAVY, ARMY,
AND AIR FORCE: ANNUAL PLAN AND
CERTIFICATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 9 of title 10,
United States Code, is amended by inserting
after section 231 the following new section:
‘‘§ 231a. Budgeting for life-cycle cost of air-
craft for the Navy, Army, and Air Force:
Annual plan and certification
‘‘(a) ANNUAL AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT PLAN
AND CERTIFICATION.—Not later than 45 days
after the date on which the President sub-
mits to Congress the budget for a fiscal year,
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the
congressional defense committees—
‘‘(1) a plan for the procurement of the air-
craft specified in subsection (b) for the De-
partment of the Navy, the Department of the
Army, and the Department of the Air Force
developed in accordance with this section;
and
‘‘(2) a certification by the Secretary that
both the budget for such fiscal year and the
future years defense program submitted to
Congress in relation to such budget under
section 221 of this title provide for funding of
the procurement of aircraft at a level that is
sufficient for the procurement of the aircraft
provided for in the plan under paragraph (1)
on the schedule provided in the plan.
‘‘(b) COVERED AIRCRAFT.—The aircraft
specified in this subsection are the aircraft
as follows:
‘‘(1) Fighter aircraft.
‘‘(2) Attack aircraft.
‘‘(3) Bomber aircraft.
‘‘(4) Intertheater lift aircraft.
‘‘(5) Intratheater lift aircraft.
‘‘(6) Intelligence, surveillance, and recon-
naissance aircraft.
‘‘(7) Tanker aircraft.
‘‘(8) Remotely piloted aircraft.
‘‘(9) Rotary-wing aircraft.
‘‘(10) Operational support and executive lift
aircraft.
‘‘(11) Any other major support aircraft des-
ignated by the Secretary of Defense for pur-
poses of this section.
‘‘(c) ANNUAL AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT
PLAN.—(1) The annual aircraft procurement
plan developed for a fiscal year for purposes
of subsection (a)(1) should be designed so
that the aviation force provided for under
the plan is capable of supporting the na-
tional military strategy of the United States
as set forth in the most recent National De-
fense Strategy submitted under section
113(g) of title 10, United States Code, and Na-
tional Military Strategy submitted under
section 153(b) of title 10, United States Code.
‘‘(2) Each annual aircraft procurement plan
shall include the following:
‘‘(A) A detailed program for the procure-
ment of the aircraft specified in subsection
(b) for each of the Department of the Navy,
the Department of the Army, and the De-
partment of the Air Force over the next 30
fiscal years.
‘‘(B) A description of the necessary avia-
tion force structure to meet the require-
ments of the national military strategy of
the United States or the most recent Quad-
rennial Defense Review, whichever is appli-
cable under paragraph (1).
‘‘(C) The estimated levels of annual invest-
ment funding necessary to carry out each
aircraft program, together with a discussion
of the procurement strategies on which such
estimated levels of annual investment fund-
ing are based, set forth in aggregate for the
Department of Defense and in aggregate for
each military department.
‘‘(D) The estimated level of annual funding
necessary to operate, maintain, sustain, and
support each aircraft program throughout
the life-cycle of the program, set forth in ag-
gregate for the Department of Defense and in
aggregate for each military department.
‘‘(E) For each of the cost estimates re-
quired by subparagraphs (C) and (D)—
‘‘(i) a description of whether the cost esti-
mate is derived from the cost estimate posi-
tion of the military department or derived
from the cost estimate position of the Office
of Cost Analysis and Program Evaluation;
‘‘(ii) if the cost estimate position of the
military department and the cost estimate
position of the Office of Cost Analysis and
Program Evaluation differ by more than 5
percent for any aircraft program, an anno-
tated cost estimate difference and sufficient
rationale to explain the difference;
‘‘(iii) the confidence or certainty level as-
sociated with the cost estimate for each air-
craft program; and
‘‘(iv) a certification that cost between dif-
ferent services and aircraft are based on
similar components in the life-cycle cost of
each program.
‘‘(F) An assessment by the Secretary of De-
fense of the extent to which the combined
aircraft forces of the Department of the
Navy, the Department of the Army, and the
Department of the Air Force meet the na-
tional security requirements of the United
States.
‘‘(3) For any cost estimate required by
paragraph (2)(C) or (D), for any aircraft pro-
gram for which the Secretary is required to
include in a report under section 2432 of this
title, the source of the cost information used
to prepare the annual aircraft plan, shall be
sourced from the Selected Acquisition Re-
port data that the Secretary plans to submit
to the congressional defense committees in
accordance with subsection (f) of that sec-
tion for the year for which the annual air-
craft plan is prepared.
‘‘(4) The annual aircraft procurement plan
shall be submitted in unclassified form and
shall contain a classified annex. A summary
version of the unclassified report shall be
made available to the public.
‘‘(d) ASSESSMENT WHEN AIRCRAFT PROCURE-
MENT BUDGET IS INSUFFICIENT TO MEET AP-
PLICABLE REQUIREMENTS.—If the budget for a
fiscal year provides for funding of the pro-
curement of aircraft for the Department of
the Navy, the Department of the Army, or
the Department of the Air Force at a level
that is not sufficient to sustain the aviation
force structure specified in the aircraft pro-
curement plan for such Department for that
fiscal year under subsection (a), the Sec-
retary shall include with the defense budget
materials for that fiscal year an assessment
that describes and discusses the risks associ-
ated with the reduced force structure of air-
craft that will result from funding aircraft
procurement at such level. The assessment
shall be coordinated in advance with the
commanders of the combatant commands.
‘‘(e) ANNUAL REPORT ON AIRCRAFT INVEN-
TORY.—(1) As part of the annual plan and cer-
tification required to be submitted under
this section, the Secretary shall include a re-
port on the aircraft in the inventory of the
Department of Defense. Each such report
shall include the following, for the year cov-
ered by the report:
‘‘(A) The total number of aircraft in the in-
ventory.
‘‘(B) The total number of the aircraft in
the inventory that are active, stated in the
following categories (with appropriate sub-
categories for mission aircraft, training air-
craft, dedicated test aircraft, and other air-
craft):
‘‘(i) Primary aircraft.
‘‘(ii) Backup aircraft.
‘‘(iii) Attrition and reconstitution reserve
aircraft.
‘‘(C) The total number of the aircraft in
the inventory that are inactive, stated in the
following categories:
‘‘(i) Bailment aircraft.
‘‘(ii) Drone aircraft.
‘‘(iii) Aircraft for sale or other transfer to
foreign governments.
‘‘(iv) Leased or loaned aircraft.
‘‘(v) Aircraft for maintenance training.
‘‘(vi) Aircraft for reclamation.
‘‘(vii) Aircraft in storage.
‘‘(D) The aircraft inventory requirements
approved by the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
‘‘(2) Each report submitted under this sub-
section shall set forth each item described in
paragraph (1) separately for the regular com-
ponent of each armed force and for each re-
serve component of each armed force and, for
each such component, shall set forth each
type, model, and series of aircraft provided
for in the future-years defense program that
covers the fiscal year for which the budget
accompanying the plan, certification and re-
port is submitted.
‘‘(f) DEFINITION OF BUDGET.—In this sec-
tion, the term ‘budget’, with respect to a fis-
cal year, means the budget for that fiscal
year that is submitted to Congress by the
President under section 1105(a) of title 31.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 9 of such
title is amended by inserting after the item
relating to section 231 the following new
item:
‘‘231a. Budgeting for life-cycle cost of air-
craft for the Navy, Army, and
Air Force: Annual plan and cer-
tification.’’.
SEC. 172. AUTHORITY TO USE F–35 AIRCRAFT
WITHHELD FROM DELIVERY TO GOV-
ERNMENT OF TURKEY.
The Secretary of the Air Force is author-
ized to utilize, modify, and operate the 6 F–
35 aircraft that were accepted by the Govern-
ment of Turkey but never delivered because
Turkey was suspended from the F–35 pro-
gram.
SEC. 173. TRANSFER FROM COMMANDER OF
UNITED STATES STRATEGIC COM-
MAND TO CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT
CHIEFS OF STAFF OF RESPONSIBIL-
ITIES AND FUNCTIONS RELATING TO
ELECTROMAGNETIC SPECTRUM OP-
ERATIONS.
(a) TRANSFER.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act
and subject to subsection (c), the Secretary
of Defense shall transition to the Chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff as a Chairman’s
Controlled Activity all of the responsibilities
and functions of the Commander of United
States Strategic Command that are germane
to electromagnetic spectrum operations, in-
cluding—
(1) advocacy for joint electronic warfare
capabilities,
(2) providing contingency electronic war-
fare support to other combatant commands,
and
(3) supporting combatant command joint
training and planning related to electro-
magnetic spectrum operations.
(b) RESPONSIBILITY OF VICE CHAIRMAN OF
THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF AS THE ELEC-
TRONIC WARFARE SENIOR DESIGNATED OFFI-
CIAL.—The Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, as the Electronic Warfare Senior
Designated Official, shall be responsible for
the following:
(1) Executing the functions transitioned to
the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
under subsection (a).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6739
November 16, 2020
(2) Overseeing, with the Chief Information
Officer of the Department of Defense, the de-
velopment and implementation of the Elec-
tromagnetic Spectrum Superiority Strategy
of the Department of Defense and subsequent
Department-wide electromagnetic spectrum
and electronic warfare strategies.
(3) Managing the Joint Electronic Warfare
Center and the Joint Electromagnetic Pre-
paredness for Advanced Combat organiza-
tions.
(4) Overseeing, through the Joint Require-
ments Oversight Council and the Electro-
magnetic Spectrum Operations cross-func-
tional team, the acquisition activities of the
military services as they relate to electro-
magnetic spectrum operations.
(5) Overseeing and, as appropriate, setting
standards for the individual and unit train-
ing programs of the military services and the
joint training and mission rehearsal pro-
grams of the combatant commands as they
relate to electromagnetic spectrum oper-
ations.
(6) Overseeing the development of tactics,
techniques, and procedures germane to elec-
tromagnetic spectrum operations.
(7) Overseeing the integration of electro-
magnetic spectrum operations into oper-
ation plans and contingency plans.
(8) Developing and integrating into the
joint warfighting concept operational con-
cepts for electromagnetic spectrum oper-
ations, including the following:
(A) The roles and responsibilities of each of
the military services and their primary con-
tributions to the joint force.
(B) The primary targets for offensive elec-
tromagnetic spectrum operations and their
alignment to the military services and rel-
evant capabilities.
(C) The armed forces’ positioning, scheme
of maneuver, kill chains, and tactics, tech-
niques, and procedures, as appropriate, to
conduct offensive electromagnetic spectrum
operations.
(D) The armed forces’ positioning, scheme
of maneuver, kill chains, and tactics, tech-
niques, and procedures, as appropriate, to de-
tect, disrupt, avoid, or render ineffective ad-
versary electromagnetic spectrum oper-
ations.
(c) PERIOD OF EFFECT OF TRANSFER.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The transfer required by
subsection (a) and the responsibilities speci-
fied in subsection (b) shall remain in effect
until such date as the Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff considers appropriate, except
that such date shall not be earlier than the
date that is 180 days after the date on which
the Chairman submits to the congressional
defense committees notice that—
(A) the Chairman has made a determina-
tion that—
(i) the military services’, geographic com-
batant commands’, and functional combat-
ant commands’ electromagnetic spectrum
operations expertise, capabilities, and execu-
tion are sufficiently robust; and
(ii) an alternative arrangement described
in paragraph (2) is justified; and
(B) the Chairman intends to transfer re-
sponsibilities and activities in order to carry
out such alternative arrangement.
(2) ALTERNATIVE ARRANGEMENT DE-
SCRIBED.—An alternative arrangement de-
scribed in this paragraph is an arrangement
in which certain oversight, advocacy, and co-
ordination functions allotted to the Chair-
man or Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff by subsections (a) and (b) are per-
formed either by a single combatant com-
mand or by the individual geographic and
functional combatant commands responsible
for executing electromagnetic spectrum op-
erations with long-term supervision by the
Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff.
(d) EVALUATIONS OF ARMED FORCES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Chief of Staff of the
Army, the Chief of Naval Operations, the
Chief of Staff of the Air Force, the Com-
mandant of the Marine Corps, and the Chief
of Space Operations shall each conduct and
complete an evaluation of the armed forces
for their respective military services and
their ability to perform the electromagnetic
spectrum operations missions required of
them in—
(A) the Electromagnetic Spectrum Superi-
ority Strategy;
(B) the Joint Staff-developed concept of
operations; and
(C) the operation and contingency plans of
the combatant commanders.
(2) ELEMENTS.—Each evaluation under
paragraph (1) shall include assessment of the
following:
(A) Current programs of record, includ-
ing—
(i) the ability of weapon systems to per-
form missions in contested electromagnetic
spectrum environments; and
(ii) the ability of electronic warfare capa-
bilities to disrupt adversary operations.
(B) Future programs of record, including—
(i) the need for distributed or network-cen-
tric electronic warfare and signals intel-
ligence capabilities; and
(ii) the need for automated and machine
learning- or artificial intelligence-assisted
electronic warfare capabilities.
(C) Order of battle.
(D) Individual and unit training.
(E) Tactics, techniques, and procedures, in-
cluding—
(i) maneuver, distribution of assets, and
the use of decoys; and
(ii) integration of nonkinetic and kinetic
fires.
(e) EVALUATION OF COMBATANT COM-
MANDS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commander of the
United States European Command, the Com-
mander of the United States Pacific Com-
mand, and the Commander of the United
States Central Command shall each conduct
and complete an evaluation of the plans and
posture of their respective commands to exe-
cute the electromagnetic spectrum oper-
ations envisioned in—
(A) the Electromagnetic Spectrum Superi-
ority Strategy; and
(B) the Joint Staff-developed concept of
operations.
(2) ELEMENTS.—Each evaluation under
paragraph (1) shall include assessment of the
following:
(A) Operation and contingency plans.
(B) The manning, organizational align-
ment, and capability of joint electro-
magnetic spectrum operations cells.
(C) Mission rehearsal and exercises.
(D) Force positioning, posture, and readi-
ness.
(f) SEMIANNUAL BRIEFING.—Not less fre-
quently than twice each year until January
1, 2026, the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff shall brief the Committee on Armed
Services of the Senate and the Committee on
Armed Services of the House of Representa-
tives on the implementation of this section
by each of the Joint Staff, the military serv-
ices, and the combatant commands.
SEC. 174. CRYPTOGRAPHIC MODERNIZATION
SCHEDULES.
(a) CRYPTOGRAPHIC MODERNIZATION SCHED-
ULES REQUIRED.—Each of the Secretaries of
the military departments and the heads of
relevant defense agencies and field activities
shall establish and maintain a cryptographic
modernization schedule that specifies, for
each pertinent weapon system, command and
control system, or data link, including those
that use commercial encryption tech-
nologies, as relevant, the following:
(1) The expiration date or cease key date
for applicable cryptographic algorithms.
(2) Anticipated key extension requests for
systems where cryptographic modernization
is assessed to be overly burdensome and ex-
pensive or to provide limited operational
utility.
(3) The funding and deployment schedule
for modernized cryptographic algorithms,
keys, and equipment over the Future Years
Defense Program.
(b) REQUIREMENTS FOR CHIEF INFORMATION
OFFICER.—The Chief Information Officer of
the Department of Defense shall—
(1) oversee the construction and implemen-
tation of the cryptographic modernization
schedules required by subsection (a);
(2) establish and maintain an integrated
cryptographic modernization schedule for
the entire Department, collating the cryp-
tographic modernization schedules required
under subsection (a); and
(3) in coordination with the Director of the
National Security Agency and the Joint
Staff Director for Command, Control, Com-
munications, and Computers/Cyber, use the
budget certification, standard-setting, and
policy-making authorities provided in sec-
tion 142 of title 10, United States Code, to
amend military service and defense agency
and field activity plans for key extension re-
quests and cryptographic modernization
funding and deployment that pose unaccept-
able risk to military operations.
(c) ANNUAL NOTICES.—Not later than Janu-
ary 1, 2022, and not less frequently than once
each year thereafter until January 1, 2026,
the Chief Information Officer of the Depart-
ment and the Joint Staff Director for Com-
mand, Control, Communications, and Com-
puters/Cyber shall jointly submit to the con-
gressional defense committees notification
of all—
(1) delays to or planned delays of military
service and defense agency and field activity
funding and deployment of modernized cryp-
tographic algorithms, keys, and equipment
over the previous year; and
(2) changes in plans or schedules sur-
rounding key extension requests and waiv-
ers, including—
(A) unscheduled or unanticipated key ex-
tension requests; and
(B) unscheduled or unanticipated waivers
and nonwaivers of scheduled or anticipated
key extension requests.
SEC. 175. PROHIBITION ON PURCHASE OF ARMED
OVERWATCH AIRCRAFT.
The Secretary of the Air Force may not
purchase any aircraft for the Air Force Spe-
cial Operations Command for the purpose of
‘‘armed overwatch’’ until such time as the
Chief of Staff of the Air Force certifies to
the congressional defense committees that
general purpose forces of the Air Force do
not have the skill or capacity to provide
close air support and armed overwatch to
United States forces deployed operationally.
SEC. 176. SPECIAL OPERATIONS ARMED
OVERWATCH.
(a) PROHIBITION.—None of the funds author-
ized to be appropriated by this Act for the
Department of Defense may be used to ac-
quire armed overwatch aircraft for the
United States Special Operations Command,
and the Department of Defense may not ac-
quire armed overwatch aircraft for the
United States Special Operations Command
in fiscal year 2021.
(b) ANALYSIS REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than July 1,
2021, the Secretary of Defense, in coordina-
tion with the Assistant Secretary of Defense
for Special Operations and Low Intensity
Conflict and the Commander of the United
States Special Operations Command, shall
conduct an analysis to define the special op-
erations-peculiar requirements for armed
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6740 November 16, 2020
overwatch aircraft and to determine whether
acquisition of a new special operations-pecu-
liar platform is the most cost effective
means of fulfilling such requirements.
(2) ELEMENTS.—At a minimum, the anal-
ysis of alternatives required under paragraph
(1) shall include—
(A) a description of the concept of oper-
ations for employing armed overwatch air-
craft in support of ground forces;
(B) an identification of geographic regions
in which armed overwatch aircraft could be
deployed;
(C) an identification of the most likely
antiaircraft threats in geographic areas
where armed overwatch aircraft will be de-
ployed and possible countermeasures to de-
feat such threats;
(D) a defined requirement for special oper-
ations-peculiar armed overwatch aircraft, in-
cluding an identification of threshold and
objective performance parameters for armed
overwatch aircraft;
(E) an analysis of alternatives comparing
various manned and unmanned aircraft in
the current aircraft inventory of the United
States Special Operations Command and a
new platform for meeting requirements for
the armed overwatch mission, including for
each alternative considered;
(F) an identification of any necessary air-
craft modifications and the associated cost;
(G) the annual cost of operating and sus-
taining such aircraft;
(H) an identification of any required mili-
tary construction costs;
(I) an explanation of how the acquisition of
a new armed overwatch aircraft would im-
pact the overall fleet of special operations-
peculiar aircraft and the availability of air-
crews and maintainers;
(J) an explanation of why existing Air
Force and United States Special Operations
Command close air support and airborne in-
telligence capabilities are insufficient for
the armed overwatch mission; and
(K) any other matters determined relevant
by the Secretary of Defense.
SEC. 177. AUTONOMIC LOGISTICS INFORMATION
SYSTEM REDESIGN STRATEGY.
Not later than October 1, 2020, the Under
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and
Sustainment, in consultation with the F–35
Program Executive Officer, shall—
(1) submit to the congressional defense
committees a report describing a program-
wide process for measuring, collecting, and
tracking information on how the Autonomic
Logistics Information System (ALIS) is af-
fecting the performance of the F–35 fleet, in-
cluding its effects on mission capability
rates; and
(2) implement a strategy for the redesign
of ALIS, including the identification and as-
sessment of goals, key risks or uncertainties,
and costs of redesigning the system.
SEC. 178. CONTRACT AVIATION SERVICES IN A
COUNTRY OR IN AIRSPACE IN
WHICH A SPECIAL FEDERAL AVIA-
TION REGULATION APPLIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—When the Department of
Defense contracts for aviation services to be
performed in a foreign country, or in air-
space, in which a Special Federal Aviation
Regulation issued by the Federal Aviation
Administration would preclude operation of
such aviation services by an air carrier or
commercial operator of the United States,
the Secretary of Defense (or a designee of the
Secretary) shall—
(1) obtain approval from the Administrator
of the Federal Aviation Administration (or a
designee of the Administrator) for the air
carrier or commercial operator of the United
States to deviate from the Special Federal
Aviation Regulation to the extent necessary
to perform such aviation services;
(2) designate the aircraft of the air carrier
or commercial operator of the United States
to be State Aircraft of the United States
when performing such aviation services; or
(3) use organic aircraft to perform such
aviation services in lieu of aircraft of an air
carrier or commercial operator of the United
States.
(b) CONSTRUCTION OF DESIGNATION.—The
designation of aircraft of an air carrier or
commercial operator of the United States as
State Aircraft of the United States under
subsection (a)(2) shall have no effect on Fed-
eral Aviation Administration requirements
for—
(1) safety oversight responsibility for the
operation of aircraft so designated, except
for those activities prohibited or restricted
by an applicable Special Federal Aviation
Regulation; and
(2) any previously issued nonpremium avia-
tion insurance or reinsurance policy issued
to the air carrier or commercial operator of
the United States for the duration of avia-
tion services performed as a State Aircraft of
the United States under that subsection.
SEC. 179. F–35 AIRCRAFT MUNITIONS.
The Secretary of the Air Force and the
Secretary of the Navy shall qualify and cer-
tify, for the use of United States forces, addi-
tional munitions on the F–35 aircraft that
are already qualified on NATO member F–35
partner aircraft.
SEC. 180. AIRBORNE INTELLIGENCE, SURVEIL-
LANCE, AND RECONNAISSANCE AC-
QUISITION ROADMAP FOR UNITED
STATES SPECIAL OPERATIONS COM-
MAND.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than December
1, 2021, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for
Special Operations and Low-Intensity Con-
flict and the Commander of the United
States Special Operations Command shall
jointly submit to the congressional defense
committees an acquisition roadmap to meet
the manned and unmanned airborne intel-
ligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance re-
quirements of United States Special Oper-
ations Forces.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The roadmap required
under subsection (a) shall include, at a min-
imum, the following:
(1) A description of the current platform
requirements for manned and unmanned air-
borne intelligence, surveillance, and recon-
naissance capabilities to support United
States Special Operations Forces.
(2) An analysis of the remaining service
life of existing manned and unmanned air-
borne intelligence, surveillance, and recon-
naissance capabilities currently operated by
United States Special Operations Forces.
(3) An identification of any current or an-
ticipated special operations-peculiar capa-
bility gaps.
(4) A description of the future manned and
unmanned intelligence, surveillance, and re-
connaissance platform requirements of the
United States Special Operations Forces, in-
cluding range, payload, endurance, ability to
operate in contested environments, and
other requirements as appropriate.
(5) An explanation of the anticipated mix
of manned and unmanned aircraft, number of
platforms, and associated aircrew and main-
tainers.
(6) An explanation of the extent to which
service-provided manned and unmanned air-
borne intelligence, surveillance, and recon-
naissance capabilities will be required in
support of United States Special Operations
Forces and how such capabilities will supple-
ment and integrate with the organic capa-
bilities possessed by United States Special
Operations Forces.
(7) Any other matters deemed relevant by
the Assistant Secretary and Commander.
SEC. 181. REQUIREMENT TO ACCELERATE THE
FIELDING AND DEVELOPMENT OF
COUNTER UNMANNED AERIAL SYS-
TEMS ACROSS THE JOINT FORCE.
(a) PRIORITY OBJECTIVES FOR EXECUTIVE
AGENT FOR C–UAS.—The Executive Agent of
the Joint Counter Small Unmanned Aerial
Systems (C-sUAS) Office, as designated by
the Under Secretary of Defense, Acquisition
and Sustainment, shall prioritize the fol-
lowing objectives:
(1) Select counter unmanned aerial sys-
tems that can be fielded as early as fiscal
year 2021 to meet immediate operational
needs in countering Group 1, 2, and 3 un-
manned aerial systems with the potential to
expand to other larger systems.
(2) Devise and execute a near-term plan to
develop and field a select set of counter un-
manned aerial systems to meet joint force
requirements, beginning in fiscal year 2021.
(b) FIELDING C–UAS SYSTEMS IN FISCAL
YEAR 2021.—Pursuant to subsection (a)(1),
the Executive Agent shall prioritize the se-
lection of counter unmanned aerial systems
that can be fielded in fiscal year 2021 with
specific emphasis on systems that—
(1) have undergone effective combat valida-
tions;
(2) meet the operational demands of de-
ployed forces facing the most significant
threats, especially unmanned aerial systems
that are not remotely piloted or are not reli-
ant on a command link; and
(3) utilize autonomous systems and proc-
esses that increase operational effectiveness,
reduce the manning demands on operational
forces, and limit the need for government-
funded contractor logistics support.
(c) NEAR-TERM DEVELOPMENT PLAN.—The
plan for the near-term development of
counter unmanned aerial systems prioritized
under subsection (a)(2) shall ensure, at a
minimum, that the development of such sys-
tems—
(1) builds, as much as practicable, upon
systems that were selected for fielding in fis-
cal year 2021 and the criteria prioritized for
their selection, as specified in subsection (b);
(2) reduces or accelerates the timeline for
initial operational capability and full oper-
ational capability;
(3) utilizes a software-defined, family-of-
systems approach that enables the flexible
and continuous integration of different types
of sensors and mitigation solutions based on
the different demands of particular military
installations and deployed forces, physical
geographies, and threat profiles; and
(4) gives preference to commercial items,
as required in section 3307 of title 41, United
States Code, when making selections of
counter unmanned aerial systems or compo-
nent parts, including a common command
and control system.
(d) BRIEFING.—Not later than 60 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Executive Agent shall brief the congres-
sional defense committees on the selection
process for counter unmanned aerial systems
capabilities prioritized under paragraph (1)
of subsection (a) and the plan prioritized
under paragraph (2) of such subsection.
(e) OVERSIGHT.—The Executive Agent
shall—
(1) oversee the program management and
execution of all counter unmanned aerial
systems being developed within the military
departments on the day before the date of
the enactment of this Act; and
(2) ensure that the plan prioritized under
subsection (a)(2) guides future programmatic
and funding decisions for activities relating
to counter unmanned aerial systems, includ-
ing cancellation of such activities.
SEC. 182. JOINT ALL DOMAIN COMMAND AND
CONTROL REQUIREMENTS.
(a) PRODUCTION OF REQUIREMENTS BY JOINT
REQUIREMENTS OVERSIGHT COUNCIL.—Not
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6741
November 16, 2020
later than October 1, 2020, the Joint Require-
ments and Oversight Council (JROC) shall
produce requirements for the Joint All Do-
main Command and Control (JADC2) pro-
gram.
(b) AIR FORCE CERTIFICATION.—Imme-
diately after the certification of require-
ments produced under subsection (a), the
Chief of Staff of the Air Force shall submit
to the congressional defense committees a
certification that the current JADC2 effort,
including programmatic and architecture ef-
forts, being led by the Air Force will meet
the requirements laid out by the JROC.
(c) CERTIFICATION BY OTHER SERVICES.—
Not later than January 1, 2021, the chief of
each other military service shall submit to
the congressional defense committees a cer-
tification whether that service’s efforts on
multi-domain command and control are
compatible with the Air Force-led JADC2 ar-
chitecture.
(d) BUDGETING.—The Secretary of Defense
shall incorporate the expected costs for full
development and implementation of the
JADC2 program across the Department in
the President’s budget submission to Con-
gress for fiscal year 2022 under section 1105 of
title 31, United States Code.
TITLE II—RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT,
TEST, AND EVALUATION
Subtitle A—Authorization of Appropriations
SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
Funds are hereby authorized to be appro-
priated for fiscal year 2021 for the use of the
Department of Defense for research, develop-
ment, test, and evaluation, as specified in
the funding table in section 4201.
Subtitle B—Program Requirements,
Restrictions, and Limitations
SEC. 211. DESIGNATION AND ACTIVITIES OF SEN-
IOR OFFICIALS FOR CRITICAL TECH-
NOLOGY AREAS SUPPORTIVE OF
THE NATIONAL DEFENSE STRATEGY.
(a) DESIGNATION OF SENIOR OFFICIALS.—The
Under Secretary for Research and Engineer-
ing shall designate a set of senior officials to
coordinate research and engineering in such
technology areas as the Under Secretary
considers critical for the support of the Na-
tional Defense Strategy.
(b) DUTIES.—The duties of the senior offi-
cials designated under subsection (a) shall
include, within their respective technology
areas—
(1) developing and continuously updating
research and technology development road-
maps, associated funding strategies, and as-
sociated technology transition strategies to
ensure effective and efficient development of
new capabilities and operational use of ap-
propriate technologies;
(2) annual assessments of workforce, infra-
structure, and industrial base capabilities
and capacity to support the roadmaps devel-
oped under paragraph (1) and the goals of the
National Defense Strategy;
(3) reviewing the relevant research and en-
gineering budgets of appropriate organiza-
tions within the Department of Defense, in-
cluding the military services, and advising
the Under Secretary on—
(A) the consistency of the budgets with the
roadmaps developed under paragraph (1);
(B) any technical and programmatic risks
to achieving the research and technology de-
velopment goals of the National Defense
Strategy; and
(C) projects and activities with unwanted
or inefficient duplication, including with
other government agencies and the commer-
cial sector, lack of appropriate coordination
with relevant organizations, or inappropriate
alignment with organizational missions and
capabilities;
(4) coordinating research and engineering
activities of the Department with appro-
priate international, interagency, and pri-
vate sector organizations; and
(5) tasking the appropriate intelligence
agencies to develop a direct comparison be-
tween the capabilities of the United States
and the capabilities of adversaries of the
United States.
(c) ANNUAL REPORTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than December
1, 2021, and not later than December 1 of each
year thereafter until December 1, 2025, the
Under Secretary shall submit to the congres-
sional defense committees a report of suc-
cessful examples of research and engineering
activities that have—
(A) achieved significant technical progress;
(B) transitioned to formal acquisition pro-
grams;
(C) transitioned into operational use; or
(D) transferred for further commercial de-
velopment or commercial sales.
(2) FORM.—Each report submitted under
paragraph (1) shall be submitted in a pub-
licly releasable format, but may include a
classified annex.
(d) COORDINATION OF RESEARCH AND ENGI-
NEERING ACTIVITIES.—The Service Acquisi-
tion Executive for each military services and
the Director of the Defense Advanced Re-
search Projects Agency shall each identify
senior officials to ensure coordination of ap-
propriate research and engineering activities
with each of the senior officials designated
under subsection (a).
SEC. 212. GOVERNANCE OF FIFTH-GENERATION
WIRELESS NETWORKING IN THE DE-
PARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—In carrying out the re-
sponsibilities established in section 142 of
title 10, United States Code, the Chief Infor-
mation Officer (CIO) of the Department of
Defense shall—
(1) lead the cross-functional team estab-
lished pursuant to subsection (c); and
(2) serve as the senior designated official
for fifth-generation wireless networking
(commonly known as ‘‘5G’’) policy, over-
sight, guidance, research, and coordination
in the Department.
(b) RESPONSIBILITIES.—The Chief Informa-
tion Officer shall have, with respect to au-
thorities referenced in subsection (a), the
following responsibilities:
(1) Proposing governance, management,
and organizational policy for fifth-genera-
tion wireless networking to the Secretary of
Defense, in consultation with the heads of
the constituent organizations of the cross-
functional team established pursuant to sub-
section (c).
(2) Leading the cross-functional team es-
tablished pursuant to subsection (c).
(c) CROSS-FUNCTIONAL TEAM FOR FIFTH-GEN-
ERATION WIRELESS NETWORKING.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT REQUIRED.—The Sec-
retary of Defense shall, in accordance with
section 911(c) of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public
Law 114–328; 10 U.S.C. 111 note), establish a
cross-functional team for fifth-generation
wireless networking in order—
(A) to advance the adoption of commer-
cially available next generation wireless
communication technologies, capabilities,
security, and applications by the Depart-
ment of Defense and the defense industrial
base; and
(B) to support public-private partnership
between the Department and industry re-
garding fifth-generation wireless net-
working.
(2) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the cross-
functional team established pursuant to
paragraph (1) shall be the—
(A) oversight of the implementation of the
strategy developed as required by section 254
of the National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92) for
harnessing fifth-generation wireless net-
working technologies, coordinated across all
relevant elements of the Department;
(B) coordination of research and develop-
ment, implementation and acquisition ac-
tivities, warfighting concept development,
spectrum policy, industrial policy and com-
mercial outreach and partnership relating to
fifth-generation wireless networking in the
Department, and interagency and inter-
national engagement;
(C) integration of the Department’s fifth-
generation wireless networking programs
and policies with major Department initia-
tives, programs, and policies surrounding se-
cure microelectronics and command and con-
trol; and
(D) oversight, coordination, execution, and
leadership of initiatives to advance fifth-gen-
eration wireless network technologies and
associated applications developed for the De-
partment.
(d) ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.—The Sec-
retary of Defense, through the cross-func-
tional team established under subsection (c),
shall define the roles of the organizations
within the Office of the Secretary of Defense,
Department of Defense intelligence compo-
nents, military services, defense agencies
and field activities, combatant commands,
and the Joint Staff, for fifth-generation
wireless networking policy and programs
within the Department.
(e) BRIEFING.—Not later than March 15,
2021, the Secretary shall submit to the con-
gressional defense committees a briefing on
the establishment of the cross-functional
team pursuant to subsection (c) and the roles
and responsibilities defined pursuant to sub-
section (d).
(f) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section
shall be construed as providing the Chief In-
formation Officer immediate responsibility
for the Department’s activities in fifth-gen-
eration wireless networking experimentation
and science and technology development.
(2) PURVIEW OF EXPERIMENTATION AND
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT.—The
activities described in paragraph (1) shall re-
main within the purview of the Under Sec-
retary of Defense for Research and Engineer-
ing, but shall inform and be informed by the
activities of the cross-functional team estab-
lished pursuant to subsection (c).
SEC. 213. APPLICATION OF ARTIFICIAL INTEL-
LIGENCE TO THE DEFENSE REFORM
PILLAR OF THE NATIONAL DEFENSE
STRATEGY.
(a) IDENTIFICATION OF USE CASES.—The
Secretary of Defense, acting through such of-
ficers and employees of the Department of
Defense as the Secretary considers appro-
priate, including the chief data officers and
chief management officers of the military
departments, shall identify a set of no fewer
than five use cases of the application of ex-
isting artificial intelligence enabled systems
to support improved management of enter-
prise acquisition, personnel, audit, or finan-
cial management functions, or other appro-
priate management functions, that are con-
sistent with reform efforts that support the
National Defense Strategy.
(b) PROTOTYPING ACTIVITIES ALIGNED TO
USE CASES.—The Secretary, acting through
the Under Secretary of Defense for Research
and Engineering and in coordination with
the Director of the Joint Artificial Intel-
ligence Center and such other officers and
employees as the Secretary considers appro-
priate, shall pilot technology development
and prototyping activities that leverage
commercially available technologies and
systems to demonstrate new artificial intel-
ligence enabled capabilities to support the
use cases identified under subsection (a).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6742 November 16, 2020
(c) BRIEFING.—Not later than October 1,
2021, the Secretary shall provide to the con-
gressional defense committees a briefing
summarizing the activities carried out under
this section.
SEC. 214. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITIES TO EN-
HANCE INNOVATION AT DEPART-
MENT OF DEFENSE LABORATORIES.
(a) EXTENSION OF PILOT PROGRAM FOR THE
ENHANCEMENT OF THE RESEARCH, DEVELOP-
MENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION CENTERS OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.—Section 233(e) of
the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114–328; 10
U.S.C. 2358 note) is amended by striking
‘‘September 30, 2022’’ and inserting ‘‘Sep-
tember 30, 2025’’.
(b) EXTENSION OF PILOT PROGRAM TO IM-
PROVE INCENTIVES FOR TECHNOLOGY TRANS-
FER FROM DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE LABORA-
TORIES.—Subsection (e) of section 233 of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2018 (Public Law 115–91; 10 U.S.C.
2514 note) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘(e) SUNSET.—The pilot program under this
section shall terminate on September 30,
2025.’’.
SEC. 215. UPDATES TO DEFENSE QUANTUM IN-
FORMATION SCIENCE AND TECH-
NOLOGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOP-
MENT PROGRAM.
Section 234 of the John S. McCain National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal year
2019 (Public Law 115–232; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note),
as amended by section 220 of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2020 (Public Law 116–92), is further amend-
ed—
(1) by redesignating subsection (e) as sub-
section (f); and
(2) by inserting after subsection (d) the fol-
lowing new subsection (e):
‘‘(e) USE OF QUANTUM COMPUTING CAPABILI-
TIES.—The Secretary of each military de-
partment shall—
‘‘(1) develop and annually update a list of
technical problems and research challenges
which are likely to be addressable by quan-
tum computers available for use within in
the next one to three years, with a priority
for technical problems and challenges where
quantum computing systems have perform-
ance advantages over traditional computing
systems, in order to enhance the capabilities
of such quantum computers and support the
addressing of relevant technical problems
and research challenges; and
‘‘(2) establish programs and enter into
agreements with appropriate medium and
small businesses with functional quantum
computing capabilities to provide such pri-
vate sector capabilities to government, in-
dustry, and academic researchers working on
relevant technical problems and research ac-
tivities.’’.
SEC. 216. PROGRAM OF PART-TIME AND TERM
EMPLOYMENT AT DEPARTMENT OF
DEFENSE SCIENCE AND TECH-
NOLOGY REINVENTION LABORA-
TORIES OF FACULTY AND STUDENTS
FROM INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER
EDUCATION.
(a) PROGRAM REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish
a program to provide part-time or term em-
ployment in Department of Defense science
and technology reinvention laboratories
for—
(1) faculty of institutions of higher edu-
cation who have expertise in science, tech-
nology, engineering, or mathematics to con-
duct research projects in such laboratories;
and
(2) students at such institutions to assist
such faculty in conducting such research
projects.
(b) NUMBER OF POSITIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of the commencement of the
program established under subsection (a),
the Secretary shall, under such program, es-
tablish at least 10 positions of employment
described in such subsection for faculty de-
scribed in paragraph (1) of such subsection.
(2) ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND MACHINE
LEARNING.—Of the positions established
under paragraph (1), at least five of such po-
sitions shall be for faculty conducting re-
search in the area of artificial intelligence
and machine learning.
(c) SELECTION.—The Secretary, acting
through the directors of the laboratories de-
scribed in subsection (a), shall select faculty
described in paragraph (1) of such subsection
for participation in the program established
under such subsection on the basis of—
(1) the academic credentials and research
experience of the faculty;
(2) the potential contribution to Depart-
ment objectives by the research that will be
conducted by the faculty under the program;
and
(3) the qualifications of any students who
will be assisting the faculty in such research
and the role and credentials of such stu-
dents.
(d) AUTHORITIES.—In carrying out the pro-
gram established under subsection (a), the
Secretary and the directors of the labora-
tories described in such subsection may—
(1) use any hiring authority available to
the Secretary or the directors, including any
authority available under a laboratory dem-
onstration program, direct hiring authority
under section 1599h of title 10, United States
Code, and expert hiring authority under sec-
tion 3109 of title 5, United States Code;
(2) utilize cooperative research and devel-
opment agreements under section 12 of the
Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation
Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3710a) to enable sharing
of research and expertise with institutions of
higher education and the private sector; and
(3) provide referral bonuses to program
participants who identify students to assist
in a research project under the program or to
participate in laboratory internship pro-
grams and the Pathways Internship Pro-
gram.
(e) ANNUAL REPORTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act
and not less frequently than once each year
thereafter until the date that is three years
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary shall submit to Congress a re-
port on the program established under sub-
section (a).
(2) CONTENTS OF FIRST REPORT.—The first
report submitted under paragraph (1) shall
address, at a minimum, the following:
(A) The number of faculty and students
employed under the program.
(B) The laboratories employing such fac-
ulty and students.
(C) The types of research conducted or to
be conducted by such faculty or students.
(3) CONTENTS OF SUBSEQUENT REPORTS.—
Each report submitted under paragraph (1)
after the first report shall address, at a min-
imum, the following:
(A) The matters set forth in subparagraphs
(A) through (C) of paragraph (2).
(B) The number of interns and recent col-
lege graduates hired pursuant to referrals
under subsection (d)(3).
(C) The results of research conducted under
the program.
(f) DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SCIENCE AND
TECHNOLOGY REINVENTION LABORATORY DE-
FINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘Depart-
ment of Defense science and technology re-
invention laboratory’’ means the entities
designated by section 1105(a) of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2010 (Public Law 111–84; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note).
SEC. 217. IMPROVEMENTS TO TECHNOLOGY AND
NATIONAL SECURITY FELLOWSHIP
OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
(a) MODIFICATION REGARDING BASIC PAY.—
Subsection (a)(4)(A) of section 235 of the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘equivalent to’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘not less than’’; and
(2) by inserting ‘‘and not more than the
rate of basic pay payable for a position at
level 15 of such schedule’’ before the semi-
colon.
(b) BACKGROUND CHECKS.—Subsection (b) of
such section is amended by adding at the end
the following new paragraph:
‘‘(3) BACKGROUND CHECK REQUIREMENT.—No
individual may participate in the fellows
program without first undergoing a back-
ground check that the Secretary considers
appropriate for participation in the fellows
program.’’.
SEC. 218. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE RESEARCH,
DEVELOPMENT, AND DEPLOYMENT
OF TECHNOLOGY TO SUPPORT
WATER SUSTAINMENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense
shall research, develop, and deploy advanced
technologies that support water sustainment
with technologies that capture ambient hu-
midity and harvest, recycle, and reuse water.
(b) GOAL.—Under subsection (a), the Sec-
retary shall seek to develop water systems
that reduce weight and logistics support and
transition such advanced technologies for
use by expeditionary forces by January 1,
2025.
(c) MODULAR PLATFORMS.—In carrying out
subsection (a), the Secretary shall develop
the following:
(1) Modular platforms that are easily
transportable.
(2) Trailer mounted systems that will re-
duce resupply.
(3) Storage requirements at forward oper-
ating bases.
(d) PARTNERSHIPS AND EXISTING TECH-
NIQUES AND TECHNOLOGIES.—In carrying out
subsection (a), the Secretary shall seek—
(1) to enter into partnerships with foreign
militaries and organizations that have prov-
en they have the ability to operate in water
constrained areas;
(2) to leverage existing techniques and
technologies; and
(3) to apply such techniques and tech-
nologies to military operations carried out
by the United States.
(e) COMMERCIAL OFF-THE-SHELF TECH-
NOLOGIES.—In carrying out subsection (a), in
addition to technology described in such sub-
section, the Secretary shall consider using
commercial off-the-shelf technologies for
cost savings and near ready deployment
technologies to enable warfighters to be
more self-sufficient.
(f) CROSS FUNCTIONAL TEAMS.—In carrying
out subsection (a), the Secretary shall estab-
lish cross functional teams to determine re-
gions where deployment of water harvesting
technologies could reduce conflict and poten-
tially eliminate the need for the presence of
the Armed Forces.
SEC. 219. DEVELOPMENT AND TESTING OF
HYPERSONIC CAPABILITIES.
(a) SENSE OF CONGRESS ON HYPERSONIC CA-
PABILITIES.—It is the sense of Congress that
development of hypersonic capabilities is a
key element of the National Defense Strat-
egy.
(b) IMPROVING GROUND-BASED TEST FACILI-
TIES.—The Secretary of Defense shall take
such actions as may be necessary to improve
ground-based test facilities for the develop-
ment of hypersonic capabilities, such as im-
proving wind tunnels.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6743
November 16, 2020
(c) INCREASING FLIGHT TEST RATE.—The
Secretary shall increase the flight test rate
to expedite the maturation and fielding of
hypersonic technologies.
(d) STRATEGY AND PLAN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than December
30, 2020, the Under Secretary of Defense for
Research and Engineering, in consultation
with the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, shall
submit to the congressional defense commit-
tees an executable strategy and plan to field
air-launched and air-breathing hypersonic
weapons capability before the date that is
three years after the date of the enactment
of this Act.
(2) TESTING AND INFRASTRUCTURE.—The
strategy and plan submitted under para-
graph (1) shall cover required investments in
testing and infrastructure to address the
need for both flight and ground testing.
SEC. 220. DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS FOR RE-
CIPIENTS OF DEPARTMENT OF DE-
FENSE RESEARCH AND DEVELOP-
MENT GRANTS.
(a) DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 139 of title 10,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following new section:
‘‘§ 2374b. Disclosure requirements for recipi-
ents of research and development grants
‘‘An individual or entity (including a State
or local government) that receives Depart-
ment of Defense grant funds for research and
development shall clearly state in any state-
ment, press release, or other document de-
scribing the program, project, or activity
funded through such grant funds, other than
a communication containing not more than
280 characters, the dollar amount of Depart-
ment grant funds made available for the pro-
gram, project, or activity.’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 139 of
such title is amended by adding at the end
the following new item:
‘‘2374b. Disclosure requirements for recipi-
ents of research and develop-
ment grants.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by subsection (a) shall take effect on
October 1, 2021, and shall apply with respect
to grants for research and development that
are awarded by the Department of Defense
on or after that date.
Subtitle C—Plans, Reports, and Other
Matters
SEC. 231. ASSESSMENT ON UNITED STATES NA-
TIONAL SECURITY EMERGING BIO-
TECHNOLOGY EFFORTS AND CAPA-
BILITIES AND COMPARISON WITH
ADVERSARIES.
(a) ASSESSMENT AND COMPARISON RE-
QUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense,
acting through the Under Secretary of De-
fense for Research and Engineering and the
Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence,
shall conduct an assessment and direct com-
parison of capabilities in emerging biotech-
nologies for national security purposes, in-
cluding applications in material, manufac-
turing, and health, between the capabilities
of the United States and the capabilities of
adversaries of the United States.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The assessment and com-
parison carried out under paragraph (1) shall
include the following:
(A) An evaluation of the quantity, quality,
and progress of United States fundamental
and applied research for emerging bio-
technology initiatives for national security
purposes.
(B) An assessment of the resourcing of
United States efforts to harness emerging
biotechnology capabilities for national secu-
rity purposes, including the supporting fa-
cilities, test infrastructure, and workforce.
(C) An intelligence assessment of adver-
sary emerging biotechnology capabilities
and research as well as an assessment of ad-
versary intent and willingness to use emerg-
ing biotechnologies for national security
purposes.
(D) An assessment of the analytic and
operational subject matter expertise nec-
essary to assess rapidly-evolving foreign
military developments in biotechnology, and
the current state of the workforce in the in-
telligence community
(E) Recommendations to improve and ac-
celerate United States capabilities in emerg-
ing biotechnologies and the associated intel-
ligence community expertise.
(F) Such other matters as the Secretary
considers appropriate.
(b) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than February 1,
2021, the Secretary shall submit to the con-
gressional defense committees a report on
the assessment carried out under subsection
(a).
(2) FORM.—The report submitted under
paragraph (1) shall be submitted in the fol-
lowing formats—
(A) unclassified form, which may include a
classified annex; and
(B) publically releasable form, rep-
resenting appropriate information from the
report under subparagraph (A).
(c) DEFINITION OF INTELLIGENCE COMMU-
NITY.—In this subsection, the term ‘‘intel-
ligence community’’ has the meaning given
such term in section 3 of the National Secu-
rity Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).
SEC. 232. INDEPENDENT COMPARATIVE ANAL-
YSIS OF EFFORTS BY CHINA AND
THE UNITED STATES TO RECRUIT
AND RETAIN RESEARCHERS IN NA-
TIONAL SECURITY-RELATED FIELDS.
(a) AGREEMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense
shall seek to enter into an agreement with
the National Academies of Sciences, Engi-
neering, and Medicine for the National Acad-
emies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine
to perform the services covered by this sec-
tion.
(2) TIMING.—The Secretary shall seek to
enter into the agreement described in para-
graph (1) not later than 60 days after the
date of the enactment of this Act.
(b) REVIEW.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Under an agreement be-
tween the Secretary and the National Acad-
emies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine
under this section, the National Academies
of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine shall
carry out a comparative analysis of efforts
by China and the United States Government
to recruit and retain domestic and foreign
researchers and develop recommendations
for the Department of Defense.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The comparative analysis
carried out under paragraph (1) and the rec-
ommendations developed under such para-
graph shall include the following:
(A) A list of the ‘‘talent programs’’ used by
China and a list of the incentive programs
used by the United States to recruit and re-
tain relevant researchers.
(B) The types of researchers, scientists,
other technical experts, and fields targeted
by each talent program listed under subpara-
graph (A).
(C) The number of researchers in academia,
the Department of Defense Science and
Technology Reinvention Laboratories, and
national security science and engineering
programs of the National Nuclear Security
Administration targeted by the talent pro-
grams listed under subparagraph (A).
(D) The number of personnel currently par-
ticipating in the talent programs listed
under subparagraph (A) and the number of
researchers currently participating in the in-
centive programs listed under such subpara-
graph.
(E) The incentives offered by each of the
talent programs listed under subparagraph
(A) and a description of the incentives of-
fered through incentive programs under such
subparagraph to recruit and retain research-
ers, scientists, and other technical experts.
(F) A characterization of the national se-
curity, economic, and scientific benefits
China gains through the talent programs
listed under subparagraph (A) and a descrip-
tion of similar gains accrued to the United
States through incentive programs listed
under such subparagraph.
(G) A list of findings and recommendations
relating to policies that can be implemented
by the United States, especially the Depart-
ment of Defense, to improve the relative ef-
fectiveness of United States activities to re-
cruit and retain researchers, scientists, and
other technical experts relative to China.
(c) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of the execution of an agree-
ment under subsection (a), the National
Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and
Medicine shall submit to the congressional
defense committees a report on the findings
National Academies of Sciences, Engineer-
ing, and Medicine with respect to the review
carried out under this section and the rec-
ommendations developed under this section.
(2) FORM.—The report submitted under
paragraph (1) shall be submitted in a pub-
licly releasable and unclassified formats, but
may include a classified annex.
SEC. 233. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE DEM-
ONSTRATION OF VIRTUALIZED
RADIO ACCESS NETWORK AND MAS-
SIVE MULTIPLE INPUT MULTIPLE
OUTPUT RADIO ARRAYS FOR FIFTH
GENERATION WIRELESS NET-
WORKING.
(a) DEMONSTRATION REQUIRED.—The Sec-
retary of Defense shall carry out a dem-
onstration to demonstrate the maturity, per-
formance, and cost of covered technologies
in order to provide additional options for
providers of fifth-generation (5G) wireless
networking services.
(b) COVERED TECHNOLOGIES.—For purposes
of this section, a covered technology is—
(1) a disaggregated or virtualized radio ac-
cess network and core where components can
be provided by different vendors and inter-
operate through open protocols and inter-
faces; and
(2) one or more massive multiple input and
multiple output radio arrays provided by
United States companies that have the po-
tential to compete favorably with radios pro-
duced by foreign companies in terms of cost,
performance, and efficiency.
(c) LOCATION.—The Secretary shall carry
out the demonstration under subsection (a)
at at least one site where the Secretary of
Defense plans to deploy a fifth-generation
wireless network.
(d) COORDINATION.—The Secretary shall
carry out the demonstration under sub-
section (a) in coordination with at least one
major United States wireless network serv-
ice provider.
SEC. 234. INDEPENDENT TECHNICAL REVIEW OF
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COM-
MISSION ORDER 20–48.
(a) AGREEMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense
shall seek to enter into an agreement with
the National Academies of Sciences, Engi-
neering, and Medicine for the National Acad-
emies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine
to perform the services covered by this sec-
tion.
(2) TIMING.—The Secretary shall seek to
enter into the agreement described in para-
graph (1) not later than 30 days after the
date of the enactment of this Act.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6744 November 16, 2020
(b) INDEPENDENT TECHNICAL REVIEW.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Under an agreement be-
tween the Secretary and the National Acad-
emies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine
under subsection (a), the National Academies
of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine shall
carry out an independent technical review of
the Order and Authorization adopted by the
Federal Communications Commission on
April 19, 2020 (FCC 20–48), to the extent that
such order and authorization affects the de-
vices, operations, or activities of the Depart-
ment of Defense.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The independent technical
review carried out under paragraph (1) shall
include the following:
(A) Comparison of the two different ap-
proaches on which the Commission relied for
the order and authorized described in para-
graph (1) to evaluate the potential harmful
interference concerns relating to Global Po-
sitioning System devices, with a rec-
ommendation on which method most effec-
tively mitigates risks of harmful inter-
ference with Global Positioning System de-
vices of the Department, or relating to or
with the potential to affect the operations
and activities of the Department.
(B) Assessment of the potential for harm-
ful interference to mobile satellite services,
including commercial services and Global
Positioning System services of the Depart-
ment, or relating to or with the potential to
affect the operations and activities of the
Department.
(C) Review of the feasibility, practicality,
and effectiveness of the proposed mitigation
measures relating to, or with the potential
to affect, the devices, operations, or activi-
ties of the Department.
(D) Development of recommendations asso-
ciated with the findings of the National
Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and
Medicine in carrying out the independent
technical review.
(E) Such other matters as the National
Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and
Medicine determines relevant.
(c) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Under an agreement be-
tween the Secretary and the National Acad-
emies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine
under subsection (a), the National Academies
of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine shall,
not later than nine months after the date of
the execution of such agreement, the Na-
tional Academies of Sciences, Engineering,
and Medicine shall submit to the Committee
on Armed Services of the Senate and the
Committee on Armed Services of the House
of Representatives a report on the findings of
the National Academies of Sciences, Engi-
neering, and Medicine with respect to the
independent technical review carried out
under subsection (b) and the recommenda-
tions developed pursuant to such review.
(2) FORM.—The report submitted under
paragraph (1) shall be submitted in a pub-
licly releasable and unclassified formats, but
may include a classified annex.
SEC. 235. REPORT ON MICRO NUCLEAR REACTOR
PROGRAMS.
(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—The Secretary of
Defense shall submit to the appropriate con-
gressional committees a report on the micro
nuclear reactor programs of the Department
of Defense.
(b) CONTENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall include the following:
(1) Potential operational uses on United
States and non-United States territory, in-
cluding both mobile and fixed systems.
(2) Cost and schedule estimates for each
new or ongoing program to reach initial
operational capability, including the
timeline for transition of any program cur-
rently funded using defense-wide funds to
one or more military services and the identi-
fied transition partner in such military serv-
ices.
(3) In consultation with the Assistant Sec-
retary of Defense for Nuclear, Chemical, and
Biological Defense programs, an assessment
of physical security requirements for use of
such reactors on domestic military installa-
tions and non-United States nondomestic in-
stallations or locations, including fully per-
missive, semi-permissive, and remote envi-
ronments, including a preliminary design
basis threat analysis.
(4) In coordination with the Secretary of
State—
(A) an assessment of any agreements or
changes to agreements that would be re-
quired for use of such reactors on non-United
States territory;
(B) an assessment of applicability of for-
eign regulations or International Atomic En-
ergy Agency safeguards for use on non-
United States territory; and
(C) other policy implications of deploy-
ment of such systems on non-United States
territory.
(5) In coordination with the Chairman of
the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, a sum-
mary of licensing requirements for operation
of such systems on United States territory.
(6) A summary of requirements pursuant to
the National Environmental Policy Act of
1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) for development
and operation on United States territory.
(7) In consultation with the General Coun-
sel of the Department of Defense, an assess-
ment of any issues relating to indemnifica-
tion for operation on United States or non-
United States territory and any other rel-
evant legal matters.
(8) In coordination with the Secretary of
State and the Secretary of Energy, a deter-
mination of whether development, produc-
tion, and deployment of such systems would
require unobligated enriched uranium fuel.
(9) If the determination in paragraph (8) is
that unobligated fuel would be required, in
coordination with the Administrator for Nu-
clear Security, an assessment of the avail-
ability of such unobligated enriched uranium
fuel, by year, for the estimated life of the
program, considered with other United
States Government demands for such fuel,
including tritium production, naval nuclear
propulsion, and medical isotope production.
(10) Any other considerations the Sec-
retary determines relevant.
(c) CONSULTATION.—In addition to con-
sultation and coordination required under
subsection (b), the Secretary shall, in pro-
ducing the report required by subsection (a),
consult with the Secretary of the Army, the
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the
Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, the
Director of Naval Nuclear Propulsion, and
such other officials as the Secretary con-
siders necessary.
(d) FORM.—The report submitted under
subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassi-
fied form, but may include a classified
annex.
(e) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Appropriations, the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources, the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works, and the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions of the Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Appropriations, the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources, and the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs of the House of
Representatives.
(2) The term ‘‘micro nuclear
reactor’’means a nuclear reactor with a pro-
duction capacity of less than 20 megawatts.
SEC. 236. MODIFICATION TO TEST RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT CENTER STRATEGIC
PLAN REPORTING CYCLE AND CON-
TENTS.
(a) QUADRENNIAL STRATEGIC PLAN.—Sec-
tion 196 of title 10, United States Code, is
amended—
(1) in subsections (c)(1)(C) and (e)(2)(B), by
inserting ‘‘quadrennial’’ before ‘‘strategic
plan’’; and
(2) in subsection (d)—
(A) in the heading, by inserting ‘‘QUADREN-
NIAL’’ before ‘‘STRATEGIC PLAN’’; and
(B) by inserting ‘‘quadrennial’’ before
‘‘strategic plan’’ each place it occurs.
(b) TIMING AND COVERAGE OF PLAN.—Sub-
section (d)(1) of such section, as amended by
subsection (a)(2), is further amended—
(1) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘two
fiscal years’’ and inserting ‘‘four fiscal years,
and within one year after release of the Na-
tional Defense Strategy,’’ ; and
(2) in the second sentence, by striking
‘‘thirty fiscal years’’ and inserting ‘‘15 fiscal
years’’.
(c) AMENDMENT TO CONTENTS OF PLAN.—
Subsection (d)(2) of such section, as amended
by subsection (a)(2), is further amended—
(1) by striking subparagraph (B);
(2) by redesignating subparagraphs (C)
through (G) as subparagraphs (B) through
(F), respectively; and
(3) in subparagraph (B), as redesignated by
paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘based on cur-
rent’’ and all that follows through the end
and inserting ‘‘for test and evaluation of the
Department of Defense major weapon sys-
tems based on current and emerging
threats.’’.
(d) ANNUAL UPDATE TO PLAN.—Subsection
(d) of such section is amended by adding at
the end the following new paragraph:
‘‘(5)(A) In addition to the quadrennial stra-
tegic plan completed under paragraph (1),
the Director of the Department of Defense
Test Resource Management Center shall also
complete an annual update to the quadren-
nial strategic plan.
‘‘(B) Each annual update completed under
subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
‘‘(i) A summary of changes to the assess-
ment provided in the most recent quadren-
nial strategic plan.
‘‘(ii) Comments and recommendations the
Director considers appropriate.
‘‘(iii) Test and evaluation challenges raised
since the completion of the most recent
quadrennial strategic plan.
‘‘(iv) Actions taken or planned to address
such challenges.’’.
(e) TECHNICAL CORRECTION.—Subsection
(d)(1) of such, as amended by subsections
(a)(2) and (b), is further amended by striking
‘‘Test Resources Management Center’’ and
inserting ‘‘Test Resource Management Cen-
ter’’.
SEC. 237. LIMITATION ON CONTRACT AWARDS
FOR CERTAIN UNMANNED VESSELS.
(a) LIMITATION.—None of the funds author-
ized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 by
section 201 for research, development, test,
and evaluation may be used for the award of
a contract for a covered vessel until the date
that is 30 days after the date on which the
Under Secretary of Defense for Research and
Engineering submits to the congressional de-
fense committees a report and certification
described in subsection (c) for such contract
and covered vessel.
(b) COVERED VESSELS.—For purposes of this
section, a covered vessel is one of the fol-
lowing:
(1) A large unmanned surface vessel
(LUSV).
(2) A medium unmanned surface vehicle
(MUSV).
(3) A large displacement unmanned under-
sea vehicle (LDUUV).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6745
November 16, 2020
(4) An extra-large unmanned undersea ve-
hicle (XLUUV).
(c) REPORT AND CERTIFICATION DE-
SCRIBED.—A report and certification de-
scribed in this subsection regarding a con-
tract for a covered vessel is—
(1) a report—
(A) submitted to the congressional defense
committees not later than 60 days after the
date of the completion of an independent
technical risk assessment for such covered
vessel; and
(B) on the findings of the Under Secretary
with respect to such assessment; and
(2) a certification, submitted to the con-
gressional defense committees with the re-
port described in paragraph (1), that certifies
that—
(A) the Under Secretary has determined, in
conjunction with the Senior Technical Au-
thority designated under section 8669b(a)(1)
of title 10, United States Code, for the class
of naval vessels that includes the covered
vessel, that the critical mission, hull, me-
chanical, and electrical subsystems of the
covered vessel—
(i) have been demonstrated in vessel-rep-
resentative form, fit, and function; and
(ii) have achieved performance levels equal
to or greater than applicable Department of
Defense threshold requirements for such
class of vessels; and
(B) such contract is necessary to meet De-
partment research, development, test, and
evaluation objectives for such covered vessel
that cannot otherwise be met through fur-
ther land-based subsystem prototyping or
other demonstration approaches.
(d) CRITICAL MISSION, HULL, MECHANICAL,
AND ELECTRICAL SUBSYSTEMS DEFINED.—In
this section, the term ‘‘critical mission, hull,
mechanical, and electrical subsystems’’,
with respect to a covered vessel, includes the
following subsystems:
(1) Command, control, communications,
computers, intelligence, surveillance, and re-
connaissance.
(2) Autonomous vessel navigation, vessel
control, contact management, and contact
avoidance.
(3) Communications security, including
cryptopgraphy, encryption, and decryption.
(4) Main engines, including the lube oil,
fuel oil, and other supporting systems.
(5) Electrical generation and distribution,
including supporting systems.
(6) Military payloads.
(7) Any other subsystem identified as crit-
ical by the Senior Technical Authority des-
ignated under section 8669b(a)(1) of title 10,
United States Code, for the class of naval
vessels that includes the covered vessel.
SEC. 238. DOCUMENTATION RELATING TO THE
ADVANCED BATTLE MANAGEMENT
SYSTEM.
(a) DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED.—Imme-
diately upon the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to
the congressional defense committees the
following documentation relating to the Ad-
vanced Battle Management System:
(1) A list that identifies each program,
project, and activity that contributes to the
architecture of the Advanced Battle Manage-
ment System.
(2) The final analysis of alternatives for
the Advanced Battle Management System.
(3) The requirements for the networked
data architecture necessary for the Ad-
vanced Battle Management System to pro-
vide multidomain command and control and
battle management capabilities and a devel-
opment schedule for such architecture.
(b) LIMITATION.—Of the funds authorized to
be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year
2021 for operations and maintenance for the
Office of the Secretary of the Air Force, not
more than 25 percent may be obligated until
the date that is 30 days after the date on
which the Secretary of the Air Force sub-
mits to the congressional defense commit-
tees the documentation required by sub-
section (a) and the Vice Chairman of the
Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs certifies
the documentation.
(c) ADVANCED BATTLE MANAGEMENT SYS-
TEM.—In this section, the term ‘‘Advanced
Battle Management System’’ means the Ad-
vanced Battle Management System of Sys-
tems capability of the Air Force, including
each program, project, and activity that con-
tributes to such capability.
SEC. 239. ARMED SERVICES VOCATIONAL APTI-
TUDE BATTERY TEST SPECIAL PUR-
POSE ADJUNCT TO ADDRESS COM-
PUTATIONAL THINKING.
Not later than one year after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
Defense shall establish a special purpose test
adjunct to the Armed Services Vocational
Aptitude Battery test to address computa-
tional thinking skills relevant to military
applications, including problem decomposi-
tion, abstraction, pattern recognition, ana-
lytical ability, the identification of variables
involved in data representation, and the abil-
ity to create algorithms and solution expres-
sions.
SEC. 240. REPORT ON USE OF TESTING FACILI-
TIES TO RESEARCH AND DEVELOP
HYPERSONIC TECHNOLOGY.
Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
Defense shall submit to the congressional de-
fense committees a report on the costs and
benefits of the use and potential refurbish-
ment of existing operating and mothballed
Federal research and testing facilities to
support hypersonics activities of the Depart-
ment of Defense.
SEC. 241. STUDY AND PLAN ON THE USE OF ADDI-
TIVE MANUFACTURING AND THREE-
DIMENSIONAL BIOPRINTING IN SUP-
PORT OF THE WARFIGHTER.
(a) STUDY.—The Secretary of Defense shall
conduct a study on the use of additive manu-
facturing and three-dimensional bioprinting
across the Military Health System.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The study required by sub-
section (a) shall examine the activities cur-
rently underway by each of the military
services and the Department agencies, in-
cluding costs, sources of funding, oversight,
collaboration, and outcomes.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the
Committee on Armed Services of the Senate
and the Committee on Armed Services of the
House of Representatives a report on the re-
sults of the study conducted under sub-
section (a).
SEC. 242. ELEMENT IN ANNUAL REPORTS ON
CYBER SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
ACTIVITIES ON WORK WITH ACA-
DEMIC CONSORTIA ON HIGH PRI-
ORITY CYBERSECURITY RESEARCH
ACTIVITIES IN DEPARTMENT OF DE-
FENSE CAPABILITIES.
Section 257(b)(2) of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Pub-
lic Law 116–92; 133 Sta. 1291) is amended by
adding at end the following new subpara-
graph:
‘‘(J) Efforts to work with academic con-
sortia on high priority cybersecurity re-
search activities.’’.
TITLE III—OPERATION AND
MAINTENANCE
Subtitle A—Authorization of Appropriations
SEC. 301. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
Funds are hereby authorized to be appro-
priated for fiscal year 2021 for the use of the
Armed Forces and other activities and agen-
cies of the Department of Defense for ex-
penses, not otherwise provided for, for oper-
ation and maintenance, as specified in the
funding table in section 4301.
Subtitle B—Energy and Environment
SEC. 311. MODIFICATIONS AND TECHNICAL COR-
RECTIONS TO ENSURE RESTORA-
TION OF CONTAMINATION BY
PERFLUOROOCTANE SULFONATE
AND PERFLUOROOCTANOIC ACID.
(a) DEFINITION FOR PFOA AND PFOS.—Sec-
tion 2700 of title 10, United States Code, is
amended by adding at the end the following
new paragraphs:
‘‘(4) The term ‘perfluorooctane sulfonate’
means perfluorooctane sulfonic acid or
sulfonate (commonly referred to as ‘PFOS’)
(Chemical Abstracts Service No. 1763–23–1)
and the salts associated with
perfluorooctane sulfonic acid or sulfonate
(Chemical Abstracts Service Nos. 2795–39–3,
29457–72–5, 56773–42–3, 29081–56–9, and 70225–14–
8).
‘‘(5) The term ‘perfluorooctanoic acid’
means perfluorooctanoic acid (commonly re-
ferred to as ‘PFOA’) (Chemical Abstracts
Service No. 335–67–1) and the salts associated
with perfluorooctanoic acid (Chemical Ab-
stracts Service Nos. 3825–26–1, 335–95–5, and
68141–02–6).’’.
(b) MODIFICATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL RES-
TORATION ACCOUNTS.—Section 2703 of such
title is amended—
(1) in subsection (e)(2), by striking ‘‘envi-
ronmental’’;
(2) in subsection (f), by striking ‘‘to the
Environmental Restoration Account, De-
fense, or to any environmental restoration
account of a military department,’’ and in-
serting ‘‘or transferred to an account estab-
lished under subsection (a)’’;
(3) by striking subsection (g) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(g) SOLE SOURCE OF FUNDS FOR RESPONSES
UNDER THIS CHAPTER.—Except as provided in
subsection (h), the sole source of funds for all
phases of a response under this chapter shall
be the applicable environmental restoration
account established under subsection (a).’’;
and
(4) in subsection (h)—
(A) in the subsection heading, by striking
‘‘ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘RESPONSES’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘services procured under
section 2701(d)(1) of this title’’ and inserting
‘‘a response’’.
(c) MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR ENVI-
RONMENTAL RESTORATION PROJECTS OF NA-
TIONAL GUARD.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 2707(e) of such
title is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘Notwithstanding’’ and in-
serting ‘‘(1) Notwithstanding’’;
(B) by inserting ‘‘where military activities
are conducted by the National Guard of a
State under title 32’’ after ‘‘facility’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(2) The Secretary concerned may use the
authority under section 2701(d) of this title
to carry out environmental restoration
projects under paragraph (1).’’.
(2) CORRECTION OF DEFINITION OF FACIL-
ITY.—Paragraph (2) of section 2700 of such
title is amended—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘(A)
The terms’’ and inserting ‘‘The terms’’; and
(B) by striking subparagraph (B).
(d) EXTENSION OF CONTRACT AUTHORITY.—
Section 2708(b) of such title is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘fiscal
years 1992 through 1996’’ and inserting ‘‘a pe-
riod specified in paragraph (3)’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(3) A period specified in this paragraph
is—
‘‘(A) the period of fiscal years 1992 through
1996; or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6746 November 16, 2020
‘‘(B) on or after the date of the enactment
of the National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2021.’’.
(e) TECHNICAL CONSISTENCY FOR MUNITIONS
RESPONSE.—
(1) PROGRAM GOALS.—Section 2701(b)(2) of
such title is amended by striking ‘‘of
unexploded ordnance’’ and inserting ‘‘of
unexploded ordnance, discarded military mu-
nitions, and munitions constituents in a
manner consistent with section 2710 of this
title’’.
(2) ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION AC-
COUNTS.—Section 2703(b) of such title is
amended by striking the second sentence and
inserting the following new sentence: ‘‘Such
remediation shall be conducted in a manner
consistent with section 2710 of this title.’’.
(3) TRANSFER OF DEFINITIONS.—
(A) TRANSFER.—Paragraphs (2) and (3) of
section 2710(e) of such title are—
(i) transferred to section 2700 of such title;
(ii) added at the end of such section; and
(iii) redesignated as paragraphs (6) and (7),
respectively.
(B) REDESIGNATION OF DEFINITIONS.—Sec-
tion 2710(e) of such title is amended by redes-
ignating paragraphs (4) through (7) as para-
graphs (2) through (5), respectively.
(4) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section
313(d) of the John Warner National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Pub-
lic Law 109–364; 10 U.S.C. 2710 note) is amend-
ed—
(A) in paragraph (2)—
(i) by striking ‘‘ ‘discarded military muni-
tions’, ‘munitions constituents’, and ‘defense
sites’ ’’ and inserting ‘‘ ‘discarded military
munitions’ and ‘munitions constituents’ ’’;
and
(ii) by striking ‘‘section 2710(e)’’ and in-
serting ‘‘section 2700’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(3) The term ‘defense site’ has the mean-
ing given such term in section 2710(e) of such
title.’’.
(f) TECHNICAL CORRECTION REGARDING CO-
OPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—Section 332(a)(2) of
the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92) is
amended, in the matter preceding subpara-
graph (A), by striking ‘‘shall meet or exceed
the most stringent of the following’’ and in-
serting ‘‘relating to a response shall reflect
application to the response of the most pro-
tective of the following’’.
SEC. 312. READINESS AND ENVIRONMENTAL PRO-
TECTION INTEGRATION PROGRAM
TECHNICAL EDITS AND CLARIFICA-
TION.
(a) USE OF FUNDS.—Section 2684a(i) of title
10, United States Code, is amended by adding
at the end the following new paragraph:
‘‘(3) Funds obligated to carry out an agree-
ment under this section shall be available for
use with regard to any property in the geo-
graphic scope specified in the agreement—
‘‘(A) at the time the funds are obligated;
and
‘‘(B) in any subsequent modification to the
agreement.’’.
(b) CLARIFICATION OF REFERENCES TO ELIGI-
BLE ENTITIES.—
(1) DEFINITION.—Subsection (b) of section
2684a of title 10, United States Code, is
amended, in the matter preceding paragraph
(1), by striking ‘‘An agreement under this
section may be entered into with’’ and in-
serting ‘‘For purposes of this section, an eli-
gible entity is’’.
(2) ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY AND INTER-
ESTS.—Subsection (d)(1) of such section is
amended by striking ‘‘the entity or entities’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘an eligi-
ble entity or entities’’.
(3) RETROACTIVE APPLICATION.—The amend-
ments made by paragraphs (1) and (2) shall
apply to any agreement entered into under
section 2684a of title 10, United States Code,
on or after December 2, 2002.
SEC. 313. SURVEY AND MARKET RESEARCH OF
TECHNOLOGIES FOR PHASE OUT BY
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE OF USE
OF FLUORINATED AQUEOUS FILM-
FORMING FOAM.
(a) SURVEY OF TECHNOLOGIES AND MARKET
RESEARCH.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense
shall conduct a survey and market research
of relevant technologies, other than fire-
fighting agent solutions, to determine
whether any such technologies are available
and can be adapted quickly for use by the
Department of Defense to execute the phase-
out by the Department of the use of
fluorinated aqueous film-forming foam.
(2) TECHNOLOGIES INCLUDED.—The tech-
nologies surveyed or researched under para-
graph (1) shall include the following:
(A) Hangar flooring systems.
(B) Liquid drainage flood assemblies.
(C) Fire-fighting agent delivery systems.
(D) Containment systems.
(E) Such other relevant technologies as the
Secretary determines appropriate.
(b) BRIEFING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary shall brief the congressional
defense committees on the results of the sur-
vey and market research conducted under
subsection (a).
(2) ELEMENTS OF BRIEFING.—The briefing
required under paragraph (1) shall include
the following:
(A) A description of the technologies sur-
veyed and researched under subsection (a).
(B) An identification of any such tech-
nologies that were considered for further
testing or analysis.
(C) An identification of any other tech-
nologies useful for the phase-out by the De-
partment of the use of fluorinated aqueous
film-forming foam that are undergoing addi-
tional analysis for possible application with-
in the Department.
SEC. 314. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO
CARRY OUT MILITARY INSTALLA-
TION RESILIENCE PROJECTS.
(a) MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY.—Section
2815 of title 10, United States Code is amend-
ed—
(1) in subsection (a), by inserting ‘‘(except
as provided in subsections (d)(3) and (e))’’ be-
fore the period at the end;
(2) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘A
project’’ and inserting ‘‘Except as provided
in subsection (e)(2), a project’’;
(3) by redesignating subsection (d) as sub-
section (f); and
(4) by inserting after subsection (c) the fol-
lowing new subsections:
‘‘(d) LOCATION OF PROJECTS.—Projects car-
ried out pursuant to this section may be car-
ried out—
‘‘(1) on a military installation;
‘‘(2) on a facility used by the Department
of Defense that is owned and operated by a
State, the District of Columbia, the Com-
monwealth of Puerto Rico, American Samoa,
Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern
Mariana Islands, or the Virgin Islands, even
if the facility is not under the jurisdiction of
the Department of Defense, if the Secretary
of Defense determines that the facility is
subject to significant use by the armed
forces for testing or training; or
‘‘(3) outside of a military installation or fa-
cility described in paragraph (2) if the Sec-
retary concerned determines that the project
would preserve or enhance the resilience of—
‘‘(A) a military installation;
‘‘(B) a facility described in paragraph (2);
or
‘‘(C) community infrastructure determined
by the Secretary concerned to be necessary
to maintain, improve, or rapidly reestablish
installation mission assurance and mission-
essential functions.
‘‘(e) ALTERNATIVE FUNDING SOURCE.—(1) In
carrying out a project under this section, the
Secretary concerned may use amounts avail-
able for operation and maintenance for the
military department concerned if the Sec-
retary concerned submits a notification to
the congressional defense committees of the
decision to carry out the project using such
amounts and includes in the notification—
‘‘(A) the current estimate of the cost of the
project;
‘‘(B) the source of funds for the project;
and
‘‘(C) a certification that deferral of the
project for inclusion in the next Military
Construction Authorization Act would be in-
consistent with national security or the pro-
tection of health, safety, or environmental
quality, as the case may be.
‘‘(2) A project carried out under this sec-
tion using amounts under paragraph (1) may
be carried out only after the end of the 7-day
period beginning on the date on which a copy
of the notification described in paragraph (1)
is provided in an electronic medium pursu-
ant to section 480 of this title.
‘‘(3) The maximum aggregate amount that
the Secretary concerned may obligate from
amounts available to the military depart-
ment concerned for operation and mainte-
nance in any fiscal year for projects under
the authority of this subsection is
$100,000,000.’’.
(b) CONSIDERATION OF MILITARY INSTALLA-
TION RESILIENCE IN AGREEMENTS AND INTER-
AGENCY COOPERATION.—Section 2684a of such
title is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in paragraph (2)(B)—
(i) by striking clause (ii); and
(ii) in clause (i)—
(I) by striking ‘‘(i)’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘; or’’ and inserting a semi-
colon;
(B) by redesignating paragraph (3) as para-
graph (4); and
(C) by inserting after paragraph (2) the fol-
lowing new paragraph (3):
‘‘(3) maintaining or improving military in-
stallation resilience; or’’; and
(2) by amending subsection (h) to read as
follows:
‘‘(h) INTERAGENCY COOPERATION IN CON-
SERVATION AND RESILIENCE PROGRAMS TO
AVOID OR REDUCE ADVERSE IMPACTS ON MILI-
TARY INSTALLATION RESILIENCE AND MILITARY
READINESS ACTIVITIES.—In order to facilitate
interagency cooperation and enhance the ef-
fectiveness of actions that will protect the
environment, military installation resil-
ience, and military readiness, the recipient
of funds provided pursuant to an agreement
under this section or under the Sikes Act (16
U.S.C. 670 et seq.) may, with regard to the
lands and waters within the scope of the
agreement, use such funds to satisfy any
matching funds or cost-sharing requirement
of any conservation or resilience program of
any Federal agency notwithstanding any
limitation of such program on the source of
matching or cost-sharing funds.’’.
SEC. 315. NATIVE AMERICAN INDIAN LANDS ENVI-
RONMENTAL MITIGATION PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 160 of title 10,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following new section:
‘‘§ 2712. Native American lands environmental
mitigation program
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary of De-
fense may establish and carry out a program
to mitigate the environmental effects of ac-
tions by the Department of Defense on In-
dian lands and culturally connected loca-
tions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6747
November 16, 2020
‘‘(b) PROGRAM ACTIVITIES.—The activities
that may be carried out under the program
established under subsection (a) are the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(1) Identification, investigation, and doc-
umentation of suspected environmental ef-
fects attributable to past actions by the De-
partment of Defense.
‘‘(2) Development of mitigation options for
such environmental effects, including devel-
opment of cost-to-complete estimates and a
system for prioritizing mitigation actions.
‘‘(3) Direct mitigation actions that the
Secretary determines are necessary and ap-
propriate to mitigate the adverse environ-
mental effects of past actions by the Depart-
ment.
‘‘(4) Demolition and removal of unsafe
buildings and structures used by, under the
jurisdiction of, or formerly used by or under
the jurisdiction of the Department.
‘‘(5) Training, technical assistance, and ad-
ministrative support to facilitate the mean-
ingful participation of Indian tribes in miti-
gation actions under the program.
‘‘(6) Development and execution of a policy
governing consultation with Indian tribes
that have been or may be affected by action
by the Department, including training per-
sonnel of the Department to ensure compli-
ance with the policy.
‘‘(c) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—(1) In car-
rying out the program established under sub-
section (a), the Secretary of Defense may
enter into a cooperative agreement with an
Indian tribe or an instrumentality of tribal
government.
‘‘(2) Notwithstanding chapter 63 of title 31,
a cooperative agreement under this section
may be used to acquire property or services
for the direct benefit of the United States
Government.
‘‘(3) A cooperative agreement under this
section for the procurement of severable
services may begin in one fiscal year and end
in another fiscal year only if the total period
of performance does not exceed two calendar
years.
‘‘(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) The term ‘Indian land’ includes—
‘‘(A) any land located within the bound-
aries and a part of an Indian reservation,
pueblo, or rancheria;
‘‘(B) any land that has been allotted to an
individual Indian but has not been conveyed
to such Indian with full power of alienation;
‘‘(C) Alaska Native village and regional
corporation lands; and
‘‘(D) lands and waters upon which any Fed-
erally recognized Indian tribe has rights re-
served by treaty, act of Congress, or action
by the President.
‘‘(2) The term ‘Indian Tribe’ means any In-
dian Tribe, band, nation, or other organized
group or community, including any Native
village, Regional Corporation, or Village
Corporation (as defined in section 3 of the
Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43
U.S.C. 1602)), that is recognized as eligible
for the special programs and services pro-
vided by the United States to Indians be-
cause of their status as Indians.
‘‘(3) The term ‘culturally connected loca-
tion’ means a location or place that has de-
monstrable significance to Indians or Alaska
Natives based on its association with the
traditional beliefs, customs, and practices of
a living community, including locations or
places where religious, ceremonial, subsist-
ence, medicinal, economic, or other lifeways
practices have historically taken place.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 160 of
such title is amended by inserting after the
item relating to section 2711 the following
new item:
‘‘2712. Native American lands environmental
mitigation program.’’.
SEC. 316. ENERGY RESILIENCE AND ENERGY SE-
CURITY MEASURES ON MILITARY IN-
STALLATIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter I of chapter
173 of title 10, United States Code, is amend-
ed by inserting after section 2919 the fol-
lowing new section:
‘‘§ 2920. Energy resilience and energy security
measures on military installations
‘‘(a) ENERGY RESILIENCE MEASURES.—(1)
The Secretary of Defense shall, by the end of
fiscal year 2030, provide that 100 percent of
the energy load required to maintain the
critical missions of each installation have a
minimum level of availability of 99.9 percent
per fiscal year.
‘‘(2) The Secretary of Defense shall issue
standards establishing levels of availability
relative to specific critical missions, with
such standards providing a range of not less
than 99.9 percent availability per fiscal year
and not more than 99.9999 percent avail-
ability per fiscal year, depending on the
criticality of the mission.
‘‘(3) The Secretary may establish interim
goals to take effect prior to fiscal year 2025
to ensure the requirements under this sub-
section are met.
‘‘(4) The Secretary of each military depart-
ment and the head of each Defense Agency
shall ensure that their organizations meet
the requirements of this subsection.
‘‘(b) PLANNING.—(1) The Secretary of De-
fense shall require the Secretary of each
military department and the head of each
Defense Agency to plan for the provision of
energy resilience and energy security for in-
stallations.
‘‘(2) Planning under paragraph (1) shall—
‘‘(A) promote the use of multiple and di-
verse sources of energy, with an emphasis fa-
voring energy resources originating on the
installation such as modular generation;
‘‘(B) promote installing microgrids to en-
sure the energy security and energy resil-
ience of critical missions; and
‘‘(C) favor the use of full-time, installed
energy sources rather than emergency gen-
eration.
‘‘(c) DEVELOPMENT OF INFORMATION.—The
planning required by subsection (b) shall
identify each of the following for each instal-
lation:
‘‘(1) The critical missions of the installa-
tion.
‘‘(2) The energy requirements of those crit-
ical missions.
‘‘(3) The duration that those energy re-
quirements are likely to be needed in the
event of a disruption or emergency.
‘‘(4) The current source of energy provided
to those critical missions.
‘‘(5) The duration that the currently pro-
vided energy would likely be available in the
event of a disruption or emergency.
‘‘(6) Any currently available sources of en-
ergy that would provide uninterrupted en-
ergy to critical missions in the event of a
disruption or emergency.
‘‘(7) Alternative sources of energy that
could be developed to provide uninterrupted
energy to critical missions in the event of a
disruption or emergency.
‘‘(d) TESTING AND MEASURING.—(1)(A) The
Secretary of Defense shall require the Sec-
retary of each military department and head
of each Defense Agency to conduct moni-
toring, measuring, and testing to provide the
data necessary to comply with this section.
‘‘(B) Any data provided under subpara-
graph (A) shall be made available to the As-
sistant Secretary of Defense for Sustainment
upon request.
‘‘(2)(A) The Secretary of Defense shall re-
quire that black start exercises be conducted
to assess the energy resilience and energy se-
curity of installations for periods established
to evaluate the ability of the installation to
perform critical missions without access to
off-installation energy resources.
‘‘(B) A black start exercise conducted
under subparagraph (A) may exclude, if tech-
nically feasible, housing areas, com-
missaries, exchanges, and morale, welfare,
and recreation facilities.
‘‘(C) The Secretary of Defense shall—
‘‘(i) provide uniform policy for the military
departments and the Defense Agencies with
respect to conducting black start exercises;
and
‘‘(ii) establish a schedule of black start ex-
ercises for the military departments and the
Defense Agencies, with each military depart-
ment and Defense Agency scheduled to con-
duct such an exercise on a number of instal-
lations each year sufficient to allow that
military department or Defense Agency to
meet the goals of this section, but in any
event not fewer than five installations each
year for each military department through
fiscal year 2027.
‘‘(D)(i) Except as provided in clause (ii),
the Secretary of each military department
shall, notwithstanding any other provision
of law, conduct black start exercises in ac-
cordance with the schedule provided for in
subparagraph (C)(ii), with any such exercise
not to last longer than five days.
‘‘(ii) The Secretary of a military depart-
ment may conduct more black start exer-
cises than those identified in the schedule
provided for in subparagraph (C)(ii).
‘‘(e) CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS.—For con-
tracts for energy and utility services, the
Secretary of Defense shall—
‘‘(1) specify methods and processes to
measure, manage, and verify compliance
with subsection (a); and
‘‘(2) ensure that such contracts include re-
quirements appropriate to ensure energy re-
silience and energy security, including re-
quirements for metering to measure, man-
age, and verify energy consumption, avail-
ability, and reliability consistent with this
section and the energy resilience metrics
and standards under section 2911(b) of this
title.
‘‘(f) EXCEPTION.—This section does not
apply to fuels used in aircraft, vessels, or
motor vehicles.
‘‘(g) REPORT.—If by the end of fiscal year
2029, the Secretary determines that the De-
partment will be unable to meet the require-
ments under subsection (a), not later than 90
days after the end of such fiscal year, the
Secretary shall submit to the Committees on
Armed Services of the Senate and House of
Representatives a report detailing—
‘‘(1) the projected shortfall;
‘‘(2) reasons for the projected shortfall;
‘‘(3) any statutory, technological, or mone-
tary impediments to achieving such require-
ments;
‘‘(4) any impact to readiness or ability to
meet the national defense posture; and
‘‘(5) any other relevant information as the
Secretary considers appropriate.
‘‘(h) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) The term ‘availability’ means the
availability of required energy at a stated in-
stant of time or over a stated period of time
for a specific purpose.
‘‘(2) The term ‘black start exercise’ means
an exercise in which delivery of energy pro-
vided from off an installation is terminated
before backup generation assets on the in-
stallation are turned on. Such an exercise
shall—
‘‘(A) determine the ability of the backup
systems to start independently, transfer the
load, and carry the load until energy from
off the installation is restored;
‘‘(B) align organizations with critical mis-
sions to coordinate in meeting critical mis-
sion requirements;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6748 November 16, 2020
‘‘(C) validate mission operation plans, such
as continuity of operations plans;
‘‘(D) identify infrastructure interdepend-
encies; and
‘‘(E) verify backup electric power system
performance.
‘‘(3) The term ‘critical mission’—
‘‘(A) means those aspects of the missions of
an installation, including mission essential
operations, that are critical to successful
performance of the strategic national de-
fense mission;
‘‘(B) may include operational headquarters
facilities, airfields and supporting infra-
structure, harbor facilities supporting naval
vessels, munitions production and storage fa-
cilities, missile fields, radars, satellite con-
trol facilities, cyber operations facilities,
space launch facilities, operational commu-
nications facilities, and biological defense fa-
cilities; and
‘‘(C) does not include military housing (in-
cluding privatized military housing), morale,
welfare, and recreation facilities, exchanges,
commissaries, or privately owned facilities.
‘‘(4) The term ‘energy’ means electricity,
natural gas, steam, chilled water, and heated
water.
‘‘(5) The term ‘installation’ has the mean-
ing given the term ‘military installation’ in
section 2801(c)(4) of this title.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of subchapter I of
chapter 173 of such title is amended by in-
serting after the item relating to section 2919
the following new item:
‘‘2920. Energy resilience and energy security
measures on military installa-
tions.’’.
SEC. 317. MODIFICATION TO AVAILABILITY OF
ENERGY COST SAVINGS FOR DE-
PARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
Section 2912(a) of title 10, United States
Code, is amended by inserting ‘‘and, in the
case of operational energy, from both train-
ing and operational missions,’’ after ‘‘under
section 2913 of this title,’’.
SEC. 318. LONG-DURATION DEMONSTRATION INI-
TIATIVE AND JOINT PROGRAM.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) DIRECTOR.—The term ‘‘Director’’ means
the Director of the Environmental Security
Technology Certification Program of the De-
partment of Defense.
(2) DIRECTOR OF ARPA–E.—The term ‘‘Direc-
tor of ARPA–E’’ means the Director of the
Advanced Research Projects Agency—En-
ergy.
(3) INITIATIVE.—The term ‘‘Initiative’’
means the demonstration initiative estab-
lished under subsection (b).
(4) JOINT PROGRAM.—The term ‘‘Joint Pro-
gram’’ means the joint program established
under subsection (d).
(b) ESTABLISHMENT OF INITIATIVE.—Not
later than 180 days after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, the Director shall establish
a demonstration initiative composed of dem-
onstration projects focused on the develop-
ment of long-duration energy storage tech-
nologies.
(c) SELECTION OF PROJECTS.—To the max-
imum extent practicable, in selecting dem-
onstration projects to participate in the Ini-
tiative, the Director shall—
(1) ensure a range of technology types;
(2) ensure regional diversity among
projects; and
(3) consider bulk power level, distribution
power level, behind-the-meter, microgrid
(grid-connected or islanded mode), and off-
grid applications.
(d) JOINT PROGRAM.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—As part of the Initia-
tive, the Director, in consultation with the
Director of ARPA–E, shall establish within
the Department of Defense a joint program
to carry out projects—
(A) to demonstrate promising long-dura-
tion energy storage technologies at different
scales to promote energy resiliency; and
(B) to help new, innovative long-duration
energy storage technologies become com-
mercially viable.
(2) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING.—Not
later than 200 days after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, the Director shall enter
into a memorandum of understanding with
the Director of ARPA–E to administer the
Joint Program.
(3) INFRASTRUCTURE.—In carrying out the
Joint Program, the Director and the Direc-
tor of ARPA–E shall—
(A) use existing test-bed infrastructure
at—
(i) installations of the Department of De-
fense; and
(ii) facilities of the Department of Energy;
and
(B) develop new infrastructure for identi-
fied projects, if appropriate.
(4) GOALS AND METRICS.—The Director and
the Director of ARPA–E shall develop goals
and metrics for technological progress under
the Joint Program consistent with energy
resilience and energy security policies.
(5) SELECTION OF PROJECTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—To the maximum extent
practicable, in selecting projects to partici-
pate in the Joint Program, the Director and
the Director of ARPA–E shall—
(i) ensure that projects are carried out
under conditions that represent a variety of
environments with different physical condi-
tions and market constraints; and
(ii) ensure an appropriate balance of—
(I) larger, higher-cost projects; and
(II) smaller, lower-cost projects.
(B) PRIORITY.—In carrying out the Joint
Program, the Director and the Director of
ARPA–E shall give priority to demonstra-
tion projects that—
(i) make available to the public project in-
formation that will accelerate deployment of
long-duration energy storage technologies
that promote energy resiliency; and
(ii) will be carried out in the field.
SEC. 319. PILOT PROGRAM ON ALTERNATIVE
FUEL VEHICLE PURCHASING.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense,
in coordination with the Secretary of Energy
and the Administrator of the General Serv-
ices Administration, shall carry out a pilot
program under which the Secretary of De-
fense may, notwithstanding section 400AA of
the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42
U.S.C. 6374), purchase new alternative fuel
vehicles for which the initial cost of such ve-
hicles exceeds the initial cost of a com-
parable gasoline or diesel fueled vehicle by
not more than 10 percent.
(b) LOCATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense
shall carry out the pilot program under sub-
section (a) at not fewer than 2 facilities or
installations of the Department of Defense in
the continental United States that—
(A) have the largest total number of at-
tached noncombat vehicles as compared to
other facilities or installations of the De-
partment of Defense; and
(B) are located within 20 miles of public or
private refueling or recharging stations.
(2) AIR FORCE LOGISTICS CENTER.—One of
the facilities or installations selected under
paragraph (1) shall be an Air Force Logistics
Center.
(c) ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLE DEFINED.—
In this section, the term ‘‘alternative fuel
vehicle’’ includes a vehicle that uses—
(1) fuels derived from renewable biomass,
as defined in section 211(o)(1)(I) of the Clean
Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7545(o)(1)(I));
(2) natural gas (including compressed and
liquefied natural gas); or
(3) propane.
SEC. 320. EXTENSION OF REAL-TIME SOUND MON-
ITORING AT NAVY INSTALLATIONS
WHERE TACTICAL FIGHTER AIR-
CRAFT OPERATE.
Section 325(a)(1) of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Pub-
lic Law 116–92) is amended by striking ‘‘a 12-
month period’’ and inserting ‘‘two 12-month
periods, including one such period that be-
gins in fiscal year 2021’’.
SEC. 321. STUDY ON IMPACTS OF TRANSBOUND-
ARY FLOWS, SPILLS, OR DIS-
CHARGES OF POLLUTION OR DEBRIS
FROM THE TIJUANA RIVER ON PER-
SONNEL, ACTIVITIES, AND INSTAL-
LATIONS OF DEPARTMENT OF DE-
FENSE.
(a) STUDY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense, in coordination
with the Administrator of the Environ-
mental Protection Agency, the Secretary of
State, and the United States Commissioner
of the International Boundary and Water
Commission, shall commission an inde-
pendent scientific study of the impacts of
transboundary flows, spills, or discharges of
pollution or debris from the Tijuana River
on the personnel, activities, and installa-
tions of the Department of Defense.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The study required by para-
graph (1) shall address the short-term, long-
term, primary, and secondary impacts of
transboundary flows, spills, or discharges of
pollution or debris from the Tijuana River
and include recommendations to mitigate
such impacts.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the ap-
propriate committees of Congress a report
containing the results of the study under
subsection (a), including all findings and rec-
ommendations resulting from the study.
(c) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS
DEFINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘appro-
priate committees of Congress’’ means—
(1) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works, and the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions of the Senate; and
(2) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure, and the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 322. INCREASE IN FUNDING FOR STUDY BY
CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL
AND PREVENTION RELATING TO
PERFLUOROALKYL AND
POLYFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCE
CONTAMINATION IN DRINKING
WATER.
(a) IN GENERAL.—
(1) INCREASE.—The amount authorized to
be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year
2021 for Operation and Maintenance, Defense
Wide for SAG 4GTN for the study by the Cen-
ters for Disease Control and Prevention
under section 316(a)(2)(B)(ii) of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2018 (Public Law 115–91; 131 Stat. 1350) is
hereby increased by $5,000,000.
(2) OFFSET.—The amount authorized to be
appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2021
for Operation and Maintenance, Army for
SAG 421, Servicewide Transportation is here-
by reduced by $5,000,000.
(b) INCREASE IN TRANSFER AUTHORITY.—
Section 316(a)(2)(B)(ii) of the National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018
(Public Law 115–91; 131 Stat. 1350), as amend-
ed by section 315(a) of the John S. McCain
National Defense Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232; 132 Stat.
1713), is amended by striking ‘‘$10,000,000’’
and inserting ‘‘$15,000,000’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6749
November 16, 2020
Subtitle C—Logistics and Sustainment
SEC. 331. REPEAL OF STATUTORY REQUIREMENT
FOR NOTIFICATION TO DIRECTOR
OF DEFENSE LOGISTICS AGENCY
THREE YEARS PRIOR TO IMPLE-
MENTING CHANGES TO ANY UNI-
FORM OR UNIFORM COMPONENT.
Section 356 of the John S. McCain National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2019 (Public Law 115–232; 10 U.S.C. 771 note
prec.) is amended—
(1) by striking subsection (a);
(2) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c)
as subsections (a) and (b), respectively; and
(3) in subsections (a) and (b), as so redesig-
nated, by striking ‘‘Commander’’ each place
it appears and inserting ‘‘Director’’.
SEC. 332. CLARIFICATION OF LIMITATION ON
LENGTH OF OVERSEAS FORWARD
DEPLOYMENT OF CURRENTLY DE-
PLOYED NAVAL VESSELS.
Section 323(b) of the John S. McCain Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232; 132 Stat. 1720;
10 U.S.C. 8690 note) is amended by striking
‘‘In the case of any naval vessel’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘In the case of any aircraft carrier, am-
phibious ship, cruiser, destroyer, frigate, or
littoral combat ship’’.
Subtitle D—Reports
SEC. 351. REPORT ON IMPACT OF PERMAFROST
THAW ON INFRASTRUCTURE, FACILI-
TIES, AND OPERATIONS OF THE DE-
PARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to
the congressional defense committees a com-
prehensive report on the impact of perma-
frost thaw on the infrastructure, facilities,
assets, and operations of the Department of
Defense.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall include the following:
(1) An identification of the infrastructure,
facilities, and assets of the Department of
Defense that could be impacted by perma-
frost thaw.
(2) For each element of infrastructure and
each facility and asset identified pursuant to
paragraph (1)—
(A) an assessment of the threat posed by
permafrost thaw; and
(B) an estimate of potential damage in the
event of likely permafrost thaw.
(3) A description of the threats and im-
pacts posed by permafrost thaw to military
and other national security operations.
(c) CONSULTATION.—In preparing the report
under subsection (a), the Secretary may con-
sult with other Federal agencies, agencies of
State and local governments, and academic
institutions with expertise or experience in
the effects of permafrost thaw on infrastruc-
ture, facilities, and operations.
(d) ASSET DEFINED.—In this section, the
term ‘‘asset’’ means the following:
(1) Any aircraft, weapon system, vehicle,
equipment, or gear of the Department of De-
fense or the Armed Forces.
(2) Any other item of the Department or
the Armed Forces that the Secretary con-
siders appropriate for purposes of this sec-
tion.
SEC. 352. PLANS AND REPORTS ON EMERGENCY
RESPONSE TRAINING FOR MILITARY
INSTALLATIONS.
(a) PLANS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that
each military installation under the jurisdic-
tion of the Secretary that does not conduct
live emergency response training on an an-
nual basis or more frequently with the civil-
ian law enforcement and emergency response
agencies responsible for responding to an
emergency at the installation develops a
plan to conduct such training.
(2) ELEMENTS.—Each plan developed under
paragraph (1) with respect to an installa-
tion—
(A) shall include—
(i) the cost of implementing training de-
scribed in paragraph (1) at the installation;
(ii) a description of any obstacles to the
implementation of such training; and
(iii) recommendations for mitigating any
such obstacles; and
(B) shall be designed to ensure that the ci-
vilian law enforcement and emergency re-
sponse agencies described in paragraph (1)
are familiar with—
(i) the physical features of the installation,
including gates, buildings, armories, head-
quarters, command and control centers, and
medical facilities; and
(ii) the emergency response personnel and
procedures of the installation.
(3) SUBMITTAL OF PLANS.—
(A) SUBMITTAL TO SECRETARY.—Not later
than 90 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the commander of each military
installation required to develop a plan under
paragraph (1) shall submit such plan to the
Secretary of Defense.
(B) SUBMITTAL TO CONGRESS.—Not later
than 180 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate
and the House of Representatives a summary
of the plans submitted to the Secretary
under subparagraph (A).
(b) REPORTS ON TRAINING CONDUCTED.—
(1) LIST OF INSTALLATIONS.—Not later than
March 1, 2021, the Secretary shall submit to
the Committees on Armed Services of the
Senate and the House of Representatives a
list of all military installations under the ju-
risdiction of the Secretary that conduct live
emergency response training on an annual
basis or more frequently with the civilian
law enforcement and emergency response
agencies responsible for responding to an
emergency at the installation.
(2) ANNUAL REPORTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
and annually thereafter, the commander of
each military installation under the jurisdic-
tion of the Secretary shall submit to the
Secretary a report on each live emergency
response training conducted during the year
covered by the report with the civilian law
enforcement and emergency response agen-
cies responsible for responding to an emer-
gency at the installation.
(B) ELEMENTS.—Each report submitted
under subparagraph (A) shall include, with
respect to each training exercise, the fol-
lowing:
(i) The date and duration of the exercise.
(ii) A detailed description of the exercise.
(iii) An identification of all military and
civilian personnel who participated in the
exercise.
(iv) Any recommendations resulting from
the exercise.
(v) The actions taken, if any, to implement
such recommendations.
(C) INCLUSION IN ANNUAL BUDGET SUBMIS-
SION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall in-
clude in the budget submitted to Congress by
the President pursuant to section 1105(a) of
title 31, United States Code, a summary of
any report submitted to the Secretary under
subparagraph (A) during the one-year period
preceding the submittal of the budget.
(ii) CLASSIFIED FORM.—The summary sub-
mitted under clause (i) may be submitted in
classified form.
(D) SUNSET.—The requirement to submit
annual reports under subparagraph (A) shall
terminate upon the submittal of the budget
described in subparagraph (C)(i) for fiscal
year 2024.
SEC. 353. REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION BY DE-
PARTMENT OF DEFENSE OF RE-
QUIREMENTS RELATING TO RENEW-
ABLE FUEL PUMPS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to
Congress a report on the implementation by
the Department of Defense of the require-
ments under section 246(a) of the Energy
Independence and Security Act of 2007 (42
U.S.C. 17053(a)).
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall include the following:
(1) An estimate of the cost to the Depart-
ment of fully implementing the require-
ments under section 246(a) of the Energy
Independence and Security Act of 2007; and
(2) An assessment of any problems or
issues the Department is having in com-
plying with the requirements under such sec-
tion.
(c) EXCEPTION.—The report required by
subsection (a) shall not apply to a fueling
center of the Department with a fuel turn-
over rate of less than 100,000 gallons of fuel
per year.
SEC. 354. REPORT ON EFFECTS OF EXTREME
WEATHER ON DEPARTMENT OF DE-
FENSE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the
congressional defense committees a report
on vulnerabilities to military installations
and combatant commander requirements re-
sulting from extreme weather that builds
upon the report submitted under section
335(c) of the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115–91;
131 Stat. 1358).
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall include the following:
(1) An explanation of the underlying meth-
odology that the Department uses to assess
the effects of extreme weather in the report,
including through the use of a climate vul-
nerability and risk assessment tool as di-
rected under section 326 of the National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020
(Public Law 116–92).
(2) An assessment of how extreme weather
affects low-lying military installations, mili-
tary installations of the Navy and the Ma-
rine Corps, and military installations out-
side the United States.
(3) An assessment of how extreme weather
affects access of members of the Armed
Forces to training ranges.
(4) With respect to a military installation
in a country outside the United States, an
assessment of the collaboration between the
Department of Defense and the military or
civilian agencies of the government of that
country or nongovernmental organizations
operating in that country to adapt to risks
from extreme weather.
(5) An assessment of how extreme weather
affects housing safety and food security on
military installations.
(6) An assessment of the strategic benefits
derived from isolating infrastructure of the
Department of Defense in the United States
from the national electric grid and the use of
energy-efficient, distributed, and smart
power grids by the Armed Forces in the
United States and overseas to ensure afford-
able access to electricity.
(7) A list of ten military installation resil-
ience projects conducted within each mili-
tary department.
(8) An overview of mitigations, in addition
to current efforts undertaken by the Depart-
ment, that may be necessary to ensure the
continued operational viability and to in-
crease the resilience of military installa-
tions, and the estimated costs of those miti-
gations.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6750 November 16, 2020
(c) CONSULTATION.—In developing the re-
port required by subsection (a), the Sec-
retary of Defense shall consult with the Ad-
ministrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency, the Secretary of Energy, the Admin-
istrator of the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration, the Administrator of
the Federal Emergency Management Agen-
cy, the Commander of the Army Corps of En-
gineers, the Administrator of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration, a
federally funded research and development
center, and the heads of such other relevant
Federal agencies as the Secretary of Defense
determines appropriate.
(d) FORM OF REPORT.—The report required
by subsection (a) shall be submitted in un-
classified form but may contain a classified
annex if necessary.
(e) PUBLICATION.—Upon submittal of the
report required by subsection (a), the Sec-
retary of Defense shall publish the unclassi-
fied portion of the report on an Internet
website of the Department of Defense that is
available to the public.
(f) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) EXTREME WEATHER.—The term ‘‘extreme
weather’’ means recurrent flooding, drought,
desertification, wildfires, and thawing per-
mafrost.
(2) UNITED STATES.—The term ‘‘United
States’’ means the several States, the Dis-
trict of Columbia, and any territory or pos-
session of the United States.
Subtitle E—Other Matters
SEC. 371. PROHIBITION ON DIVESTITURE OF
MANNED INTELLIGENCE, SURVEIL-
LANCE, AND RECONNAISSANCE AIR-
CRAFT OPERATED BY UNITED
STATES SPECIAL OPERATIONS COM-
MAND.
No funds authorized to be appropriated by
this Act may be used to divest any manned
intelligence, surveillance, and reconnais-
sance aircraft operated by the United States
Special Operations Command, and the De-
partment of Defense may not divest any
manned intelligence, surveillance, and re-
connaissance aircraft operated by the United
States Special Operations Command in fiscal
year 2021.
SEC. 372. INFORMATION ON OVERSEAS CON-
STRUCTION PROJECTS IN SUPPORT
OF CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
USING FUNDS FOR OPERATION AND
MAINTENANCE.
(a) ANNUAL BUDGET JUSTIFICATION DIS-
PLAY.—Section 2805(c) of title 10, United
States Code, is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘The Secretary concerned’’
and inserting ‘‘(1) The Secretary concerned’’;
and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
paragraphs:
‘‘(2) The Secretary of each military depart-
ment, the Director of each Defense Agency,
and the head of any other relevant compo-
nent of the Department of Defense shall
track and report to the Under Secretary of
Defense (Comptroller) relevant data regard-
ing all overseas construction projects funded
with amounts appropriated or otherwise
made available for operation and mainte-
nance in support of contingency operations.
‘‘(3)(A) The Secretary of Defense shall pre-
pare, for inclusion in the annual budget sub-
mission by the President to Congress under
section 1105 of title 31, a consolidated budget
justification display, in classified and un-
classified form, that identifies all overseas
construction projects funded with amounts
appropriated or otherwise made available for
operation and maintenance in support of
contingency operations.
‘‘(B) The display prepared under subpara-
graph (A) shall include a list of all construc-
tion projects described in such subparagraph
that were completed in the prior fiscal year,
that are ongoing, or that are expected for
the next five fiscal years, and shall identify
for each project—
‘‘(i) the component of the Department of
Defense involved in the project;
‘‘(ii) the location of the project;
‘‘(iii) a brief description of the purpose of
the project; and
‘‘(iv) the actual or estimated cost of the
project.’’.
(b) REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS IN
SUPPORT OF CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than March 1,
2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit
to the congressional defense committees a
report on ways to improve the development,
funding, and execution of construction
projects in support of overseas contingency
operations, including those funded with
amounts appropriated or otherwise made
available for operation and maintenance and
those funded with amounts appropriated or
otherwise made available for military con-
struction.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The report required by
paragraph (1) shall include, at a minimum,
the following:
(A) An examination and comparison of the
time required to plan, approve, and execute
construction projects funded with operation
and maintenance amounts versus those fund-
ed with military construction amounts, in
support of contingency operations, including
construction projects in support of recent
operations in Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria, and
Eastern Europe.
(B) A description of any challenges associ-
ated with the processes of the Department of
Defense for planning, approving, and exe-
cuting such projects.
(C) A description of any ongoing or planned
efforts to improve such processes to promote
efficiency and expediency in the develop-
ment and execution of such projects.
(D) Any recommendations with respect to
improving such processes, including those
from the commanders of the combatant com-
mands and the Secretaries of the military
departments.
SEC. 373. PROVISION OF PROTECTION TO THE
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE MARINE
CORPS, THE NATIONAL MUSEUM OF
THE UNITED STATES ARMY, THE NA-
TIONAL MUSEUM OF THE UNITED
STATES NAVY, AND THE NATIONAL
MUSEUM OF THE UNITED STATES
AIR FORCE.
Section 2465(b) of title 10, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end the
following new paragraph:
‘‘(5) A contract for the performance of on-
site armed security guard functions to be
performed—
‘‘(A) at the Marine Corps Heritage Center
at Marine Corps Base Quantico, Virginia, in-
cluding the National Museum of the Marine
Corps;
‘‘(B) at the Heritage Center for the Na-
tional Museum of the United States Army at
Fort Belvoir, Virginia;
‘‘(C) at the Heritage Center for the Na-
tional Museum of the United States Navy at
Washington, District of Columbia; or
‘‘(D) at the Heritage Center for the Na-
tional Museum of the United States Air
Force at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base,
Ohio.’’.
SEC. 374. INAPPLICABILITY OF CONGRESSIONAL
NOTIFICATION AND DOLLAR LIMITA-
TION REQUIREMENTS FOR ADVANCE
BILLINGS FOR CERTAIN BACK-
GROUND INVESTIGATIONS.
Section 2208(l) of title 10, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraph (4) as para-
graph (5); and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (3) the fol-
lowing new paragraph (4):
‘‘(4) This subsection shall not apply to ad-
vance billing for background investigation
and related services performed by the De-
fense Counterintelligence and Security
Agency.’’.
SEC. 375. REPEAL OF SUNSET FOR MINIMUM AN-
NUAL PURCHASE AMOUNT FOR CAR-
RIERS PARTICIPATING IN THE CIVIL
RESERVE AIR FLEET.
Section 9515 of title 10, United States Code,
is amended by striking subsection (k).
SEC. 376. IMPROVEMENT OF THE OPERATIONAL
ENERGY CAPABILITY IMPROVEMENT
FUND OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DE-
FENSE.
(a) MANAGEMENT OF THE OPERATIONAL EN-
ERGY CAPABILITY IMPROVEMENT FUND.—The
Assistant Secretary of Defense for
Sustainment shall exercise authority, direc-
tion, and control over the Operational En-
ergy Capability Improvement Fund of the
Department of Defense (in this section re-
ferred to as the ‘‘OECIF’’).
(b) ALIGNMENT AND COORDINATION WITH RE-
LATED PROGRAMS.—
(1) REALIGNMENT OF OECIF.—Not later than
60 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall re-
align the OECIF under the Assistant Sec-
retary of Defense for Sustainment, with such
realignment to include personnel positions
adequate for the mission of the OECIF.
(2) BETTER COORDINATION WITH RELATED
PROGRAMS.—The Assistant Secretary shall
ensure that the placement under the author-
ity of the Assistant Secretary of the OECIF
along with the Strategic Environmental Re-
search Program, the Environmental Security
Technology Certification Program, and the
Operational Energy Prototyping Program is
utilized to advance common goals of the De-
partment, promote organizational synergies,
and avoid unnecessary duplication of effort.
(c) PROGRAM FOR OPERATIONAL ENERGY
PROTOTYPING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Commencing not later
than 90 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense,
through the Assistant Secretary of Defense
for Sustainment, shall carry out a program
for the demonstration of technologies re-
lated to operational energy prototyping, in-
cluding demonstration of operational energy
technology and validation prototyping.
(2) OPERATION OF PROGRAM.—The Secretary
shall ensure that the program under para-
graph (1) operates in conjunction with the
OECIF to promote the transfer of innovative
technologies that have successfully estab-
lished proof of concept for use in production
or in the field.
(3) PROGRAM ELEMENTS.—In carrying out
the program under paragraph (1) the Sec-
retary shall—
(A) identify and demonstrate the most
promising, innovative, and cost-effective
technologies and methods that address high-
priority operational energy requirements of
the Department of Defense;
(B) in conducting demonstrations under
subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall—
(i) collect cost and performance data to
overcome barriers against employing an in-
novative technology because of concerns re-
garding technical or programmatic risk; and
(ii) ensure that components of the Depart-
ment have time to establish new require-
ments where necessary and plan, program,
and budget for technology transition to pro-
grams of record;
(C) utilize project structures similar to
those of the OECIF to ensure transparency
and accountability throughout the efforts
conducted under the program; and
(D) give priority, in conjunction with the
OECIF, to the development and fielding of
clean technologies that reduce reliance on
fossil fuels.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6751
November 16, 2020
(4) TOOL FOR ACCOUNTABILITY AND TRANSI-
TION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—In carrying out the pro-
gram under paragraph (1) the Secretary shall
develop and utilize a tool to track relevant
investments in operational energy from ap-
plied research to transition to use to ensure
user organizations have the full picture of
technology maturation and development.
(B) TRANSITION.—The tool developed and
utilized under subparagraph (A) shall be de-
signed to overcome transition challenges
with rigorous and well-documented dem-
onstrations that provide the information
needed by all stakeholders for acceptance of
the technology.
(5) LOCATIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall carry
out the testing and evaluation phase of the
program under paragraph (1) at installations
of the Department of Defense or in conjunc-
tion with exercises conducted by the Joint
Staff, a combatant command, or a military
department.
(B) FORMAL DEMONSTRATIONS.—The Sec-
retary shall carry out any formal demonstra-
tions under the program under paragraph (1)
at installations of the Department or in
operational settings to document and vali-
date improved warfighting performance and
cost savings.
SEC. 377. COMMISSION ON THE NAMING OF
ITEMS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DE-
FENSE THAT COMMEMORATE THE
CONFEDERATE STATES OF AMERICA
OR ANY PERSON WHO SERVED VOL-
UNTARILY WITH THE CONFEDERATE
STATES OF AMERICA.
(a) REMOVAL.—Not later than three years
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense shall implement
the plan submitted by the commission de-
scribed in paragraph (b) and remove all
names, symbols, displays, monuments, and
paraphernalia that honor or commemorate
the Confederate States of America (com-
monly referred to as the ‘‘Confederacy’’) or
any person who served voluntarily with the
Confederate States of America from all as-
sets of the Department of Defense.
(b) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense
shall establish a commission relating to as-
signing, modifying, or removing of names,
symbols, displays, monuments, and para-
phernalia to assets of the Department of De-
fense that commemorate the Confederate
States of America or any person who served
voluntarily with the Confederate States of
America.
(c) DUTIES.—The Commission shall—
(1) assess the cost of renaming or removing
names, symbols, displays, monuments, or
paraphernalia that commemorate the Con-
federate States of America or any person
who served voluntarily with the Confederate
States of America;
(2) develop procedures and criteria to as-
sess whether an existing name, symbol,
monument, display, or paraphernalia com-
memorates the Confederate States of Amer-
ica or person who served voluntarily with
the Confederate States of America;
(3) recommend procedures for renaming as-
sets of the Department of Defense to prevent
commemoration of the Confederate States of
America or any person who served volun-
tarily with the Confederate States of Amer-
ica;
(4) develop a plan to remove names, sym-
bols, displays, monuments, or paraphernalia
that commemorate the Confederate States of
America or any person who served volun-
tarily with the Confederate States of Amer-
ica from assets of the Department of De-
fense, within the timeline established by this
Act; and
(5) include in the plan procedures and cri-
teria for collecting and incorporating local
sensitivities associated with naming or re-
naming of assets of the Department of De-
fense.
(d) MEMBERSHIP.—The Commission shall be
composed of eight members, of whom—
(1) four shall be appointed by the Secretary
of Defense;
(2) one shall be appointed by the Chairman
of the Committee on Armed Services of the
Senate;
(3) one shall be appointed by the Ranking
Member of the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices of the Senate;
(4) one shall be appointed by the Chairman
of the Committee on Armed Services of the
House of Representatives; and
(5) one shall be appointed by the Ranking
Member of the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices of the House of Representatives.
(e) APPOINTMENT.—Members of the Com-
mission shall be appointed not later than 45
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act.
(f) INITIAL MEETING.—The Commission
shall hold its initial meeting on the date
that is 60 days after the enactment of this
Act.
(g) BRIEFINGS AND REPORTS.—Not later
than October 1, 2021, the Commission shall
brief the Committees on Armed Services of
the Senate and House of Representatives de-
tailing the progress of the requirements
under subsection (c). Not later than October
1, 2022, and not later than 90 days before the
implementation of the plan in subsection
(c)(4), the Commission shall present a brief-
ing and written report detailing the results
of the requirements under subsection (c), in-
cluding:
(1) A list of assets to be removed or re-
named.
(2) Costs associated with the removal or re-
naming of assets in subsection (g)(1).
(3) Criteria and requirements used to nomi-
nate and rename assets in subsection (g)(1).
(4) Methods of collecting and incorporating
local sensitivities associated with the re-
moval or renaming of assets in subsection
(g)(1).
(h) FUNDING.—
(1) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated
$2,000,000 to carry out this section.
(2) OFFSET.—The amount authorized to be
appropriated by the Act for fiscal year 2021
for Operations and Maintenance, Army, sub
activity group 434 - other personnel support
is hereby reduced by $2,000,000.
(i) ASSETS DEFINED.—In this section, the
term ‘‘assets’’ includes any base, installa-
tion, street, building, facility, aircraft, ship,
plane, weapon, equipment, or any other prop-
erty owned or controlled by the Department
of Defense.
(j) EXEMPTION FOR GRAVE MARKERS.—Shall
not cover monuments but shall exempt grave
markers. Congress expects the commission
to further define what constitutes a grave
marker.
SEC. 378. MODIFICATIONS TO REVIEW OF PRO-
POSED ACTIONS BY MILITARY AVIA-
TION AND INSTALLATION ASSUR-
ANCE CLEARINGHOUSE.
Section 183a(c)(2) of title 10, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘If the Clearinghouse’’ and
inserting ‘‘(A) If the Clearinghouse’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraphs:
‘‘(B) After the Clearinghouse issues a no-
tice under subparagraph (A) with respect to
an energy project, the parties should seek to
identify feasible and affordable actions that
can be taken by the Department, the devel-
oper of such energy project, or others to
mitigate any adverse impact on military op-
erations and readiness.
‘‘(C) If the Secretary determines within a
reasonable period of time after the issuance
of a notice under subparagraph (A) with re-
spect to an energy project that the concerns
identified in the preliminary review con-
ducted under paragraph (1) with respect to
such project have been mitigated to the ex-
tent that such project does not pose an unac-
ceptable level of risk to military operations
and readiness, the Clearinghouse shall time-
ly issue a mission compatibility letter to the
applicant of such project, the governor of the
State in which such project is located, and
the Secretary of the finding of the Clearing-
house.’’.
SEC. 379. ADJUSTMENT IN AVAILABILITY OF AP-
PROPRIATIONS FOR UNUSUAL COST
OVERRUNS AND FOR CHANGES IN
SCOPE OF WORK.
Section 8683 of title 10, United States Code,
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing new subsection:
‘‘(c) TREATMENT OF AMOUNTS APPRO-
PRIATED AFTER END OF PERIOD OF OBLIGA-
TION.—In the application of section 1553(c) of
title 31 to funds appropriated in the Oper-
ation and Maintenance, Navy account that
are available for ship overhaul, the Sec-
retary of the Navy—
‘‘(1) may treat the limitation specified in
paragraph (1) of such section to be
‘$10,000,000’ rather than ‘$4,000,000’; and
‘‘(2) may treat the limitation specified in
paragraph (2) of such section to be
‘$30,000,000’ rather than ‘$25,000,000’.’’.
SEC. 380. REQUIREMENT THAT SECRETARY OF
DEFENSE IMPLEMENT SECURITY
AND EMERGENCY RESPONSE REC-
OMMENDATIONS RELATING TO AC-
TIVE SHOOTER OR TERRORIST AT-
TACKS ON INSTALLATIONS OF DE-
PARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
(a) REQUIREMENT.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense shall implement
the applicable security and emergency re-
sponse recommendations relating to active
shooter or terrorist attacks on installations
of the Department of Defense made in the
following reports:
(1) The report by the Government Account-
ability Office dated July 2015 entitled, ‘‘In-
sider Threats: DOD Should Improve Informa-
tion Sharing and Oversight to Protect U.S.
Installations’’ (GAO–15–543).
(2) The report prepared by the Department
of the Navy relating to the Washington Navy
Yard shooting in 2013.
(3) The report by the Department of the
Army dated August 2010 entitled ‘‘Fort Hood,
Army Internal Review Team: Final Report’’.
(4) The independent review by the Depart-
ment of Defense dated January 2010 entitled
‘‘Protecting the Force: Lessons from Fort
Hood’’.
(5) The report by the Department of the
Air Force dated October 2010 entitled ‘‘Air
Force Follow-On Review: Protecting the
Force: Lessons from Fort Hood’’.
(b) NOTIFICATION OF INAPPLICABLE REC-
OMMENDATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If the Secretary deter-
mines that a recommendation described in
subsection (a) is outdated, is no longer appli-
cable, or has been superseded by more recent
separate guidance or recommendations set
forth by the Government Accountability Of-
fice, the Department of Defense, or another
entity in related contracted review, the Sec-
retary shall notify the Committees on
Armed Services of the Senate and the House
of Representatives not later than 45 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(2) IDENTIFICATION AND JUSTIFICATION.—The
notification under paragraph (1) shall in-
clude an identification, set forth by report
specified in subsection (a), of each rec-
ommendation that the Secretary determines
should not be implemented, with a justifica-
tion for each such determination.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6752 November 16, 2020
SEC. 381. CLARIFICATION OF FOOD INGREDIENT
REQUIREMENTS FOR FOOD OR BEV-
ERAGES PROVIDED BY THE DEPART-
MENT OF DEFENSE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Before making any final
rule, statement, or determination regarding
the limitation or prohibition of any food or
beverage ingredient in military food service,
military medical foods, commissary food, or
commissary food service, the Secretary of
Defense shall publish in the Federal Register
a notice of a preliminary rule, statement, or
determination (in this section referred to as
a ‘‘proposed action’’) and provide oppor-
tunity for public comment.
(b) MATTERS TO BE INCLUDED.—The Sec-
retary shall include in any notice published
under subsection (a) the following:
(1) The date of the notice.
(2) Contact information for the appropriate
office at the Department of Defense.
(3) A summary of the notice.
(4) A date for comments to be submitted
and specific methods for submitting com-
ments.
(5) A description of the substance of the
proposed action.
(6) Findings and a statement of reasons
supporting the proposed action.
TITLE IV—MILITARY PERSONNEL
AUTHORIZATIONS
Subtitle A—Active Forces
SEC. 401. END STRENGTHS FOR ACTIVE FORCES.
The Armed Forces are authorized
strengths for active duty personnel as of
September 30, 2021, as follows:
(1) The Army, 485,000.
(2) The Navy, 346,730.
(3) The Marine Corps, 180,000.
(4) The Air Force, 333,475.
SEC. 402. END STRENGTH LEVEL MATTERS.
(a) STRENGTH LEVELS TO SUPPORT TWO
MAJOR REGIONAL CONTINGENCIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 691 of title 10,
United States Code, is repealed.
(2) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sec-
tions at the beginning of chapter 39 of such
title is amended by striking the item relat-
ing to section 691.
(b) CERTAIN ACTIVE-DUTY AND SELECTED
RESERVE STRENGTHS.—Section 115 of such
title is amended—
(1) in subsection (f)(1), by striking ‘‘in-
crease’’ and inserting ‘‘vary’’; and
(2) in subsection (g)(1)(A), by striking ‘‘in-
crease’’ and inserting ‘‘vary’’.
Subtitle B—Reserve Forces
SEC. 411. END STRENGTHS FOR SELECTED RE-
SERVE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Armed Forces are au-
thorized strengths for Selected Reserve per-
sonnel of the reserve components as of Sep-
tember 30, 2021, as follows:
(1) The Army National Guard of the United
States, 336,500.
(2) The Army Reserve, 189,800.
(3) The Navy Reserve, 58,800.
(4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 38,500.
(5) The Air National Guard of the United
States, 108,100.
(6) The Air Force Reserve, 70,300.
(7) The Coast Guard Reserve, 7,000.
(b) END STRENGTH REDUCTIONS.—The end
strengths prescribed by subsection (a) for the
Selected Reserve of any reserve component
shall be proportionately reduced by—
(1) the total authorized strength of units
organized to serve as units of the Selected
Reserve of such component which are on ac-
tive duty (other than for training) at the end
of the fiscal year; and
(2) the total number of individual members
not in units organized to serve as units of
the Selected Reserve of such component who
are on active duty (other than for training or
for unsatisfactory participation in training)
without their consent at the end of the fiscal
year.
(c) END STRENGTH INCREASES.—Whenever
units or individual members of the Selected
Reserve of any reserve component are re-
leased from active duty during any fiscal
year, the end strength prescribed for such
fiscal year for the Selected Reserve of such
reserve component shall be increased propor-
tionately by the total authorized strengths
of such units and by the total number of
such individual members.
SEC. 412. END STRENGTHS FOR RESERVES ON AC-
TIVE DUTY IN SUPPORT OF THE RE-
SERVES.
Within the end strengths prescribed in sec-
tion 411(a), the reserve components of the
Armed Forces are authorized, as of Sep-
tember 30, 2021, the following number of Re-
serves to be serving on full-time active duty
or full-time duty, in the case of members of
the National Guard, for the purpose of orga-
nizing, administering, recruiting, instruct-
ing, or training the reserve components:
(1) The Army National Guard of the United
States, 30,595.
(2) The Army Reserve, 16,511.
(3) The Navy Reserve, 10,215.
(4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 2,386.
(5) The Air National Guard of the United
States, 25,333.
(6) The Air Force Reserve, 5,256.
SEC. 413. END STRENGTHS FOR MILITARY TECH-
NICIANS (DUAL STATUS).
(a) IN GENERAL.—The authorized number of
military technicians (dual status) as of the
last day of fiscal year 2021 for the reserve
components of the Army and the Air Force
(notwithstanding section 129 of title 10,
United States Code) shall be the following:
(1) For the Army National Guard of the
United States, 22,294.
(2) For the Army Reserve, 6,492.
(3) For the Air National Guard of the
United States, 10,994.
(4) For the Air Force Reserve, 7,947.
(b) LIMITATION.—Under no circumstances
may a military technician (dual status) em-
ployed under the authority of this section be
coerced by a State into accepting an offer of
realignment or conversion to any other mili-
tary status, including as a member of the
Active, Guard, and Reserve program of a re-
serve component. If a military technician
(dual status) declines to participate in such
realignment or conversion, no further action
will be taken against the individual or the
individual’s position.
SEC. 414. MAXIMUM NUMBER OF RESERVE PER-
SONNEL AUTHORIZED TO BE ON AC-
TIVE DUTY FOR OPERATIONAL SUP-
PORT.
During fiscal year 2021, the maximum num-
ber of members of the reserve components of
the Armed Forces who may be serving at any
time on full-time operational support duty
under section 115(b) of title 10, United States
Code, is the following:
(1) The Army National Guard of the United
States, 17,000.
(2) The Army Reserve, 13,000.
(3) The Navy Reserve, 6,200.
(4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 3,000.
(5) The Air National Guard of the United
States, 16,000.
(6) The Air Force Reserve, 14,000.
SEC. 415. SEPARATE AUTHORIZATION BY CON-
GRESS OF MINIMUM END
STRENGTHS FOR NON-TEMPORARY
MILITARY TECHNICIANS (DUAL STA-
TUS) AND MAXIMUM END
STRENGTHS FOR TEMPORARY MILI-
TARY TECHNICIANS (DUAL STATUS).
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 115(d) of title 10,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘the
end strength for military technicians (dual
status)’’ and inserting ‘‘both the minimum
end strength for non-temporary military
technicians (dual status) and the maximum
end strength for temporary military techni-
cians (dual status)’’; and
(2) in the third sentence, by striking ‘‘the
end strength requested for military techni-
cians (dual status)’’ and inserting ‘‘the min-
imum end strength for non-temporary mili-
tary technicians (dual status), and the max-
imum end strength for temporary military
technicians (dual status), requested’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by subsection (a) shall take effect on
the day after the date of the enactment of
this Act. The amendment made by sub-
section (a)(2) shall apply with respect to
budgets submitted by the President to Con-
gress under section 1105 of title 31, United
States Code, after such effective date.
Subtitle C—Authorization of Appropriations
SEC. 421. MILITARY PERSONNEL.
(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
Funds are hereby authorized to be appro-
priated for fiscal year 2021 for the use of the
Armed Forces and other activities and agen-
cies of the Department of Defense for ex-
penses, not otherwise provided for, for mili-
tary personnel, as specified in the funding
table in section 4401.
(b) CONSTRUCTION OF AUTHORIZATION.—The
authorization of appropriations in subsection
(a) supersedes any other authorization of ap-
propriations (definite or indefinite) for such
purpose for fiscal year 2021.
TITLE V—MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY
Subtitle A—Officer Personnel Policy
SEC. 501. REPEAL OF CODIFIED SPECIFICATION
OF AUTHORIZED STRENGTHS OF
CERTAIN COMMISSIONED OFFICERS
ON ACTIVE DUTY.
Effective as of October 1, 2021, the text of
section 523 of title 10, United States Code, is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘The total number of commissioned offi-
cers serving on active duty in the Army, Air
Force, or Marine Corps in each of the grades
of major, lieutenant colonel, or colonel, or in
the Navy in each of the grades of lieutenant
commander, commander, or captain, at the
end of any fiscal year shall be as specifically
authorized by Act of Congress for such fiscal
year.’’.
SEC. 502. TEMPORARY EXPANSION OF AVAIL-
ABILITY OF ENHANCED CONSTRUC-
TIVE SERVICE CREDIT IN A PAR-
TICULAR CAREER FIELD UPON
ORIGINAL APPOINTMENT AS A COM-
MISSIONED OFFICER.
(a) REGULAR OFFICERS.—Subparagraph (D)
of section 533(b)(1) of title 10, United States
Code, is amended to read as follows:
‘‘(D) Additional credit as follows:
‘‘(i) For special training or experience in a
particular officer field as designated by the
Secretary concerned, if such training or ex-
perience is directly related to the oper-
ational needs of the armed force concerned.
‘‘(ii) During fiscal years 2021 through 2025,
for advanced education in an officer field so
designated, if such education is directly re-
lated to the operational needs of the armed
force concerned.’’.
(b) RESERVE OFFICERS.—Section 12207(b)(1)
of such title is amended—
(1) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), ‘‘or a designation in’’ and all that fol-
lows through ‘‘education or training,’’ and
inserting ‘‘and who has special training or
experience, or advanced education (if appli-
cable),’’; and
(2) by striking subparagraph (D) and in-
serting the following new subparagraph:
‘‘(D) Additional credit as follows:
‘‘(i) For special training or experience in a
particular officer field as designated by the
Secretary concerned, if such training or ex-
perience is directly related to the oper-
ational needs of the armed force concerned.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6753
November 16, 2020
‘‘(ii) During fiscal years 2021 through 2025,
for advanced education in an officer field so
designated, if such education is directly re-
lated to the operational needs of the armed
force concerned.’’.
(c) ANNUAL REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than February 1,
2022, and every four years thereafter, each
Secretary of a military department shall
submit to the Committees on Armed Serv-
ices of the Senate and the House of Rep-
resentatives a report on the use of the au-
thorities in subparagraph (D) of section
553(b)(1) of title 10, United States Code (as
amended by subsection (a)), and subpara-
graph (D) of section 12207(b)(1) of such title
(as amended by subsection (b)) (each referred
to in this subsection as a ‘‘constructive cred-
it authority’’) during the preceding fiscal
year for the Armed Forces under the juris-
diction of such Secretary.
(2) ELEMENTS.—Each report under para-
graph (1) shall include, for the fiscal year
and Armed Forces covered by such report,
the following:
(A) The manner in which constructive
service credit was calculated under each con-
structive credit authority.
(B) The number of officers credited con-
structive service credit under each construc-
tive credit authority.
(C) A description and assessment of the
utility of the constructive credit authorities
in meeting the operational needs of the
Armed Force concerned.
(D) Such other matters in connection with
the constructive credit authorities as the
Secretary of the military department con-
cerned considers appropriate.
SEC. 503. REQUIREMENT FOR PROMOTION SE-
LECTION BOARD RECOMMENDATION
OF HIGHER PLACEMENT ON PRO-
MOTION LIST OF OFFICERS OF PAR-
TICULAR MERIT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 616(g) of title 10,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)—
(A) by striking ‘‘may’’ and inserting
‘‘shall’’; and
(B) by inserting ‘‘, pursuant to guidelines
and procedures prescribed by the Secretary,’’
after ‘‘officers of particular merit’’; and
(2) in paragraph (3), by inserting ‘‘, pursu-
ant to guidelines and procedures prescribed
by the Secretary concerned,’’ after ‘‘shall
recommend’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by subsection (a) shall take effect on
the date of the enactment of this Act, and
shall apply with respect to officers rec-
ommended for promotion by promotion se-
lection boards convened on or after that
date.
SEC. 504. SPECIAL SELECTION REVIEW BOARDS
FOR REVIEW OF PROMOTION OF OF-
FICERS SUBJECT TO ADVERSE IN-
FORMATION IDENTIFIED AFTER
RECOMMENDATION FOR PRO-
MOTION AND RELATED MATTERS.
(a) REGULAR OFFICERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter III of chapter
36 of title 10, United States Code, is amended
by inserting after section 628 the following
new section:
‘‘§ 628a. Special selection review boards
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—(1) If the Secretary of
the military department concerned deter-
mines that a person recommended by a pro-
motion board for promotion to a grade at or
below the grade of major general, rear admi-
ral in the Navy, or an equivalent grade in
the Space Force is the subject of credible in-
formation of an adverse nature, including
any substantiated adverse finding or conclu-
sion described in section 615(a)(3)(A) of this
title, that was not furnished to the pro-
motion board during its consideration of the
person for promotion as otherwise required
by such section, the Secretary shall convene
a special selection review board under this
section to review the person and recommend
whether the recommendation for promotion
of the person should be sustained.
‘‘(2) If a person and the recommendation
for promotion of the person is subject to re-
view under this section by a special selection
review board convened under this section,
the name of the person—
‘‘(A) shall not be disseminated or publicly
released on the list of officers recommended
for promotion by the promotion board rec-
ommending the promotion of the person; and
‘‘(B) shall not be forwarded to the Sec-
retary of Defense, the President, or the Sen-
ate, as applicable, or included on a pro-
motion list under section 624(a) of this title.
‘‘(b) CONVENING.—(1) Any special selection
review board convened under this section
shall be convened in accordance with the
provisions of section 628(f) of this title.
‘‘(2) Any special selection review board
convened under this section may review such
number of persons, and recommendations for
promotion of such persons, as the Secretary
of the military department concerned shall
specify in convening such special selection
review board.
‘‘(c) INFORMATION CONSIDERED.—(1) In re-
viewing a person and recommending whether
the recommendation for promotion of the
person should be sustained under this sec-
tion, a special selection review board con-
vened under this section shall be furnished
and consider the following:
‘‘(A) The record and information con-
cerning the person furnished in accordance
with section 615(a)(2) of this title to the pro-
motion board that recommended the person
for promotion.
‘‘(B) Any credible information of an ad-
verse nature on the person, including any
substantiated adverse finding or conclusion
from an officially documented investigation
or inquiry described in section 615(a)(3)(A) of
this title.
‘‘(2) The furnishing of information to a spe-
cial selection review board under paragraph
(1)(B) shall be governed by the standards and
procedures referred to in paragraph (3)(C) of
section 615(a) of this title applicable to the
furnishing of information described in para-
graph (3)(A) of such section to selection
boards in accordance with that section.
‘‘(3)(A) Before information on a person de-
scribed in paragraph (1)(B) is furnished to a
special selection review board for purposes of
this section, the Secretary of the military
department concerned shall ensure that—
‘‘(i) such information is made available to
the person; and
‘‘(ii) subject to subparagraphs (C) and (D),
the person is afforded a reasonable oppor-
tunity to submit comments on such informa-
tion to the special selection review board be-
fore its review of the person and the rec-
ommendation for promotion of the person
under this section.
‘‘(B) If information on a person described
in paragraph (1)(B) is not made available to
the person as otherwise required by subpara-
graph (A)(i) due to the classification status
of such information, the person shall, to the
maximum extent practicable, be furnished a
summary of such information appropriate to
the person’s authorization for access to clas-
sified information.
‘‘(C)(i) An opportunity to submit com-
ments on information is not required for a
person under subparagraph (A)(ii) if—
‘‘(I) such information was made available
to the person in connection with the fur-
nishing of such information under section
615(a) of this title to the promotion board
that recommended the promotion of the per-
son subject to review under this section; and
‘‘(II) the person submitted comments on
such information to that promotion board.
‘‘(ii) The comments on information of a
person described in clause (i)(II) shall be fur-
nished to the special selection review board.
‘‘(D) A person may waive either or both of
the following:
‘‘(i) The right to submit comments to a
special selection review board under sub-
paragraph (A)(ii).
‘‘(ii) The furnishing of comments to a spe-
cial selection review board under subpara-
graph (C)(ii).
‘‘(d) CONSIDERATION.—(1) In considering the
record and information on a person under
this section, the special selection review
board shall compare such record and infor-
mation with an appropriate sampling of the
records of those officers of the same com-
petitive category who were recommended for
promotion by the promotion board that rec-
ommended the person for promotion, and an
appropriate sampling of the records of those
officers who were considered by and not rec-
ommended for promotion by that promotion
board.
‘‘(2) Records and information shall be pre-
sented to a special selection review board for
purposes of paragraph (1) in a manner that
does not indicate or disclose the person or
persons for whom the special selection re-
view board was convened.
‘‘(3) In considering whether the rec-
ommendation for promotion of a person
should be sustained under this section, a spe-
cial selection review board shall, to the
greatest extent practicable, apply standards
used by the promotion board that rec-
ommended the person for promotion.
‘‘(4) The recommendation for promotion of
a person may be sustained under this section
only if the special selection review board de-
termines that the person—
‘‘(A) ranks on an order of merit created by
the special selection review board as better
qualified for promotion than the sample offi-
cer highest on the order of merit list who
was considered by and not recommended for
promotion by the promotion board con-
cerned; and
‘‘(B) is comparable in qualification for pro-
motion to those sample officers who were
recommended for promotion by that pro-
motion board.
‘‘(5) A recommendation for promotion of a
person may be sustained under this section
only by a vote of a majority of the members
of the special selection review board.
‘‘(6) If a special selection review board does
not sustain a recommendation for promotion
of a person under this section, the person
shall be considered to have failed of selection
for promotion.
‘‘(e) REPORTS.—(1) Each special selection
review board convened under this section
shall submit to the Secretary of the military
department concerned a written report,
signed by each member of the board, con-
taining the name of each person whose rec-
ommendation for promotion it recommends
for sustainment and certifying that the
board has carefully considered the record
and information of each person whose name
was referred to it.
‘‘(2) The provisions of sections 617(b) and
618 of this title apply to the report and pro-
ceedings of a special selection review board
convened under this section in the same
manner as they apply to the report and pro-
ceedings of a promotion board convened
under section 611(a) of this title.
‘‘(f) APPOINTMENT OF PERSONS.—(1) If the
report of a special selection review board
convened under this section recommends the
sustainment of the recommendation for pro-
motion to the next higher grade of a person
whose name was referred to it for review
under this section, and the President ap-
proves the report, the person shall, as soon
as practicable, be appointed to that grade in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6754 November 16, 2020
accordance with subsections (b) and (c) of
section 624 of this title.
‘‘(2) A person who is appointed to the next
higher grade as described in paragraph (1)
shall, upon that appointment, have the same
date of rank, the same effective date for the
pay and allowances of that grade, and the
same position on the active-duty list as the
person would have had pursuant to the origi-
nal recommendation for promotion of the
promotion board concerned.
‘‘(g) REGULATIONS.—(1) The Secretary of
Defense shall prescribe regulations to carry
out this section. Such regulations shall
apply uniformly across the military depart-
ments.
‘‘(2) Any regulation prescribed by the Sec-
retary of a military department to supple-
ment the regulations prescribed pursuant to
paragraph (1) may not take effect without
the approval of the Secretary of Defense, in
writing.
‘‘(h) PROMOTION BOARD DEFINED.—In this
section, the term ‘promotion board ’means a
selection board convened by the Secretary of
a military department under section 611(a) of
this title.’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of subchapter III of
chapter 36 of such title is amended by insert-
ing after the item relating to section 628 the
following new item:
‘‘628a. Special selection review boards.’’.
(3) DELAY IN PROMOTION.—Section 624(d) of
such title is amended—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘or’’ at
the end;
(ii) in subparagraph (E), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; or’’; and
(iii) by inserting after subparagraph (E)
the following new subparagraph (F):
‘‘(F) the Secretary of the military depart-
ment concerned determines that credible in-
formation of an adverse nature, including a
substantiated adverse finding or conclusion
described in section 615(a)(3)(A) of this title,
with respect to the officer will result in the
convening of a special selection review board
under section 628a of this title to review the
officer and recommend whether the rec-
ommendation for promotion of the officer
should be sustained.’’;
(B) by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4)
as paragraphs (4) and (5), respectively;
(C) by inserting after paragraph (2) the fol-
lowing new paragraph (3):
‘‘(3) In the case of an officer whose pro-
motion is delayed pursuant to paragraph
(1)(F) and whose recommendation for pro-
motion is sustained, authorities for the pro-
motion of the officer are specified in section
628a(f) of this title.’’; and
(D) in paragraph (4), as redesignated by
subparagraph (B)—
(i) by striking ‘‘The appointment’’ and in-
serting ‘‘(A) Except as provided in subpara-
graph (B), the appointment’’; and
(ii) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(B) In the case of an officer whose pro-
motion is delayed pursuant to paragraph
(1)(F), requirements applicable to notice and
opportunity for response to such delay are
specified in section 628a(c)(3) of this title.’’.
(b) RESERVE OFFICERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 1407 of title 10,
United States Code, is amended by inserting
after section 14502 the following new section:
‘‘§ 14502a. Special selection review boards
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—(1) If the Secretary of
the military department concerned deter-
mines that a person recommended by a pro-
motion board for promotion to a grade at or
below the grade of major general or rear ad-
miral in the Navy is the subject of credible
information of an adverse nature, including
any substantiated adverse finding or conclu-
sion described in section 14107(a)(3)(A) of this
title, that was not furnished to the pro-
motion board during its consideration of the
person for promotion as otherwise required
by such section, the Secretary shall convene
a special selection review board under this
section to review the person and recommend
whether the recommendation for promotion
of the person should be sustained.
‘‘(2) If a person and the recommendation
for promotion of the person is subject to re-
view under this section by a special selection
review board convened under this section,
the name of the person—
‘‘(A) shall not be disseminated or publicly
released on the list of officers recommended
for promotion by the promotion board rec-
ommending the promotion of the person; and
‘‘(B) shall not be forwarded to the Sec-
retary of Defense, the President, or the Sen-
ate, as applicable, or included on a pro-
motion list under section 14308(a) of this
title.
‘‘(b) CONVENING.—(1) Any special selection
review board convened under this section
shall be convened in accordance with the
provisions of section 14502(b)(2) of this title.
‘‘(2) Any special selection review board
convened under this section may review such
number of persons, and recommendations for
promotion of such persons, as the Secretary
of the military department concerned shall
specify in convening such special selection
review board.
‘‘(c) INFORMATION CONSIDERED.—(1) In re-
viewing a person and recommending whether
the recommendation for promotion of the
person should be sustained under this sec-
tion, a special selection review board con-
vened under this section shall be furnished
and consider the following:
‘‘(A) The record and information con-
cerning the person furnished in accordance
with section 14107(a)(2) of this title to the
promotion board that recommended the per-
son for promotion.
‘‘(B) Any credible information of an ad-
verse nature on the person, including any
substantiated adverse finding or conclusion
from an officially documented investigation
or inquiry described in section 14107(a)(3)(A)
of this title.
‘‘(2) The furnishing of information to a spe-
cial selection review board under paragraph
(1)(B) shall be governed by the standards and
procedures referred to in paragraph (3)(B) of
section 14107(a) of this title applicable to the
furnishing of information described in para-
graph (3)(A) of such section to promotion
boards in accordance with that section.
‘‘(3)(A) Before information on person de-
scribed in paragraph (1)(B) is furnished to a
special selection review board for purposes of
this section, the Secretary of the military
department concerned shall ensure that—
‘‘(i) such information is made available to
the person; and
‘‘(ii) subject to subparagraphs (C) and (D),
the person is afforded a reasonable oppor-
tunity to submit comments on such informa-
tion to the special selection review board be-
fore its review of the person and the rec-
ommendation for promotion of the person
under this section.
‘‘(B) If information on an officer described
in paragraph (1)(B) is not made available to
the person as otherwise required by subpara-
graph (A)(i) due to the classification status
of such information, the person shall, to the
maximum extent practicable, be furnished a
summary of such information appropriate to
the person’s authorization for access to clas-
sified information.
‘‘(C)(i) An opportunity to submit com-
ments on information is not required for a
person under subparagraph (A)(ii) if—
‘‘(I) such information was made available
to the person in connection with the fur-
nishing of such information under section
14107(a) of this title to the promotion board
that recommended the promotion of the per-
son subject to review under this section; and
‘‘(II) the person submitted comments on
such information to that promotion board.
‘‘(ii) The comments on information of a
person described in clause (i)(II) shall be fur-
nished to the special selection review board.
‘‘(D) A person may waive either or both of
the following:
‘‘(i) The right to submit comments to a
special selection review board under sub-
paragraph (A)(ii).
‘‘(ii) The furnishing of comments to a spe-
cial selection review board under subpara-
graph (C)(ii).
‘‘(d) CONSIDERATION.—(1) In considering the
record and information on a person under
this section, the special selection review
board shall compare such record and infor-
mation with an appropriate sampling of the
records of those officers of the same com-
petitive category who were recommended for
promotion by the promotion board that rec-
ommended the person for promotion, and an
appropriate sampling of the records of those
officers who were considered by and not rec-
ommended for promotion by that promotion
board.
‘‘(2) Records and information shall be pre-
sented to a special selection review board for
purposes of paragraph (1) in a manner that
does not indicate or disclose the person or
persons for whom the special selection re-
view board was convened.
‘‘(3) In considering whether the rec-
ommendation for promotion of a person
should be sustained under this section, a spe-
cial selection review board shall, to the
greatest extent practicable, apply standards
used by the promotion board that rec-
ommended the person for promotion.
‘‘(4) The recommendation for promotion of
a person may be sustained under this section
only if the special selection review board de-
termines that the person—
‘‘(A) ranks on an order of merit created by
the special selection review board as better
qualified for promotion than the sample offi-
cer highest on the order of merit list who
was considered by and not recommended for
promotion by the promotion board con-
cerned; and
‘‘(B) is comparable in qualification for pro-
motion to those sample officers who were
recommended for promotion by that pro-
motion board.
‘‘(5) A recommendation for promotion of a
person may be sustained under this section
only by a vote of a majority of the members
of the special selection review board.
‘‘(6) If a special selection review board does
not sustain a recommendation for promotion
of a person under this section, the person
shall be considered to have failed of selection
for promotion.
‘‘(e) REPORTS.—(1) Each special selection
review board convened under this section
shall submit to the Secretary of the military
department concerned a written report,
signed by each member of the board, con-
taining the name of each person whose rec-
ommendation for promotion it recommends
for sustainment and certifying that the
board has carefully considered the record
and information of each person whose name
was referred to it.
‘‘(2) The provisions of sections 14109(c),
14110, and 14111 of this title apply to the re-
port and proceedings of a special selection
review board convened under this section in
the same manner as they apply to the report
and proceedings of a promotion board con-
vened under section 14101(a) of this title.
‘‘(f) APPOINTMENT OF PERSONS.—(1) If the
report of a special selection review board
convened under this section recommends the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6755
November 16, 2020
sustainment of the recommendation for pro-
motion to the next higher grade of a person
whose name was referred to it for review
under this section, and the President ap-
proves the report, the person shall, as soon
as practicable, be appointed to that grade in
accordance with section 14308 of this title.
‘‘(2) A person who is appointed to the next
higher grade as described in paragraph (1)
shall, upon that appointment, have the same
date of rank, the same effective date for the
pay and allowances of that grade, and the
same position on the reserve active-status
list as the person would have had pursuant
to the original recommendation for pro-
motion of the promotion board concerned.
‘‘(g) REGULATIONS.—(1) The Secretary of
Defense shall prescribe regulations to carry
out this section. Such regulations shall
apply uniformly across the military depart-
ments.
‘‘(2) Any regulation prescribed by the Sec-
retary of a military department to supple-
ment the regulations prescribed pursuant to
paragraph (1) may not take effect without
the approval of the Secretary of Defense, in
writing.
‘‘(h) PROMOTION BOARD DEFINED.—In this
section, the term ‘promotion board ’means a
selection board convened by the Secretary of
a military department under section 14101(a)
of this title.’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 1407 of
such title is amended by inserting after the
item relating to section 14502 the following
new item:
‘‘14502a. Special selection review boards.’’.
(3) DELAY IN PROMOTION.—Section 14311 of
such title is amended—
(A) in subsection (a)—
(i) in paragraph (1), by adding at the end
the following new subparagraph:
‘‘(F) The Secretary of the military depart-
ment concerned determines that credible in-
formation of adverse nature, including a sub-
stantiated adverse finding or conclusion de-
scribed in section 14107(a)(3)(A) of this title,
with respect to the officer will result in the
convening of a special selection review board
under section 14502a of this title to review
the officer and recommend whether the rec-
ommendation for promotion of the officer
should be sustained.’’; and
(ii) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(2) In the case of an officer whose pro-
motion is delayed pursuant to paragraph
(1)(F) and whose recommendation for pro-
motion is sustained, authorities for the pro-
motion of the officer are specified in section
14502a(f) of this title.’’; and
(B) in subsection (c), by adding at the end
the following new paragraph:
‘‘(3) Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and
(2), in the case of an officer whose promotion
is delayed pursuant to subsection (a)(1)(F),
requirements applicable to notice and oppor-
tunity for response to such delay are speci-
fied in section 14502a(c)(3) of this title.’’.
(c) REQUIREMENTS FOR FURNISHING AD-
VERSE INFORMATION ON REGULAR OFFICERS TO
PROMOTION SELECTION BOARDS.—
(1) EXTENSION OF REQUIREMENTS TO SPACE
FORCE REGULAR OFFICERS.—Subparagraph
(B)(i) of section 615(a)(3) of title 10, United
States Code, is amended by striking ‘‘or, in
the case of the Navy, lieutenant’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘, in the case of the Navy, lieutenant, or
in the case of the Space Force, the equiva-
lent grade’’.
(2) SATISFACTION OF REQUIREMENTS
THROUGH SPECIAL SELECTION REVIEW
BOARDS.—Such section is further amended by
adding at the end the following new subpara-
graph:
‘‘(D) With respect to the consideration of
an officer for promotion to a grade at or
below major general, in the case of the Navy,
rear admiral, or, in the case of the Space
Force, the equivalent grade, the require-
ments in subparagraphs (A) and (C) may be
met through the convening and actions of a
special selection review board with respect
to the officer under section 628a of this
title.’’.
(3) DELAYED APPLICABILITY OF REQUIRE-
MENTS TO BOARDS FOR PROMOTION OF OFFICERS
TO NON-GENERAL AND FLAG OFFICER GRADES.—
Subsection (c) of section 502 of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2020 (Public Law 116–92) is amended to read
as follows:
‘‘(c) EFFECTIVE DATE AND APPLICABILITY.—
‘‘(1) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall take effect on De-
cember 20, 2019, and shall, except as provided
in paragraph (2), apply with respect to the
proceedings of promotion selection boards
convened under section 611(a) of title 10,
United States Code, after that date.
‘‘(2) DELAYED APPLICABILITY FOR BOARDS
FOR PROMOTION TO NON-GENERAL AND FLAG OF-
FICER GRADES.—The amendments made this
section shall apply with respect to the pro-
ceedings of promotion selection boards con-
vened under section 611(a) of title 10, United
States Code, for consideration of officers for
promotion to a grade below the grade of brig-
adier general or, in the case of the Navy,
rear admiral (lower half), only if such boards
are so convened after January 1, 2021.’’.
(d) REQUIREMENTS FOR FURNISHING AD-
VERSE INFORMATION ON RESERVE OFFICERS TO
PROMOTION SELECTION BOARDS.—Section
14107(a)(3) of title 10, United States Code, is
amended—
(1) by inserting ‘‘(A)’’ after ‘‘(3)’’;
(2) in subparagraph (A), as designated by
paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘colonel, or, in the
case of the Navy, captain’’ and inserting
‘‘lieutenant colonel, or, in the case of the
Navy, commander’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraphs
‘‘(B) The standards and procedures referred
to in subparagraph (A) shall require the fur-
nishing to the selection board, and to each
individual member of the board, the informa-
tion described in that subparagraph with re-
gard to an officer in a grade specified in that
subparagraph at each stage or phase of the
selection board, concurrent with the screen-
ing, rating, assessment, evaluation, discus-
sion, or other consideration by the board or
member of the official military personnel
file of the officer, or of the officer.
‘‘(C) With respect to the consideration of
an officer for promotion to a grade at or
below major general or, in the Navy, rear ad-
miral, the requirements in subparagraphs (A)
and (B) may be met through the convening
and actions of a special selection board with
respect to the officer under section 14502a of
this title.’’.
SEC. 505. NUMBER OF OPPORTUNITIES FOR CON-
SIDERATION FOR PROMOTION
UNDER ALTERNATIVE PROMOTION
AUTHORITY.
Section 649c of title 10, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (d) as sub-
section (e); and
(2) by inserting after subsection (c) the fol-
lowing new subsection (d):
‘‘(d) INAPPLICABILITY OF REQUIREMENT RE-
LATING TO OPPORTUNITIES FOR CONSIDERATION
FOR PROMOTION.—Section 645(1)(A)(i)(I) of
this title shall not apply to the promotion of
officers described in subsection (a) to the ex-
tent that such section is inconsistent with a
number of opportunities for promotion speci-
fied pursuant to section 649d of this title.’’.
SEC. 506. MANDATORY RETIREMENT FOR AGE.
(a) GENERAL RULE.—Subsection (a) of sec-
tion 1251 of title 10, United States Code, is
amended—
(1) by inserting ‘‘Space Force,’’ after ‘‘or
Marine Corps,’’; and
(2) by inserting ‘‘or separated, as specified
in subsection (e),’’ after ‘‘shall be retired’’.
(b) DEFERRED RETIREMENT OR SEPARATION
OF HEALTH PROFESSIONS OFFICERS.—Sub-
section (b) of such section is amended—
(1) in the subsection heading, by inserting
‘‘OR SEPARATION’’ after ‘‘RETIREMENT’’; and
(2) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘or sepa-
ration’’ after ‘‘retirement’’.
(c) DEFERRED RETIREMENT OR SEPARATION
OF OTHER OFFICERS.—Subsection (c) of such
section is amended—
(1) in the subsection heading, by striking
‘‘OF CHAPLAINS’’ and inserting ‘‘OR SEPARA-
TION OF OTHER OFFICERS’’;
(2) by inserting ‘‘or separation’’ after ‘‘re-
tirement’’; and
(3) by striking ‘‘an officer who is appointed
or designated as a chaplain’’ and inserting
‘‘any officer other than a health professions
officer described in subsection (b)(2)’’.
(d) RETIREMENT OR SEPARATION BASED ON
YEARS OF CREDITABLE SERVICE.—Such sec-
tion is further amended by adding at the end
the following new subsection:
‘‘(e) RETIREMENT OR SEPARATION BASED ON
YEARS OF CREDITABLE SERVICE.—The fol-
lowing rules shall apply to a regular commis-
sioned officer who is to be retired or sepa-
rated under subsection (a):
‘‘(1) If the officer has at least 6 but fewer
than 20 years of creditable service, the offi-
cer shall be separated, with separation pay
computed under section 1174(d)(1) of this
title.
‘‘(2) If the officer has fewer than 6 years of
creditable service, the officer shall be sepa-
rated under subsection (a).’’.
SEC. 507. CLARIFYING AND IMPROVING RESTATE-
MENT OF RULES ON THE RETIRED
GRADE OF COMMISSIONED OFFI-
CERS.
(a) RESTATEMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 69 of title 10,
United States Code, is amended by striking
section 1370 and inserting the following new
sections:
‘‘§ 1370. Regular commissioned officers
‘‘(a) RETIREMENT IN HIGHEST GRADE IN
WHICH SERVED SATISFACTORILY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Unless entitled to a dif-
ferent retired grade under some other provi-
sion of law, a commissioned officer (other
than a commissioned warrant officer) of the
Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or
Space Force who retires under any provision
of law other than chapter 61 or 1223 of this
title shall be retired in the highest perma-
nent grade in which such officer is deter-
mined to have served on active duty satisfac-
torily.
‘‘(2) DETERMINATION OF SATISFACTORY SERV-
ICE.—The determination of satisfactory serv-
ice of an officer in a grade under paragraph
(1) shall be made as follows:
‘‘(A) By the Secretary of the military de-
partment concerned, if the officer is serving
in a grade at or below the grade of major
general, rear admiral in the Navy, or the
equivalent grade in the Space Force.
‘‘(B) By the Secretary of Defense, if the of-
ficer is serving or has served in a grade above
the grade of major general, rear admiral in
the Navy, or the equivalent grade in the
Space Force.
‘‘(3) EFFECT OF MISCONDUCT IN LOWER GRADE
IN DETERMINATION.—If the Secretary of a
military department or the Secretary of De-
fense, as applicable, determines that an offi-
cer committed misconduct in a lower grade
than the retirement grade otherwise pro-
vided for the officer by this section—
‘‘(A) such Secretary may deem the officer
to have not served satisfactorily in any
grade equal to or higher than such lower
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00069 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6756 November 16, 2020
grade for purposes of determining the retire-
ment grade of the officer under this section;
and
‘‘(B) the grade next lower to such lower
grade shall be the retired grade of the officer
under this section.
‘‘(4) NATURE OF RETIREMENT OF CERTAIN RE-
SERVE OFFICERS AND OFFICERS IN TEMPORARY
GRADES.—A reserve officer, or an officer ap-
pointed to a position under section 601 of
this title, who is notified that the officer will
be released from active duty without the of-
ficer’s consent and thereafter requests re-
tirement under section 7311, 8323, or 9311 of
this title and is retired pursuant to that re-
quest is considered for purposes of this sec-
tion to have been retired involuntarily.
‘‘(5) NATURE OF RETIREMENT OF CERTAIN RE-
MOVED OFFICERS.—An officer retired pursu-
ant to section 1186(b)(1) of this title is con-
sidered for purposes of this section to have
been retired voluntarily.
‘‘(b) RETIREMENT OF OFFICERS RETIRING
VOLUNTARILY.—
‘‘(1) SERVICE-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENT.—In
order to be eligible for voluntary retirement
under any provision of this title in a grade
above the grade of captain in the Army, Air
Force, or Marine Corps, lieutenant in the
Navy, or the equivalent grade in the Space
Force, a commissioned officer of the Army,
Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Space
Force must have served on active duty in
that grade for a period of not less than three
years, except that—
‘‘(A) subject to subsection (c), the Sec-
retary of Defense may reduce such period to
a period of not less than two years for any
officer; and
‘‘(B) in the case of an officer to be retired
in a grade at or below the grade of major
general in the Army, Air Force, or Marine
Corps, rear admiral in the Navy, or an equiv-
alent grade in the Space Force, the Sec-
retary of Defense may authorize the Sec-
retary of the military department concerned
to reduce such period to a period of not less
than two years.
‘‘(2) LIMITATION ON DELEGATION.—The au-
thority of the Secretary of Defense in sub-
paragraph (A) of paragraph (1) may not be
delegated. The authority of the Secretary of
a military department in subparagraph (B) of
paragraph (1), as delegated to such Secretary
pursuant to such subparagraph, may not be
further delegated.
‘‘(3) WAIVER OF REQUIREMENT.—Subject to
subsection (c), the President may waive the
application of the service-in-grade require-
ment in paragraph (1) to officers covered by
that paragraph in individual cases involving
extreme hardship or exceptional or unusual
circumstances. The authority of the Presi-
dent under this paragraph may not be dele-
gated.
‘‘(4) LIMITATION ON REDUCTION OR WAIVER OF
REQUIREMENT FOR OFFICERS UNDER INVESTIGA-
TION OR PENDING MISCONDUCT.—In the case of
an officer to be retired in a grade above the
grade of colonel in the Army, Air Force, or
Marine Corps, captain in the Navy, or the
equivalent grade in the Space Force, the
service-in-grade requirement in paragraph
(1) may not be reduced pursuant to that
paragraph, or waived pursuant to paragraph
(3), while the officer is under investigation
for alleged misconduct or while there is
pending the disposition of an adverse per-
sonnel action against the officer.
‘‘(5) GRADE AND FISCAL YEAR LIMITATIONS
ON REDUCTION OR WAIVER OF REQUIREMENTS.—
The aggregate number of members of an
armed force in a grade for whom reductions
are made under paragraph (1), and waivers
are made under paragraph (3), in a fiscal year
may not exceed—
‘‘(A) in the case of officers to be retired in
a grade at or below the grade of major in the
Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, lieuten-
ant commander in the Navy, or the equiva-
lent grade in the Space Force, the number
equal to two percent of the authorized ac-
tive-duty strength for that fiscal year for of-
ficers of that armed force in that grade;
‘‘(B) in the case of officers to be retired in
the grade of lieutenant colonel or colonel in
the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, com-
mander or captain in the Navy, or an equiva-
lent grade in the Space Force, the number
equal to four percent of the authorized ac-
tive-duty strength for that fiscal year for of-
ficers of that armed force in the applicable
grade; or
‘‘(C) in the case of officers to be retired in
the grade of brigadier general or major gen-
eral in the Army, Air Force, or Marine
Corps, rear admiral (lower half) or rear ad-
miral in the Navy, or an equivalent grade in
the Space Force, the number equal to 10 per-
cent of the authorized active-duty strength
for that fiscal year for officers of that armed
force in the applicable grade.
‘‘(6) NOTICE TO CONGRESS ON REDUCTION OR
WAIVER OF REQUIREMENTS FOR GENERAL, FLAG,
AND EQUIVALENT OFFICER GRADES.—In the
case of an officer to be retired in a grade
that is a general or flag officer grade, or an
equivalent grade in the Space Force, who is
eligible to retire in that grade only by rea-
son of an exercise of the authority in para-
graph (1) to reduce the service-in-grade re-
quirement in that paragraph, or the author-
ity in paragraph (3) to waive that require-
ment, the Secretary of Defense or the Presi-
dent, as applicable, shall, not later than 60
days prior to the date on which the officer
will be retired in that grade, notify the Com-
mittees on Armed Services of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of the exercise
of the applicable authority with respect to
that officer.
‘‘(7) RETIREMENT IN NEXT LOWEST GRADE
FOR OFFICERS NOT MEETING REQUIREMENT.—An
officer described in paragraph (1) whose
length of service in the highest grade held by
the officer while on active duty does not
meet the period of the service-in-grade re-
quirement applicable to the officer under
this subsection shall, subject to subsection
(c), be retired in the next lower grade in
which the officer served on active duty satis-
factorily, as determined by the Secretary of
the military department concerned or the
Secretary of Defense, as applicable.
‘‘(c) OFFICERS IN O–9 AND O–10 GRADES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—An officer of the Army,
Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Space
Force who is serving or has served in a posi-
tion of importance and responsibility des-
ignated by the President to carry the grade
of lieutenant general or general in the Army,
Air Force, or Marine Corps, vice admiral or
admiral in the Navy, or an equivalent grade
in the Space Force under section 601 of this
title may be retired in such grade under sub-
section (a) only after the Secretary of De-
fense certifies in writing to the President
and the Committees on Armed Services of
the Senate and the House of Representatives
that the officer served on active duty satis-
factorily in such grade.
‘‘(2) PROHIBITION ON DELEGATION.—The au-
thority of the Secretary of Defense to make
a certification with respect to an officer
under paragraph (1) may not be delegated.
‘‘(3) REQUIREMENTS IN CONNECTION WITH
CERTIFICATION.—A certification with respect
to an officer under paragraph (1) shall—
‘‘(A) be submitted by the Secretary of De-
fense such that it is received by the Presi-
dent and the Committees on Armed Services
of the Senate and the House of Representa-
tives not later than 60 days prior to the date
on which the officer will be retired in the
grade concerned;
‘‘(B) include an up-to-date copy of the mili-
tary biography of the officer; and
‘‘(C) include the statement of the Sec-
retary as to whether or not potentially ad-
verse, adverse, or reportable information re-
garding the officer was considered by the
Secretary in making the certification.
‘‘(4) CONSTRUCTION WITH OTHER NOTICE.—In
the case of an officer under paragraph (1) to
whom a reduction in the service-in-grade re-
quirement under subsection (b)(1) or waiver
under subsection (b)(3) applies, the require-
ment for notification under subsection (b)(6)
is satisfied if the notification is included in
the certification submitted by the Secretary
of Defense under paragraph (1).
‘‘(d) CONDITIONAL RETIREMENT GRADE AND
RETIREMENT FOR OFFICERS PENDING INVES-
TIGATION OR ADVERSE ACTION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—When an officer serving
in a grade at or below the grade of major
general in the Army, Air Force, or Marine
Corps, rear admiral in the Navy, or an equiv-
alent grade in the Space Force is under in-
vestigation for alleged misconduct or pend-
ing the disposition of an adverse personnel
action at the time of retirement, the Sec-
retary of the military department concerned
may—
‘‘(A) conditionally determine the highest
permanent grade of satisfactory service on
active duty of the officer pending completion
of the investigation or resolution of the per-
sonnel action, as applicable; and
‘‘(B) retire the officer in that conditional
grade, subject to subsection (e).
‘‘(2) OFFICERS IN O–9 AND O–10 GRADES.—
When an officer described by subsection
(c)(1) is under investigation for alleged mis-
conduct or pending the disposition of an ad-
verse personnel action at the time of retire-
ment, the Secretary of Defense may—
‘‘(A) conditionally determine the highest
permanent grade of satisfactory service on
active duty of the officer, pending comple-
tion of the investigation or personnel action,
as applicable; and
‘‘(B) retire the officer in that conditional
grade, subject to subsection (e).
‘‘(3) REDUCTION OR WAIVER OF SERVICE-IN-
GRADE REQUIREMENT PROHIBITED FOR GEN-
ERAL, FLAG, AND EQUIVALENT OFFICER
GRADES.—In conditionally determining the
retirement grade of an officer under para-
graph (1)(A) or (2)(A) of this subsection to be
a grade above the grade of colonel in the
Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, captain in
the Navy, or the equivalent grade in the
Space Force, the service-in-grade require-
ment in subsection (b)(1) may not be reduced
pursuant to subsection (b)(1) or waived pur-
suant to subsection (b)(3).
‘‘(4) PROHIBITION ON DELEGATION.—The au-
thority of the Secretary of a military depart-
ment under paragraph (1) may not be dele-
gated. The authority of the Secretary of De-
fense under paragraph (2) may not be dele-
gated.
‘‘(e) FINAL RETIREMENT GRADE FOLLOWING
RESOLUTION OF PENDING INVESTIGATION OR
ADVERSE ACTION.—
‘‘(1) NO CHANGE FROM CONDITIONAL RETIRE-
MENT GRADE.—If the resolution of an inves-
tigation or personnel action with respect to
an officer who has been retired in a condi-
tional retirement grade pursuant to sub-
section (d) results in a determination that
the conditional retirement grade in which
the officer was retired will not be changed,
the conditional retirement grade of the offi-
cer shall, subject to paragraph (3), be the
final retired grade of the officer.
‘‘(2) CHANGE FROM CONDITIONAL RETIREMENT
GRADE.—If the resolution of an investigation
or personnel action with respect to an officer
who has been retired in a conditional retire-
ment grade pursuant to subsection (d) re-
sults in a determination that the conditional
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00070 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6757
November 16, 2020
retirement grade in which the officer was re-
tired should be changed, the changed retire-
ment grade shall be the final retired grade of
the officer under this section, except that if
the final retirement grade provided for an of-
ficer pursuant to this paragraph is the grade
of lieutenant general or general in the Army,
Air Force, or Marine Corps, vice admiral or
admiral in the Navy, or an equivalent grade
in the Space Force, the requirements in sub-
section (c) shall apply in connection with the
retirement of the officer in such final retire-
ment grade.
‘‘(3) RECALCULATION OF RETIRED PAY.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—If the final retired grade
of an officer is as a result of a change under
paragraph (2), the retired pay of the officer
under chapter 71 of this title shall be recal-
culated accordingly, with any modification
of the retired pay of the officer to go into ef-
fect as of the date of the retirement of the
officer.
‘‘(B) PAYMENT OF HIGHER AMOUNT FOR PE-
RIOD OF CONDITIONAL RETIREMENT GRADE.—If
the recalculation of the retired pay of an of-
ficer results in an increase in retired pay,
the officer shall be paid the amount by which
such increased retired pay exceeded the
amount of retired pay paid the officer for re-
tirement in the officer’s conditional grade
during the period beginning on the date of
the retirement of the officer in such condi-
tional grade and ending on the effective date
of the change of the officer’s retired grade.
For an officer whose retired grade is deter-
mined pursuant to subsection (c), the effec-
tive date of the change of the officer’s re-
tired grade for purposes of this subparagraph
shall be the date that is 60 days after the
date on which the Secretary of Defense sub-
mits to the Committees on Armed Services
of the Senate and the House of Representa-
tives the certification required by subsection
(c) in connection with the retired grade of
the officer.
‘‘(C) RECOUPMENT OF OVERAGE DURING PE-
RIOD OF CONDITIONAL RETIREMENT GRADE.—If
the recalculation of the retired pay of an of-
ficer results in a decrease in retired pay,
there shall be recouped from the officer the
amount by which the amount of retired pay
paid the officer for retirement in the offi-
cer’s conditional grade exceeded such de-
creased retired pay during the period begin-
ning on the date of the retirement of the of-
ficer in such conditional grade and ending on
the effective date of the change of the offi-
cer’s retired grade.
‘‘(f) FINALITY OF RETIRED GRADE DETER-
MINATIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except for a conditional
determination authorized by subsection (d),
a determination of the retired grade of an of-
ficer pursuant to this section is administra-
tively final on the day the officer is retired,
and may not be reopened, except as provided
in paragraph (2).
‘‘(2) REOPENING.—A final determination of
the retired grade of an officer may be re-
opened as follows:
‘‘(A) If the retirement or retired grade of
the officer was procured by fraud.
‘‘(B) If substantial evidence comes to light
after the retirement that could have led to
determination of a different retired grade
under this section if known by competent
authority at the time of retirement.
‘‘(C) If a mistake of law or calculation was
made in the determination of the retired
grade.
‘‘(D) If the applicable Secretary deter-
mines, pursuant to regulations prescribed by
the Secretary of Defense, that good cause ex-
ists to reopen the determination of retired
grade.
‘‘(3) APPLICABLE SECRETARY.—For purposes
of this subsection, the applicable Secretary
for purposes of a determination or action
specified in this subsection is—
‘‘(A) the Secretary of the military depart-
ment concerned, in the case of an officer re-
tired in a grade at or below the grade of
major general in the Army, Air Force, or
Marine Corps, rear admiral in the Navy, or
the equivalent grade in the Space Force; or
‘‘(B) the Secretary of Defense, in the case
of an officer retired in a grade of lieutenant
general or general in the Army, Air Force, or
Marine Corps, vice admiral or admiral in the
Navy, or an equivalent grade in the Space
Force.
‘‘(4) NOTICE AND LIMITATION.—If a final de-
termination of the retired grade of an officer
is reopened in accordance with paragraph (2),
the applicable Secretary—
‘‘(A) shall notify the officer of the reopen-
ing; and
‘‘(B) may not make an adverse determina-
tion on the retired grade of the officer until
the officer has had a reasonable opportunity
to respond regarding the basis for the re-
opening of the officer’s retired grade.
‘‘(5) ADDITIONAL NOTICE ON REOPENING FOR
OFFICERS RETIRED IN O–9 AND O–10 GRADES.—If
the determination of the retired grade of an
officer whose retired grade was provided for
pursuant to subsection (c) is reopened, the
Secretary of Defense shall also notify the
President and the Committees on Armed
Services of the Senate and the House of Rep-
resentatives.
‘‘(6) MANNER OF MAKING OF CHANGE.—If the
retired grade of an officer is proposed to be
changed through the reopening of the final
determination of an officer’s retired grade
under this subsection, the change in grade
shall be made—
‘‘(A) in the case of an officer whose retired
grade is to be changed to a grade at or below
the grade of major general in the Army, Air
Force or Marine Corps, rear admiral in the
Navy, or the equivalent grade in the Space
Force, in accordance with subsections (a)
and (b)—
‘‘(i) by the Secretary of Defense (who may
delegate such authority only as authorized
by clause (ii)); or
‘‘(ii) if authorized by the Secretary of De-
fense, by the Secretary of the military de-
partment concerned (who may not further
delegate such authority);
‘‘(B) in the case of an officer whose retired
grade is to be changed to the grade of lieu-
tenant general or general in the Army, Air
Force, or Marine Corps, vice admiral or ad-
miral in the Navy, or an equivalent grade in
the Space Force, by the President, by and
with the advice and consent of the Senate.
‘‘(7) RECALCULATION OF RETIRED PAY.—If
the final retired grade of an officer is
changed through the reopening of the offi-
cer’s retired grade under this subsection, the
retired pay of the officer under chapter 71 of
this title shall be recalculated. Any modi-
fication of the retired pay of the officer as a
result of the change shall go into effect on
the effective date of the change of the offi-
cer’s retired grade, and the officer shall not
be entitled or subject to any changed
amount of retired pay for any period before
such effective date. An officer whose retired
grade is changed as provided in paragraph
(6)(B) shall not be entitled or subject to a
change in retired pay for any period before
the date on which the Senate provides advice
and consent for the retirement of the officer
in such grade.
‘‘(g) HIGHEST PERMANENT GRADE DE-
FINED.—In this section, the term ‘highest
permanent grade’ means a grade at or below
the grade of major general in the Army, Air
Force, or Marine Corps, rear admiral in the
Navy, or an equivalent grade in the Space
Force.
‘‘§ 1370a. Officers entitled to retired pay for
non-regular service
‘‘(a) RETIREMENT IN HIGHEST GRADE HELD
SATISFACTORILY.—Unless entitled to a dif-
ferent grade, or to credit for satisfactory
service in a different grade under some other
provision of law, a person who is entitled to
retired pay under chapter 1223 of this title
shall, upon application under section 12731 of
this title, be credited with satisfactory serv-
ice in the highest permanent grade in which
that person served satisfactorily at any time
in the armed forces, as determined by the
Secretary of the military department con-
cerned in accordance with this section.
‘‘(b) SERVICE-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENT FOR
OFFICERS IN GRADES BELOW O–5.—In order to
be credited with satisfactory service in an of-
ficer grade (other than a warrant officer
grade) below the grade of lieutenant colonel
or commander (in the case of the Navy), a
person covered by subsection (a) must have
served satisfactorily in that grade (as deter-
mined by the Secretary of the military de-
partment concerned) as a reserve commis-
sioned officer in an active status, or in a re-
tired status on active duty, for not less than
six months.
‘‘(c) SERVICE-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENT FOR
OFFICES IN GRADES ABOVE O–4.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In order to be credited
with satisfactory service in an officer grade
above major or lieutenant commander (in
the case of the Navy), a person covered by
subsection (a) must have served satisfac-
torily in that grade (as determined by the
Secretary of the military department con-
cerned) as a reserve commissioned officer in
an active status, or in a retired status on ac-
tive duty, for not less than three years.
‘‘(2) SATISFACTION OF REQUIREMENT BY CER-
TAIN OFFICERS NOT COMPLETING THREE
YEARS.—A person covered by paragraph (1)
who has completed at least six months of
satisfactory service in grade may be credited
with satisfactory service in the grade in
which serving at the time of transfer or dis-
charge, notwithstanding failure of the person
to complete three years of service in that
grade, if the person is transferred from an
active status or discharged as a reserve com-
missioned officer—
‘‘(A) solely due to the requirements of a
nondiscretionary provision of law requiring
that transfer or discharge due to the person’s
age or years of service; or
‘‘(B) because the person no longer meets
the qualifications for membership in the
Ready Reserve solely because of a physical
disability, as determined, at a minimum, by
a medical evaluation board and at the time
of such transfer or discharge the person (pur-
suant to section 12731b of this title or other-
wise) meets the service requirements estab-
lished by section 12731(a) of this title for eli-
gibility for retired pay under chapter 1223 of
this title, unless the disability is described
in section 12731b of this title.
‘‘(3) REDUCTION IN SERVICE-IN-GRADE RE-
QUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(A) OFFICERS IN GRADES BELOW GENERAL
AND FLAG OFFICER GRADES.—In the case of a
person to be retired in a grade below briga-
dier general or rear admiral (lower half) in
the Navy, the Secretary of Defense may au-
thorize the Secretary of a military depart-
ment to reduce, subject to subparagraph (B),
the three-year period of service-in-grade re-
quired by paragraph (1) to a period not less
than two years. The authority of the Sec-
retary of a military department under this
subparagraph may not be delegated.
‘‘(B) LIMITATION.—The number of reserve
commissioned officers of an armed force in
the same grade for whom a reduction is made
under subparagraph (A) during any fiscal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00071 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6758 November 16, 2020
year in the period of service-in-grade other-
wise required by paragraph (1) may not ex-
ceed the number equal to 2 percent of the
strength authorized for that fiscal year for
reserve commissioned officers of that armed
force in an active status in that grade.
‘‘(C) OFFICERS IN GENERAL AND FLAG OFFI-
CERS GRADES.—The Secretary of Defense may
reduce the three-year period of service-in-
grade required by paragraph (1) to a period
not less than two years for any person, in-
cluding a person who, upon transfer to the
Retired Reserve or discharge, is to be cred-
ited with satisfactory service in a general or
flag officer grade under that paragraph. The
authority of the Secretary of Defense under
this subparagraph may not be delegated.
‘‘(D) NOTICE TO CONGRESS ON REDUCTION IN
SERVICE-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS FOR GEN-
ERAL AND FLAG OFFICER GRADES.—In the case
of a person to be credited under this section
with satisfactory service in a grade that is a
general or flag officer grade who is eligible
to be credited with such service in that grade
only by reason of an exercise of authority in
subparagraph (C) to reduce the three-year
service-in-grade requirement otherwise ap-
plicable under paragraph (1), the Secretary
of Defense shall, not later than 60 days prior
to the date on which the person will be cred-
ited with such satisfactory service in that
grade, notify the Committees on Armed
Services of the Senate and the House of Rep-
resentatives of the exercise of authority in
subparagraph (C) with respect to that per-
son.
‘‘(4) OFFICERS SERVING IN GRADES ABOVE O–
6 INVOLUNTARILY TRANSFERRED FROM ACTIVE
STATUS.—A person covered by paragraph (1)
who has completed at least six months of
satisfactory service in a grade above colonel
or (in the case of the Navy) captain and,
while serving in an active status in such
grade, is involuntarily transferred (other
than for cause) from active status may be
credited with satisfactory service in the
grade in which serving at the time of such
transfer, notwithstanding failure of the per-
son to complete three years of service in
that grade.
‘‘(5) ADJUTANTS AND ASSISTANT ADJUTANTS
GENERAL.—If a person covered by paragraph
(1) has completed at least six months of sat-
isfactory service in grade, the person was
serving in that grade while serving in a posi-
tion of adjutant general required under sec-
tion 314 of title 32 or while serving in a posi-
tion of assistant adjutant general subordi-
nate to such a position of adjutant general,
and the person has failed to complete three
years of service in that grade solely because
the person’s appointment to such position
has been terminated or vacated as described
in section 324(b) of such title, the person may
be credited with satisfactory service in that
grade, notwithstanding the failure of the
person to complete three years of service in
that grade.
‘‘(6) OFFICERS RECOMMENDED FOR PRO-
MOTION SERVING IN CERTAIN GRADE BEFORE
PROMOTION.—To the extent authorized by the
Secretary of the military department con-
cerned, a person who, after having been rec-
ommended for promotion in a report of a
promotion board but before being promoted
to the recommended grade, served in a posi-
tion for which that grade is the minimum
authorized grade may be credited for pur-
poses of paragraph (1) as having served in
that grade for the period for which the per-
son served in that position while in the next
lower grade. The period credited may not in-
clude any period before the date on which
the Senate provides advice and consent for
the appointment of that person in the rec-
ommended grade.
‘‘(7) OFFICERS QUALIFIED FOR FEDERAL REC-
OGNITION SERVING IN CERTAIN GRADE BEFORE
APPOINTMENT.—To the extent authorized by
the Secretary of the military department
concerned, a person who, after having been
found qualified for Federal recognition in a
higher grade by a board under section 307 of
title 32, serves in a position for which that
grade is the minimum authorized grade and
is appointed as a reserve officer in that grade
may be credited for the purposes of para-
graph (1) as having served in that grade. The
period of the service for which credit is af-
forded under the preceding sentence may be
only the period for which the person served
in the position after the Senate provides ad-
vice and consent for the appointment.
‘‘(8) RETIREMENT IN NEXT LOWEST GRADE
FOR OFFICERS NOT MEETING SERVICE-IN-GRADE
REQUIREMENTS.—A person whose length of
service in the highest grade held does not
meet the service-in-grade requirements spec-
ified in this subsection shall be credited with
satisfactory service in the next lower grade
in which that person served satisfactorily (as
determined by the Secretary of the military
department concerned) for not less than six
months.
‘‘(d) OFFICERS IN O–9 AND O–10 GRADES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A person covered by this
section in the Army, Navy, Air Force, or Ma-
rine Corps who is serving or has served in a
position of importance and responsibility
designated by the President to carry the
grade of lieutenant general or general in the
Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, or vice
admiral or admiral in the Navy under sec-
tion 601 of this title may be retired in such
grade under subsection (a) only after the
Secretary of Defense certifies in writing to
the President and the Committees on Armed
Services of the Senate and the House of Rep-
resentatives that the officer served satisfac-
torily in such grade.
‘‘(2) PROHIBITION ON DELEGATION.—The au-
thority of the Secretary of Defense to make
a certification with respect to an officer
under paragraph (1) may not be delegated.
‘‘(3) REQUIREMENTS IN CONNECTION WITH
CERTIFICATION.—A certification with respect
to an officer under paragraph (1) shall—
‘‘(A) be submitted by the Secretary of De-
fense such that it is received by the Presi-
dent and the Committees on Armed Services
of the Senate and the House of Representa-
tives not later than 60 days prior to the date
on which the officer will be retired in the
grade concerned;
‘‘(B) include an up-to-date copy of the mili-
tary biography of the officer; and
‘‘(C) include the statement of the Sec-
retary as to whether or not potentially ad-
verse, adverse, or reportable information re-
garding the officer was considered by the
Secretary in making the certification.
‘‘(4) CONSTRUCTION WITH OTHER NOTICE.—In
the case of an officer under paragraph (1)
who is eligible to be credited with service in
a grade only by reason of the exercise of the
authority in subsection (c)(3)(C) to reduce
the three-year service-in-grade requirement
under subsection (c)(1), the requirement for
notification under subsection (c)(3)(D) is sat-
isfied if the notification is included in the
certification submitted by the Secretary of
Defense under paragraph (1).
‘‘(e) CONDITIONAL RETIREMENT GRADE AND
RETIREMENT FOR OFFICERS UNDER INVESTIGA-
TION FOR MISCONDUCT OR PENDING ADVERSE
PERSONNEL ACTION.—The retirement grade,
and retirement, of a person covered by this
section who is under investigation for al-
leged misconduct or pending the disposition
of an adverse personnel action at the time of
retirement is as provided for by section
1370(d) of this title. In the application of
such section 1370(d) for purposes of this sub-
section, any reference ‘active duty’ shall be
deemed not to apply, and any reference to a
provision of section 1370 of this title shall be
deemed to be a reference to the analogous
provision of this section.
‘‘(f) FINAL RETIREMENT GRADE FOLLOWING
RESOLUTION OF PENDING INVESTIGATION OR
ADVERSE ACTION.—The final retirement
grade under this section of a person de-
scribed in subsection (e) following resolution
of the investigation or personnel action con-
cerned is the final retirement grade provided
for by section 1370(e) of this title. In the ap-
plication of such section 1370(e) for purposes
of this subsection, any reference to a provi-
sion of section 1370 of this title shall be
deemed to be a reference to the analogous
provision of this section. In the application
of paragraph (3) of such section 1370e(e) for
purposes of this subsection, the reference to
‘chapter 71’ of this title shall be deemed to
be a reference to ‘chapter 1223 of this title’.
‘‘(g) FINALITY OF RETIRED GRADE DETER-
MINATIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except for a conditional
determination authorized by subsection (e),
a determination of the retired grade of a per-
son pursuant to this section is administra-
tively final on the day the person is retired,
and may not be reopened.
‘‘(2) REOPENING.—A determination of the
retired grade of a person may be reopened in
accordance with applicable provisions of sec-
tion 1370(f) of this title. In the application of
such section 1370(f) for purposes of this sub-
section, any reference to a provision of sec-
tion 1370 of this title shall be deemed to be
a reference to the analogous provision of this
section. In the application of paragraph (7) of
such section 1370(f) for purposes of this para-
graph, the reference to ‘chapter 71 of this
title’ shall be deemed to be a reference to
‘chapter 1223 of this title’.
‘‘(h) HIGHEST PERMANENT GRADE DE-
FINED.—In this section, the term ‘highest
permanent grade’ means a grade at or below
the grade of major general in the Army, Air
Force, or Marine Corps or rear admiral in
the Navy.’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 69 of
title 10, United States Code, is amended by
striking the item relating to section 1370 and
inserting the following new items:
‘‘1370. Regular commissioned officers.
‘‘1370a. Officers entitled to retired pay for
non-regular service.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AND TECHNICAL AMEND-
MENTS TO RETIRED GRADE RULES FOR THE
ARMED FORCES.—
(1) RETIRED PAY.—Title 10, United States
Code, is amended as follows:
(A) In section 1406(b)(2), by striking ‘‘sec-
tion 1370(d)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 1370a’’.
(B) In section 1407(f)(2)(B), by striking ‘‘by
reason of denial of a determination or cer-
tification under section 1370’’ and inserting
‘‘pursuant to section 1370 or 1370a’’.
(2) ARMY.—Section 7341 of such title is
amended—
(A) by striking subsection (a) and inserting
the following new subsection (a):
‘‘(a)(1) The retired grade of a regular com-
missioned officer of the Army who retires
other than for physical disability is deter-
mined under section 1370 of this title.
‘‘(2) The retired grade of a reserve commis-
sioned officer of the Army who retires other
than for physical disability is determined
under section 1370a of this title.’’; and
(B) in subsection (b)—
(i) by striking ‘‘he’’ and inserting ‘‘the
member’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘his’’ and inserting ‘‘the
member’s’’.
(3) NAVY AND MARINE CORPS.—Such title is
further amended as follows:
(A) In section 8262(a), by striking ‘‘sections
689 and 1370’’ and inserting ‘‘section 689, and
section 1370 or 1370a (as applicable),’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00072 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6759
November 16, 2020
(B) In section 8323(c), by striking ‘‘section
1370 of this title’’ and inserting ‘‘section 1370
or 1370a of this title, as applicable’’.
(4) AIR FORCE AND SPACE FORCE.—Section
9341 of such title is amended—
(A) by striking subsection (a) and inserting
the following new subsection (a):
‘‘(a)(1) The retired grade of a regular com-
missioned officer of the Air Force or the
Space Force who retires other than for phys-
ical disability is determined under section
1370 of this title.
‘‘(2) The retired grade of a reserve commis-
sioned officer of the Air Force or the Space
Force who retires other than for physical
disability is determined under section 1370a
of this title.’’; and
(B) in subsection (b)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘or a Regular or Reserve of
the Space Force’’ after ‘‘Air Force’’;
(ii) by striking ‘‘he’’ and inserting ‘‘the
member’’; and
(iii) by striking ‘‘his’’ and inserting ‘‘the
member’s’’.
(5) RESERVE OFFICERS.—Section 12771 of
such title is amended—
(A) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘section
1370(d)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 1370a of this
title’’; and
(B) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ‘‘sec-
tion 1370(d)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 1370a’’.
(c) OTHER REFERENCES.—In the determina-
tion of the retired grade of a commissioned
officer of the Armed Forces entitled to re-
tired pay under chapter 1223 of title 10,
United States Code, who retires after the
date of the enactment of this Act, any ref-
erence in a provision of law or regulation to
section 1370 of title 10, United States Code,
in such determination with respect to such
officer shall be deemed to be a reference to
section 1370a of title 10, United States Code
(as amended by subsection (a)).
SEC. 508. REPEAL OF AUTHORITY FOR ORIGINAL
APPOINTMENT OF REGULAR NAVY
OFFICERS DESIGNATED FOR ENGI-
NEERING DUTY, AERONAUTICAL EN-
GINEERING DUTY, AND SPECIAL
DUTY.
(a) REPEAL.—Section 8137 of title 10,
United States Code, is repealed.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 815 of
such title is amended by striking the item
relating to section 8137.
Subtitle B—Reserve Component Management
SEC. 511. EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN RESERVE GEN-
ERAL AND FLAG OFFICERS ON AC-
TIVE DUTY FROM LIMITATIONS ON
AUTHORIZED STRENGTHS.
(a) DUTY FOR CERTAIN RESERVE OFFICERS
UNDER JOINT DUTY LIMITED EXCLUSION.—
Subsection (b) of section 526a of title 10,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following new paragraph:
‘‘(3) DUTY FOR CERTAIN RESERVE OFFICERS.—
Of the officers designated pursuant to para-
graph (1), the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff may designate up to 15 general and
flag officer positions in the unified and speci-
fied combatant commands, and up to three
general and flag officer positions on the
Joint Staff, as positions to be held only by
reserve officers who are in a general or flag
officer grade below lieutenant general or
vice admiral. Each position so designated
shall be considered to be a joint duty assign-
ment position for purposes of chapter 38 of
this title.’’.
(b) RESERVE OFFICERS ON ACTIVE DUTY FOR
TRAINING OR FOR LESS THAN 180 DAYS.—Such
section is further amended—
(1) by redesignating subsections (c)
through (h) as subsections (d) through (i), re-
spectively; and
(2) by inserting after subsection (b) the fol-
lowing new subsection:
‘‘(c) RESERVE OFFICERS ON ACTIVE DUTY
FOR TRAINING OR FOR LESS THAN 180 DAYS.—
The limitations of this section do not apply
to a reserve general or flag officer who—
‘‘(1) is on active duty for training; or
‘‘(2) is on active duty under a call or order
specifying a period of less than 180 days.’’.
Subtitle C—General Service Authorities
SEC. 516. INCREASED ACCESS TO POTENTIAL RE-
CRUITS.
(a) SECONDARY SCHOOLS.—Section 503(c)(1)
of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (A)—
(A) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the
end;
(B) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘and tele-
phone listings,’’ and all that follows through
the period at the end and inserting ‘‘elec-
tronic mail addresses, home telephone num-
bers, and mobile telephone numbers, not-
withstanding subsection (a)(5)(B) or (b) of
section 444 of the General Education Provi-
sions Act (20 U.S.C. 1232g); and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following new
clause:
‘‘(iii) shall provide information requested
pursuant to clause (ii) within a reasonable
period of time, but in no event later than 60
days after the date of the request.’’; and
(2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘and
telephone listing’’ and inserting ‘‘electronic
mail address, home telephone number, or
mobile telephone number’’.
(b) INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION.—
Section 983(b) of such title is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘or’’ at the
end;
(2) in paragraph (2)—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘and
telephone listings’’ and inserting ‘‘electronic
mail addresses, home telephone numbers,
and mobile telephone numbers, which infor-
mation shall be made available not later
than 60 days after the start of classes for the
current semester or not later than 60 days
after the date of a request, whichever is
later’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; or’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(3) access by military recruiters for pur-
poses of military recruiting to lists of stu-
dents (who are 17 years of age or older) not
returning to the institution after having
been enrolled during the previous semester,
together with student recruiting information
and the reason why the student did not re-
turn, if collected by the institution.’’.
SEC. 517. TEMPORARY AUTHORITY TO ORDER RE-
TIRED MEMBERS TO ACTIVE DUTY
IN HIGH-DEMAND, LOW-DENSITY AS-
SIGNMENTS DURING WAR OR NA-
TIONAL EMERGENCY.
Section 688a of title 10, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (g) as sub-
section (h); and
(2) by inserting after subsection (f) the fol-
lowing new subsection (g):
‘‘(g) EXCEPTIONS DURING PERIODS OF WAR
OR NATIONAL EMERGENCY.—The limitations
in subsections (c) and (f) shall not apply dur-
ing a time of war or of national emergency
declared by Congress or the President.’’.
SEC. 518. CERTIFICATE OF RELEASE OR DIS-
CHARGE FROM ACTIVE DUTY (DD
FORM 214) MATTERS.
(a) REDESIGNATION AS CERTIFICATE OF MILI-
TARY SERVICE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Department of Defense
Form DD 214, the Certificate of Release or
Discharge from Active Duty, is hereby redes-
ignated as the Certificate of Military Serv-
ice.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
1168(a) of title 10, United States Code, is
amended by striking ‘‘discharge certificate
or certificate of release from active duty, re-
spectively,’’ and inserting ‘‘Certificate of
Military Serve’’.
(3) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law,
regulation, document, paper, or other record
of the United States to Department of De-
fense Form DD 214, the Certificate of Release
or Discharge from Active Duty, shall be
deemed to be a reference to the Certificate of
Military Service.
(4) TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.—Such section
1168(a) is further amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘until his’’ and inserting
‘‘until the member’s’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘his final pay’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘the member’s final pay’’; and
(C) by striking ‘‘him or his next of kin’’
and inserting ‘‘the member or the member’s
next of kin’’.
(5) EFFECTIVE DATES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), this subsection and the
amendments made by this subsection shall
take effect on the date provided for in sub-
section (d) of section 569 of the National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020
(Public Law 116–92), as redesignated by sub-
section (b)(1)(B) of this section.
(B) TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.—The amend-
ments made by paragraph (4) of this sub-
section shall take effect on the date of the
enactment of this Act.
(b) ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 569 of the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2020 is amended—
(A) in subsection (a)—
(i) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2)
as paragraphs (2) and (4), respectively;
(ii) by inserting before paragraph (2), as re-
designated by clause (i), the following new
paragraph (1);
‘‘(1) redesignate such form as the Certifi-
cate of Military Service;’’.
(iii) in paragraph (2), as so redesignated, by
striking ‘‘and’’ at the end; and
(iv) by inserting after paragraph (2), as so
redesignated, the following new paragraph:
‘‘(3) provide for a standard total force
record of military service for all members of
the Armed Forces, including member of the
reserve components, that summarizes the
record of service for each member; and’’;
(B) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c)
as subsections (d) and (e), respectively;
(C) by inserting after subsection (a) the fol-
lowing new subsections:
‘‘(b) ISSUANCE TO RESERVES.—The Sec-
retary of Defense shall provide for the
issuance of the Certificate of Military Serv-
ice, as modified pursuant to subsection (a),
to members of the reserve components of the
Armed Forces at such times during their
military service as is appropriate to facili-
tate their access to benefits under the laws
administered by the Secretary of Veterans
Affairs.
‘‘(c) COORDINATION.—In carrying out this
section, the Secretary of Defense shall co-
ordinate with the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs to ensure that the Certificate of Mili-
tary Service, as modified pursuant to sub-
section (a), is recognized as the Certificate of
Military Service referred to in section 1168(a)
of title 10, United States Code, and for the
purposes of establishing eligibility for appli-
cable benefits under the laws administered
by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.’’; and
(D) in subsection (d), as redesignated by
subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘a revised Cer-
tificate of Release or Discharge from Active
Duty (DD Form 214), modified’’ and inserting
‘‘the Certificate of Military Service, as modi-
fied’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The heading
of such section 569 is amended to read as fol-
lows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00073 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6760 November 16, 2020
‘‘SEC. 569. CERTIFICATE OF RELEASE OR DIS-
CHARGE FROM ACTIVE DUTY (DD
FORM 214) MATTERS.’’.
(3) REPEAL OF SUPERSEDED REQUIRE-
MENTS.—Section 570 of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 is re-
pealed.
SEC. 519. EVALUATION OF BARRIERS TO MINOR-
ITY PARTICIPATION IN CERTAIN
UNITS OF THE ARMED FORCES.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress makes the fol-
lowing findings:
(1) In 1999, the RAND Corporation issued a
report entitled ‘‘Barriers to Minority Par-
ticipation in Special Operations Forces’’
that was sponsored by United States Special
Operations Command.
(2) In 2018, the RAND Corporation issued a
report entitles ‘‘Understanding Demographic
Differences in Undergraduate Pilot Training
Attrition’’ that was sponsored by the Air
Force.
(3) No significant independent study has
been performed by a federally funded re-
search and development center into increas-
ing minority participation in the special op-
erations forces since 1999.
(b) STUDY REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense shall, acting
through the Under Secretary of Defense for
Personnel and Readiness, seek to enter into
an agreement with a federally funded re-
search and development center.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The evaluation under para-
graph (1) shall include the following ele-
ments:
(A) A description of the racial, ethnic, and
gender composition of covered units.
(B) A comparison of the participation rates
of minority populations in covered units to
participation rates of the general population
as members and as officers of the Armed
Forces.
(C) A comparison of the percentage of mi-
nority officers in the grade of O–7 or higher
who have served in each covered unit to such
percentage for all such officers in the Armed
Force of that covered unit.
(D) An identification of barriers to minor-
ity participation in the accession, assess-
ment, and training processes.
(E) The status and effectiveness of the re-
sponse to the recommendations contained in
the report referred to in subsection (a)(1) and
any follow-up recommendations.
(F) Recommendations to increase the num-
bers of minority officers in the Armed
Forces.
(G) Recommendations to increase minority
participation in covered units.
(H) Any other matters the Secretary deter-
mines appropriate.
(3) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—The Secretary
shall—
(A) submit to the congressional defense
committees a report on the results of the
study by not later than January 1, 2022; and
(B) provide interim briefings to such com-
mittees upon request.
(c) DESIGNATION.—The study conducted
under subsection (b) shall be known as the
‘‘Study on Reducing Barriers to Minority
Participation in Elite Units in the Armed
Services’’.
(d) IMPLEMENTATION PLAN.—The Secretary
shall submit to the congressional defense
committees a report setting forth an imple-
mentation plan for the recommendations
that the Secretary implements under this
section, including—
(1) the response of the Secretary to each
such recommendation;
(2) a summary of actions the Secretary has
carried out, or intends to carry out, to im-
plement such recommendations, as appro-
priate; and
(3) a schedule, with specific milestones, for
completing the implementation of such rec-
ommendations.
(e) COVERED UNITS DEFINED.—In this sec-
tion, the term ‘‘covered units’’ means the
following:
(1) Any forces designated by the Secretary
as special operations forces.
(2) Air Force Combat Control Teams.
(3) Air Force Pararescue.
(4) Marine Corps Force Reconnaissance.
(5) Coast Guard Deployable Operations
Group.
(6) Pilot and navigator military occupa-
tional specialties.
SEC. 520. REPORTS ON DIVERSITY AND INCLU-
SION IN THE ARMED FORCES.
(a) REPORT ON FINDINGS OF DEFENSE BOARD
ON DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION IN THE MILI-
TARY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Upon the completion by
the Defense Board on Diversity and Inclusion
in the Military of its report on actionable
recommendations to increase racial diver-
sity and ensure equal opportunity across all
grades of the Armed Forces, the Secretary of
Defense shall submit to the Committee on
Armed Services of the Senate and the House
of Representatives a report on the report of
the Defense Board, including the findings
and recommendations of the Defense Board.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The report required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) A comprehensive description of the
findings and recommendations of the De-
fense Board in its report referred to in para-
graph (1).
(B) A comprehensive description of any ac-
tionable recommendations of the Defense
Board in its report.
(C) A description of the actions proposed to
be undertaken by the Secretary in connec-
tion with such recommendations, and a
timeline for implementation of such actions.
(D) A description of the resources used by
the Defense Board for its report, and a de-
scription and assessment of any shortfalls in
such resources for purposes of the Defense
Board.
(b) REPORT ON DEFENSE ADVISORY COM-
MITTEE ON DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION IN THE
ARMED FORCES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—At the same time the Sec-
retary of Defense submits the report re-
quired by subsection (a), the Secretary shall
also submit to the Committee on Armed
Services of the Senate and the House of Rep-
resentatives a report on the Defense Advi-
sory Committee on Diversity and Inclusion
in the Armed Forces.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The report required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) The mission statement or purpose of
the Advisory Committee, and any proposed
objectives and goals of the Advisory Com-
mittee.
(B) A description of current members of
the Advisory Committee and the criteria
used for selecting members.
(C) A description of the duties and scope of
activities of the Advisory Committee.
(D) The reporting structure of the Advi-
sory Committee.
(E) An estimate of the annual operating
costs and staff years of the Advisory Com-
mittee.
(F) An estimate of the number and fre-
quency of meetings of the Advisory Com-
mittee.
(G) Any subcommittees, established or pro-
posed, that would support the Advisory Com-
mittee.
(H) Such recommendations for legislative
or administrative action as the Secretary
considers appropriate to extend the term of
the Advisory Committee beyond the pro-
posed termination date of the Advisory Com-
mittee.
(c) REPORT ON CURRENT DIVERSITY AND IN-
CLUSION IN THE ARMED FORCES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—At the same time the Sec-
retary of Defense submits the reports re-
quired by subsections (a) and (b), the Sec-
retary shall also submit to the Committee
on Armed Services of the Senate and the
House of Representatives a report on current
diversity and inclusion in the Armed Forces.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The report required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) An identification of the current racial,
ethnic, and sex composition of each Armed
Force generally.
(B) An identification of the current racial,
ethnic, and sex composition of each Armed
Force by grade.
(C) A comparison of the participation rates
of minority populations in officer grades,
warrant officer grades, and enlisted member
grades in each Armed Force with the per-
centage of such populations among the gen-
eral population.
(D) A comparison of the participation rates
of minority populations in each career field
in each Armed Force with the percentage of
such populations among the general popu-
lation.
(E) A comparison among the Armed Forces
of the percentage of minority populations in
each officer grade above grade O–4.
(F) A comparison among the Armed Forces
of the percentage of minority populations in
each enlisted grade above grade E–6.
(G) A description and assessment of bar-
riers to minority participation in the Armed
Forces in connection with accession, assess-
ment, and training.
(d) SENSE OF SENATE ON DEFENSE ADVISORY
COMMITTEE ON DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION IN
THE ARMED FORCES.—It is the sense of the
Senate that the Defense Advisory Committee
on Diversity and Inclusion in the Armed
Forces—
(1) should consist of diverse group of indi-
viduals, including—
(A) a general or flag officer from each reg-
ular component of the Armed Forces;
(B) a retired general or flag officer from
not fewer than two of the Armed Forces;
(C) a regular officer of the Armed Forces in
a grade O–5 or lower;
(D) a regular enlisted member of the
Armed Forces in a grade E–7 or higher;
(E) a regular enlisted member of the
Armed Forces in a grade E–6 or lower;
(F) a member of a reserve component of
the Armed Forces in any grade;
(G) a member of the Department of Defense
civilian workforce;
(H) an member of the academic community
with expertise in diversity studies; and
(I) an individual with appropriate expertise
in diversity and inclusion;
(2) should include individuals from a vari-
ety of military career paths, including—
(A) aviation;
(B) special operations;
(C) intelligence;
(D) cyber;
(E) space; and
(F) surface warfare;
(3) should have a membership such that
not fewer than 20 percent of members pos-
sess—
(A) a firm understanding of the role of
mentorship and best practices in finding and
utilizing mentors;
(B) experience and expertise in change of
culture of large organizations; or
(C) experience and expertise in implemen-
tation science; and
(4) should focus on objectives that ad-
dress—
(A) barriers to promotion within the
Armed Forces, including development of rec-
ommendations on mechanisms to enhance
and increase racial diversity and ensure
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00074 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6761
November 16, 2020
equal opportunity across all grades in the
Armed Forces;
(B) participation of minority officers and
senior noncommissioned officers in the
Armed Forces, including development of rec-
ommendations on mechanisms to enhance
and increase such participation;
(C) recruitment of minority candidates for
innovative pre-service programs in the Jun-
ior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps
(JROTC), Senior Reserve Officers’ Training
Corps (SROTC), and military service acad-
emies, including programs in connection
with flight instruction, special operations,
and national security, including develop-
ment of recommendations on mechanisms to
enhance and increase such recruitment;
(D) retention of minority individuals in
senior leadership and mentorship positions
in the Armed Forces, including development
of recommendations on mechanisms to en-
hance and increase such retention; and
(E) achievement of cultural and ethnic di-
versity in recruitment for the Armed Forces,
including development of recommendations
on mechanisms to enhance and increase such
diversity in recruitment.
Subtitle D—Military Justice and Related
Matters
PART I—INVESTIGATION, PROSECUTION,
AND DEFENSE OF SEXUAL ASSAULT AND
RELATED MATTERS
SEC. 521. MODIFICATION OF TIME REQUIRED FOR
EXPEDITED DECISIONS IN CONNEC-
TION WITH APPLICATIONS FOR
CHANGE OF STATION OR UNIT
TRANSFER OF MEMBERS WHO ARE
VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT OR
RELATED OFFENSES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 673(b) of title 10,
United States Code, is amended by striking
‘‘72 hours’’ both places it appears and insert-
ing ‘‘five calendar days’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by subsection (a) shall take effect on
the date of the enactment of this Act, and
shall apply to decisions on applications for
permanent change of station or unit transfer
made under section 673 of title 10, United
States Code, on or after that date.
SEC. 522. DEFENSE ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR
THE PREVENTION OF SEXUAL MIS-
CONDUCT.
Section 550B of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public
Law 116–92) is amended—
(1) in subsection (c)(1)(B), by inserting ‘‘,
including the United States Coast Guard
Academy,’’ after ‘‘academy’’;
(2) by redesignating subsections (d), (e),
and (f) as subsections (e), (f), and (g), respec-
tively;
(3) by inserting after subsection (c) the fol-
lowing new subsection (d):
‘‘(d) ADVISORY DUTIES ON COAST GUARD
ACADEMY.—In providing advice under sub-
section (c)(1)(B), the Advisory Committee
shall also advise the Secretary of the Depart-
ment in which the Coast Guard is operating
in accordance with this section on policies,
programs, and practices of the United States
Coast Guard Academy.’’; and
(4) in subsection (e) and paragraph (2) of
subsection (g), as redesignated by paragraph
(2) of this section, by striking ‘‘the Commit-
tees on Armed Services of the Senate and the
House of Representatives’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘the Committees on
Armed Services and Commerce, Science, and
Transportation of the Senate and the Com-
mittees on Armed Services and Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure of the House of
Representatives’’.
SEC. 523. REPORT ON ABILITY OF SEXUAL AS-
SAULT RESPONSE COORDINATORS
AND SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION
AND RESPONSE VICTIM ADVOCATES
TO PERFORM DUTIES.
(a) SURVEY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than June 30,
2021, the Secretary of Defense shall conduct
a survey regarding the ability of Sexual As-
sault Response Coordinators and Sexual As-
sault Prevention and Response Victim Advo-
cates to perform their duties.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The survey required under
paragraph (1) shall assess—
(A) the current state of support provided to
Sexual Assault Response Coordinators and
Sexual Assault Prevention and Response
Victim Advocates, including—
(i) perceived professional or other reprisal
or retaliation; and
(ii) access to sufficient physical and men-
tal health services as a result of the nature
of their work;
(B) the ability of Sexual Assault Response
Coordinators and Sexual Assault Prevention
and Response Victim Advocates to contact
and access their installation commander or
unit commander;
(C) the ability of Sexual Assault Response
Coordinators and Sexual Assault Prevention
and Response Victim Advocates to contact
and access the immediate commander of vic-
tims and alleged offenders;
(D) the responsiveness and receptiveness of
commanders to the Sexual Assault Response
Coordinators;
(E) the support and services provided to
victims of sexual assault;
(F) the understanding of others of the proc-
ess and their willingness to assist;
(G) the adequacy of the training received
by Sexual Assault Response Coordinators
and Sexual Assault Prevention and Response
Victim Advocates to effectively perform
their duties; and
(H) any other factors affecting the ability
of Sexual Assault Response Coordinators and
Sexual Assault Prevention and Response
Victim Advocates to perform their duties.
(b) REPORT.—Upon completion of the sur-
vey required under subsection (a), the Sec-
retary of Defense shall submit to the Com-
mittees on Armed Services of the Senate and
the House of Representatives a report on the
results of the survey and any actions to be
taken as a result of the survey.
SEC. 524. BRIEFING ON SPECIAL VICTIMS’ COUN-
SEL PROGRAM.
(a) BRIEFING REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Judge Advocates General of the
Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the
Coast Guard, and the Staff Judge Advocate
to the Commandant of the Marine Corps
shall each provide to the congressional de-
fense committees a briefing on the status of
the Special Victims’ Counsel program of the
Armed Force concerned.
(b) ELEMENTS.—Each briefing under sub-
section (a) shall include, with respect to the
Special Victims Counsel program of the
Armed Force concerned, the following:
(1) An assessment of whether the Armed
Force is in compliance with the provisions of
the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92) relating
to the Special Victims Counsel program and,
if not, what steps have been taken to achieve
compliance with such provisions.
(2) An estimate of the average caseload of
each Special Victims’ Counsel.
(3) A description of any staffing shortfalls
in the Special Victims’ Counsel program or
other programs of the Armed Force resulting
from the additional responsibilities required
of the Special Victims’ Counsel program
under the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2020.
(4) An explanation of the ability of Special
Victims’ Counsel to adhere to requirement
that a counsel respond to a request for serv-
ices within 72 hours of receiving such re-
quest.
(5) An assessment of the feasibility of pro-
viding cross-service Special Victims’ Counsel
representation in instances where a Special
Victims’ Counsel from a different Armed
Force is co-located with a victim at a remote
base.
SEC. 525. ACCOUNTABILITY OF LEADERSHIP OF
THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FOR
DISCHARGING THE SEXUAL HARASS-
MENT POLICIES AND PROGRAMS OF
THE DEPARTMENT.
(a) STRATEGY ON HOLDING LEADERSHIP AC-
COUNTABLE REQUIRED.—The Secretary of De-
fense shall develop and implement Depart-
ment of Defense-wide a strategy to hold indi-
viduals in positions of leadership in the De-
partment (including members of the Armed
Forces and civilians) accountable for the
promotion, support, and enforcement of the
policies and programs of the Department on
sexual harassment.
(b) OVERSIGHT FRAMEWORK.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The strategy required by
subsection (a) shall provide for an oversight
framework for the efforts of the Department
of Defense to promote, support, and enforce
the policies and programs of the Department
on sexual harassment.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The oversight framework
required by paragraph (1) shall include the
following:
(A) Long-term goals, objectives, and mile-
stones in connection with the policies and
programs of the Department on sexual har-
assment.
(B) Strategies to achieve the goals, objec-
tives, and milestones referred to in subpara-
graph (A).
(C) Criteria for assessing progress toward
the achievement of the goals, objectives, and
milestones referred to in subparagraph (A).
(D) Criteria for assessing the effectiveness
of the policies and programs of the Depart-
ment on sexual harassment.
(E) Mechanisms to ensure that adequate
resources are available to the Office to de-
velop and discharge the oversight frame-
work.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than one year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate
and the House of Representatives a report on
the actions taken to carry out this section,
including the strategy developed and imple-
mented pursuant to subsection, and the over-
sight framework developed and implemented
pursuant to subsection (b).
SEC. 526. SAFE-TO-REPORT POLICY APPLICABLE
ACROSS THE ARMED FORCES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense
shall, in consultation with the Secretaries of
the military departments, prescribe in regu-
lations a safe-to-report policy described in
subsection (b) that applies with respect to all
members of the Armed Forces (including
members of the reserve components of the
Armed Forces) and cadets and midshipmen
at the military service academies.
(b) SAFE-TO-REPORT POLICY.—The safe-to-
report policy described in this subsection is
a policy that prescribes the handling of
minor collateral misconduct involving a
member of the Armed Forces who is the al-
leged victim of sexual assault.
(c) AGGRAVATING CIRCUMSTANCES.—The
regulations under subsection (a) shall specify
aggravating circumstances that increase the
gravity of minor collateral misconduct or its
impact on good order and discipline for pur-
poses of the safe-to-report policy.
(d) TRACKING OF COLLATERAL MISCONDUCT
INCIDENTS.—In conjunction with the issuance
of regulations under subsection (a), Sec-
retary shall develop and implement a process
to track incidents of minor collateral mis-
conduct that are subject to the safe-to-re-
port policy.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00075 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6762 November 16, 2020
(e) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) The term ‘‘Armed Forces’’ has the
meaning given that term in section 101(a)(4)
of title 10, United States Code, except such
term does not include the Coast Guard.
(2) The term ‘‘military service academy’’
means the following:
(A) The United States Military Academy.
(B) The United States Naval Academy.
(C) The United States Air Force Academy.
(3) The term ‘‘minor collateral mis-
conduct’’ means any minor misconduct that
is potentially punishable under chapter 47 of
title 10, United States Code (the Uniform
Code of Military Justice), that—
(A) is committed close in time to or during
the sexual assault, and directly related to
the incident that formed the basis of the sex-
ual assault allegation;
(B) is discovered as a direct result of the
report of sexual assault or the ensuing inves-
tigation into the sexual assault; and
(C) does not involve aggravating cir-
cumstances (as specified in the regulations
prescribed under subsection (c)) that in-
crease the gravity of the minor misconduct
or its impact on good order and discipline.
SEC. 527. ADDITIONAL BASES FOR PROVISION OF
ADVICE BY THE DEFENSE ADVISORY
COMMITTEE FOR THE PREVENTION
OF SEXUAL MISCONDUCT.
Section 550B(c)(2) of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Pub-
lic Law 116–92) is amended—
(1) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as
subparagraph (E); and
(2) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the
following new subparagraphs:
‘‘(C) Efforts among private employers to
prevent sexual assault and sexual harass-
ment among their employees.
‘‘(D) Evidence-based studies on the preven-
tion of sexual assault and sexual harassment
in the Armed Forces, institutions of higher
education, and the private sector.’’.
SEC. 528. ADDITIONAL MATTERS FOR REPORTS
OF THE DEFENSE ADVISORY COM-
MITTEE FOR THE PREVENTION OF
SEXUAL MISCONDUCT.
Section 550B(d) of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Pub-
lic Law 116–92) is amended by adding at the
end the following: ‘‘The report shall include
the following:
‘‘(1) A description and assessment of the
extent and effectiveness of the inclusion by
the Armed Forces of sexual assault preven-
tion and response training in leader profes-
sional military education (PME), especially
in such education for personnel in junior
noncommissioned officer grades.
‘‘(2) An assessment of the feasibility of—
‘‘(A) the screening of recruits before entry
into military service for prior incidents of
sexual assault and harassment, including
through background checks; and
‘‘(B) the administration of screening tests
to recruits to assess recruit views and beliefs
on equal opportunity, and whether such
views and beliefs are compatible with mili-
tary service.
‘‘(3) An assessment of the feasibility of
conducting exit interviews of members of the
Armed Forces upon their discharge release
from the Armed Forces in order to determine
whether they experienced or witnessed sex-
ual assault or harassment during military
service and did not report it, and an assess-
ment of the feasibility of combining such
exit interviews with the Catch a Serial Of-
fender (CATCH) Program of the Department
of Defense.
‘‘(4) An assessment whether the sexual as-
sault reporting databases of the Department
are sufficiently anonymized to ensure pri-
vacy while still providing military leaders
with the information as follows:
‘‘(A) The approximate length of time the
victim and the assailant had been at the
duty station at which the sexual assault oc-
curred.
‘‘(B) The percentage of sexual assaults oc-
curring while the victim or assailant were on
temporary duty, leave, or otherwise away
from their permanent duty station.
‘‘(C) The number of sexual assaults that in-
volve an abuse of power by a commander or
supervisor.’’.
SEC. 529. POLICY ON SEPARATION OF VICTIM
AND ACCUSED AT MILITARY SERV-
ICE ACADEMIES AND DEGREE-
GRANTING MILITARY EDUCATIONAL
INSTITUTIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense
shall, in consultation with the Secretaries of
the military departments, the Super-
intendent of each military service academy,
and the head of each degree-granting mili-
tary educational institution, prescribe in
regulations a policy under which association
between a cadet or midshipman of a military
service academy, or a member of the Armed
Forces enrolled in a degree-granting mili-
tary educational institution, who is the al-
leged victim of a sexual assault and the ac-
cused is minimized while both parties com-
plete their course of study at the academy or
institution concerned.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The Secretary of Defense
shall ensure that the policy developed under
subsection (a)—
(1) is fair to the both the alleged victim
and the accused;
(2) provides for the confidentiality of the
parties involved;
(3) provide that notice of the policy, in-
cluding the elements of the policy and the
right to opt out of coverage by the policy, is
provided to the alleged victim upon the mak-
ing of an allegation of a sexual assault cov-
ered by the policy; and
(4) provide an alleged victim the right to
opt out of coverage by the policy in connec-
tion with such sexual assault.
(c) MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMY DEFINED.—
The term ‘‘military service academy’’ means
the following:
(1) The United States Military Academy.
(2) The United States Naval Academy.
(3) The United States Air Force Academy.
(4) The United States Coast Guard Acad-
emy.
SEC. 530. BRIEFING ON PLACEMENT OF MEM-
BERS OF THE ARMED FORCES IN
ACADEMIC STATUS WHO ARE VIC-
TIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT ONTO
NON-RATED PERIODS.
Not later than 90 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of De-
fense shall brief the Committees on Armed
Services of the Senate and the House of Rep-
resentatives on the feasibility and advis-
ability, and current practice (if any), of the
Department of Defense of granting requests
by members of the Armed Forces who are in
academic status (whether at the military
service academies or in developmental edu-
cation programs) and who are victims of sex-
ual assault to be placed on a Non-Rated Pe-
riod for their performance report.
PART II—OTHER MILITARY JUSTICE
MATTERS
SEC. 531. RIGHT TO NOTICE OF VICTIMS OF OF-
FENSES UNDER THE UNIFORM CODE
OF MILITARY JUSTICE REGARDING
CERTAIN POST-TRIAL MOTIONS, FIL-
INGS, AND HEARINGS.
Section 806b(a)(2) of title 10, United States
Code (article 6b(a)(2)) of the Uniform Code of
Military Justice), is amended—
(1) by redesignating subparagraphs (D) and
(E) as subparagraphs (E) and (F), respec-
tively; and
(2) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the
following new subparagraph (D):
‘‘(D) A post-trial motion, filing, or hearing
that may address the finding or sentence of
a court-martial with respect to the accused,
unseal privileged or private information of
the victim, or result in the release of the ac-
cused.’’.
SEC. 532. CONSIDERATION OF THE EVIDENCE BY
COURTS OF CRIMINAL APPEALS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 866 of title 10,
United States Code (article 66 of the Uniform
Code of Military Justice), is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsections (e)
through (j) as subsections (f) through (k), re-
spectively; and
(2) by inserting after subsection (d) the fol-
lowing new subsection (e):
‘‘(e) CONSIDERATION OF THE EVIDENCE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In an appeal of a finding
of guilty under subsection (b), the Court of
Criminal Appeals, upon request of the ac-
cused, may consider the weight of the evi-
dence upon a specific showing by the accused
of deficiencies in proof. The Court may set
aside and dismiss a finding if clearly con-
vinced that the finding was against the
weight of the evidence. The Court may af-
firm a lesser finding. A rehearing may not be
ordered.
‘‘(2) DEFERENCE IN CONSIDERATION.—When
considering a case under subsection (b), the
Court may weigh the evidence and determine
controverted questions of fact, subject to—
‘‘(A) appropriate deference to the fact that
the court-martial saw and heard the wit-
nesses and other evidence; and
‘‘(B) appropriate deference to findings of
fact entered into the record by the military
judge.’’.
(b) ADDITIONAL QUALIFICATIONS OF APPEL-
LATE MILITARY JUDGES.—Subsection (a) of
such section (article) is amended—
(1) by inserting ‘‘(1)’’ before ‘‘Each judge’’;
and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(2)(A) In addition to any other qualifica-
tions specified in paragraph (1), any commis-
sioned officer assigned as an appellate mili-
tary judge to a Court of Criminal Appeals
shall have not fewer than 12 years of experi-
ence in military justice assignments before
such assignment, and any civilian so as-
signed shall have not fewer than 12 years as
a judge or criminal trial attorney before
such assignment.
‘‘(B) A Judge Advocate General may waive
the requirement in subparagraph (A) in con-
nection with the assignment of an officer or
civilian as an appellate military judge of a
Court of Criminal Appeals if the Judge Advo-
cate General determines that compliance
with the requirement in the assignment of
appellate military judges to a Court of
Criminal Appeals will impair the ability of
the Court to hear and decide appeals in a
timely manner.
‘‘(C) Not later than 120 days after waiving
the requirement in subparagraph (A) pursu-
ant to subparagraph (B), the Judge Advocate
General shall notify the congressional de-
fense committees of the waiver, and include
with the notice an explanation for the short-
age of appellate military judges and a plan
for addressing such shortage.’’.
(c) REVIEW BY FULL COURT OF FINDING OF
CONVICTION AGAINST WEIGHT OF EVIDENCE.—
Subsection (e) of such section (article), as
amended by subsection (a) of this section, is
further is amended by adding at the end the
following new paragraph:
‘‘(3) REVIEW BY FULL COURT OF FINDING OF
CONVICTION AGAINST WEIGHT OF EVIDENCE.—
Any determination by the Court that a find-
ing was clearly against the weight of the evi-
dence under paragraph (1) shall be reviewed
by the Court sitting as a whole.’’.
SEC. 533. PRESERVATION OF RECORDS OF THE
MILITARY JUSTICE SYSTEM.
Section 940a of title 10, United States Code
(article 140a of the Uniform Code of Military
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00076 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6763
November 16, 2020
Justice), is amended by adding at the end the
following new subsection:
‘‘(d) PRESERVATION OF RECORDS WITHOUT
REGARD TO OUTCOME.—The standards and cri-
teria prescribed established by the Secretary
of Defense under subsection (a) shall provide
for the preservation of records, without re-
gard to the outcome of the proceeding con-
cerned, for not fewer than 15 years.’’.
SEC. 534. COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE
UNITED STATES REPORT ON IMPLE-
MENTATION BY THE ARMED FORCES
OF RECENT GAO RECOMMENDA-
TIONS AND STATUTORY REQUIRE-
MENTS ON ASSESSMENT OF RACIAL,
ETHNIC, AND GENDER DISPARITIES
IN THE MILITARY JUSTICE SYSTEM.
(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—The Comptroller
General of the United States shall submit to
the Committees on Armed Services of the
Senate and the House of Representatives a
report, in writing, on a study, conducted by
the Comptroller General for purposes of the
report, on the implementation by the Armed
Forces of the following:
(1) The recommendations in the May 2019
report of the General Accountability Office
entitled ‘‘Military Justice: DOD and the
Coast Guard Need to Improve Their Capabili-
ties to Assess Racial and Gender Disparities’’
(GAO–19–344).
(2) Requirements in section 540I(b) of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92), relating to
assessments covered by such recommenda-
tions.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall include, for each rec-
ommendation and requirement specified in
that subsection, the following:
(1) A description of the actions taken or
planned by the Department of Defense, the
military department concerned, or the
Armed Force concerned to implement such
recommendation or requirement.
(2) An assessment of the extent to which
the actions taken to implement such rec-
ommendation or requirement, as described
pursuant to paragraph (1), are effective or
meet the intended objective.
(3) Any other matters in connection with
such recommendation or requirement, and
the implementation of such recommendation
or requirement by the Armed Forces, that
the Comptroller General considers appro-
priate.
(c) BRIEFINGS.—Not later than May 1, 2021,
the Comptroller General shall provide the
committees referred to in subsection (a) one
or more briefings on the status of the study
required by that subsection, including any
preliminary findings and recommendations
of the Comptroller General as a result of the
study as of the date of such briefing.
SEC. 535. BRIEFING ON MENTAL HEALTH SUP-
PORT FOR VICARIOUS TRAUMA FOR
CERTAIN PERSONNEL IN THE MILI-
TARY JUSTICE SYSTEM.
(a) BRIEFING REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Judge Advocates General of the
Army, the Navy, and the Air Force and the
Staff Judge Advocate to the Commandant of
the Marine Corps shall jointly brief the Com-
mittees on Armed Services of the Senate and
the House of Representatives on the mental
health support for vicarious trauma provided
to personnel in the military justice system
specified in subsection (b).
(b) PERSONNEL.—The personnel specified in
this subsection are the following:
(1) Trial counsel.
(2) Defense counsel.
(3) Special Victims’ Counsel.
(4) Military investigative personnel.
(c) ELEMENTS.—The briefing required by
subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1) A description and assessment of the
mental health support for vicarious trauma
provided to personnel in the military justice
system specified in subsection (b), including
a description of the support services avail-
able and the support services being used.
(2) A description and assessment of mecha-
nisms to eliminate or reduce stigma in the
pursuit by such personnel of such mental
health support.
(3) An assessment of the feasibility and ad-
visability of providing such personnel with
breaks between assignments or cases as part
of such mental health support in order to re-
duce the effects of vicarious trauma.
(4) A description and assessment of the ex-
tent, if any, to which duty of such personnel
on particular types of cases, or in particular
caseloads, contributes to vicarious trauma,
and of the extent, if any, to which duty on
such cases or caseloads has an effect on re-
tention of such personnel in the Armed
Forces.
(5) A description of the extent, if any, to
which such personnel are screened or other-
wise assessed for vicarious trauma before
discharge or release from the Armed Forces.
(6) Such other matters in connection with
the provision of mental health support for
vicarious trauma to such personnel as the
Judge Advocates General and the Staff
Judge Advocate jointly consider appropriate.
SEC. 536. GUARDIAN AD LITEM PROGRAM FOR
MINOR DEPENDENTS OF MEMBERS
OF THE ARMED FORCES.
Section 540L(b)(1) of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Pub-
lic Law 116–92; 133 Stat. 1373) is amended by
adding before the period at the end the fol-
lowing: ‘‘, including an assessment of the
feasibility and advisability of establishing a
guardian ad litem program for military de-
pendents living outside the United States’’.
Subtitle E—Member Education, Training,
Transition, and Resilience
SEC. 541. TRAINING ON RELIGIOUS ACCOMMODA-
TION FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED
FORCES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—As recommended on page
149 of the Report of the Committee on Armed
Services of the Senate to Accompany S. 1519
(115th Congress) (Senate Report 115–125), the
Secretary of Defense shall develop and im-
plement training on Federal statutes, De-
partment of Defense instructions, and the
regulations of each Armed Force regarding
religious liberty and accommodation for
members of the Armed Forces, including the
responsibility of commanders to maintain
good order and discipline.
(b) CONSULTATION.—The Secretary develop
and implement the training required by sub-
section (a) in consultation with the fol-
lowing:
(1) The General Counsel of the Department
of Defense.
(2) The Judge Advocate General of the
Army, the Judge Advocate General of the
Navy, and the Judge Advocate General of the
Air Force.
(3) The Chief of Chaplains of the Army, the
Chief of Chaplains of the Navy, and the Chief
of Chaplains of the Air Force.
(c) CONTENTS.—The content of the training
shall be consistent with and include coverage
of each of the following:
(1) The Religious Freedom Restoration Act
of 1993 (42 U.S.C. 2000bb et seq.).
(2) Section 533 of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (10
U.S.C. prec. 1030 note).
(3) Section 528 of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public
Law 114–92; 129 Stat. 814).
(d) IMPLEMENTATION.—
(1) RECIPIENTS.—The recipients of training
developed under subsection (a) shall include
the following at all levels of command:
(A) Commanders
(B) Chaplains.
(C) Judge advocates.
(D) Such other members of the Armed
Forces as the Secretary considers appro-
priate.
(2) COMMENCEMENT.—The provision of
training developed under subsection (a) shall
commence not later than one year after the
date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 542. ADDITIONAL ELEMENTS WITH 2021 CER-
TIFICATIONS ON THE READY, REL-
EVANT LEARNING INITIATIVE OF
THE NAVY.
(a) ADDITIONAL ELEMENTS.—In submitting
to Congress in 2021 the certifications re-
quired by section 545 of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Pub-
lic Law 115–91; 131 Stat. 1396; 10 U.S.C. 8431
note prec.), relating to the Ready, Relevant
Learning initiative of the Navy, the Sec-
retary of the Navy shall also submit each of
the following:
(1) A life cycle sustainment plan for the
Ready, Relevant Learning initiative meeting
the requirements in subsection (b).
(2) A report on the use of readiness assess-
ment teams in training addressing the ele-
ments specified in subsection (c).
(b) LIFE CYCLE SUSTAINMENT PLAN.—The
life cycle sustainment plan required by sub-
section (a)(1) shall include a description of
the approved life cycle sustainment plan for
the Ready, Relevant Learning initiative, in-
cluding with respect to each of the following:
(1) Product support management.
(2) Supply support.
(3) Packaging, handling, storage, and
transportation.
(4) Maintenance planning and manage-
ment.
(5) Design interface.
(6) Sustainment engineering.
(7) Technical data.
(8) Computer resources.
(9) Facilities and infrastructure.
(10) Manpower and personnel.
(11) Support equipment.
(12) Training and training support.
(13) Governance, including the acquisition
and program management structure.
(14) Such other elements in the life cycle
sustainment of the Ready, Relevant Learn-
ing initiative as the Secretary considers ap-
propriate.
(c) REPORT ON USE OF READINESS ASSESS-
MENT TEAMS.—The report required by sub-
section (a)(2) shall set forth the following:
(1) A description and assessment of the ex-
tent to which the Navy is currently using
Engineering Readiness Assessment Teams
(ERAT) and Combat Systems Readiness As-
sessment Teams (CSRAT) to conduct unit-
level training and assistance in each capac-
ity as follows:
(A) To augment non-Ready, Relevant
Learning initiative training.
(B) As part of Ready, Relevant Learning
initiative training.
(C) To train students on legacy, obsolete,
one of a kind, or unique systems that are
still widely used by the Navy.
(D) To train students on military-specific
systems that are not found in the commer-
cial maritime world.
(2) A description and assessment of poten-
tial benefits, and anticipated timelines and
costs, in expanding Engineering Readiness
Assessment Team and Combat Systems
Readiness Assessment Team training in the
capacities specified in paragraph (1).
(3) Such other matters in connection with
the use of readiness assessment teams in
connection with the Ready, Relevant Learn-
ing initiative as the Secretary considers ap-
propriate.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00077 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6764 November 16, 2020
SEC. 543. REPORT ON STANDARDIZATION AND
POTENTIAL MERGER OF LAW EN-
FORCEMENT TRAINING FOR MILI-
TARY AND CIVILIAN PERSONNEL
ACROSS THE DEPARTMENT OF DE-
FENSE.
(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than June
8, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit
to the Committees on Armed Services of the
Senate and the House of Representatives a
report on the standardization and potential
merger of law enforcement training for mili-
tary and civilian personnel across the De-
partment of Defense, including training of
military or civilian personnel of the Depart-
ment designated in accordance with section
2762 of title 10, United States Code, to pro-
tect buildings, grounds, and property under
the jurisdiction, custody, or control of the
Department and the persons on such prop-
erty.
(b) ELEMENTS.—In developing the report re-
quired by subsection (a), the Secretary shall
do, and include in the report the results of,
the following:
(1) Identify and assess current law enforce-
ment training courses, schools, and pro-
grams of the Armed Forces that have the
flexibility and capacity to support the train-
ing referred to in subsection (a) through
common training standards.
(2) Identify and assess current Department
law enforcement training courses, schools,
and programs that are affiliated with or ac-
credited by third parties (including both gov-
ernmental and private entities), including an
assessment of the value derived from such af-
filiation or accreditation to the training re-
ferred to in subsection (a).
(3) Identify emerging law enforcement
training requirements that are common
among the Armed Forces and other Depart-
ment law enforcement components and are
currently unmet by the Armed Forces or
such components.
(4) Assess the feasibility, advisability, and
suitability of incorporating standardized and
merged field and operational training in
military law enforcement mission areas, in-
cluding area security operations, law and
order operations, internment and resettle-
ment operations, and police intelligence op-
erations, in the training provided to all
Armed Forces and other Department law en-
forcement components.
(5) Identify and assess Department courses,
programs, or institutions with the capability
to support law enforcement training or infor-
mation sharing between Department mili-
tary and civilian law enforcement compo-
nents and State, county, and local law en-
forcement agencies, with the capability to
support law enforcement components of the
National Guard and other reserve compo-
nents of the Armed Forces, or with both such
capabilities.
(6) Assess the feasibility, advisability, and
suitability of standardizing and merging the
training referred to in subsection (a) across
the Department, including an assessment of
the costs of such standardization and merg-
er.
(7) Any other matters the Secretary con-
siders appropriate.
SEC. 544. QUARTERLY REPORTS ON IMPLEMEN-
TATION OF RECOMMENDATIONS OF
THE COMPREHENSIVE REVIEW OF
SPECIAL OPERATIONS FORCES CUL-
TURE AND ETHICS.
(a) QUARTERLY REPORTS REQUIRED.—Not
later than March 1, 2021, and every 90 days
thereafter through March 1, 2024, the Assist-
ant Secretary of Defense for Special Oper-
ations and Low Intensity Conflict shall, in
coordination with the Commander of the
United States Special Operations Command,
submit to the congressional defense commit-
tees a report on the current status of the im-
plementation of the actions recommended as
a result of the Comprehensive Review of Spe-
cial Operations Forces Culture and Ethics.
(b) ELEMENTS.—Each report under sub-
section (a) shall include the following:
(1) A list of the actions required as of the
date of such report to complete full imple-
mentation of each of the 16 actions rec-
ommended by the Comprehensive Review re-
ferred to in subsection (a).
(2) An identification of the office respon-
sible for completing each action listed pursu-
ant to paragraph (1), and an estimated
timeline for completion of such action.
(3) If completion of any action listed pursu-
ant to paragraph (1) requires resources or ac-
tions for which authorization by statute is
required, a recommendation for legislative
action for such authorization.
(4) Any other matters the Assistant Sec-
retary or the Commander considers appro-
priate.
SEC. 545. INFORMATION ON NOMINATIONS AND
APPLICATIONS FOR MILITARY SERV-
ICE ACADEMIES.
(a) REPORT ON CONGRESSIONAL NOMINATIONS
PORTAL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense shall, in consulta-
tion with the Superintendents of the mili-
tary service academies, submit to the Com-
mittees on Armed Services of the Senate and
the House of Representatives a report set-
ting forth an assessment of the feasibility
and advisability of a uniform online portal
for all military service academies that en-
ables Members of Congress to nominate indi-
viduals for appointment to each academy
through a secure website.
(2) INFORMATION COLLECTION AND REPORT-
ING.—For purposes of preparing the report
required by paragraph (1), the Secretary
shall treat the online portal described in
that paragraph as permitting the collection,
from each Member of Congress, of the demo-
graphic information described in subsection
(b) for each individual nominated by the
Member.
(3) AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION.—For
purposes of preparing the report, the Sec-
retary shall treat the online portal as per-
mitting Members of Congress and their des-
ignees to view past nomination records for
all application cycles.
(4) MATTERS IN CONNECTION WITH ESTABLISH-
MENT OF PORTAL.—If the Secretary deter-
mines that the online portal is feasible and
advisable, the report shall include—
(A) a comprehensive description of the on-
line portal; and
(B) such recommendations for legislative
and administrative action as the Secretary
considers appropriate to establish and main-
tain the online portal.
(b) STANDARD CLASSIFICATIONS FOR COLLEC-
TION OF DEMOGRAPHIC DATA.—
(1) STANDARDS REQUIRED.—The Secretary of
Defense shall, in consultation with the Su-
perintendents of the military service acad-
emies, establish standard classifications that
cadets, midshipmen, and applicants to the
academies may use to self-identify gender,
race, and ethnicity and to provide other de-
mographic information in connection with
admission to or enrollment in an academy.
(2) CONSISTENCY WITH OMB GUIDANCE.—The
standard classifications established under
paragraph (1) shall be consistent with the
standard classifications specified in Office of
Management and Budget Directive No. 15
(pertaining to race and ethnic standards for
Federal statistics and administrative report-
ing) or any successor directive.
(3) INCORPORATION INTO APPLICATIONS AND
RECORDS.—Not later than one year after the
date of the enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary shall incorporate the standard classi-
fications established under paragraph (1)
into—
(A) applications for admission to the mili-
tary service academies; and
(B) the military personnel records of ca-
dets and midshipmen enrolled in such acad-
emies.
(c) MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMY DEFINED.—
In this section, the term ‘‘military service
academy’’ means—
(1) the United States Military Academy;
(2) the United States Naval Academy; and
(3) the United States Air Force Academy.
SEC. 546. PILOT PROGRAMS IN CONNECTION
WITH SENIOR RESERVE OFFICERS’
TRAINING CORPS UNITS AT HISTORI-
CALLY BLACK COLLEGES AND UNI-
VERSITIES AND MINORITY INSTITU-
TIONS.
(a) PILOT PROGRAMS AUTHORIZED.—The
Secretary of Defense may carry out either or
both of the pilot programs as follows:
(1) A pilot program, with elements as pro-
vided for in subsection (c), at covered insti-
tutions in order to assess the feasibility and
advisability of mechanisms to reduce bar-
riers to participation in the Senior Reserve
Officers’ Training Corps at such institutions
by creating partnerships between satellite or
extension Senior Reserve Officers’ Training
Corps units at such institutions and military
installations.
(2) A pilot program, with elements as pro-
vided for in subsection (d), in order to assess
the feasibility and advisability of the provi-
sion of financial assistance to members of
the Senior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps
at covered institutions for participation in
flight training.
(b) DURATION.—The duration of each pilot
program under subsection (a) may not exceed
five years.
(c) PILOT PROGRAM ON PARTNERSHIPS BE-
TWEEN SATELLITE OR EXTENSION SROTC
UNITS AND MILITARY INSTALLATIONS.—
(1) PARTICIPATING INSTITUTIONS.—The Sec-
retary of Defense shall carry out the pilot
program authorized by subsection (a)(1) at
not fewer than five covered institutions se-
lected by the Secretary for purposes of the
pilot program.
(2) REQUIREMENTS FOR SELECTION.—Each
covered institution selected by the Secretary
for purposes of the pilot program authorized
by subsection (a)(1) shall—
(A) currently maintain a satellite or exten-
sion Senior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps
unit under chapter 103 of title 10, United
States Code, that is located more than 20
miles from the host unit of such unit; or
(B) establish and maintain a satellite or
extension Senior Reserve Officers’ Training
Corps unit that meets the requirements in
subparagraph (A).
(3) PREFERENCE IN SELECTION OF INSTITU-
TIONS.—In selecting covered institutions
under this subsection for participation in the
pilot program authorized by subsection
(a)(1), the Secretary shall give preference to
covered institutions that are located within
20 miles of a military installation of the
same Armed Force as the host unit of the
Senior Reserve Officers’ Training Corp of the
covered institution concerned.
(4) PARTNERSHIP ACTIVITIES.—The activi-
ties conducted under the pilot program au-
thorized by subsection (a)(1) between a sat-
ellite or extension Senior Reserve Officers’
Training Corps unit and the military instal-
lation concerned shall include such activi-
ties designed to reduce barriers to participa-
tion in the Senior Reserve Officers’ Training
Corps at the covered institution concerned
as the Secretary considers appropriate, in-
cluding measures to mitigate travel time
and expenses in connection with receipt of
Senior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps in-
struction.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00078 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6765
November 16, 2020
(d) PILOT PROGRAM ON FINANCIAL ASSIST-
ANCE FOR SROTC MEMBERS FOR FLIGHT
TRAINING.—
(1) ELIGIBILITY FOR PARTICIPATION BY SROTC
MEMBERS.—A member of a Senior Reserve Of-
ficers’ Training Corps unit at a covered insti-
tution may participate in the pilot program
authorized by subsection (a)(2) if the member
meets such academic requirements at the
covered institution, and such other require-
ments, as the Secretary shall establish for
purposes of the pilot program.
(2) PREFERENCE IN SELECTION OF PARTICI-
PANTS.—In selecting members under this
subsection for participation in the pilot pro-
gram authorized by subsection (a)(2), the
Secretary shall give a preference to members
who will pursue flight training under the
pilot program at a covered institution.
(3) FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FOR FLIGHT
TRAINING.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may pro-
vide any member of a Senior Reserve Offi-
cers’ Training Corps who participates in the
pilot program authorized by subsection (a)(2)
financial assistance to defray, whether in
whole or in part, the charges and fees im-
posed on the member for flight training.
(B) FLIGHT TRAINING.—Financial assistance
may be used under subparagraph (A) for a
course of flight training only if the course
meets Federal Aviation Administration
standards and is approved by the Federal
Aviation Administration and the applicable
State approving agency.
(C) USE.—Financial assistance received by
a member under subparagraph (A) may be
used only to defray the charges and fees im-
posed on the member as described in that
subparagraph.
(D) CESSATION OF ELIGIBILITY.—Financial
assistance may not be provided to a member
under subparagraph (A) as follows:
(i) If the member ceases to meet the aca-
demic and other requirements established
pursuant to paragraph (1).
(ii) If the member ceases to be a member of
the Senior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps.
(e) EVALUATION METRICS.—The Secretary
of Defense shall establish metrics to evalu-
ate the effectiveness of the pilot programs
under subsection (a).
(f) REPORTS.—
(1) INITIAL REPORT.—Not later than 180
days after the commencement of the pilot
programs under subsection (a), the Secretary
of Defense shall submit to the Committees
on Armed Services of the Senate and the
House of Representatives a report on the
pilot programs. The report shall include the
following:
(A) A description of each pilot program, in-
cluding in the case of the pilot program
under subsection (a)(2) the requirements es-
tablished pursuant to subsection (d)(1).
(B) The evaluation metrics established
under subsection (e).
(C) Such other matters relating to the
pilot programs as the Secretary considers
appropriate.
(2) ANNUAL REPORT.—Not later than 90 days
after the end of each fiscal year in which the
Secretary carries out the pilot programs, the
Secretary shall submit to the Committees on
Armed Services of the Senate and the House
of Representatives a report on the pilot pro-
grams during such fiscal year. Each report
shall include, for the fiscal year covered by
such report, the following:
(A) In the case of the pilot program under
subsection (a)(1), a description of the part-
nerships between satellite or extension Sen-
ior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps units
and military installations under the pilot
program.
(B) In the case of the pilot program under
subsection (a)(2), the following:
(i) The number of members of Senior Re-
serve Officers’ Training Corps units at cov-
ered institutions selected for purposes of the
pilot program, including the number of such
members participating in the pilot program.
(ii) The number of recipients of financial
assistance provided under the pilot program,
including the number who—
(I) completed a ground school course of in-
struction in connection with obtaining a pri-
vate pilot’s certificate;
(II) completed flight training, and the type
of training, certificate, or both received;
(III) were selected for a pilot training slot
in the Armed Forces;
(IV) initiated pilot training in the Armed
Forces; or
(V) successfully completed pilot training
in the Armed Forces.
(iii) The amount of financial assistance
provided under the pilot program, broken
out by covered institution, course of study,
and such other measures as the Secretary
considers appropriate.
(C) Data collected in accordance with the
evaluation metrics established under sub-
section (e).
(3) FINAL REPORT.—Not later than 180 days
prior to the completion of the pilot pro-
grams, the Secretary shall submit to the
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate
and the House of Representatives a report on
the pilot programs. The report shall include
the following:
(A) A description of the pilot programs.
(B) An assessment of the effectiveness of
each pilot program.
(C) A description of the cost of each pilot
program, and an estimate of the cost of mak-
ing each pilot program permanent.
(D) An estimate of the cost of expanding
each pilot program throughout all eligible
Senior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps
units.
(E) Such recommendations for legislative
or administrative action as the Secretary
considers appropriate in light of the pilot
programs, including recommendations for
extending or making permanent the author-
ity for each pilot program.
(g) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) The term ‘‘covered institution’’ has the
meaning given that term in section 262(g)(2)
of the National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92).
(2) The term ‘‘flight training’’ means a
course of instruction toward obtaining any
of the following:
(A) A private pilot’s certificate.
(B) A commercial pilot certificate.
(C) A certified flight instructor certificate.
(D) A multi-crew pilot’s license.
(E) A flight instrument rating.
(F) Any other certificate, rating, or pilot
privilege the Secretary considers appropriate
for purposes of this section.
(3) The term ‘‘military installation’’ means
an installation of the Department of Defense
for the regular components of the Armed
Forces.
SEC. 547. EXPANSION OF JUNIOR RESERVE OFFI-
CERS’ TRAINING CORPS PROGRAM.
(a) EXPANSION OF JROTC CURRICULUM.—
Section 2031(a)(2) of title 10, United States
Code, is amended by inserting after ‘‘service
to the United States’’ the following: ‘‘(in-
cluding an introduction to service opportuni-
ties in military, national, and public serv-
ice)’’.
(b) PLAN TO INCREASE NUMBER OF JROTC
UNITS.—The Secretary of Defense shall, in
consultation with the Secretaries of the
military departments, develop and imple-
ment a plan to establish and support not
fewer than 6,000 units of the Junior Reserve
Officers’ Training Corps by September 30,
2031.
SEC. 548. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE STARBASE
PROGRAM.
Section 2193b(h) of title 10, United States
Code, is amended by inserting ‘‘the Common-
wealth of the Northern Mariana Islands,
American Samoa,’’ before ‘‘and Guam’’.
Subtitle F—Decorations and Awards
SEC. 551. AWARD OR PRESENTATION OF DECORA-
TIONS FAVORABLY RECOMMENDED
FOLLOWING DETERMINATION ON
MERITS OF PROPOSALS FOR DECO-
RATIONS NOT PREVIOUSLY SUB-
MITTED IN A TIMELY FASHION.
(a) AWARD OR PRESENTATION AUTHORIZED.—
Section 1130 of title 10, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (d) as sub-
section (e); and
(2) by inserting after subsection (c) the fol-
lowing new subsection (d):
‘‘(d)(1) A decoration may be awarded or
presented following the submission of a fa-
vorable recommendation for the award or
presentation of the decoration under sub-
section (b).
‘‘(2) An award or presentation of a decora-
tion under paragraph (1) may not occur be-
fore the end of the 60-day period beginning
on the date of the submission under sub-
section (b) of the favorable recommendation
regarding the award or presentation of the
decoration.
‘‘(3) The authority to make an award or
presentation of a decoration under this sub-
section shall apply notwithstanding any lim-
itation described in subsection (a).’’.
(b) CONFORMING AND CLERICAL AMEND-
MENTS.—
(1) SECTION HEADING.—The heading of sec-
tion 1130 of such title is amended to read as
follows:
‘‘§ 1130. Consideration of proposals for deco-
rations not previously submitted in timely
fashion: procedures for review and award
or presentation’’.
(2) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sec-
tions at the beginning of chapter 57 of such
title is amended by striking the item relat-
ing to section 1130 and inserting the fol-
lowing new item:
‘‘1130. Consideration of proposals for decora-
tions not previously submitted
in timely fashion: procedures
for review and award or presen-
tation.’’.
SEC. 552. HONORARY PROMOTION MATTERS.
(a) HONORARY PROMOTIONS ON INITIATIVE OF
DOD.—Chapter 80 of title 10, United States
Code, is amended by inserting after section
1563 the following new section:
‘‘§ 1563a. Honorary promotions on the initia-
tive of the Department of Defense
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—(1) Under regulations
prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, the
Secretary may make an honorary promotion
(whether or not posthumous) of a former
member or retired member of the armed
forces to any grade not exceeding the grade
of major general, rear admiral (upper half),
or an equivalent grade in the Space Force if
the Secretary determines that the promotion
is merited.
‘‘(2) The authority to make an honorary
promotion under this subsection shall apply
notwithstanding that the promotion is not
otherwise authorized by law.
‘‘(b) NOTICE TO CONGRESS.—The Secretary
may not make an honorary promotion pursu-
ant to subsection (a) until 60 days after the
date on which the Secretary submits to the
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate
and the House of Representatives a notice of
the determination to make the promotion,
including a detailed discussion of the ration-
ale supporting the determination.
‘‘(c) NOTICE OF PROMOTION.—Upon making
an honorary promotion pursuant to sub-
section (a), the Secretary shall expeditiously
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00079 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6766 November 16, 2020
notify the former member or retired member
concerned, or the next of kin of such former
member or retired member if such former
member or retired member is deceased, of
the promotion.
‘‘(d) NATURE OF PROMOTION.—Any pro-
motion pursuant to this section is honorary,
and shall not affect the pay, retired pay, or
other benefits from the United States to
which the former member or retired member
concerned is entitled or would have been en-
titled based on the military service of such
former member or retired member, nor affect
any benefits to which any other person is or
may become entitled based on the military
service of such former member or retired
member.’’.
(b) MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITIES ON RE-
VIEW OF PROPOSALS FROM CONGRESS.—
(1) STANDARDIZATION OF AUTHORITIES WITH
AUTHORITIES ON DOD INITIATIVE.—Section 1563
of title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(A) in subsection (a)—
(i) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘the
posthumous or honorary promotion or ap-
pointment of a member or former member of
the armed forces, or any other person consid-
ered qualified,’’ and inserting ‘‘the honorary
promotion (whether or not posthumous) of a
former member or retired member of the
armed forces’’; and
(ii) in the second sentence, by striking
‘‘the posthumous or honorary promotion or
appointment’’ and inserting ‘‘the pro-
motion’’; and
(B) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘the post-
humous or honorary promotion or appoint-
ment’’ and inserting ‘‘the honorary pro-
motion’’.
(2) AUTHORITY TO MAKE HONORARY PRO-
MOTIONS FOLLOWING REVIEW OF PROPOSALS.—
Such section is further amended—
(A) by redesignating subsection (c) as sub-
section (d); and
(B) by inserting after subsection (b) the
following new subsection (c):
‘‘(c) AUTHORITY TO MAKE.—(1) Under regu-
lations prescribed by the Secretary of De-
fense, the Secretary of Defense may make an
honorary promotion (whether or not post-
humous) of a former member or retired
member of the armed forces to any grade not
exceeding the grade of major general, rear
admiral (upper half), or an equivalent grade
in the Space Force following the submittal
of the determination of the Secretary con-
cerned under subsection (b) in connection
with the proposal for the promotion if the
determination is to approve the making of
the promotion.
‘‘(2) The Secretary of Defense may not
make an honorary promotion under this sub-
section until 60 days after the date on which
the Secretary concerned submits the deter-
mination in connection with the proposal for
the promotion under subsection (b), and the
detailed rationale supporting the determina-
tion as described in that subsection, to the
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate
and the House of Representatives and the re-
questing Member in accordance with that
subsection.
‘‘(3) The authority to make an honorary
promotion under this subsection shall apply
notwithstanding that the promotion is not
otherwise authorized by law.
‘‘(4) Any promotion pursuant to this sub-
section is honorary, and shall not affect the
pay, retired pay, or other benefits from the
United States to which the former member
or retired member concerned is or would
have been entitled based upon the military
service of such former member or retired
member, nor affect any benefits to which
any other person may become entitled based
on the military service of such former mem-
ber or retired member.’’.
(3) HEADING AMENDMENT.—The heading of
such section is amended to read as follows:
‘‘§ 1563. Consideration of proposals from
Members of Congress for honorary pro-
motions: procedures for review and pro-
motion’’.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 80 of
such title is amended by striking the item
relating to section 1563 and inserting the fol-
lowing new items:
‘‘1563. Consideration of proposals from Mem-
bers of Congress for honorary
promotions: procedures for re-
view and promotion.
‘‘1563a. Honorary promotions on the initia-
tive of the Department of De-
fense.’’.
Subtitle G—Defense Dependents’ Education
and Military Family Readiness Matters
PART I—DEFENSE DEPENDENTS’
EDUCATION MATTERS
SEC. 561. CONTINUATION OF AUTHORITY TO AS-
SIST LOCAL EDUCATIONAL AGEN-
CIES THAT BENEFIT DEPENDENTS
OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED
FORCES AND DEPARTMENT OF DE-
FENSE CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES.
(a) ASSISTANCE TO SCHOOLS WITH SIGNIFI-
CANT NUMBERS OF MILITARY DEPENDENT STU-
DENTS.—Of the amount authorized to be ap-
propriated for fiscal year 2021 by section 301
and available for operation and maintenance
for Defense-wide activities as specified in the
funding table in section 4301, $50,000,000 shall
be available only for the purpose of providing
assistance to local educational agencies
under subsection (a) of section 572 of the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2006 (Public Law 109–163; 20 U.S.C.
7703b).
(b) LOCAL EDUCATIONAL AGENCY DEFINED.—
In this section, the term ‘‘local educational
agency’’ has the meaning given that term in
section 7013(9) of the Elementary and Sec-
ondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
7713(9)).
SEC. 562. IMPACT AID FOR CHILDREN WITH SE-
VERE DISABILITIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Of the amount authorized
to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 pursu-
ant to section 301 and available for operation
and maintenance for Defense-wide activities
as specified in the funding table in section
4301, $10,000,000 shall be available for pay-
ments under section 363 of the Floyd D.
Spence National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2001 (as enacted into law by
Public Law 106–398; 114 Stat. 1654A–77; 20
U.S.C. 7703a).
(b) ADDITIONAL AMOUNT.—Of the amount
authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year
2021 pursuant to section 301 and available for
operation and maintenance for Defense-wide
activities as specified in the funding table in
section 4301, $10,000,000 shall be available for
use by the Secretary of Defense to make pay-
ments to local educational agencies deter-
mined by the Secretary to have higher con-
centrations of military children with severe
disabilities.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than March 1, 2021,
the Secretary shall brief the Committees on
Armed Services of the Senate and the House
of Representatives on the Department’s eval-
uation of each local educational agency with
higher concentrations of military children
with severe disabilities and subsequent de-
termination of the amounts of impact aid
each such agency shall receive.
SEC. 563. STAFFING OF DEPARTMENT OF DE-
FENSE EDUCATION ACTIVITY
SCHOOLS TO MAINTAIN MAXIMUM
STUDENT-TO-TEACHER RATIOS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Department of De-
fense Education Activity (DoDEA) shall staff
elementary and secondary schools operated
by the Activity so as to maintain, to the ex-
tent practicable, student-to-teacher ratios
that do not exceed the maximum student-to-
teacher ratios specified in subsection (b).
(b) MAXIMUM STUDENT-TO-TEACHER RA-
TIOS.—The maximum student-to-teacher ra-
tios specified in this subsection are the fol-
lowing:
(1) For each of grades kindergarten
through 3, a ratio of 18 students to 1 teacher
(18:1).
(2) For each of grades 4 through 12, a ratio
equal to the average student-to-teacher ratio
for such grade among all Department of De-
fense Education Activity schools during the
2019–2020 academic year.
(c) SUNSET.—The requirement to staff
schools in accordance with subsection (a)
shall expire at the end of the 2023–2024 aca-
demic year of the Department of Defense
Education Activity.
SEC. 564. MATTERS IN CONNECTION WITH FREE
APPROPRIATE PUBLIC EDUCATION
FOR DEPENDENTS OF MEMBERS OF
THE ARMED FORCES WITH SPECIAL
NEEDS.
(a) INFORMATION ON DISPUTES REGARDING
RECEIPT OF FREE APPROPRIATE PUBLIC EDU-
CATION BY SPECIAL NEEDS DEPENDENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each Secretary of a mili-
tary department shall collect and maintain
information on special education disputes
filed by members of the Armed Forces under
the jurisdiction of such Secretary.
(2) INFORMATION.—The information col-
lected and maintained pursuant to this sub-
section shall include the following:
(A) The number of special education dis-
putes filed.
(B) The outcome or disposition of the dis-
putes.
(3) SOURCE OF INFORMATION.—The informa-
tion collected and maintained pursuant to
this subsection shall be derived from the fol-
lowing:
(A) Records and reports of case managers
and navigators under the Exceptional Fam-
ily Member Program (EFMP) of the Depart-
ment of Defense.
(B) Reports of members of the Armed
Forces concerned to installation or other
military leadership.
(C) Such other sources as the Secretary of
the military department concerned considers
appropriate.
(4) ANNUAL REPORTS.— Each Secretary of a
military department shall submit each year
to the Office of Special Needs of the Depart-
ment of Defense a report on the information
collected by such Secretary pursuant to this
subsection during the preceding year.
(b) COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED
STATES STUDY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Comptroller General
of the United States shall conduct a study on
the following:
(A) The consequences for a State or local
educational agency of a finding of failure to
provide a free appropriate public education
to a military dependent.
(B) The manner in which local educational
agencies with military families use the fol-
lowing:
(i) Funds received under section 7003(d) of
the Elementary and Secondary Education
Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7703(d)).
(ii) Funds authorized to be appropriated by
annual national defense authorization Acts
and made available for impact aid for child
with severe disabilities under section 363 of
the Floyd D. Spence National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (20
U.S.C. 7703a).
(iii) Funds authorized to be appropriated
by annual national defense authorization
Acts and made available for assistance to
schools with significant number of military
dependent students under subsection (a) of
section 572 of the National Defense Author-
ization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (20 U.S.C.
7703b).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00080 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6767
November 16, 2020
(C) The efficacy of attorney and other legal
support for military families in special edu-
cation disputes.
(D) The standardization of policies and
guidance for School Liaison Officers between
the Office of Special Needs of the Depart-
ment of Defense and the military depart-
ments, and the efficacy of such policies and
guidance.
(E) The improvements of family support
programs of the Office of Special Needs, and
of each military department, in light of the
recommendations of the Comptroller Gen-
eral in the report entitled ‘‘DOD Should Im-
prove Its Oversight of the Exceptional Fam-
ily Member Program’’, GAO–18–348.
(2) RECOMMENDATIONS.—In conducting the
study, the Comptroller General shall develop
recommendations on the following:
(A) Improvements and enhancements to
oversight and enforcement of compliance by
local educational agencies with require-
ments for the provision of a free appropriate
public education to military dependents with
special needs.
(B) Improvements to the policies of the Of-
fice of Special Needs, and of each military
department, with respect to the standardiza-
tion and efficacy of policies and programs for
military dependents with special needs.
(3) DEADLINE FOR COMPLETION.—The Comp-
troller General shall complete the study by
not later than March 31, 2021.
(4) BRIEFING AND REPORT.—Upon comple-
tion of the study, the Comptroller General
shall brief the Committees on Armed Serv-
ices of the Senate and the House of Rep-
resentatives on the results of the study, and
shall submit to such committees a report on
such results.
(c) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) The term ‘‘free appropriate public edu-
cation’’ includes appropriate special edu-
cation and related services required under
the Individuals with Disabilities Education
Act (20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.)
(2) The term ‘‘local educational agency’’
has the meaning given that term in section
8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Edu-
cation Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801).
(3) The term ‘‘special education dispute’’
means a complaint filed regarding the edu-
cation provided a child with a disability (as
defined in section 602 of the Individuals with
Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1401),
including a complaint filed in accordance
with section 615 or 639 of such Act (20 U.S.C.
1415, 1439).
SEC. 565. PILOT PROGRAM ON EXPANDED ELIGI-
BILITY FOR DEPARTMENT OF DE-
FENSE EDUCATION ACTIVITY VIR-
TUAL HIGH SCHOOL PROGRAM.
(a) PILOT PROGRAM REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense
shall carry out a pilot program on permit-
ting dependents of members of the Armed
Forces on active duty to enroll in the De-
partment of Defense Education Activity Vir-
tual High School program (in this section re-
ferred to as the ‘‘DVHS program’’).
(2) PURPOSES.—The purposes of the pilot
program shall be as follows:
(A) To evaluate the feasibility and
scalability of the DVHS program.
(B) To assess the impact of expanded en-
rollment in the DVHS program under the
pilot program on military and family readi-
ness.
(3) DURATION.—The duration of the pilot
program shall be four academic years.
(b) PARTICIPANTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Participants in the pilot
program shall be selected by the Secretary
from among dependents of members of the
Armed Forces on active duty who—
(A) are in a grade 9 through 12;
(B) are currently ineligible to enroll in the
DVHS program; and
(C) either—
(i) require supplementary courses to meet
graduation requirements in the current
State of residence; or
(ii) otherwise demonstrate to the Sec-
retary a clear need to participate in the
DVHS program.
(2) PREFERENCE IN SELECTION.—In selecting
participants in the pilot program, the Sec-
retary shall afford a preference to the fol-
lowing:
(A) Dependents who reside in a rural area.
(B) Dependents who are home-schooled stu-
dents.
(3) LIMITATIONS.—The total number of
course enrollments per academic year au-
thorized under the pilot program may not
exceed 400 course enrollments. No single de-
pendent participating in the pilot program
may take more than two courses per aca-
demic year under the pilot program.
(c) REPORTS.—
(1) INTERIM REPORT.—Not later than two
years after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Com-
mittees on Armed Services of the Senate and
the House of Representatives an interim re-
port on the pilot program.
(2) FINAL REPORT.—Not later than 180 days
after the completion of the pilot program,
the Secretary shall submit to the commit-
tees of Congress referred to in paragraph (1)
a final report on the pilot programs.
(3) ELEMENTS.—Each report under this sub-
section shall include the following:
(A) A description of the demographics of
the dependents participating in the pilot pro-
gram through the date of such report.
(B) Data on, and an assessment of, student
performance in virtual coursework by de-
pendents participating in the pilot program
over the duration of the pilot program.
(C) Such recommendation as the Secretary
considers appropriate on whether to make
the pilot program permanent.
(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) The term ‘‘rural area’’ has the meaning
given the term in section 520 of the Housing
Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490).
(2) The term ‘‘home-schooled student’’
means a student in a grade equivalent to
grade 9 through 12 who receives educational
instruction at home or by other non-tradi-
tional means outside of a public or private
school system, either all or most of the time.
SEC. 566. PILOT PROGRAM ON EXPANSION OF
ELIGIBILITY FOR ENROLLMENT AT
DOMESTIC DEPENDENT ELEMEN-
TARY AND SECONDARY SCHOOLS.
(a) PILOT PROGRAM REQUIRED.—Beginning
not later than 180 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of De-
fense shall carry out a pilot program under
which a dependent of a full-time, active-duty
member of the Armed Forces may enroll in a
covered DODEA school at the military in-
stallation to which the member is assigned,
on a space-available basis as described in
subsection (c), without regard to whether the
member resides on the installation as de-
scribed in 2164(a)(1) of title 10, United States
Code.
(b) PURPOSES.—The purposes of the pilot
program under this section are—
(1) to evaluate the feasibility and advis-
ability of expanding enrollment in covered
DODEA schools; and
(2) to determine how increased access to
such schools will affect military and family
readiness.
(c) ENROLLMENT ON SPACE-AVAILABLE
BASIS.—A student participating in the pilot
program under this section may be enrolled
in a covered DODEA school only if the school
has the capacity to accept the student, as de-
termined by the Director of the Department
of Defense Education Activity.
(d) LOCATIONS.—The Secretary of Defense
shall carry out the pilot program under this
section at not more than four military in-
stallations at which covered DODEA schools
are located. The Secretary shall select mili-
tary installations for participation in the
pilot program based on—
(1) the readiness needs of the Secretary of
a the military department concerned; and
(2) the capacity of the DODEA schools lo-
cated at the installation to accept additional
students, as determined by the Director of
the Department of Defense Education Activ-
ity.
(e) TERMINATION.—The authority to carry
out the pilot program under this section
shall terminate four years after the date of
the enactment of this Act.
(f) COVERED DODEA SCHOOL DEFINED.—In
this section, the term ‘‘covered DODEA
school’’ means a domestic dependent elemen-
tary or secondary school operated by the De-
partment of Defense Education Activity
that—
(1) has been established on or before the
date of the enactment of this Act; and
(2) is located in the continental United
States.
SEC. 567. COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE
UNITED STATES REPORT ON THE
STRUCTURAL CONDITION OF DE-
PARTMENT OF DEFENSE EDU-
CATION ACTIVITY SCHOOLS.
(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than one
year after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Comptroller General of the United
States shall submit to the congressional de-
fense committees a report setting forth an
assessment by the Comptroller General of
the structural condition of schools of the De-
partment of Defense Education Activity,
both within the continental United States
(CONUS) and outside the continental United
States (OCONUS).
(b) VIRTUAL SCHOOLS.—The report shall in-
clude an assessment of the virtual infra-
structure or other means by which students
attend Department of Defense Education Ac-
tivity schools that have no physical struc-
ture, including the satisfaction of the mili-
tary families concerned with such infrastruc-
ture or other means.
PART II—MILITARY FAMILY READINESS
MATTERS
SEC. 571. RESPONSIBILITY FOR ALLOCATION OF
CERTAIN FUNDS FOR MILITARY
CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS.
Section 1791 of title 10, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) by inserting ‘‘(a) POLICY.—’’ before ‘‘It
is the policy’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(b) RESPONSIBILITY FOR ALLOCATIONS OF
CERTAIN FUNDS.—The Secretary of Defense
shall be responsible for the allocation of Of-
fice of the Secretary of Defense level funds
for military child development programs for
children from birth through 12 years of age,
and may not delegate such responsibility to
the military departments.’’.
SEC. 572. IMPROVEMENTS TO EXCEPTIONAL FAM-
ILY MEMBER PROGRAM.
Section 1781c of title 10, United States
Code is amended—
(1) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘enhance’’
and inserting ‘‘standardize, enhance,’’;
(2) in subsection (c)(1), by inserting ‘‘and
standard’’ after ‘‘comprehensive’’;
(3) in subsection (d)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘update
from time to time’’ and inserting ‘‘regularly
update’’;
(B) in paragraph (3), by adding at the end
the following new subparagraphs:
‘‘(C) Ability to request a second review of
the approved assignment within or outside
the continental United States if the member
believes the location is inappropriate for the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00081 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6768 November 16, 2020
member’s family and would cause undue
hardship.
‘‘(D) Protection from having a medical rec-
ommendation for an approved assignment
overriden by the commanding officer.
‘‘(E) Ability to request continuation of lo-
cation when there is a documented substan-
tial risk of transferring medical care or edu-
cational services to a new provider or school
at the specific time of permanent change of
station.
‘‘(F) If an order for assignment is declined
for a military family with special needs, the
member will receive a reason for the decline
of that order.’’; and
(C) in paragraph (4), by adding at the end
the following new subparagraphs:
‘‘(H) Procedures to right-size the Depart-
ment’s Exceptional Family Member Program
to ensure efficient and effective enrollment,
for sufficient staffing dedicated to providing
family support services, to include com-
prehensive training, education and outreach
services, and sufficient oversight and admin-
istrative support for effective program oper-
ation.
‘‘(I) Requirements to prohibit
disenrollment from the Exceptional Family
Member Program unless there is new sup-
porting medical or educational information
that indicates the original condition is no
longer present, and to track disenrollment
data per military service.’’;
(4) by redesignating subsections (f), (g), and
(h) as subsections (g), (h), and (i), respec-
tively; and
(5) by inserting after subsection (e) the fol-
lowing new subsection:
‘‘(f) METRICS.—The Secretary of Defense
shall implement performance metrics for
measuring, across the Department and with
respect to each military department, the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(1) Assignment coordination and support
for military families with special needs, in-
cluding a systematic process for evaluating
each military department’s program for the
support of military families with special
needs.
‘‘(2) The reassignment of military families
with special needs, including how often
members request reassignments, for what
reasons, and from what military installa-
tions.
‘‘(3) The level of satisfaction of military
families with special needs with the family
and medical support they are provided.’’.
SEC. 573. PROCEDURES OF THE OFFICE OF SPE-
CIAL NEEDS FOR THE DEVELOP-
MENT OF INDIVIDUALIZED SERV-
ICES PLANS FOR MILITARY FAMI-
LIES WITH SPECIAL NEEDS.
Section 1781c(d)(4) of title 10, United States
Code, as amended by section 572(3)(C) of this
Act, is further amended—
(1) in subparagraph (F), by striking ‘‘of an
individualized services plan (medical and
educational)’’ and inserting ‘‘by an appro-
priate office of an individualized services
plan (whether medical, educational, or
both)’’;
(2) by redesignating subparagraphs (G), (H),
and (I) as subparagraph (H), (I), and (J), re-
spectively; and
(3) by inserting after subparagraph (F) the
following new paragraph (G):
‘‘(G) Procedures for the development of an
individualized services plan for military fam-
ily members with special needs who have re-
quested family support services and have a
completed family needs assessment.’’.
SEC. 574. RESTATEMENT AND CLARIFICATION OF
AUTHORITY TO REIMBURSE MEM-
BERS FOR SPOUSE RELICENSING
COSTS PURSUANT TO A PERMANENT
CHANGE OF STATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 453 of title 37,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following new subsection:
‘‘(g) REIMBURSEMENT OF QUALIFYING
SPOUSE RELICENSING COSTS INCIDENT TO A
MEMBER’S PERMANENT CHANGE OF STATION OR
ASSIGNMENT.—(1) From amounts otherwise
made available for a fiscal year to provide
travel and transportation allowances under
this chapter, the Secretary concerned may
reimburse a member of the armed forces for
qualified relicensing costs of the spouse of
the member when—
‘‘(A) the member is reassigned, either as a
permanent change of station or permanent
change of assignment, between duty stations
located in separate jurisdictions with unique
licensing or certification requirements and
authorities; and
‘‘(B) the movement of the member’s de-
pendents is authorized at the expense of the
United States under this section as part of
the reassignment.
‘‘(2) Reimbursement provided to a member
under this subsection may not exceed $1000
in connection with each reassignment de-
scribed in paragraph (1).
‘‘(3) No reimbursement may be provided
under this subsection for qualified reli-
censing costs paid or incurred after Decem-
ber 31, 2024.
‘‘(4) In this subsection, the term ‘qualified
relicensing costs’ means costs, including
exam, continuing education courses, and reg-
istration fees, incurred by the spouse of a
member if—
‘‘(A) the spouse was licensed or certified in
a profession during the member’s previous
duty assignment and requires a new license
or certification to engage in that profession
in a new jurisdiction because of movement
described in paragraph (1)(B) in connection
with the member’s change in duty location
pursuant to reassignment described in para-
graph (1)(A); and
‘‘(B) the costs were incurred or paid to se-
cure or maintain the license or certification
from the new jurisdiction in connection with
such reassignment.’’.
(b) REPEAL OF SUPERSEDED AUTHORITY.—
Section 476 of such title is amended by strik-
ing subsection (p).
SEC. 575. IMPROVEMENTS TO DEPARTMENT OF
DEFENSE TRACKING OF AND RE-
SPONSE TO INCIDENTS OF CHILD
ABUSE INVOLVING MILITARY DE-
PENDENTS ON MILITARY INSTALLA-
TIONS.
(a) IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense
shall, consistent with recommendations of
the Comptroller General of the United States
in Government Accountability Office report
GA0–20–110, take actions in accordance with
this section in order to improve the efforts of
the Department of Defense to track and re-
spond to incidents of child abuse involving
dependents of members of the Armed Forces
that occur on military installations (in this
section referred to as ‘‘covered incidents of
child abuse’’).
(2) CHILD ABUSE.—For purposes of this sec-
tion, child abuse includes any abuse of a
child, including sexual abuse, emotional
abuse, and neglect.
(b) DATA COLLECTION AND TRACKING OF INCI-
DENTS OF CHILD ABUSE.—
(1) TRACKING OF NON-CAREGIVER ABUSE.—
The Secretary of Defense shall establish a
process for the Department of Defense Fam-
ily Advocacy Program to track reported cov-
ered incidents of child abuse in which the al-
leged offender is not a parent, guardian, or
someone in a caregiving role at the time of
the incident. The information so tracked
shall comport with the information tracked
by the Department of Defense in reported
covered incidents of child abuse in which the
alleged offender is a parent, guardian, or
someone in a caregiving role at the time of
the incident.
(2) CENTRALIZED DATABASE FOR TRACKING OF
INCIDENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall de-
velop and maintain in the Department of De-
fense a centralized database to track infor-
mation across the Department on all covered
incidents of child abuse that are reported to
the Family Advocacy Program or inves-
tigated by a military criminal investigation
organization, regardless of whether the al-
leged offender was another child, an adult, or
someone in a non-caregiving role at the time
of an incident.
(B) ELEMENTS.—The centralized database
required by this paragraph shall include, for
each incident within the database, the fol-
lowing:
(i) Information pertinent to a determina-
tion by the Family Advocacy Program
whether such incident meets the criteria of
the Department for treatment as an incident
of child abuse.
(ii) The results of any investigation of such
incident by a military criminal investigation
organization.
(iii) Information on the ultimate disposi-
tion of the incident, if any, including any ad-
ministrative or prosecutorial action taken.
(C) ANNUAL REPORTS ON INFORMATION.—The
information collected and maintained in the
centralized database shall be reported on an
annual basis as part of the annual reports
from the Family Advocacy Program on child
abuse and domestic abuse in the military as
required by section 574 of the National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017
(Public Law 114–328; 130 Stat. 2141).
(D) BRIEFINGS.—Not later than March 31,
2021, and every six months thereafter until
the centralized database required by this
paragraph is fully operational, the Secretary
shall brief the Committees on Armed Serv-
ices of the Senate and the House of Rep-
resentatives on the status of the database.
(3) DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EDUCATION AC-
TIVITY GUIDANCE.—The Department of De-
fense Education Activity (DoDEA) shall
issue clarifications of its guidance on the in-
cidents of child-on-child abuse that qualify
as serious incidents for purposes of require-
ments for the reporting of such serious inci-
dents by school administrators to Activity
leadership.
(c) RESPONSE PROCEDURES.—
(1) INCIDENT DETERMINATION COMMITTEE
MEMBERSHIP.—The Department of Defense
Family Advocacy Program shall ensure that
the voting membership of each Incident De-
termination Committee on a military instal-
lation includes medical personnel with the
requisite knowledge and expertise to deter-
mine whether a reported covered incident of
abuse meets the criteria of the Department
of Defense for treatment as child abuse.
(2) SCREENING REPORTED INCIDENTS OF CHILD
ABUSE.—
(A) DEVELOPMENT OF STANDARDIZED PROC-
ESS.—The Department of Defense Family Ad-
vocacy Program shall develop a standardized
process by which the Family Advocacy Pro-
grams of the military departments screen re-
ported covered incidents of child abuse to de-
termine whether to present such incident to
an Incident Determination Committee.
(B) MONITORING.—The Secretary of each
military department shall develop a process
to monitor the manner in which reported
covered incidents of child abuse are screened
by each installation under the jurisdiction of
such Secretary in order to ensure that such
screening complies with the standardized
screening process developed pursuant to sub-
paragraph (A).
(3) REQUIRED NOTIFICATIONS.—
(A) DOCUMENTATION.—The Secretary of
each military department shall require that
installation Family Advocacy Programs and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00082 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6769
November 16, 2020
military criminal investigation organiza-
tions under the jurisdiction of such Sec-
retary document in their respective data-
bases the date on which they notified the
other of a reported covered incident of child
abuse.
(B) OVERSIGHT.—The Secretary of each
military department shall require that the
Family Advocacy Program of such military
department, and the headquarters of the
military criminal investigation organiza-
tions of such military department, to de-
velop processes to oversee the documenta-
tion of notifications required by subpara-
graph (A) in order to ensure that such notifi-
cations occur on a consistent basis at instal-
lation level.
(4) CERTIFIED PEDIATRIC SEXUAL ASSAULT
FORENSIC EXAMINERS.—
(A) GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS FOR EXAMINERS.—
The Under Secretary of Defense for Per-
sonnel and Readiness shall specify geo-
graphic regions in which military families
reside for purposes of the availability of and
access to certified pediatric sexual assault
examiners in such regions.
(B) AVAILABILITY.—The Under Secretary
shall ensure that—
(i) one or more certified pediatric sexual
assault examiners are located in each geo-
graphic region specified pursuant to subpara-
graph (A); and
(ii) examiners so located serve as certified
pediatric sexual assault examiners through-
out such region, without regard to Armed
Force or installation.
(5) REMOVAL OF CHILDREN FROM UNSAFE
HOMES OVERSEAS.—The Secretary of Defense
shall, in consultation with the Secretaries of
the military departments, issue policy that
clarifies and standardizes across the Armed
Forces the circumstances under which a
commander may remove a child from a po-
tentially unsafe home at an installation
overseas.
(6) RESOURCE GUIDE FOR FAMILIES AFFECTED
BY CHILD ABUSE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of each
military department shall develop and main-
tain a comprehensive guide on resources
available through the Department of Defense
and such military department for military
families under this jurisdiction of such Sec-
retary who are affected by child abuse.
(B) ELEMENTS.—Each guide under this
paragraph shall include the following:
(i) Information on the response processes
of the Family Advocacy Programs and mili-
tary criminal investigation organizations of
the military department concerned.
(ii) Lists of available support services, such
as legal, medical, and victim advocacy serv-
ices, through the Department of Defense and
the military department concerned.
(C) DISTRIBUTION.—A resource guide under
this paragraph shall be presented to a mili-
tary family by an installation Family Advo-
cacy Program and military criminal inves-
tigation personnel at the time a covered in-
cident of child abuse involving a child in
such family is reported.
(D) AVAILABILITY ON INTERNET.—A current
version of each resource guide under this
paragraph shall be available to the public on
an Internet website of the military depart-
ment concerned available to the public.
(d) COORDINATION AND COLLABORATION WITH
NON-MILITARY RESOURCES.—
(1) COORDINATION WITH STATES.—The Sec-
retary of Defense shall—
(A) continue the outreach efforts of the De-
partment of Defense to the States in order to
ensure that States are notified when a mem-
ber of the Armed Forces or a military de-
pendent is involved in a reported incident of
child abuse off a military installation; and
(B) increase efforts at information sharing
between the Department and the States on
such incidents of child abuse, including
entry into memoranda of understanding with
State child welfare agencies on information
sharing in connection with such incidents.
(2) COLLABORATION WITH NATIONAL CHIL-
DREN’S ALLIANCE.—
(A) MEMORANDA OF UNDERSTANDING.—The
Secretary of each military department shall
seek to enter into a memorandum of under-
standing with the National Children’s Alli-
ance under which—
(i) the children’s advocacy center services
of the Alliance are available to all installa-
tions in the continental United States under
the jurisdiction of such Secretary; and
(ii) members of the Armed Forces under
the jurisdiction of such Secretary are made
aware of the nature and availability of such
services.
(B) PARTICIPATION OF CERTAIN ENTITIES.—
Each memorandum of understanding under
this paragraph shall provide for the appro-
priate participation of the Family Advocacy
Program and military criminal investigation
organizations of the military department
concerned in activities under such memo-
randum of understanding.
(C) BRIEFING.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of each military department
shall provide to the Committees on Armed
Services of the Senate and the House of Rep-
resentatives a briefing on the status of the
development of a memorandum of under-
standing with the National Children’s Alli-
ance under this paragraph, together with in-
formation on which installations, if any,
under the jurisdiction of such Secretary have
entered into a written agreement with a
local children’s advocacy center with respect
to child abuse on such installations.
SEC. 576. MILITARY CHILD CARE AND CHILD DE-
VELOPMENT CENTER MATTERS.
(a) CENTER FEES MATTERS.—Section 1793 of
title 10, United States Code, is amended by
adding at the end the following new sub-
sections:
‘‘(c) LIBERAL ISSUANCE OF HARDSHIP WAIV-
ERS.—The regulations prescribed pursuant to
subsection (a) shall require that installation
commanders issue waivers of fees otherwise
established under the regulations for inabil-
ity to pay (commonly referred to as ‘hard-
ship waivers’) on a liberal basis in a manner
consistent (as specified by the Secretary in
such regulations) with ensuring that fees
collected pursuant to subsection (a) meet the
operating expenses of the child development
centers concerned.
‘‘(d) FAMILY DISCOUNT.—In the case of a
family with two or more children attending
a child development center, the regulations
prescribed pursuant to subsection (a) shall
require that installations commanders
charge a fee for attendance at the center of
any child of the family after the first child of
the family in amount equal to 85 percent of
the amount of the fee otherwise chargeable
for the attendance of such child at the cen-
ter.’’.
(b) CHILD CARE FEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
THROUGHOUT THE ARMED FORCES.—
(1) PROGRAMS AUTHORIZED.—Each Sec-
retary of a military department may carry
out a program for each Armed Force under
the jurisdiction of such Secretary under
which a member of the Armed Forces who is
obtaining child care services from a civilian
child care services provider located off a
military installation is paid (subject to any
limitation established by such Secretary) a
monthly amount equal to the amount, if
any, by which—
(A) the monthly amount charged by such
provider for such services; exceeds
(B) the monthly amount the military de-
partment concerned pays or otherwise pro-
vides members at such installation for child
care services on such installation.
(2) MODEL.—Any program carried out pur-
suant to paragraph (1) shall be modeled after
the Army Fee Assistance Program, and in-
corporate such modifications to that Pro-
gram as the Secretary of the military de-
partment concerned considers appropriate.
(3) SECRETARY OF DEFENSE APPROVAL.—Any
program of an Armed Force under paragraph
(1) shall be subject to the approval of the
Secretary of Defense.
(c) ADDITIONAL ACTIONS TO OBTAIN QUALI-
FIED CHILD CARE EMPLOYEES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1792 of title 10,
United States Code, is amended—
(A) by redesignating subsection (d) as sub-
section (e); and
(B) by inserting after subsection (c) the fol-
lowing new subsection (d):
‘‘(d) ADDITIONAL ACTIONS TO OBTAIN QUALI-
FIED EMPLOYEES.—Each Secretary of a mili-
tary department may, with the approval of
the Secretary of Defense, take actions in ad-
dition to actions authorized by subsection (c)
to provide military child development cen-
ters under the jurisdiction of such Secretary
with a qualified and stable civilian work-
force, including actions as follows:
‘‘(1) Enhanced marketing and recruitment
for employment.
‘‘(2) Provision to employees of education-
related benefits, including tuition assistance
and student loan repayment programs.
‘‘(3) Availability and enhancement of
wellness and physical fitness programs for
employees.
‘‘(4) Provision of such other competitive
benefits as the Secretary of the military de-
partment and the Secretary of Defense joint-
ly consider appropriate.’’.
(2) REPORTS ON INSTALLATIONS WITH EX-
TREME IMBALANCE BETWEEN DEMAND FOR AND
AVAILABILITY OF CHILD CARE.—Not later than
one year after the date of the enactment of
this Act, each Secretary of a military de-
partment shall submit to Congress a report
on the military installations under the juris-
diction of such Secretary with an extreme
imbalance between demand for child care
and availability of child care. Each report
shall include, for the military department
covered by such report, the following:
(A) The name of the five installations of
the military department experiencing the
most extreme imbalance between demand for
child care and availability of child care.
(B) For each installation named pursuant
to subparagraph (A), the following:
(i) An assessment whether civilian employ-
ees at child development centers at such in-
stallation have rates of pay and benefits that
are competitive with other civilian employ-
ees on such installation and with the civilian
labor pool in the vicinity of such installa-
tion.
(ii) A description and assessment of var-
ious incentives to encourage military
spouses to become providers under the Fam-
ily Child Care program at such installation.
(iii) Such recommendations at the Sec-
retary of the military department concerned
considers appropriate to address the imbal-
ance between demand for child care and
availability of child care at such installa-
tion, including recommendations to enhance
the competitiveness of civilian child care po-
sitions at such installation with other civil-
ian positions at such installation and the ci-
vilian labor pool in the vicinity of such in-
stallation.
SEC. 577. EXPANSION OF FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
UNDER MY CAREER ADVANCEMENT
ACCOUNT PROGRAM.
Section 580F of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public
Law 116–92) is amended—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00083 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6770 November 16, 2020
(1) by inserting ‘‘(a) PROFESSIONAL LICENSE
OR CERTIFICATION; ASSOCIATE’S DEGREE.—’’
before ‘‘The Secretary’’;
(2) by inserting ‘‘or maintenance (including
continuing education courses)’’ after ‘‘pur-
suit’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(b) NATIONAL TESTING.—Financial assist-
ance under subsection (a) may be applied to
the costs of national tests that may earn a
participating military spouse course credits
required for a degree approved under the pro-
gram (including the College Level Examina-
tion Program tests).’’.
Subtitle H—Other Matters
SEC. 586. REMOVAL OF PERSONALLY IDENTI-
FYING AND OTHER INFORMATION
OF CERTAIN PERSONS FROM INVES-
TIGATIVE REPORTS, THE DEPART-
MENT OF DEFENSE CENTRAL INDEX
OF INVESTIGATIONS, AND OTHER
RECORDS AND DATABASES.
(a) POLICY AND PROCESS REQUIRED.—Not
later than October 1, 2021, the Secretary of
Defense shall establish and maintain a pol-
icy and process through which any covered
person may request that the person’s name,
personally identifying information, and
other information pertaining to the person
shall, in accordance with subsection (c), be
corrected in, or expunged or otherwise re-
moved from, the following:
(1) A law enforcement or criminal inves-
tigative report of the Department of Defense
or any component of the Department.
(2) An index item or entry in the Depart-
ment of Defense Central Index of Investiga-
tions (DCII).
(3) Any other record maintained in connec-
tion with a report described in paragraph (1),
or an index item or entry described in para-
graph (2), in any system of records, records
database, records center, or repository main-
tained by or on behalf of the Department.
(b) COVERED PERSONS.—For purposes of
this section, a covered person is any person
whose name was placed or reported, or is
maintained—
(1) in the subject or title block of a law en-
forcement or criminal investigative report of
the Department of Defense (or any compo-
nent of the Department);
(2) as an item or entry in the Department
of Defense Central Index of Investigations; or
(3) in any other record maintained in con-
nection with a report described in paragraph
(1), or an index item or entry described in
paragraph (2), in any system of records,
records database, records center, or reposi-
tory maintained by or on behalf of the De-
partment.
(c) ELEMENTS.—The policy and process re-
quired by subsection (a) shall include the fol-
lowing elements:
(1) BASIS FOR CORRECTION OR
EXPUNGEMENT.—That the name, personally
identifying information, and other informa-
tion of a covered person shall be corrected
in, or expunged or otherwise removed from, a
report, item or entry, or record described in
paragraphs (1) through (3) of subsection (a)
in the following circumstances:
(A) Probable cause did not or does not
exist to believe that the offense for which
the person’s name was placed or reported, or
is maintained, in such report, item or entry,
or record occurred, or insufficient evidence
existed or exists to determine whether or not
such offense occurred.
(B) Probable cause did not or does not exist
to believe that the person actually com-
mitted the offense for which the person’s
name was so placed or reported, or is so
maintained, or insufficient evidence existed
or exists to determine whether or not the
person actually committed such offense.
(C) Such other circumstances, or on such
other bases, as the Secretary may specify in
establishing the policy and process, which
circumstances and bases may not be incon-
sistent with the circumstances and bases
provided by subparagraphs (A) and (B).
(2) CONSIDERATIONS.—While not dispositive
as to the existence of a circumstance or basis
set forth in paragraph (1), the following shall
be considered in the determination whether
such circumstance or basis applies to a cov-
ered person for purposes of this section:
(A) The extent or lack of corroborating
evidence against the covered person con-
cerned with respect to the offense at issue.
(B) Whether adverse administrative, dis-
ciplinary, judicial, or other such action was
initiated against the covered person for the
offense at issue.
(C) The type, nature, and outcome of any
action described in subparagraph (B) against
the covered person.
(3) PROCEDURES.—The policy and process
required by subsection (a) shall include pro-
cedures as follows:
(A) Procedures under which a covered per-
son may appeal a determination of the appli-
cable component of the Department of De-
fense denying, whether in whole or in part, a
request for purposes of subsection (a).
(B) Procedures under which the applicable
component of the Department will correct,
expunge or remove, take other appropriate
action on, or assist a covered person in so
doing, any record maintained by a person,
organization, or entity outside of the De-
partment to which such component provided,
submitted, or transmitted information about
the covered person, which information has or
will be corrected in, or expunged or removed
from, Department records pursuant to this
section.
(C) The timeline pursuant to which the De-
partment, or a component of the Depart-
ment, as applicable, will respond to each of
the following:
(i) A request pursuant to subsection (a).
(ii) An appeal under the procedures re-
quired by subparagraph (A).
(iii) A request for assistance under the pro-
cedures required by subparagraph (B).
(D) Mechanisms through which the Depart-
ment will keep a covered person apprised of
the progress of the Department on a covered
person’s request or appeal as described in
subparagraph (C).
(d) APPLICABILITY.—The policy and process
required to be developed by the Secretary
under subsection (a) shall not be subject to
the notice and comment rulemaking require-
ments under section 553 of title 5, United
States Code.
(e) REPORT.—Not later than October 1, 2021,
the Secretary shall submit to the Commit-
tees on Armed Services of the Senate and the
House of Representatives a report on the ac-
tions taken to carry out this section, includ-
ing a comprehensive description of the pol-
icy and process developed and implemented
by the Secretary under subsection (a).
SEC. 587. NATIONAL EMERGENCY EXCEPTION
FOR TIMING REQUIREMENTS WITH
RESPECT TO CERTAIN SURVEYS OF
MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.
(a) MEMBERS OF REGULAR AND RESERVE
COMPONENTS.—Subsection (d) of section 481
of title 10, United States Code, is amended to
read as follows:
‘‘(d) WHEN SURVEYS REQUIRED.—(1) The
Armed Forces Workplace and Gender Rela-
tions Surveys of the Active Duty and the
Armed Forces Workplace and Gender Rela-
tions Survey of the Reserve Components
shall each be conducted once every two
years. The surveys may be conducted within
the same year or in two separate years, and
shall be conducted in a manner designed to
reduce the burden of the surveys on members
of the armed forces.
‘‘(2) The two Armed Forces Workplace and
Equal Opportunity Surveys shall be con-
ducted at least once every four years. The
surveys may be conducted within the same
year or in two separate years, and shall be
conducted in a manner designed to reduce
the burden of the surveys on members of the
armed forces.
‘‘(3)(A) The Secretary of Defense may post-
pone the conduct of a survey under this sec-
tion if the Secretary determines that con-
ducting such survey is not practicable due to
a war or national emergency declared by the
President or Congress.
‘‘(B) The Secretary shall ensure that a sur-
vey postponed under subparagraph (A) is
conducted as soon as practicable after the
end of the period of war or national emer-
gency concerned, or earlier if the Secretary
determines appropriate.
‘‘(C) The Secretary shall notify Congress of
a determination under subparagraph (A) not
later than 30 days after the date on which
the Secretary makes such determination.’’.
(b) CADETS AND MIDSHIPMEN.—
(1) UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY.—
Section 7461(c) of title 10, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end the
following new paragraph:
‘‘(3)(A) The Secretary of Defense may post-
pone the conduct of an assessment under this
subsection if the Secretary determines that
conducting such assessment is not prac-
ticable due to a war or national emergency
declared by the President or Congress.
‘‘(B) The Secretary of Defense shall ensure
that an assessment postponed under subpara-
graph (A) is conducted as soon as practicable
after the end of the period of war or national
emergency concerned, or earlier if the Sec-
retary determines appropriate.
‘‘(C) The Secretary of Defense shall notify
Congress of a determination under subpara-
graph (A) not later than 30 days after the
date on which the Secretary makes such de-
termination.’’.
(2) UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY.—Sec-
tion 8480(c) of such title is amended by add-
ing at the end the following new paragraph:
‘‘(3)(A) The Secretary of Defense may post-
pone the conduct of an assessment under this
subsection if the Secretary determines that
conducting such assessment is not prac-
ticable due to a war or national emergency
declared by the President or Congress.
‘‘(B) The Secretary of Defense shall ensure
that an assessment postponed under subpara-
graph (A) is conducted as soon as practicable
after the end of the period of war or national
emergency concerned, or earlier if the Sec-
retary determines appropriate.
‘‘(C) The Secretary of Defense shall notify
Congress of a determination under subpara-
graph (A) not later than 30 days after the
date on which the Secretary makes such de-
termination.’’.
(3) UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY.—
Section 9461(c) of such title is amended by
adding at the end the following new para-
graph:
‘‘(3)(A) The Secretary of Defense may post-
pone the conduct of an assessment under this
subsection if the Secretary determines that
conducting such assessment is not prac-
ticable due to a war or national emergency
declared by the President or Congress.
‘‘(B) The Secretary of Defense shall ensure
that an assessment postponed under subpara-
graph (A) is conducted as soon as practicable
after the end of the period of war or national
emergency concerned, or earlier if the Sec-
retary determines appropriate.
‘‘(C) The Secretary of Defense shall notify
Congress of a determination under subpara-
graph (A) not later than 30 days after the
date on which the Secretary makes such de-
termination.’’.
(c) DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CIVILIAN EM-
PLOYEES.—Section 481a of title 10, United
States Code, is amended by adding at the end
the following new subsection:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00084 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6771
November 16, 2020
‘‘(d) POSTPONEMENT.—(1) The Secretary of
Defense may postpone the conduct of a sur-
vey under this section if the Secretary deter-
mines that conducting such survey is not
practicable due to a war or national emer-
gency declared by the President or Congress.
‘‘(2) The Secretary shall ensure that a sur-
vey postponed under paragraph (1) is con-
ducted as soon as practicable after the end of
the period of war or national emergency con-
cerned, or earlier if the Secretary deter-
mines appropriate.
‘‘(3) The Secretary shall notify Congress of
a determination under paragraph (1) not
later than 30 days after the date on which
the Secretary makes such determination.’’.
SEC. 588. SUNSET AND TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS
OF THE PHYSICAL DISABILITY
BOARD OF REVIEW.
Section 1554a of title 10, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end the
following new subsection:
‘‘(g) SUNSET.—(1) On or after October 1,
2020, the Secretary of Defense may sunset
the Physical Disability Board of Review
under this section.
‘‘(2) If the Secretary sunsets the Physical
Disability Board of Review under paragraph
(1), the Secretary shall transfer any remain-
ing requests for review pending at that time,
and shall assign any new requests for review
under this section, to a board for the correc-
tion of military records operated by the Sec-
retary concerned under section 1552 of this
title..
‘‘(3) Subsection (c)(4) shall not apply with
respect to any review conducted by a board
for the correction of military records under
paragraph (2).’’.
SEC. 589. EXTENSION OF REPORTING DEADLINE
FOR THE ANNUAL REPORT ON THE
ASSESSMENT OF THE EFFECTIVE-
NESS OF ACTIVITIES OF THE FED-
ERAL VOTING ASSISTANCE PRO-
GRAM.
(a) ELIMINATION OF REPORTS FOR NON-ELEC-
TION YEARS.—Section 105A(b) of the Uni-
formed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Vot-
ing Act (52 U.S.C. 20308(b)) is amended, in the
matter preceding paragraph (1)—
(1) by striking ‘‘March 31 of each year’’ and
inserting ‘‘September 30 of each odd-num-
bered year’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘the following information’’
and inserting ‘‘the following information
with respect to the Federal elections held
during the preceding calendar year’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Subsection
(b) of section 105A of such Act (52 U.S.C.
20308(b)) is amended—
(1) in the subsection heading, by striking
‘‘ANNUAL REPORT’’ and inserting ‘‘BIENNIAL
REPORT’’; and
(2) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘In the
case of’’ and all that follows through ‘‘a de-
scription’’ and inserting ‘‘A description’’.
SEC. 590. PILOT PROGRAMS ON REMOTE PROVI-
SION BY NATIONAL GUARD TO
STATE GOVERNMENTS AND NA-
TIONAL GUARDS OF OTHER STATES
OF CYBERSECURITY TECHNICAL AS-
SISTANCE IN TRAINING, PREPARA-
TION, AND RESPONSE TO CYBER IN-
CIDENTS.
(a) PILOT PROGRAMS AUTHORIZED.—The
Secretary of the Army and the Secretary of
the Air Force may each, in consultation with
the Chief of the National Guard Bureau, con-
duct a pilot program to assess the feasibility
and advisability of the development of a ca-
pability within the National Guard through
which a National Guard of a State remotely
provides State governments and National
Guards of other States (whether or not in the
same Armed Force as the providing National
Guard) with cybersecurity technical assist-
ance in training, preparation, and response
to cyber incidents. If such Secretary elects
to conduct such a pilot program, such Sec-
retary shall be known as an ‘‘administering
Secretary’’ for purposes of this section, and
any reference in this section to ‘‘the pilot
program’’ shall be treated as a reference to
the pilot program conducted by such Sec-
retary.
(b) ASSESSMENT PRIOR TO COMMENCE-
MENT.—For purposes of evaluating existing
platforms, technologies, and capabilities
under subsection (c), and for establishing eli-
gibility and participation requirements
under subsection (d), for purposes of the pilot
program, an administering Secretary, in con-
sultation with the Chief of the National
Guard Bureau, shall, prior to commencing
the pilot program—
(1) conduct an assessment of—
(A) existing cyber response capacities of
the Army National Guard or Air National
Guard, as applicable, in each State; and
(B) any existing platform, technology, or
capability of a National Guard that provides
the capability described in subsection (a);
and
(2) determine whether a platform, tech-
nology, or capability described in paragraph
(1)(B) is suitable for expansion for purposes
of the pilot program.
(c) ELEMENTS.—A pilot program under sub-
section (a) shall include the following:
(1) A technical capability that enables the
National Guard of a State to remotely pro-
vide cybersecurity technical assistance to
State governments and National Guards of
other States, without the need to deploy out-
side its home State.
(2) Policies, processes, procedures, and au-
thorities for use of such a capability, includ-
ing with respect to the following:
(A) The roles and responsibilities of both
requesting and deploying State governments
and National Guards with respect to such
technical assistance, taking into account the
matters specified in subsection (f).
(B) Necessary updates to the Defense Cyber
Incident Coordinating Procedure, or any
other applicable Department of Defense in-
struction, for purposes of implementing the
capability.
(C) Program management and governance
structures for deployment and maintenance
of the capability.
(D) Security when performing remote sup-
port, including such in matters such as au-
thentication and remote sensing.
(3) The conduct, in coordination with the
Chief of the National Guard Bureau and the
Secretary of Homeland Security and in con-
sultation with the Director of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, other Federal agen-
cies, and appropriate non-Federal entities, of
at least one exercise to demonstrate the ca-
pability, which exercise shall include the fol-
lowing:
(A) Participation of not fewer than two
State governments and their National
Guards.
(B) Circumstances designed to test and
validate the policies, processes, procedures,
and authorities developed pursuant to para-
graph (2).
(C) An after action review of the exercise.
(d) USE OF EXISTING TECHNOLOGY.—An ad-
ministering Secretary may use an existing
platform, technology, or capability to pro-
vide the capability described in subsection
(a) under the pilot program.
(e) ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION RE-
QUIREMENTS.—An administering Secretary
shall, in consultation with the Chief of the
National Guard Bureau, establish require-
ments with respect to eligibility and partici-
pation of State governments and their Na-
tional Guards in the pilot program.
(f) CONSTRUCTION WITH CERTAIN CURRENT
AUTHORITIES.—
(1) COMMAND AUTHORITIES.—Nothing in a
pilot program under subsection (a) may be
construed as affecting or altering the com-
mand authorities otherwise applicable to
any unit of the National Guard unit partici-
pating in the pilot program.
(2) EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ASSISTANCE
COMPACT.—Nothing in a pilot program may
be construed as affecting or altering any cur-
rent agreement under the Emergency Man-
agement Assistance Compact, or any other
State agreements, or as determinative of the
future content of any such agreement.
(g) EVALUATION METRICS.—An admin-
istering Secretary shall, in consultation
with the Chief of the National Guard Bureau
and the Secretary of Homeland Security, es-
tablish metrics to evaluate the effectiveness
of the pilot program.
(h) TERM.—A pilot program under sub-
section (a) shall terminate on the date that
is three years after the date of the com-
mencement of the pilot program.
(i) REPORTS.—
(1) INITIAL REPORT.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the commencement of
the pilot program, the administering Sec-
retary shall submit to the appropriate com-
mittees of Congress a report setting forth a
description of the pilot program and such
other matters in connection with the pilot
program as the Secretary considers appro-
priate.
(2) FINAL REPORT.—Not later than 180 days
after the termination of the pilot program,
the administering Secretary shall submit to
the appropriate committees of Congress a re-
port on the pilot program. The report shall
include the following:
(A) A description of the pilot program, in-
cluding any partnerships entered into by the
Chief of the National Guard Bureau under
the pilot program.
(B) A summary of the assessment per-
formed prior to the commencement of the
pilot program in accordance with subsection
(b).
(C) A summary of the evaluation metrics
established in accordance with subsection
(g).
(D) An assessment of the effectiveness of
the pilot program, and of the capability de-
scribed in subsection (a) under the pilot pro-
gram.
(E) A description of costs associated with
the implementation and conduct of the pilot
program.
(F) A recommendation as to the termi-
nation or extension of the pilot program, or
the making of the pilot program permanent
with an expansion nationwide.
(G) An estimate of the costs of making the
pilot program permanent and expanding it
nationwide in accordance with the rec-
ommendation in subparagraph (F).
(H) Such recommendations for legislative
or administrative action as the Secretary
considers appropriate in light of the pilot
program.
(3) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS
DEFINED.—In this subsection, the term ‘‘ap-
propriate committees of Congress’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Homeland Security of the
House of Representatives.
(j) STATE DEFINED.—In this section, the
term ‘‘State’’ means each of the several
States, the District of Columbia, the Com-
monwealth of Puerto Rico, American Samoa,
Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, and
the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
Islands.
SEC. 591. PLAN ON PERFORMANCE OF FUNERAL
HONORS DETAILS BY MEMBERS OF
OTHER ARMED FORCES WHEN MEM-
BERS OF THE ARMED FORCE OF THE
DECEASED ARE UNAVAILABLE.
(a) BRIEFING ON PLAN.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00085 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6772 November 16, 2020
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense shall provide a
briefing to the Committees on Armed Serv-
ices of the Senate and the House of Rep-
resentatives setting forth a plan for the per-
formance of a funeral honors detail at the fu-
neral of a deceased member of the Armed
Forces by one or more members of the
Armed Forces from an Armed Force other
than that of the deceased when—
(A) members of the Armed Force of the de-
ceased are unavailable for the performance
of the detail; and
(B) the performance of the detail by mem-
bers of other Armed Forces is requested by
the family of the deceased.
(2) REPEAL OF REQUIREMENT FOR ONE MEM-
BER OF ARMED FORCE OF DECEASED IN DE-
TAIL.—Section 1491(b)(2) of title 10, United
States Code, is amended in the first sentence
by striking ‘‘, at least one of whom shall be
a member of the armed force of which the
veteran was a member’’.
(3) PERFORMANCE.—The plan required by
paragraph (1) shall authorize the perform-
ance of funeral honors details by members of
the Army National Guard and the Air Na-
tional Guard under section 115 of title 32,
United States Code, and may authorize the
remainder of such details to consist of mem-
bers of veterans organizations or other orga-
nizations approved for purposes of section
1491 of title 10, United States Code, as pro-
vided for by subsection (b)(2) of such section
1491.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The briefing under sub-
section (a) shall include a description in de-
tail the authorities and requirements for the
implementation of the plan, including ad-
ministrative, logistical, coordination, and
funding authorities and requirements.
SEC. 592. LIMITATION ON IMPLEMENTATION OF
ARMY COMBAT FITNESS TEST.
The Secretary of the Army may not imple-
ment the Army Combat Fitness Test until
the Secretary receives results of a study,
conducted for purposes of this section by an
entity independent of the Department of De-
fense, on the following:
(1) The extent, if any, to which the test
would adversely impact members of the
Army stationed or deployed to climates or
areas with conditions that make prohibitive
the conduct of outdoor physical training on
a frequent or sustained basis.
(2) The extent, if any, to which the test
would affect recruitment and retention in
critical support military occupational spe-
cialties (MOS) of the Army, such as medical
personnel.
SEC. 593. REPORT ON IMPACT OF CHILDREN OF
CERTAIN FILIPINO WORLD WAR II
VETERANS ON NATIONAL SECURITY,
FOREIGN POLICY, AND ECONOMIC
AND HUMANITARIAN INTERESTS OF
THE UNITED STATES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than December
31, 2020, the Secretary of Homeland Security,
in consultation with the Secretary of De-
fense and the Secretary of State, shall sub-
mit to the congressional defense committees
a report on the impact of the children of cer-
tain Filipino World War II veterans on the
national security, foreign policy, and eco-
nomic and humanitarian interests of the
United States.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall include the following:
(1) The number of Filipino World War II
veterans who fought under the United States
flag during World War II to protect and de-
fend the United States in the Pacific theater.
(2) The number of Filipino World War II
veterans who died fighting under the United
States flag during World War II to protect
and defend the United States in the Pacific
theater.
(3) An assessment of the economic and tax
contributions that Filipino World War II vet-
erans and their families have made to the
United States.
(4) An assessment of the impact on the
United States of exempting from the numer-
ical limitations on immigrant visas the chil-
dren of the Filipino World War II veterans
who were naturalized under—
(A) section 405 of the Immigration Act of
1990 (Public Law 101–649; 8 U.S.C. 1440 note);
or
(B) title III of the Nationality Act of 1940
(54 Stat. 1137; chapter 876), as added by sec-
tion 1001 of the Second War Powers Act, 1942
(56 Stat. 182; chapter 199).
TITLE VI—COMPENSATION AND OTHER
PERSONNEL BENEFITS
Subtitle A—Pay and Allowances
SEC. 601. REORGANIZATION OF CERTAIN ALLOW-
ANCES OTHER THAN TRAVEL AND
TRANSPORTATION ALLOWANCES.
(a) PER DIEM FOR DUTY OUTSIDE THE CONTI-
NENTAL UNITED STATES.—
(1) TRANSFER TO CHAPTER 7.—Section 475 of
title 37, United States Code, is transferred to
chapter 7 of such title, inserted after section
403b, and redesignated as section 405.
(2) REPEAL OF TERMINATION PROVISION.—
Section 405 of title 37, United States Code, as
added by paragraph (1), is amended by strik-
ing subsection (f).
(3) RETITLING OF AUTHORITY.—The heading
of section 405 of title 37, United States Code,
as so added, is amended to read as follows:
‘‘§ 405. Per diem while on duty outside the
continental United States’’.
(b) ALLOWANCE FOR FUNERAL HONORS
DUTY.—
(1) TRANSFER TO CHAPTER 7.—Section 495 of
title 37, United States Code, is transferred to
chapter 7 of such title, inserted after section
433a, and redesignated as section 435.
(2) REPEAL OF TERMINATION PROVISION.—
Section 435 of title 37, United States Code, as
added by paragraph (1), is amended by strik-
ing subsection (c).
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENTS.—
(1) CHAPTER 7.—The table of sections at the
beginning of chapter 7 of such title 37,
United States Code, is amended—
(A) by inserting after the item relating to
section 403b the following new item:
‘‘405. Per diem while on duty outside the con-
tinental United States.’’;
and
(B) by inserting after the item relating to
section 433a the following new item:
‘‘435. Funeral honors duty: allowance.’’.
(2) CHAPTER 8.—The table of sections at the
beginning of chapter 8 of such title is amend-
ed by striking the items relating to sections
475 and 495.
SEC. 602. HAZARDOUS DUTY PAY FOR MEMBERS
OF THE ARMED FORCES PER-
FORMING DUTY IN RESPONSE TO
THE CORONAVIRUS DISEASE 2019.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the
military department concerned shall pay
hazardous duty pay under this section to a
member of a regular or reserve component of
the Armed Forces who—
(1) performs duty in response to the
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID–19); and
(2) is entitled to basic pay under section
204 of title 37, United States Code, or com-
pensation under section 206 of such title, for
the performance of such duty.
(b) REGULATIONS.—Hazardous duty pay
shall be payable under this section in accord-
ance with regulations prescribed by the Sec-
retary of Defense. Such regulations shall
specify the duty in response to the
Coronavirus Disease 2019 qualifying a mem-
ber for payment of such pay under this sec-
tion.
(c) AMOUNT.—The amount of hazardous
duty pay paid a member under this section
shall be such amount per month, not less
than $150 per month, as the Secretary of De-
fense shall specify in the regulations under
subsection (b).
(d) MONTHLY PAYMENT; NO PRORATION.—
(1) MONTHLY PAYMENT.—Hazardous duty
pay under this section shall be paid on a
monthly basis.
(2) NO PRORATION.—Hazardous duty pay is
payable to a member under this section for a
month if the member performs any duty in
that month qualifying the person for pay-
ment of such pay.
(e) MONTHS FOR WHICH PAYABLE.—Haz-
ardous duty pay is payable under this sec-
tion for qualifying duty performed in months
occurring during the period—
(1) beginning on January 1, 2020; and
(2) ending on December 31, 2020.
(f) CONSTRUCTION WITH OTHER PAY.—Haz-
ardous duty pay payable to a member under
this section is in addition to the following:
(1) Any other pay and allowances to which
the member is entitled by law.
(2) Any other hazardous duty pay to which
the member is entitled under section 351 of
title 37, United States Code (or any other
provision of law), for duty that also con-
stitutes qualifying duty for payment of such
pay under this section.
(g) SENSE OF SENATE.—It is the sense of the
Senate that the Secretary of Defense should
also authorize hazardous duty pay for mem-
bers of the Armed Forces not under orders
specific to the response to the Coronavirus
Disease 2019 who provide—
(1) healthcare in a military medical treat-
ment facility for individuals infected with
the Coronavirus Disease 2019; or
(2) technical or administrative support for
the provision of healthcare as described in
paragraph (1).
SEC. 603. COMPENSATION AND CREDIT FOR RE-
TIRED PAY PURPOSES FOR MATER-
NITY LEAVE TAKEN BY MEMBERS OF
THE RESERVE COMPONENTS.
(a) COMPENSATION.—Section 206(a) of title
37, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘or’’ at the
end;
(2) in paragraph (3), by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘; or’’; and
(3) by adding the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(4) for each of 6 days in connection with
the taking by the member of a period of ma-
ternity leave.’’.
(b) CREDIT FOR RETIRED PAY PURPOSES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The period of maternity
leave taken by a member of the reserve com-
ponents of the Armed Forces in connection
with the birth of a child shall count toward
the member’s entitlement to retired pay, and
in connection with the years of service used
in computing retired pay, under chapter 1223
of title 10, United States Code, as 12 points.
(2) SEPARATE CREDIT FOR EACH PERIOD OF
LEAVE.—Separate crediting of points shall
accrue to a member pursuant to this sub-
section for each period of maternity leave
taken by the member in connection with a
childbirth event.
(3) WHEN CREDITED.—Points credited a
member for a period of maternity leave pur-
suant to this subsection shall be credited in
the year in which the period of maternity
leave concerned commences.
(4) CONTRIBUTION OF LEAVE TOWARD ENTI-
TLEMENT TO RETIRED PAY.—Section 12732(a)(2)
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by
inserting after subparagraph (E) the fol-
lowing new subparagraph:
‘‘(F) Points at the rate of 12 a year for the
taking of maternity leave.’’.
(5) COMPUTATION OF YEARS OF SERVICE FOR
RETIRED PAY.—Section 12733 of such title is
amended—
(A) by redesignating paragraph (5) as para-
graph (6); and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00086 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6773
November 16, 2020
(B) by inserting after paragraph (4) the fol-
lowing new paragraph (5):
‘‘(5) One day for each point credited to the
person under subparagraph (F) of section
12732(a)(2) of this title.’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—This section and the
amendments made by this section shall take
effect on the date of the enactment of this
Act, and shall apply with respect to periods
of maternity leave that commence on or
after that date.
Subtitle B—Bonuses and Special and
Incentive Pays
SEC. 611. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF CERTAIN EX-
PIRING BONUS AND SPECIAL PAY
AUTHORITIES.
(a) AUTHORITIES RELATING TO RESERVE
FORCES.—Section 910(g) of title 37, United
States Code, relating to income replacement
payments for reserve component members
experiencing extended and frequent mobili-
zation for active duty service, is amended by
striking ‘‘December 31, 2020’’ and inserting
‘‘December 31, 2021’’.
(b) TITLE 10 AUTHORITIES RELATING TO
HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS.—The following
sections of title 10, United States Code, are
amended by striking ‘‘December 31, 2020’’ and
inserting ‘‘December 31, 2021’’:
(1) Section 2130a(a)(1), relating to nurse of-
ficer candidate accession program.
(2) Section 16302(d), relating to repayment
of education loans for certain health profes-
sionals who serve in the Selected Reserve.
(c) AUTHORITIES RELATING TO NUCLEAR OF-
FICERS.—Section 333(i) of title 37, United
States Code, is amended by striking ‘‘Decem-
ber 31, 2020’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31,
2021’’.
(d) AUTHORITIES RELATING TO TITLE 37 CON-
SOLIDATED SPECIAL PAY, INCENTIVE PAY, AND
BONUS AUTHORITIES.—The following sections
of title 37, United States Code, are amended
by striking ‘‘December 31, 2020’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘December 31, 2021’’:
(1) Section 331(h), relating to general bonus
authority for enlisted members.
(2) Section 332(g), relating to general bonus
authority for officers.
(3) Section 334(i), relating to special avia-
tion incentive pay and bonus authorities for
officers.
(4) Section 335(k), relating to special bonus
and incentive pay authorities for officers in
health professions.
(5) Section 336(g), relating to contracting
bonus for cadets and midshipmen enrolled in
the Senior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps.
(6) Section 351(h), relating to hazardous
duty pay.
(7) Section 352(g), relating to assignment
pay or special duty pay.
(8) Section 353(i), relating to skill incen-
tive pay or proficiency bonus.
(9) Section 355(h), relating to retention in-
centives for members qualified in critical
military skills or assigned to high priority
units.
(e) AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE TEMPORARY IN-
CREASE IN RATES OF BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR
HOUSING.—Section 403(b)(7)(E) of title 37,
United States Code, is amended by striking
‘‘December 31, 2020’’ and inserting ‘‘Decem-
ber 31, 2021’’.
SEC. 612. INCREASE IN SPECIAL AND INCENTIVE
PAYS FOR OFFICERS IN HEALTH
PROFESSIONS.
(a) ACCESSION BONUS GENERALLY.—Sub-
paragraph (A) of section 335(e)(1) of title 37,
United States Code, is amended by striking
‘‘$30,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$100,000’’.
(b) ACCESSION BONUS FOR CRITICALLY SHORT
WARTIME SPECIALTIES.—Subparagraph (B) of
such section is amended by striking
‘‘$100,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$200,000’’.
(c) RETENTION BONUS.—Subparagraph (C) of
such section is amended by striking ‘‘$75,000’’
and inserting ‘‘$150,000’’.
(d) INCENTIVE PAY.—Subparagraph (D) of
such section is amended—
(1) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘$100,000’’ and
inserting ‘‘$200,000’’; and
(2) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘$15,000’’ and
inserting ‘‘$50,000’’.
(e) BOARD CERTIFICATION PAY.—Subpara-
graph (E) of such section is amended by
striking ‘‘$6,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$15,000’’.
(f) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall take effect on Oc-
tober 1, 2020, and shall apply with respect to
special bonus and incentive pays payable
under section 335 of title 37, United States
Code, pursuant to agreements entered into
under that section on or after that date.
Subtitle C—Disability Pay, Retired Pay, and
Survivor Benefits
SEC. 621. INCLUSION OF DRILL OR TRAINING
FOREGONE DUE TO EMERGENCY
TRAVEL OR DUTY RESTRICTIONS IN
COMPUTATIONS OF ENTITLEMENT
TO AND AMOUNTS OF RETIRED PAY
FOR NON-REGULAR SERVICE.
(a) ENTITLEMENT TO RETIRED PAY.—Section
12732(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is
amended—
(1) by inserting after subparagraph (E) the
following new subparagraph:
‘‘(F)(i) Subject to regulations prescribed by
the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of
Homeland Security with respect to matters
concerning the Coast Guard when it is not
operating as a service in the Department of
the Navy, one point for each day of active
service or one point for each drill or period
of equivalent instruction that was prescribed
by the Secretary concerned to be performed
during the covered emergency period, if such
person was prevented from performing such
duty due to travel or duty restrictions im-
posed by the President, the Secretary of De-
fense, or the Secretary of Homeland Security
with respect to the Coast Guard.
‘‘(ii) A person may not be credited more
than 35 points in a one-year period under
this subparagraph.
‘‘(iii) In this subparagraph, the term ‘cov-
ered emergency period’ means the period be-
ginning on March 1, 2020, and ending on the
day that is 60 days after the date on which
the travel or duty restriction applicable to
the person concerned is lifted.’’; and
(2) in the matter following subparagraph
(F), as inserted by paragraph (1), by striking
‘‘and (E)’’ and inserting ‘‘(E), and (F)’’.
(b) AMOUNT OF RETIRED PAY.—Section
12733(3) of such title is amended in the mat-
ter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking
‘‘or (D)’’ and inserting ‘‘(D), or (F)’’.
SEC. 622. MODERNIZATION AND CLARIFICATION
OF PAYMENT OF CERTAIN RE-
SERVES WHILE ON DUTY.
(a) CHANGE IN PRIORITY OF PAYMENTS FOR
RETIRED OR RETAINER PAY.—Subsection (a)
of section 12316 of title 10, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1)—
(A) by striking ‘‘subsection (b)’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘subsection (c)’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘his earlier military serv-
ice’’ and inserting ‘‘the Reserve’s earlier
military service’’;
(C) by striking ‘‘a pension, retired or re-
tainer pay, or disability compensation’’ and
inserting ‘‘retired or retainer pay’’; and
(D) by striking ‘‘he is entitled’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘the Reserve is entitled’’; and
(2) by striking paragraphs (1) and (2) and
inserting the following new paragraphs:
‘‘(1) the pay and allowances authorized by
law for the duty that the Reserve is per-
forming; or
‘‘(2) if the Reserve specifically waives
those payments, the retired or retainer pay
to which the Reserve is entitled because of
the Reserve’s earlier military service.’’.
(b) PAYMENTS FOR PENSION OR DISABILITY
COMPENSATION.—Such section is further
amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (b) as sub-
section (c); and
(2) by inserting after subsection (a) the fol-
lowing new subsection (b):
‘‘(b) Except as provided by subsection (c), a
Reserve of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Ma-
rine Corps, or Coast Guard who because of
the Reserve’s earlier military service is enti-
tled to a pension or disability compensation,
and who performs duty for which the Reserve
is entitled to compensation, may elect to re-
ceive for that duty either—
‘‘(1) the pension or disability compensation
to which the Reserve is entitled because of
the Reserve’s earlier military service; or
‘‘(2) if the Reserve specifically waives
those payments, the pay and allowances au-
thorized by law for the duty that the Reserve
is performing.’’.
(c) ADDITIONAL CONFORMING AND MODERN-
IZING AMENDMENTS.—Subsection (c) of such
section, as redesignated by subsection (b)(1)
of this section, is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘(a)(2)’’ both places it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘(a)(1) or (b)(2), as appli-
cable,’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘his earlier military serv-
ice’’ the first place it appears and inserting
‘‘a Reserve’s earlier military service’’;
(3) by striking ‘‘his earlier military serv-
ice’’ each other place it appears and insert-
ing ‘‘the Reserve’s earlier military service’’;
(4) by striking ‘‘he is entitled’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘the Reserve is entitled’’; and
(5) by striking ‘‘the member or his depend-
ents’’ and inserting ‘‘the Reserve or the Re-
serve’s dependents’’.
(d) PROCEDURES.—Such section is further
amended by adding at the end the following
new subsection:
‘‘(d) The Secretary of Defense shall pre-
scribe regulations under which a Reserve of
the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or
Coast Guard may waive the pay and allow-
ances authorized by law for the duty the Re-
serve is performing under subsection (a)(2) or
(b)(2).’’.
(e) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall take effect 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act.
SEC. 623. RELIEF OF RICHARD W. COLLINS III.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress makes the fol-
lowing findings:
(1) On May 20, 2017, Lieutenant Richard W.
Collins III was murdered on the campus of
the University of Maryland, College Park,
Maryland.
(2) At the time of his murder, Lieutenant
Collins had graduated from the Reserve Offi-
cers’ Training Corps at Bowie State Univer-
sity and received a commission in the United
States Army.
(3) At the time of the murder of Lieutenant
Collins, a graduate of a Reserve Officers’
Training Corps who received a commission
but died before receiving a first duty assign-
ment was not eligible for a death gratuity
under section 1475(a)(4) of title 10, United
States Code, or for casualty assistance under
section 633 of the National Defense Author-
ization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (10 U.S.C.
1475 note).
(4) Section 623 of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public
Law 116–92) amended section 1475 of title 10,
United States Code, to authorize the pay-
ment of a death gratuity to a graduate of the
Senior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps
(SROTC) who receives a commission but dies
before receiving a first duty assignment.
(5) Section 625 of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 author-
izes the families of Senior Reserve Officers’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00087 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6774 November 16, 2020
Training Corps graduates to receive casualty
assistance in the event of the death of such
graduates.
(6) Sections 623 and 625 of the National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020
apply only to a Senior Reserve Officers’
Training Corps graduate who receives a com-
mission but dies before receiving a first duty
assignment on or after the date of the enact-
ment of that Act.
(7) The death of Lieutenant Collins played
a critical role in changing the eligibility cri-
teria for the death gratuity for Senior Re-
serve Officers’ Training Corps graduates who
die prior to their first assignment.
(b) APPLICABILITY OF LAWS.—
(1) DEATH GRATUITY.—Section 623 of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92), and the
amendment made by that section, shall
apply to Lieutenant Richard W. Collins III as
if his death had occurred after the date of
the enactment of that section.
(2) CASUALTY ASSISTANCE.—Section 625 of
the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2020, and the amendment made
by that section, shall apply to Lieutenant
Richard W. Collins III as if his death had oc-
curred after the date of the enactment of
that section.
(c) LIMITATION.—No amount exceeding 10
percent of a payment made under subsection
(b)(1) may be paid to or received by any at-
torney or agent for services rendered in con-
nection with the payment. Any person who
violates this subsection shall be guilty of an
infraction and shall be subject to a fine in
the amount provided under title 18, United
States Code.
Subtitle D—Other Matters
SEC. 631. PERMANENT AUTHORITY FOR AND EN-
HANCEMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT
LODGING PROGRAM.
(a) PERMANENT AUTHORITY.—Section 914 of
the Carl Levin and Howard P. ‘‘Buck’’
McKeon National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2015 (5 U.S.C. 5911 note) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘, for the
period of time described in subsection (b),’’;
and
(2) by striking subsection (b).
(b) EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN SHIPYARD EM-
PLOYEES.—Such section is further amended
by inserting after subsection (a) the fol-
lowing new subsection (b):
‘‘(b) EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN SHIPYARD EM-
PLOYEES.—In carrying out a Government
lodging program under the authority in sub-
section (a), the Secretary shall exclude from
the requirements of the program employees
who are traveling for the performance of
mission functions of a public shipyard of the
Department if the purpose or mission of such
travel would be adversely affected by the re-
quirements of the program.’’.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The heading
of such section is amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 914. GOVERNMENT LODGING PROGRAM.’’.
SEC. 632. APPROVAL OF CERTAIN ACTIVITIES BY
RETIRED AND RESERVE MEMBERS
OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES.
(a) CLARIFICATION OF ACTIVITIES FOR WHICH
APPROVAL REQUIRED.—Section 908 of title 37,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1)—
(i) by striking ‘‘subsection (b)’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘subsections (b) and (c)’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘, accepting payment for
speeches, travel, meals, lodging, or registra-
tion fees, or accepting a non-cash award,’’
after ‘‘that employment)’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘armed
forces’’ and inserting ‘‘armed forces, except
members serving on active duty under a call
or order to active duty for a period in excess
of 30 days’’;
(2) in the heading of subsection (b), by in-
serting ‘‘FOR EMPLOYMENT AND COMPENSA-
TION’’ after ‘‘APPROVAL REQUIRED’’;
(3) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d)
as subsections (d) and (e), respectively; and
(4) by inserting after subsection (b) the fol-
lowing new subsection (c):
‘‘(c) APPROVAL REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN PAY-
MENTS AND AWARDS.—A person described in
subsection (a) may accept payment for
speeches, travel, meals, lodging, or registra-
tion fees described in that subsection, or ac-
cept a non-cash award described in that sub-
section, only if the Secretary concerned ap-
proves the payment or award.’’.
(b) ANNUAL REPORTS ON APPROVALS.—Sub-
section (d) of such section, as redesignated
by subsection (a)(3) of this section, is amend-
ed—
(1) by inserting ‘‘(1)’’ before ‘‘Not later
than’’;
(2) in paragraph (1), as designated by para-
graph (1) of this subsection, by inserting ‘‘,
and each approval under subsection (c) for a
payment or award described in subsection
(a),’’ after ‘‘in subsection (a)’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(2) The report under paragraph (1) on an
approval described in that paragraph with
respect to an officer shall set forth the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(A) The foreign government providing the
employment or compensation or payment or
award.
‘‘(B) The duties, if any, to be performed in
connection with the employment or com-
pensation or payment or award.
‘‘(C) The total amount of compensation, if
any, or payment to be provided.’’.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) SECTION HEADING.—The heading of such
section is amended to read as follows:
‘‘§ 908. Reserves and retired members: accept-
ance of employment, payments, and awards
from foreign governments’’.
(2) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sec-
tions at the beginning of chapter 17 of such
title is amended by striking the item relat-
ing to section 908 and inserting the following
new item:
‘‘908. Reserves and retired members: accept-
ance of employment, payments,
and awards from foreign gov-
ernments.’’.
TITLE VII—HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS
Subtitle A—TRICARE and Other Health Care
Benefits
SEC. 701. AUTHORITY FOR SECRETARY OF DE-
FENSE TO MANAGE PROVIDER TYPE
REFERRAL AND SUPERVISION RE-
QUIREMENTS UNDER TRICARE PRO-
GRAM.
Section 1079(a)(12) of title 10, United States
Code, is amended, in the first sentence, by
striking ‘‘or certified clinical social work-
er,’’ and inserting ‘‘certified clinical social
worker, or other class of provider as des-
ignated by the Secretary of Defense,’’.
SEC. 702. REMOVAL OF CHRISTIAN SCIENCE PRO-
VIDERS AS AUTHORIZED PROVIDERS
UNDER THE TRICARE PROGRAM.
(a) REPEAL.—Subsection (a) of section 1079
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by
striking paragraph (4).
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Paragraph
(12) of such subsection is amended, in the
first sentence, by striking ‘‘, except as au-
thorized in paragraph (4)’’.
SEC. 703. WAIVER OF FEES CHARGED TO CER-
TAIN CIVILIANS FOR EMERGENCY
MEDICAL TREATMENT PROVIDED AT
MILITARY MEDICAL TREATMENT FA-
CILITIES.
Section 1079b of title 10, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (b) as sub-
section (c); and
(2) by inserting after subsection (a) the fol-
lowing new subsection (b):
‘‘(b) WAIVER OF FEES.—Under the proce-
dures implemented under subsection (a), a
military medical treatment facility may
waive a fee charged under such procedures to
a civilian who is not a covered beneficiary
if—
‘‘(1) after insurance payments, if any, the
civilian is not able to pay for the trauma or
other medical care provided to the civilian;
and
‘‘(2) the provision of such care enhanced
the medical readiness of the health care pro-
vider or health care providers furnishing
such care.’’.
SEC. 704. MENTAL HEALTH RESOURCES FOR
MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES
AND THEIR DEPENDENTS DURING
THE COVID–19 PANDEMIC.
(a) PLAN.—Not later than 180 days after the
date of the enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary of Defense shall develop a plan to pro-
tect and promote the mental health and
well-being of members of the Armed Forces
and their dependents, which shall include the
following:
(1) A strategy to combat existing stigma
surrounding mental health conditions that
might deter such individuals from seeking
care.
(2) Guidance to commanding officers at all
levels on the mental health ramifications of
the COVID–19 crisis.
(3) Additional training and support for
mental health care professionals of the De-
partment of Defense on supporting individ-
uals who are concerned for the health of
themselves and their family members, or
grieving the loss of loved ones due to COVID–
19.
(4) A strategy to leverage telemedicine to
ensure safe access to mental health services.
(b) OUTREACH.—The Secretary of Defense
shall conduct outreach to the military com-
munity to identify resources and health care
services, including mental health care serv-
ices, available under the TRICARE program
to support members of the Armed Forces and
their dependents.
(c) DEFINITIONS.—In this section, the terms
‘‘dependent’’ and ‘‘TRICARE program’’ have
the meanings given those terms in section
1072 of such title.
SEC. 705. TRANSITIONAL HEALTH BENEFITS FOR
CERTAIN MEMBERS OF THE NA-
TIONAL GUARD SERVING UNDER OR-
DERS IN RESPONSE TO THE
CORONAVIRUS (COVID–19).
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense
shall provide to a member of the National
Guard separating from active service after
serving on full-time National Guard duty
pursuant to section 502(f) of title 32, United
States Code, the health benefits authorized
under section 1145 of title 10, United States
Code, for a member of a reserve component
separating from active duty, as referred to in
subsection (a)(2)(B) of such section 1145, if
the active service from which the member of
the National Guard is separating was in sup-
port of the whole of government response to
the coronavirus (COVID–19).
(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section, the terms
‘‘active duty’’, ‘‘active service’’, and ‘‘full-
time National Guard duty’’ have the mean-
ings given those terms in section 101(d) of
title 10, United States Code.
SEC. 706. EXTRAMEDICAL MATERNAL HEALTH
PROVIDERS DEMONSTRATION
PROJECT.
(a) DEMONSTRATION PROJECT REQUIRED.—
Not later than one year after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of De-
fense shall commence the conduct of a dem-
onstration project designed to evaluate the
cost, quality of care, and impact on maternal
and fetal outcomes of using extramedical
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00088 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6775
November 16, 2020
maternal health providers under the
TRICARE program to determine the appro-
priateness of making coverage of such pro-
viders under the TRICARE program perma-
nent.
(b) ELEMENTS OF DEMONSTRATION
PROJECT.—The demonstration project under
subsection (a) shall include, for participants
in the demonstration project, the following:
(1) Access to doulas.
(2) Access to lactation consultants who are
not otherwise authorized to provide services
under the TRICARE program.
(c) PARTICIPANTS.—The Secretary shall es-
tablish a process under which covered bene-
ficiaries may enroll in the demonstration
project in order to receive the services pro-
vided under the demonstration project.
(d) DURATION.—The Secretary shall carry
out the demonstration project for a period of
five years beginning on the date on which
notification of the commencement of the
demonstration project is published in the
Federal Register.
(e) SURVEY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
and annually thereafter for the duration of
the demonstration project, the Secretary
shall administer a survey to determine—
(A) how many members of the Armed
Forces or spouses of such members give birth
while their spouse or birthing partner is un-
able to be present due to deployment, train-
ing, or other mission requirements;
(B) how many single members of the
Armed Forces give birth alone; and
(C) how many members of the Armed
Forces or spouses of such members use doula
support or lactation consultants.
(2) MATTERS COVERED BY THE SURVEY.—The
survey administered under paragraph (1)
shall include an identification of the fol-
lowing:
(A) The race, ethnicity, age, sex, relation-
ship status, military service, military occu-
pation, and rank, as applicable, of each indi-
vidual surveyed.
(B) If individuals surveyed were members
of the Armed Forces or the spouses of such
members, or both.
(C) The length of advanced notice received
by individuals surveyed that the member of
the Armed Forces would be unable to be
present during the birth, if applicable.
(D) Any resources or support that the indi-
viduals surveyed found useful during the
pregnancy and birth process, including doula
or lactation counselor support.
(f) REPORTS.—
(1) IMPLEMENTATION PLAN.—Not later than
180 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate
and the House of Representatives a plan to
implement the demonstration project.
(2) ANNUAL REPORT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the commencement of the demonstra-
tion project, and annually thereafter for the
duration of the demonstration project, the
Secretary shall submit to the Committees on
Armed Services of the Senate and the House
of Representatives a report on the cost of the
demonstration project and the effectiveness
of the demonstration project in improving
quality of care and the maternal and fetal
outcomes of covered beneficiaries enrolled in
the demonstration project.
(B) MATTERS COVERED.—Each report sub-
mitted under subparagraph (A) shall address,
at a minimum, the following:
(i) The number of covered beneficiaries
who are enrolled in the demonstration
project.
(ii) The number of enrolled covered bene-
ficiaries who have participated in the dem-
onstration project.
(iii) The results of the surveys under sub-
section (f).
(iv) The cost of the demonstration project.
(v) An assessment of the quality of care
provided to participants in the demonstra-
tion project.
(vi) An assessment of the impact of the
demonstration project on maternal and fetal
outcomes.
(vii) An assessment of the effectiveness of
the demonstration project.
(viii) Recommendations for adjustments to
the demonstration project.
(ix) The estimated costs avoided as a result
of improved maternal and fetal health out-
comes due to the demonstration project.
(x) Recommendations for extending the
demonstration project or implementing per-
manent coverage under the TRICARE pro-
gram of extramedical maternal health pro-
viders.
(xi) An identification of legislative or ad-
ministrative action necessary to make the
demonstration project permanent.
(C) FINAL REPORT.—The final report under
subparagraph (A) shall be submitted not
later than 90 days after the termination of
the demonstration project.
(g) EXPANSION OF DEMONSTRATION
PROJECT.—
(1) REGULATIONS.—If the Secretary deter-
mines that the demonstration project is suc-
cessful, the Secretary may prescribe regula-
tions to include extramedical maternal
health providers as health care providers au-
thorized to provide care under the TRICARE
program.
(2) CREDENTIALING AND OTHER REQUIRE-
MENTS.—The Secretary may establish
credentialing and other requirements for
doulas and lactation consultants through
public notice and comment rulemaking for
purposes of including doulas and lactation
consultations as health care providers au-
thorized to provide care under the TRICARE
program pursuant to regulations prescribed
under paragraph (1).
(h) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) EXTRAMEDICAL MATERNAL HEALTH PRO-
VIDER.—The term ‘‘extramedical maternal
health provider’’ means a doula or lactation
consultant.
(2) COVERED BENEFICIARY; TRICARE PRO-
GRAM.—The terms ‘‘covered beneficiary’’ and
‘‘TRICARE program’’ have the meanings
given those terms in section 1072 of title 10,
United States Code.
SEC. 707. PILOT PROGRAM ON RECEIPT OF NON-
GENERIC PRESCRIPTION MAINTE-
NANCE MEDICATIONS UNDER
TRICARE PHARMACY BENEFITS PRO-
GRAM.
(a) REQUIREMENT.—The Secretary of De-
fense shall carry out a pilot program under
which eligible covered beneficiaries may
elect to receive non-generic prescription
maintenance medications selected under
subsection (c) through military treatment
facility pharmacies, retail pharmacies, or
the national mail-order pharmacy program,
notwithstanding section 1074g(a)(9) of title
10, United States Code.
(b) DURATION.—The Secretary shall carry
out the pilot program for a three-year period
beginning not later than March 1, 2021.
(c) SELECTION OF MEDICATION.—The Sec-
retary shall select non-generic prescription
maintenance medications described in sec-
tion 1074g(a)(9)(C)(i) of title 10, United States
Code, to be covered by the pilot program.
(d) USE OF VOLUNTARY REBATES.—
(1) REQUIREMENT.—In carrying out the
pilot program, the Secretary shall seek to
renew and modify contracts described in
paragraph (2) in a manner that—
(A) includes for purposes of the pilot pro-
gram retail pharmacies as a point of sale for
the non-generic prescription maintenance
medication covered by the contract; and
(B) provides the manufacturer with the op-
tion to provide voluntary rebates for such
medications at retail pharmacies.
(2) CONTRACTS DESCRIBED.—The contracts
described in this paragraph are contracts for
the procurement of non-generic prescription
maintenance medications selected under
subsection (c) that are eligible for renewal
during the period in which the pilot program
is carried out.
(e) NOTIFICATION.—In providing each eligi-
ble covered beneficiary with an explanation
of benefits, the Secretary shall notify the
beneficiary of whether the medication that
the beneficiary is prescribed is covered by
the pilot program.
(f) BRIEFING AND REPORTS.—
(1) BRIEFING.—Not later than 90 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall brief the congressional de-
fense committees on the implementation of
the pilot program.
(2) INTERIM REPORT.—Not later than 18
months after the commencement of the pilot
program, the Secretary shall submit to the
congressional defense committees a report
on the pilot program.
(3) COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than March 1,
2024, the Comptroller General of the United
States shall submit to the congressional de-
fense committees a report on the pilot pro-
gram.
(B) ELEMENTS.—The report required by
subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
(i) The number of eligible covered bene-
ficiaries who participated in the pilot pro-
gram and an assessment of the satisfaction
of such beneficiaries with the pilot program.
(ii) The rate by which eligible covered
beneficiaries elected to receive non-generic
prescription maintenance medications at a
retail pharmacy pursuant to the pilot pro-
gram, and how such rate affected military
treatment facility pharmacies and the na-
tional mail-order pharmacy program.
(iii) The amount of cost savings realized by
the pilot program, including with respect
to—
(I) dispensing fees incurred at retail phar-
macies compared to the national mail-order
pharmacy program for brand name prescrip-
tion drugs;
(II) administrative fees;
(III) any costs paid by the United States
for the drugs in addition to the procurement
costs;
(IV) the use of military treatment facili-
ties; and
(V) copayments paid by eligible covered
beneficiaries.
(iv) A comparison of supplemental rebates
between retail pharmacies and other points
of sale.
(g) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section may be construed to affect the
ability of the Secretary to carry out section
1074g(a)(9)(C) of title 10, United States Code,
after the date on which the pilot program is
completed.
(h) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) The term ‘‘eligible covered beneficiary’’
has the meaning given that term in section
1074g(i) of title 10, United States Code.
(2) The terms ‘‘military treatment facility
pharmacies’’, ‘‘retail pharmacies’’, and ‘‘the
national mail-order pharmacy program’’
mean the methods for receiving prescription
drugs as described in clauses (i), (ii), and
(iii), respectively, of section 1074g(a)(2)(E) of
title 10, United States Code.
Subtitle B—Health Care Administration
SEC. 721. MODIFICATIONS TO TRANSFER OF
ARMY MEDICAL RESEARCH AND DE-
VELOPMENT COMMAND AND PUBLIC
HEALTH COMMANDS TO DEFENSE
HEALTH AGENCY.
(a) DELAY OF TRANSFER.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00089 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6776 November 16, 2020
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1073c(e) of title 10,
United States Code, is amended, in the mat-
ter preceding paragraph (1), by striking
‘‘September 30, 2022’’ and inserting ‘‘Sep-
tember 30, 2024’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section 737
of the National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92) is
amended, in subsections (a) and (c), by strik-
ing ‘‘September 30, 2022’’ and inserting ‘‘Sep-
tember 30, 2024’’ each place it appears.
(b) MODIFICATION TO RESOURCES PRE-
SERVED.—Such section 737 is amended—
(1) in the section heading, by striking ‘‘RE-
SOURCES’’ and inserting ‘‘INFRASTRUCTURE
AND PERSONNEL’’; and
(2) in subsection (a)—
(A) by striking ‘‘resources’’ and inserting
‘‘infrastructure and personnel’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘, which shall include man-
power and funding, at not less than the level
of such resources’’.
(c) ELIMINATION OF TRANSFER OF FUNDS.—
Such section 737 is further amended by—
(1) striking subsection (b); and
(2) redesignating subsection (c) as sub-
section (b).
(d) CHANGE OF NAME OF COMMAND.—
(1) DELAY OF TRANSFER.—Section
1073c(e)(1)(B) of title 10, United States Code,
is amended by striking ‘‘Materiel’’ and in-
serting ‘‘Development’’.
(2) PRESERVATION OF INFRASTRUCTURE AND
PERSONNEL.—Section 737 of the National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020
(Public Law 116–92) is amended—
(A) in the section heading, by striking
‘‘MATERIEL’’ and inserting ‘‘DEVELOPMENT’’;
and
(B) by striking ‘‘Materiel’’ each place it
appears and inserting ‘‘Development’’.
(e) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents for the National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2020 is amended by
striking the item relating to section 737 and
inserting the following new item:
‘‘Sec. 737. Preservation of infrastructure and
personnel of the Army Medical
Research and Development
Command and continuation as
Center of Excellence.’’.
SEC. 722. DELAY OF APPLICABILITY OF ADMINIS-
TRATION OF TRICARE DENTAL
PLANS THROUGH FEDERAL EMPLOY-
EES DENTAL AND VISION INSUR-
ANCE PROGRAM.
Section 713(c) of the John S. McCain Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232; 5 U.S.C. 8951
note) is amended by striking ‘‘January 1,
2022’’ and inserting ‘‘January 1, 2023’’.
SEC. 723. AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY OF DE-
FENSE TO WAIVE REQUIREMENTS
DURING NATIONAL EMERGENCIES
FOR PURPOSES OF PROVISION OF
HEALTH CARE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 55 of title 10,
United States Code, is amended by inserting
after section 1073d the following new section:
‘‘§ 1073e. Authority to waive requirements
during national emergencies
‘‘(a) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this section
is to enable the Secretary of Defense to en-
sure, to the maximum extent feasible, in an
emergency area during an emergency pe-
riod—
‘‘(1) that sufficient authorized health care
items and services are available to meet the
needs of covered beneficiaries in such area
eligible for the programs under this chapter;
and
‘‘(2) that private sector health care pro-
viders authorized under the TRICARE pro-
gram that furnish such authorized items and
services in good faith may be reimbursed for
such items and services absent any deter-
mination of fraud or abuse.
‘‘(b) AUTHORITY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—To the extent necessary
to accomplish the purpose specified in sub-
section (a), the Secretary, subject to the pro-
visions of this section, may, for a period of 60
days, waive or modify the application of the
requirements of this chapter or any regula-
tion prescribed thereunder with respect to
health care items and services furnished by a
health care provider (or class of health care
providers) in an emergency area (or portion
of such area) during an emergency period (or
portion of such period), including by defer-
ring the termination of status of a covered
beneficiary.
‘‘(2) RENEWAL.—The Secretary may renew
a waiver or modification under paragraph (1)
for subsequent 60-day periods during the du-
ration of the applicable emergency declara-
tion.
‘‘(c) IMPLEMENTATION.—The Secretary may
implement any temporary waiver or modi-
fication made pursuant to this section by
program instruction or otherwise.
‘‘(d) RETROACTIVE APPLICATION.—A waiver
or modification made pursuant to this sec-
tion with respect to an emergency period
may, at the discretion of the Secretary, be
made retroactive to the beginning of the
emergency period or any subsequent date in
such period specified by the Secretary.
‘‘(e) SATISFACTION OF PRECONDITIONS FOR
STATUS AS COVERED BENEFICIARY.—A deferral
under subsection (b) of termination of status
of a covered beneficiary may be contingent
upon retroactive satisfaction by such bene-
ficiary of any premium or enrollment fee
payments or other preconditions for such
status.
‘‘(f) CERTIFICATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than two days
before exercising a waiver or modification
under subsection (b)(1) or renewing a waiver
or modification under subsection (b)(2), the
Secretary shall submit to the Committees on
Armed Services of the Senate and the House
of Representatives a certification and ad-
vance written notice regarding the authority
to be exercised.
‘‘(2) MATTERS INCLUDED.—Certification and
advanced written notice required under para-
graph (1) shall include—
‘‘(A) a description of—
‘‘(i) the specific provisions of law that will
be waived or modified;
‘‘(ii) the health care providers to whom the
waiver or modification will apply;
‘‘(iii) the geographic area in which the
waiver or modification will apply; and
‘‘(iv) the period of time for which the waiv-
er or modification will be in effect; and
‘‘(B) a certification that the waiver or
modification is necessary to carry out the
purpose specified in subsection (a).
‘‘(g) TERMINATION OF WAIVER.—A waiver or
modification of requirements pursuant to
this section terminates upon the termi-
nation of the applicable emergency declara-
tion.
‘‘(h) REPORT.—Not later than one year
after the end of an emergency period during
which the Secretary exercised the authority
under this section, the Secretary shall sub-
mit to the Committees on Armed Services of
the Senate and the House of Representatives
a report on the approaches used to accom-
plish the purpose described in subsection (a),
including an evaluation of such approaches
and recommendations for improved ap-
proaches should the need for the exercise of
such authority arise in the future.
‘‘(i) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) EMERGENCY AREA.—The term ‘emer-
gency area’ means a geographical area cov-
ered by an emergency declaration.
‘‘(2) EMERGENCY DECLARATION.—The term
‘emergency declaration’ means—
‘‘(A) an emergency or disaster declared by
the President pursuant to the National
Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) or
the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et
seq.); or
‘‘(B) a public health emergency declared
pursuant to section 319 of the Public Health
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d).
‘‘(3) EMERGENCY PERIOD.—The term ‘emer-
gency period’ means the period covered by an
emergency declaration.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 55 of
such title is amended by inserting after the
item relating to section 1073d the following
new item:
‘‘1073e. Authority to waive requirements dur-
ing national emergencies.’’.
Subtitle C—Reports and Other Matters
SEC. 741. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR JOINT
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE-DEPART-
MENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS MED-
ICAL FACILITY DEMONSTRATION
FUND.
Section 1704(e) of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public
Law 111–84; 123 Stat. 2573), as most recently
amended by section 732(4)(B) of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2020 (Public Law 116–92), is further amended
by striking ‘‘September 30, 2021’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘September 30, 2022’’.
SEC. 742. MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD OF REGENTS
OF UNIFORMED SERVICES UNIVER-
SITY OF THE HEALTH SCIENCES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 2113a(b) of title
10, United States Code, is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4)
as paragraphs (4) and (5), respectively; and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the fol-
lowing new paragraph:
‘‘(3) the Director of the Defense Health
Agency, who shall be an ex officio member;’’.
(b) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—The amend-
ments made by this section may not be con-
strued to invalidate any action taken by the
Uniformed Services University of the Health
Sciences or its Board of Regents prior to the
effective date of this section.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall take effect on
January 1, 2021.
SEC. 743. MILITARY HEALTH SYSTEM CLINICAL
QUALITY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense,
acting through the Director of the Defense
Health Agency, shall implement a com-
prehensive program to be known as the
‘‘Military Health System Clinical Quality
Management Program’’ (in this section re-
ferred to as the ‘‘Program’’).
(b) ELEMENTS OF PROGRAM.—The Program
shall include, at a minimum, the following:
(1) The implementation of systematic pro-
cedures to eliminate, to the maximum ex-
tent feasible, risk of harm to patients at
military medical treatment facilities, in-
cluding through identification, investiga-
tion, and analysis of events indicating a risk
of patient harm and corrective action plans
to mitigate such risks.
(2) With respect to a potentially compen-
sable event (including those involving mem-
bers of the Armed Forces) at a military med-
ical treatment facility—
(A) an analysis of such event, which shall
occur and be documented as soon as possible
after the event;
(B) use of such analysis for clinical quality
management; and
(C) reporting of such event to the National
Practitioner Data Bank in accordance with
guidelines of the Secretary of Health and
Human Services under the Health Care Qual-
ity Improvement Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11101
et seq.), giving special emphasis to the re-
sults of external peer reviews of the event.
(3) Validation of provider credentials and
granting of clinical privileges by the Direc-
tor of the Defense Health Agency for all
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00090 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6777
November 16, 2020
health care providers at a military medical
treatment facility.
(4) Accreditation of military medical treat-
ment facilities by a recognized external ac-
creditation body.
(5) Systematic measurement of indicators
of health care quality, emphasizing clinical
outcome measures, comparison of such indi-
cators with benchmarks from leading health
care quality improvement organizations, and
transparency with the public of appropriate
clinical measurements for military medical
treatment facilities.
(6) Systematic activities emphasized by
leadership at all organizational levels to use
all elements of the Program to eliminate un-
wanted variance throughout the health care
system of the Department of Defense and
make constant improvements in clinical
quality.
(7) A full range of procedures for produc-
tive communication between patients and
health care providers regarding actual or
perceived adverse clinical events at military
medical treatment facilities, including pro-
cedures—
(A) for full disclosure of such events (re-
specting the confidentiality of peer review
information under a medical quality assur-
ance program under section 1102 of title 10,
United States Code);
(B) providing an opportunity for the pa-
tient to be heard in relation to quality re-
views; and
(C) to resolve patient concerns by inde-
pendent, neutral healthcare resolution spe-
cialists.
(c) ADDITIONAL CLINICAL QUALITY MANAGE-
MENT ACTIVITIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In addition to the ele-
ments of the Program set forth in subsection
(b), the Secretary shall establish and main-
tain clinical quality management activities
in relation to functions of the health care
system of the Department separate from de-
livery of health care services in military
medical treatment facilities.
(2) HEALTH CARE DELIVERY OUTSIDE MILI-
TARY MEDICAL TREATMENT FACILITIES.—In
carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary
shall maintain policies and procedures to
promote clinical quality in health care deliv-
ery on ships and planes, in deployed settings,
and in all other circumstances not covered
by subsection (b), with the objective of im-
plementing standards and procedures com-
parable, to the extent practicable, to those
under such subsection.
(3) PURCHASED CARE SYSTEM.—In carrying
out paragraph (1), the Secretary shall main-
tain policies and procedures for health care
services provided outside the Department
but paid for by the Department, reflecting
best practices by public and private health
care reimbursement and management sys-
tems.
(d) MILITARY MEDICAL TREATMENT FACILITY
DEFINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘mili-
tary medical treatment facility’’ means any
fixed facility or portion thereof of the De-
partment of Defense that is outside of a de-
ployed environment and used primarily for
health care.
SEC. 744. MODIFICATIONS TO PILOT PROGRAM
ON CIVILIAN AND MILITARY PART-
NERSHIPS TO ENHANCE INTER-
OPERABILITY AND MEDICAL SURGE
CAPABILITY AND CAPACITY OF NA-
TIONAL DISASTER MEDICAL SYS-
TEM.
Section 740 of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public
Law 116–92) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) by striking ‘‘The Secretary of Defense
may’’ and inserting ‘‘Beginning not later
than September 30, 2021, the Secretary of De-
fense shall’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘health care organizations,
institutions, and entities’’ and inserting
‘‘health care organizations, health care insti-
tutions, health care entities, academic med-
ical centers of institutions of higher edu-
cation, and hospitals’’; and
(C) by striking ‘‘in the vicinity of major
aeromedical and other transport hubs and lo-
gistics centers of the Department of De-
fense’’;
(2) by striking subsection (c) and inserting
the following new subsections:
‘‘(c) LEAD OFFICIAL FOR DESIGN AND IMPLE-
MENTATION OF PILOT PROGRAM.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Assistant Secretary
of Defense for Health Affairs shall be the
lead official for design and implementation
of the pilot program under subsection (a).
‘‘(2) RESOURCES.—The Assistant Secretary
of Defense for Health Affairs shall leverage
the resources of the Defense Health Agency
for execution of the pilot program under sub-
section (a) and shall coordinate with the
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
throughout the planning and duration of the
pilot program.
‘‘(d) LOCATIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense
shall carry out the pilot program under sub-
section (a) at not fewer than five locations in
the United States that are located at or near
locations with established expertise in dis-
aster health preparedness and response and
trauma care that augment and enhance the
effectiveness of the pilot program.
‘‘(2) PHASED SELECTION OF LOCATIONS.—
‘‘(A) INITIAL SELECTION.—Not later than
the earlier of the date that is 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act or
March 31, 2021, the Assistant Secretary of
Defense for Health Affairs, in consultation
with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the
Secretary of Health and Human Services, the
Secretary of Homeland Security, and the
Secretary of Transportation, shall select not
fewer than two locations at which to carry
out the pilot program.
‘‘(B) SUBSEQUENT SELECTION.—Not later
than the end of each one-year period fol-
lowing selection of locations under subpara-
graph (A), the Assistant Secretary of Defense
for Health Affairs, in consultation with the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Secretary
of Health and Human Services, the Secretary
of Homeland Security, and the Secretary of
Transportation, shall select not fewer than
two additional locations at which to carry
out the pilot program until not fewer than
five locations are selected in total.
‘‘(3) CONSIDERATION AND PRIORITY FOR LOCA-
TIONS.—In selecting locations for the pilot
program under subsection (a), the Secretary
shall—
‘‘(A) consider—
‘‘(i) the proximity of the location to civil-
ian or military transportation hubs, includ-
ing airports, railways, interstate highways,
or ports;
‘‘(ii) the ability of the location to accept a
redistribution of casualties during times of
war;
‘‘(iii) the ability of the location to provide
trauma care training opportunities for med-
ical personnel of the Department of Defense;
and
‘‘(iv) the proximity of the location to exist-
ing academic medical centers of institutions
of higher education, facilities of the Depart-
ment, or other institutions that have estab-
lished expertise in the areas of—
‘‘(I) highly infectious disease;
‘‘(II) biocontainment;
‘‘(III) quarantine;
‘‘(IV) trauma care;
‘‘(V) combat casualty care;
‘‘(VI) the National Disaster Medical Sys-
tem under section 2812 of the Public Health
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300hh–11);
‘‘(VII) disaster health preparedness and re-
sponse;
‘‘(VIII) medical and public health manage-
ment of biological, chemical, radiological, or
nuclear hazards; or
‘‘(IX) such other areas of expertise as the
Secretary considers appropriate; and
‘‘(B) give priority to public-private part-
nerships with academic medical centers of
institutions of higher education, hospitals,
and other entities with facilities that have
an established history of providing clinical
care, treatment, training, and research in
the areas described in subparagraph (A)(ii) or
other specializations determined important
by the Secretary for purposes of the pilot
program.’’;
(3) by redesignating subsections (d)
through (f) as subsections (e) through (g), re-
spectively;
(4) in subsection (g), as redesignated by
paragraph (3)—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘the
commencement of the pilot program under
subsection (a)’’ and inserting ‘‘the initial se-
lection of locations for the pilot program
under subsection (d)(2)(A)’’; and
(ii) in subparagraph (B)—
(I) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘subsection
(d)’’ and inserting ‘‘subsection (e)’’;
(II) in clause (iii), by striking ‘‘subsection
(e)’’ and inserting ‘‘subsection (f)’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2)(B)(iv), by striking ‘‘the
authority for’’; and
(5) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(h) INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION DE-
FINED.—In this section, the term ‘institution
of higher education’ means a four-year insti-
tution of higher education, as defined in sec-
tion 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of
1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001(a)).’’.
SEC. 745. STUDY ON FORCE MIX OPTIONS AND
SERVICE MODELS TO ENHANCE
READINESS OF MEDICAL FORCE OF
THE ARMED FORCES TO PROVIDE
COMBAT CASUALTY CARE.
(a) STUDY REQUIRED.—Not later than 30
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall seek to
enter into an agreement with a federally
funded research and development center or
other independent entity to perform a study
on force mix options and service models (in-
cluding traditional and nontraditional active
and reserve models) to optimize the readi-
ness of the medical force of the Armed
Forces to deliver combat care on the battle-
field.
(b) ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED.—The study
required by subsection (a) shall include, at a
minimum—
(1) with respect to options relating to
members of the Armed Forces on active
duty—
(A) a review of existing models for such
members who are medical professionals to
support clinical readiness skills by serving
in civilian trauma centers;
(B) an assessment of the extent to which
existing models can be optimized, standard-
ized, and scaled to address current readiness
shortfalls; and
(C) an evaluation of the cost and effective-
ness of alternative models for such members
who are medical professionals to serve in ci-
vilian trauma centers; and
(2) with respect to options relating to
members of the reserve components of the
Armed Forces—
(A) a review of existing models for such
members of the reserve components who are
medical professionals to support clinical
readiness skills by serving in civilian trauma
centers;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00091 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6778 November 16, 2020
(B) an assessment of the extent to which
existing models can be optimized, standard-
ized, and scaled to address current readiness
shortfalls; and
(C) an evaluation of the cost and effective-
ness of alternative models for such members
of the reserve components who are medical
professionals to serve in civilian trauma cen-
ters.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 15 months
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary shall submit to the Commit-
tees on Armed Services of the Senate and the
House of Representatives a report on the
findings and recommendations of the inde-
pendent study required by subsection (a).
SEC. 746. COMPTROLLER GENERAL STUDY ON
DELIVERY OF MENTAL HEALTH
SERVICES TO MEMBERS OF THE RE-
SERVE COMPONENTS OF THE
ARMED FORCES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Comptroller General
of the United States shall conduct a study on
the delivery of Federal, State, and private
mental health services to members of the re-
serve components.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The study conducted under
subsection (a) shall—
(1) identify all programs, coverage, and
costs associated with services described in
such subsection;
(2) specify gaps or barriers to access that
could result in delayed or insufficient men-
tal health care support to members of the re-
serve components.
(3) evaluate the mental health screening
requirements for members of the reserve
components immediately before, during, and
after—
(A) Federal deployment under title 10,
United States Code; or
(B) State deployment under title 32, United
States Code; and
(4) provide recommendations when prac-
ticable to strengthen the reintegration of
members of the reserve components, includ-
ing an assessment of the effectiveness of
making programming mandatory.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than one year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Comptroller General shall submit to the
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate
and the House of Representatives a report on
the study conducted under subsection (a).
(d) RESERVE COMPONENT DEFINED.—In this
section, the term ‘‘reserve component’’
means a reserve component of the Armed
Forces named in section 10101 of title 10,
United States Code.
SEC. 747. REVIEW AND REPORT ON PREVENTION
OF SUICIDE AMONG MEMBERS OF
THE ARMED FORCES STATIONED AT
REMOTE INSTALLATIONS OUTSIDE
THE CONTIGUOUS UNITED STATES.
(a) REVIEW REQUIRED.—The Comptroller
General of the United States shall conduct a
review of efforts by the Department of De-
fense to prevent suicide among members of
the Armed Forces stationed at covered in-
stallations.
(b) ELEMENTS OF REVIEW.—The review con-
ducted under subsection (a) shall include an
assessment of each of the following:
(1) Current policy guidelines of the Armed
Forces on the prevention of suicide among
members of the Armed Forces stationed at
covered installations.
(2) Current suicide prevention programs of
the Armed Forces and activities for members
of the Armed Forces stationed at covered in-
stallations and their dependents, including
programs provided by the Defense Health
Program and the Office of Suicide Preven-
tion.
(3) The integration of mental health
screenings and suicide risk and prevention
efforts for members of the Armed Forces sta-
tioned at covered installations and their de-
pendents into the delivery of primary care
for such members and dependents.
(4) The standards for responding to at-
tempted or completed suicides among mem-
bers of the Armed Forces stationed at cov-
ered installations and their dependents, in-
cluding guidance and training to assist com-
manders in addressing incidents of at-
tempted or completed suicide within their
units.
(5) The standards regarding data collection
for members of the Armed Forces stationed
at covered installations and their depend-
ents, including related factors such as do-
mestic violence and child abuse.
(6) The means to ensure the protection of
privacy of members of the Armed Forces sta-
tioned at covered installations and their de-
pendents who seek or receive treatment re-
lated to suicide prevention.
(7) The availability of information from in-
digenous populations on suicide prevention
for members of the Armed Forces stationed
at covered installations who are members of
such a population.
(8) The availability of information from
graduate research programs of institutions
of higher education on suicide prevention for
members of the Armed Forces.
(9) Such other matters as the Comptroller
General considers appropriate in connection
with the prevention of suicide among mem-
bers of the Armed Forces stationed at cov-
ered installations and their dependents.
(c) BRIEFING AND REPORT.—The Comp-
troller General shall—
(1) not later than October 1, 2021, brief the
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate
and the House of Representatives on prelimi-
nary observations relating to the review con-
ducted under subsection (a); and
(2) not later than March 1, 2022, submit to
the Committees on Armed Services of the
Senate and the House of Representatives a
report containing the results of such review.
(d) COVERED INSTALLATION DEFINED.—In
this section, the term ‘‘covered installation’’
means a remote installation of the Depart-
ment of Defense outside the contiguous
United States.
SEC. 748. AUDIT OF MEDICAL CONDITIONS OF
TENANTS IN PRIVATIZED MILITARY
HOUSING.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Inspector General of the Department of
Defense shall commence the conduct of an
audit of the medical conditions of eligible in-
dividuals and the association between ad-
verse exposures of such individuals in unsafe
or unhealthy housing units and the health of
such individuals.
(b) CONTENT OF AUDIT.—The audit con-
ducted under subsection (a) shall—
(1) determine the percentage of units of
privatized military housing that are unsafe
or unhealthy housing units;
(2) study the adverse exposures of eligible
individuals that relate to residing in an un-
safe or unhealthy housing unit and the effect
of such exposures on the health of such indi-
viduals; and
(3) determine the association, to the extent
permitted by available scientific data, and
provide quantifiable data on such associa-
tion, between such adverse exposures and the
occurrence of a medical condition in eligible
individuals residing in unsafe or unhealthy
housing units.
(c) CONDUCT OF AUDIT.—The Inspector Gen-
eral of the Department shall conduct the
audit under subsection (a) using the same
privacy preserving guidelines used by the In-
spector General in conducting other audits
of health records.
(d) SOURCE OF DATA.—In conducting the
audit under subsection (a), the Inspector
General of the Department shall use—
(1) de-identified data from electronic
health records of the Department;
(2) records of claims under the TRICARE
program (as defined in section 1072(7) of title
10, United States Code); and
(3) such other data as determined nec-
essary by the Inspector General.
(e) SUBMITTAL AND PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF
REPORT.—Not later than one year after the
commencement of the audit under sub-
section (a), the Inspector General of the De-
partment shall—
(1) submit to the Secretary of Defense and
the Committees on Armed Services of the
Senate and the House of Representatives a
report on the results of the audit conducted
under subsection (a); and
(2) publish such report on a publicly avail-
able internet website of the Department of
Defense.
(f) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUAL.—The term ‘‘eligi-
ble individual’’ means a member of the
Armed Forces or a family member of a mem-
ber of the Armed Forces who has resided in
an unsafe or unhealthy housing unit.
(2) PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING.—The
term ‘‘privatized military housing’’ means
military housing provided under subchapter
IV of chapter 169 of title 10, United States
Code.
(3) UNSAFE OR UNHEALTHY HOUSING UNIT.—
The term ‘‘unsafe or unhealthy housing
unit’’ means a unit of privatized military
housing in which, at any given time, at least
one of the following hazards is present:
(A) Physiological hazards, including the
following:
(i) Dampness or microbial growth.
(ii) Lead-based paint.
(iii) Asbestos or manmade fibers.
(iv) Ionizing radiation.
(v) Biocides.
(vi) Carbon monoxide.
(vii) Volatile organic compounds.
(viii) Infectious agents.
(ix) Fine particulate matter.
(B) Psychological hazards, including ease
of access by unlawful intruders or lighting
issues.
(C) Poor ventilation.
(D) Safety hazards.
(E) Other hazards as determined by the In-
spector General of the Department.
SEC. 749. COMPTROLLER GENERAL STUDY ON
PRENATAL AND POSTPARTUM MEN-
TAL HEALTH CONDITIONS AMONG
MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES
AND THEIR DEPENDENTS.
(a) STUDY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Comptroller General
of the United States shall conduct a study on
prenatal and postpartum mental health con-
ditions among members of the Armed Forces
and dependents of such members.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The study required under
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) An assessment of the extent to which
beneficiaries under the TRICARE program,
including members of the Armed Forces and
dependents of such members, are diagnosed
with prenatal or postpartum mental health
conditions, including—
(i) prenatal or postpartum depression;
(ii) prenatal or postpartum anxiety dis-
order;
(iii) prenatal or postpartum obsessive com-
pulsive disorder;
(iv) prenatal or postpartum psychosis; and
(v) other relevant mood disorders.
(B) A demographic assessment of the popu-
lation included in the study with respect to
race, ethnicity, sex, age, relationship status,
military service, military occupation, and
rank, where applicable.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00092 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6779
November 16, 2020
(C) An assessment of the status of prenatal
and postpartum mental health care for bene-
ficiaries under the TRICARE program, in-
cluding those who seek care at military med-
ical treatment facilities and those who rely
on civilian providers.
(D) An assessment of the ease or delay for
beneficiaries under the TRICARE program in
obtaining treatment for prenatal and
postpartum mental health conditions, in-
cluding—
(i) an assessment of wait times for mental
health treatment at each military medical
treatment facility; and
(ii) a description of the reasons such bene-
ficiaries may cease seeking such treatment.
(E) A comparison of the rates of prenatal
or postpartum mental health conditions
within the military community to such rates
in the civilian population, as reported by the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
(F) An assessment of any effects of im-
plicit or explicit bias in prenatal and
postpartum mental health care under the
TRICARE program, or evidence of racial or
socioeconomic barriers to such care.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than one year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Comptroller General shall submit to the
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate
and the House of Representatives a report on
the findings of the study conducted under
subsection (a), including—
(1) recommendations for actions to be
taken by the Secretary of Defense to im-
prove prenatal and postpartum mental
health among members of the Armed Forces
and dependents of such members; and
(2) such other recommendations as the
Comptroller General determines appropriate.
(c) DEFINITIONS.—In this section, the terms
‘‘dependent’’ and ‘‘TRICARE program’’ have
the meanings given those terms in section
1072 of title 10, United States Code.
SEC. 750. PLAN FOR EVALUATION OF FLEXIBLE
SPENDING ACCOUNT OPTIONS FOR
MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED
SERVICES AND THEIR FAMILIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than March 1,
2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit
to the congressional defense committees a
plan to evaluate flexible spending account
options that allow pre-tax payment of health
and dental insurance premiums, out-of-pock-
et health care expenses, and dependent care
expenses for members of the uniformed serv-
ices and their family members, including an
identification of any legislative or adminis-
trative barriers to achieving the implemen-
tation of such options.
(b) UNIFORMED SERVICES DEFINED.—In this
section, the term ‘‘uniformed services’’ has
the meaning given that term in section 101 of
title 37, United States Code.
SEC. 751. ASSESSMENT OF RECEIPT BY CIVILIANS
OF EMERGENCY MEDICAL TREAT-
MENT AT MILITARY MEDICAL
TREATMENT FACILITIES.
(a) ASSESSMENT.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Comptroller General of the United States
shall complete an assessment of the provi-
sion by the Department of Defense of emer-
gency medical treatment to civilians who
are not covered beneficiaries at military
medical treatment facilities during the pe-
riod beginning on October 1, 2015, and ending
on September 30, 2020.
(b) ELEMENTS OF ASSESSMENT.—The assess-
ment completed under subsection (a) shall
include, with respect to civilians who re-
ceived emergency medical treatment at a
military medical treatment facility during
the period specified in such paragraph, the
following:
(1) The total fees charged to such civilians
for such treatment and the total fees col-
lected.
(2) The amount of medical debt from such
treatment that was garnished from such ci-
vilians, categorized by garnishment from So-
cial Security benefits, tax refunds, wages, or
other financial asset.
(3) The number of such civilians from
whom medical debt from such treatment was
garnished.
(4) The total fees for such treatment that
were waived for such civilians.
(5) With respect to medical debt incurred
by such civilians from such treatment—
(A) the amount of such debt that was col-
lected by the Department of Defense;
(B) the amount of such debt still owed to
the Department; and
(C) the amount of debt transferred from
the Department of Defense to the Depart-
ment of the Treasury for collection.
(6) The number of such civilians from
whom such medical debt was collected who
did not possess medical insurance at the
time of such treatment.
(7) The number of such civilians from
whom such medical debt was collected who
collected Social Security benefits at the
time of such treatment.
(8) The number of such civilians from
whom such medical debt was collected who,
at the time of such treatment, earned—
(A) less than the poverty line;
(B) less than 200 percent of the poverty
line;
(C) less than 300 percent of the poverty
line; and
(D) less than 400 percent of the poverty
line.
(9) An assessment of the process through
which military medical treatment facilities
seek to recover unpaid medical debt from
such civilians, including whether the Depart-
ment of Defense contracts with private debt
collectors to recover such unpaid medical
debt.
(10) An assessment of the process, if any,
through which such civilians can apply to
have medical debt for such treatment
waived, forgiven, canceled, or otherwise de-
termined to not be a financial obligation of
the civilian.
(11) Such other information as the Comp-
troller General determines appropriate.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the completion of the assessment under sub-
section (a), the Comptroller General shall
submit to the Committees on Armed Serv-
ices of the Senate and the House of Rep-
resentatives a report containing the results
of the assessment.
(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) CIVILIAN.—The term ‘‘civilian’’ means
an individual who is not—
(A) a member of the Armed Forces;
(B) a contractor of the Department of De-
fense; or
(C) a civilian employee of the Department.
(2) COVERED BENEFICIARY.—The term ‘‘cov-
ered beneficiary’’ has the meaning given that
term in section 1072(5) of title 10, United
States Code.
(3) POVERTY LINE.—The term ‘‘poverty
line’’ has the meaning given that term in
section 673 of the Community Services Block
Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9902).
SEC. 752. REPORT ON BILLING PRACTICES FOR
HEALTH CARE FROM DEPARTMENT
OF DEFENSE.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds the fol-
lowing:
(1) Through the TRICARE program, the
Department of Defense provides health care
benefits and services to approximately
9,500,000 beneficiaries.
(2) The Department of Defense is not struc-
tured as a typical health care provider,
which can lead to complicated billing prac-
tices and strict deadlines for members of the
Armed Forces, former members of the Armed
Forces, and their dependents, as well as for
providers.
(3) Numerous findings issued by the Inspec-
tor General of the Department of Defense be-
tween 2014 and 2019 describe the third-party
collection program of the Department as in-
adequately managed, resulting in substantial
uncollected funds that could be used to im-
prove the quality of health care at military
medical treatment facilities.
(4) Numerous press reports have found that
the Federal Government aggressively col-
lects unpaid debts from uninsured or low-in-
come civilian patients who happen to receive
treatment at a military medical treatment
facility, even though providing that treat-
ment often benefits military readiness by
providing experience to military medical
professionals.
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that it is in the national interest of
the United States to ensure members of the
Armed Forces, former members of the Armed
Forces, and their dependents receive high-
quality health care, and that Federal agen-
cies prioritize fairness and accessibility
when administering health care.
(c) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Comptroller General of the United States
shall submit to Congress a report assessing
the billing practices of the Department of
Defense for care received under the
TRICARE program or at military medical
treatment facilities.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The report required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) A description of the extent to which
data is being collected and maintained on
whether beneficiaries under the TRICARE
program have other forms of health insur-
ance.
(B) A description of the extent to which
the Secretary of Defense has implemented
the recommendations of the Inspector Gen-
eral of the Department of Defense to improve
collections of third-party payments for care
at military medical treatment facilities and
a description of the impact such implemen-
tation has had on such beneficiaries.
(C) A description of the extent to which
the process used by managed care support
contractors under the TRICARE program to
adjudicate third-party liability claims is ef-
ficient and effective, including with respect
to communication with such beneficiaries.
(d) TRICARE PROGRAM DEFINED.—In this
section, the term ‘‘TRICARE program’’ has
the meaning given that term in section 1072
of title 10, United States Code.
SEC. 753. ACCESS OF VETERANS TO INDIVIDUAL
LONGITUDINAL EXPOSURE RECORD.
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in con-
sultation with the Secretary of Defense,
shall provide to a veteran read-only access to
the documents of the veteran contained in
the Individual Longitudinal Exposure Record
in a printable format through a portal acces-
sible through a website of the Department of
Veterans Affairs and a website of the Depart-
ment of Defense.
SEC. 754. STUDY ON THE INCIDENCE OF CANCER
DIAGNOSIS AND MORTALITY AMONG
MILITARY AVIATORS AND AVIATION
SUPPORT PERSONNEL.
(a) STUDY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense,
in conjunction with the National Institutes
of Health and the National Cancer Institute,
shall conduct a study on cancer among cov-
ered individuals in two phases as provided in
this subsection.
(2) PHASE 1.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Under the initial phase of
the study conducted under paragraph (1), the
Secretary of Defense shall determine if there
is a higher incidence of cancers occurring for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00093 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6780 November 16, 2020
covered individuals as compared to similar
age groups in the general population through
the use of the database of the Surveillance,
Epidemiology, and End Results program of
the National Cancer Institute.
(B) REPORT.—Not later than one year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall submit to the appropriate
committees of Congress a report on the find-
ings of the initial phase of the study under
subparagraph (A).
(3) PHASE 2.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—If, pursuant to the initial
phase of the study under paragraph (2), the
Secretary concludes that there is an in-
creased rate of cancers among covered indi-
viduals, the Secretary shall conduct a second
phase of the study under which the Sec-
retary shall do the following:
(i) Identify the carcinogenic toxins or haz-
ardous materials associated with military
flight operations from shipboard or land
bases or facilities, such as fuels, fumes, and
other liquids.
(ii) Identify the operating environments,
including frequencies or electromagnetic
fields, where exposure to ionizing radiation
(associated with high altitude flight) and
nonionizing radiation (associated with air-
borne, ground, and shipboard radars) oc-
curred in which covered individuals could
have received increased radiation amounts.
(iii) Identify, for each covered individual,
duty stations, dates of service, aircraft
flown, and additional duties (including Land-
ing Safety Officer, Catapult and Arresting
Gear Officer, Air Liaison Officer, Tactical
Air Control Party, or personnel associated
with aircraft maintenance, supply, logistics,
fuels, or transportation) that could have in-
creased the risk of cancer for such covered
individual.
(iv) Determine locations where a covered
individual served or additional duties of a
covered individual that are associated with
higher incidences of cancers.
(v) Identify potential exposures due to
service in the Armed Forces that are not re-
lated to aviation, such as exposure to burn
pits or toxins in contaminated water, embed-
ded in the soil, or inside bases or housing.
(vi) Determine the appropriate age to
begin screening covered individuals for can-
cer based on race, gender, flying hours, pe-
riod of service as aviation support personnel,
Armed Force, type of aircraft, and mission.
(B) DATA.—The Secretary shall format all
data included in the study conducted under
this paragraph in accordance with the Sur-
veillance, Epidemiology, and End Results
program of the National Cancer Institute, in-
cluding by disaggregating such data by race,
gender, and age.
(C) REPORT.—Not later than one year after
the submittal of the report under paragraph
(2)(B), if the Secretary conducts the second
phase of the study under this paragraph, the
Secretary shall submit to the appropriate
committees of Congress a report on the find-
ings of the study conducted under this para-
graph.
(4) USE OF DATA FROM PREVIOUS STUDIES.—
In conducting the study under this sub-
section, the Secretary of Defense shall incor-
porate data from previous studies conducted
by the Air Force, the Navy, or the Marine
Corps that are relevant to the study under
this subsection, including data from the
comprehensive study conducted by the Air
Force identifying each covered individual
and documenting the cancers, dates of diag-
noses, and mortality of each covered indi-
vidual.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEE OF CONGRESS.—
The term ‘‘appropriate committees of Con-
gress’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the
Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the
House of Representatives.
(2) ARMED FORCES.—The term ‘‘Armed
Forces’’—
(A) has the meaning given the term
‘‘armed forces’’ in section 101 of title 10,
United States Code; and
(B) includes the reserve components named
in section 10101 of such title.
(3) COVERED INDIVIDUAL.—The term ‘‘cov-
ered individual’’—
(A) means an aviator or aviation support
personnel who—
(i) served in the Armed Forces on or after
February 28, 1961; and
(ii) receives benefits under chapter 55 of
title 10, United States Code; and
(B) includes any air crew member of fixed-
wing aircraft and personnel supporting gen-
eration of the aircraft, including pilots,
navigators, weapons systems operators, air-
craft system operators, personnel associated
with aircraft maintenance, supply, logistics,
fuels, or transportation, and any other crew
member who regularly flies in an aircraft or
is required to complete the mission of the
aircraft.
Subtitle D—Mental Health Services From De-
partment of Veterans Affairs for Members
of Reserve Components
SEC. 761. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Care
and Readiness Enhancement for Reservists
Act of 2020’’ or the ‘‘CARE for Reservists Act
of 2020’’.
SEC. 762. EXPANSION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR READ-
JUSTMENT COUNSELING AND RE-
LATED OUTPATIENT SERVICES
FROM DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS
AFFAIRS TO INCLUDE MEMBERS OF
RESERVE COMPONENTS OF THE
ARMED FORCES.
(a) READJUSTMENT COUNSELING.—Sub-
section (a)(1) of section 1712A of title 38,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following new subparagraph:
‘‘(D)(i) The Secretary, in consultation with
the Secretary of Defense, may furnish to any
member of the reserve components of the
Armed Forces who has a behavioral health
condition or psychological trauma, coun-
seling under subparagraph (A)(i), which may
include a comprehensive individual assess-
ment under subparagraph (B)(i).
‘‘(ii) A member of the reserve components
of the Armed Forces described in clause (i)
shall not be required to obtain a referral be-
fore being furnished counseling or an assess-
ment under this subparagraph.’’.
(b) OUTPATIENT SERVICES.—Subsection (b)
of such section is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)—
(A) by inserting ‘‘to an individual’’ after
‘‘If, on the basis of the assessment fur-
nished’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘veteran’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘individual’’; and
(2) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘veteran’’
and inserting ‘‘individual’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall take effect on the
date that is one year after the date of the en-
actment of this Act.
SEC. 763. PROVISION OF MENTAL HEALTH SERV-
ICES FROM DEPARTMENT OF VET-
ERANS AFFAIRS TO MEMBERS OF
RESERVE COMPONENTS OF THE
ARMED FORCES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter VIII of chap-
ter 17 of title 38, United States Code, is
amended by adding at the end the following
new section:
‘‘§ 1789. Mental health services for members
of the reserve components of the Armed
Forces
‘‘The Secretary, in consultation with the
Secretary of Defense, may furnish mental
health services to members of the reserve
components of the Armed Forces.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of such subchapter
is amended by inserting after the item relat-
ing to section 1788 the following new item:
‘‘1789. Mental health services for members of
the reserve components of the
Armed Forces.’’.
SEC. 764. INCLUSION OF MEMBERS OF RESERVE
COMPONENTS IN MENTAL HEALTH
PROGRAMS OF DEPARTMENT OF
VETERANS AFFAIRS.
(a) SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1720F of title 38,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following new subsection:
‘‘(l)(1) COVERED INDIVIDUAL DEFINED.—In
this section, the term ‘covered individual’
means a veteran or a member of the reserve
components of the Armed Forces.
‘‘(2) In determining coverage of members of
the reserve components of the Armed Forces
under the comprehensive program, the Sec-
retary shall consult with the Secretary of
Defense.’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Such sec-
tion is further amended—
(A) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘vet-
erans’’ and inserting ‘‘covered individuals’’;
(B) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘vet-
erans’’ each place it appears and inserting
‘‘covered individuals’’;
(C) in subsection (c)—
(i) in the subsection heading, by striking
‘‘OF VETERANS’’;
(ii) by striking ‘‘veterans’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘covered individuals’’;
and
(iii) by striking ‘‘veteran’’ and inserting
‘‘individual’’;
(D) in subsection (d), by striking ‘‘to vet-
erans’’ each place it appears and inserting
‘‘to covered individuals’’;
(E) in subsection (e), in the matter pre-
ceding paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘veterans’’
and inserting ‘‘covered individuals’’;
(F) in subsection (f)—
(i) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘vet-
erans’’ and inserting ‘‘covered individuals’’;
and
(ii) in the second sentence, by inserting ‘‘or
members’’ after ‘‘veterans’’;
(G) in subsection (g), by striking ‘‘vet-
erans’’ and inserting ‘‘covered individuals’’;
(H) in subsection (h), by striking ‘‘vet-
erans’’ and inserting ‘‘covered individuals’’;
(I) in subsection (i)—
(i) in the subsection heading, by striking
‘‘FOR VETERANS AND FAMILIES’’;
(ii) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘veterans and the families of
veterans’’ and inserting ‘‘covered individuals
and the families of covered individuals’’;
(iii) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘vet-
erans’’ and inserting ‘‘covered individuals’’;
and
(iv) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘vet-
erans’’ each place it appears and inserting
‘‘covered individuals’’;
(J) in subsection (j)—
(i) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘veterans’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘covered
individuals’’; and
(ii) in paragraph (4)—
(I) in subparagraph (A), in the matter pre-
ceding clause (i), by striking ‘‘women vet-
erans’’ and inserting ‘‘covered individuals
who are women’’;
(II) in subparagraph (B), by striking
‘‘women veterans who’’ and inserting ‘‘cov-
ered individuals who are women and’’; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00094 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6781
November 16, 2020
(III) in subparagraph (C), by striking
‘‘women veterans’’ and inserting ‘‘covered
individuals who are women’’; and
(K) in subsection (k), by striking ‘‘vet-
erans’’ and inserting ‘‘covered individuals’’.
(3) CLERICAL AMENDMENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Such section is further
amended, in the section heading, by insert-
ing ‘‘and members of the reserve components
of the Armed Forces’’ after ‘‘veterans’’.
(B) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sec-
tions at the beginning of such subchapter is
amended by striking the item relating to
section 1720F and inserting the following new
item:
‘‘1720F. Comprehensive program for suicide
prevention among veterans and
members of the reserve compo-
nents of the Armed Forces.’’.
(b) MENTAL HEALTH TREATMENT FOR INDI-
VIDUALS WHO SERVED IN CLASSIFIED MIS-
SIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1720H of such title
is amended—
(A) in subsection (a)—
(i) in paragraph (1)—
(I) by striking ‘‘eligible veteran’’ and in-
serting ‘‘eligible individual’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘the veteran’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘the individual’’; and
(ii) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘eligible
veterans’’ and inserting ‘‘eligible individ-
uals’’;
(B) in subsection (b)—
(i) by striking ‘‘a veteran’’ and inserting
‘‘an individual’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘eligible veteran’’ and in-
serting ‘‘eligible individual’’; and
(C) in subsection (c)—
(i) in paragraph (2), in the matter pre-
ceding subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘The
term ‘eligible veteran’ means a veteran’’ and
inserting ‘‘The term ‘eligible individual’
means a veteran or a member of the reserve
components of the Armed Forces’’; and
(ii) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘eligible
veteran’’ and inserting ‘‘eligible individual’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Such section is further
amended, in the section heading, by insert-
ing ‘‘and members of the reserve components
of the Armed Forces’’ after ‘‘veterans’’.
(B) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sec-
tions at the beginning of chapter 17 of such
title is amended by striking the item relat-
ing to section 1720H and inserting the fol-
lowing new item:
‘‘1720H. Mental health treatment for vet-
erans and members of the re-
serve components of the Armed
Forces who served in classified
missions.’’.
SEC. 765. REPORT ON MENTAL HEALTH AND RE-
LATED SERVICES PROVIDED BY DE-
PARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
TO MEMBERS OF THE ARMED
FORCES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall sub-
mit to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs
and the Committee on Appropriations of the
Senate and the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs and the Committee on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives a report that
includes an assessment of the following:
(1) The increase, as compared to the day
before the date of the enactment of this Act,
of the number of members of the Armed
Forces that use readjustment counseling or
outpatient mental health care from the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs, disaggregated
by State, Vet Center location, and clinical
care site of the Department, as appropriate.
(2) The number of members of the reserve
components of the Armed Forces receiving
telemental health care from the Depart-
ment.
(3) The increase, as compared to the day
before the date of the enactment of this Act,
of the annual cost associated with readjust-
ment counseling and outpatient mental
health care provided by the Department to
members of the reserve components of the
Armed Forces.
(4) The changes, as compared to the day be-
fore the date of the enactment of this Act, in
staffing, training, organization, and re-
sources required for the Department to offer
readjustment counseling and outpatient
mental health care to members of the re-
serve components of the Armed Forces.
(5) Any challenges the Department has en-
countered in providing readjustment coun-
seling and outpatient mental health care to
members of the reserve components of the
Armed Forces.
(b) VET CENTER DEFINED.—In this section,
the term ‘‘Vet Center’’ has the meaning
given that term in section 1712A(h) of title
38, United States Code.
TITLE VIII—ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUI-
SITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED
MATTERS
Subtitle A—Industrial Base Matters
SEC. 801. POLICY RECOMMENDATIONS FOR IM-
PLEMENTATION OF EXECUTIVE
ORDER 13806 (ASSESSING AND
STRENGTHENING THE MANUFAC-
TURING AND DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL
BASE AND SUPPLY CHAIN RESIL-
IENCY).
(a) SUBMISSION OF RECOMMENDATIONS TO
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE.—In order to fully
implement the July 21, 2017, Presidential Ex-
ecutive Order on Assessing and Strength-
ening the Manufacturing and Defense Indus-
trial Base and Supply Chain Resiliency of
the United States, not later than 540 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisi-
tion and Sustainment shall submit to the
Secretary of Defense a series of rec-
ommendations regarding United States in-
dustrial policies. The recommendations shall
consist of specific executive actions, pro-
grammatic changes, regulatory changes, and
legislative proposals and changes, as appro-
priate.
(b) SCOPE OF ASSESSMENT.—In developing
the recommendations required under sub-
section (a), the Under Secretary shall as-
sess—
(1) direct subsidies and investment in the
economy;
(2) direct provision of credit and purchases
of private sector bonds and equity;
(3) prize-based technology challenges for
critical research and development mile-
stones;
(4) capital controls and dollar policy;
(5) trade policy, including export control
policy, government acquisition policy, and
targeted protectionist policies;
(6) export promotion policies;
(7) foreign talent attraction and retention;
(8) graduate education policy; and
(9) expansion of existing or establishment
of new public-private partnerships, including
the Trusted Capital Marketplace.
(c) OBJECTIVES.—The recommendations
made pursuant to subsection (a) shall aim
to—
(1) facilitate only high-value design, engi-
neering, and manufacturing activities;
(2) expand the defense industrial base to in-
clude friendly and capable allies and part-
ners;
(3) preserve the viability of domestic and
international suppliers;
(4) include export and productivity incen-
tives;
(5) accord with standing international
trade law; and
(6) strengthen the domestic national secu-
rity industrial base, especially in areas cur-
rently dependent on foreign suppliers.
(d) CONSULTATION.—In assessing the areas
specified in subsection (b) and developing the
recommendations required under subsection
(a), the Under Secretary shall consult or in-
augurate studies with, as appropriate, the
Joint Industrial Base Working Group, the
Defense Science Board, the Defense Innova-
tion Board, economists, commercial indus-
try, and federally funded research and devel-
opment centers.
(e) SUBMISSION OF RECOMMENDATIONS TO
PRESIDENT.—Not later than 30 days after re-
ceiving the recommendations under sub-
section (a), the Secretary of Defense shall
submit the recommendations, together with
any additional views or recommendations, to
the President, the Office of Management and
Budget, the National Security Council, and
the National Economic Council.
(f) SUBMISSION OF RECOMMENDATIONS TO
CONGRESS.—Not later than 30 days after sub-
mitting the recommendations to the Presi-
dent under section (e), the Secretary of De-
fense shall submit the recommendations to
and brief the congressional defense commit-
tees on the recommendations.
SEC. 802. ASSESSMENT OF NATIONAL SECURITY
INNOVATION BASE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 540 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Deputy Secretary of Defense shall sub-
mit to the Secretary of Defense an assess-
ment of the economic forces and structures
shaping the capacity of the national security
innovation base and policy recommendations
pertaining to the outcome of such assess-
ment.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The assessment required
under subsection (a) shall review the fol-
lowing matters as they pertain to the inno-
vative and manufacturing capacity of the na-
tional security innovation base:
(1) Competition and antitrust policy.
(2) Immigration policy, including the poli-
cies germane to the attraction and retention
of skilled immigrants.
(3) Graduate education funding and policy.
(4) Demand stabilization and social safety
net policies.
(5) The structure and incentives of finan-
cial markets and businesses’ access to credit.
(6) Trade policy, including export control
policy.
(7) The tax code and its effect on invest-
ment, including the Federal research and de-
velopment tax credit.
(8) Deregulation in critical economic sec-
tors, land use, environment review, and con-
struction and manufacturing activities.
(9) National economic and manufacturing
infrastructure.
(10) Intellectual property reform.
(11) Federally funded investments in the
economy, including research and develop-
ment and advanced manufacturing.
(12) Federally funded procurement of goods
and services.
(13) Federally funded investments to ex-
pand domestic manufacturing capabilities.
(c) ENGAGEMENT WITH CERTAIN ENTITIES.—
In conducting the assessment required under
subsection (a), the Deputy Secretary shall
engage through appropriate mechanisms
with the Defense Science Board, the Defense
Innovation Board, the Defense Business
Board, academic experts, commercial indus-
try, and federally funded research and devel-
opment centers.
(d) SUBMISSION OF ASSESSMENT.—Not later
than 30 days after receiving the assessment
and recommendations under subsection (a),
the Secretary of Defense shall submit the as-
sessment, together with recommendations
and any additional views of the Secretary, to
the President, the Office of Management and
Budget, the National Security Council, the
National Economic Council, and the congres-
sional defense committees.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00095 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6782 November 16, 2020
SEC. 803. IMPROVING IMPLEMENTATION OF POL-
ICY PERTAINING TO THE NATIONAL
TECHNOLOGY AND INDUSTRIAL
BASE.
(a) NATIONAL TECHNOLOGY AND INDUSTRIAL
BASE IMPLEMENTATION.—
(1) ASSESSMENT OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOP-
MENT, MANUFACTURING, AND PRODUCTION CA-
PABILITIES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—In developing the strat-
egy required by section 2501 of title 10,
United States Code, carrying out the anal-
ysis of the national technology and indus-
trial base required by section 2503 of such
title, and performing the periodic assess-
ments required under section 2505 of such
title, the Secretary of Defense shall, in con-
sultation with the Under Secretary of De-
fense for Acquisition and Sustainment and
the Under Secretary of Research and Engi-
neering, assess the research and develop-
ment, manufacturing, and production capa-
bilities of entities within the United States
and non-United States members of the na-
tional technology and industrial base as well
as other friendly nations.
(B) IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC TECH-
NOLOGIES, COMPANIES, LABORATORIES, AND
FACTORIES.—The assessment shall include
identification of specific technologies, com-
panies, laboratories, and factories of or lo-
cated in the United States and the non-
United States members of the national tech-
nology and industrial base of potential value
to current and future Department of Defense
plans and programs.
(2) POLICY AND GUIDANCE.—Consistent with
section 2440 of title 10, United States Code,
the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisi-
tion and Sustainment shall develop and pro-
mulgate to the service and command acqui-
sition executives, the heads of the appro-
priate defense agencies and field activities,
and relevant program managers acquisition
policy and guidance germane to the use of
the research and development, manufac-
turing, and production capabilities identified
pursuant to paragraph (1)(B) and the tech-
nologies, companies, laboratories, and fac-
tories in specific Department of Defense re-
search and development, international coop-
erative research, procurement, and
sustainment activities.
(b) COOPERATIVE RESEARCH AND DEVELOP-
MENT.—
(1) AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO COOPERATIVE
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS WITH
NATIONS IN THE NATIONAL TECHNOLOGY AND IN-
DUSTRIAL BASE.—Section 2350a(a)(2) of title
10, United States Code, is amended by adding
at the end the following new subparagraph:
‘‘(F) A nation in the National Technology
and Industrial Base, as defined by section
2500 of title 10, United States Code.’’.
(2) REGULATIONS.—Not later than 120 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense shall revise the De-
partment of Defense Supplement to the Fed-
eral Acquisition Regulation to conform with
subparagraph (F) of section 2350a(a)(2) of
title 10, United States Code, as added by
paragraph (1).
(c) REGULATORY COUNCIL.—Section 2502 of
title 10, United States Code, is amended by
inserting after subsection (d) the following
new subsection:
‘‘(e) NATIONAL TECHNOLOGY AND INDUSTRIAL
BASE REGULATORY COUNCIL.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Chairman of the
National Defense Technology and Industrial
Base Council shall work with the equivalent
designees in the countries that comprise the
national technology and industrial base to
establish the National Technology and In-
dustrial Base Regulatory Council.
‘‘(2) MEETINGS.—The National Technology
and Industrial Base Regulatory Council shall
meet biannually to harmonize respective
policies and regulations, and to propose new
legislation and regulations that increase the
integration between the policies, persons,
and organizations comprising the national
technology and industrial base.
‘‘(3) DUTIES.—The National Technology and
Industrial Base Regulatory Council shall—
‘‘(A) address and review issues related to
industrial security, supply chain security,
cybersecurity, regulating foreign direct in-
vestment and foreign ownership, control and
influence mitigation, market research, tech-
nology assessment, and research cooperation
within public and private research and devel-
opment organizations and universities, tech-
nology and export control measures, acquisi-
tion processes and oversight, and manage-
ment best practices; and
‘‘(B) establish a mechanism for national
technology and industrial base members to
raise disputes that arise within the national
technology and industrial base at a govern-
ment-to-government level.’’.
(d) RECOMMENDATIONS FOR ADDITIONAL
MEMBERS OF THE NATIONAL TECHNOLOGY AND
INDUSTRIAL BASE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense
shall establish a process to consider the in-
clusion of additional member nations in the
national technology and industrial base.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The process developed
under paragraph (1) shall include—
(A) analysis of the national security costs
and benefits to the United States and allies
of the inclusion of such additional member
nation in the national technology and indus-
trial base;
(B) analysis of the economic costs and ben-
efits to entities within the United States and
allies of the inclusion of such additional
member nation into the national technology
and industrial base, including an assessment
of—
(i) specific shortfalls in the technological
and industrial capacities of current member
nations of the national technology and in-
dustrial base that would be addressed by in-
clusion of such additional member nation;
and
(ii) specific areas in the industrial bases of
current member nations of the national
technology and industrial base that would
likely be impacted by additional competition
if such additional nation were included in
the national technology and industrial base;
and
(C) analysis of other factors as determined
relevant by the Secretary.
(3) RECOMMENDED LEGISLATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense
may submit legislative proposals to Congress
to add new nations to the national tech-
nology and industrial base.
(B) ELEMENTS.—Proposals submitted pur-
suant to subparagraph (A) shall include the
following elements:
(i) A summary of the analyses performed
pursuant to subsection (d)(2).
(ii) A set of metrics to assess the national
security and economic benefits that such in-
clusion is expected to accrue to entities
within the United States and allied nations.
(4) REPORT.—Not later than 540 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall submit to the congressional
defense committees a report with rec-
ommendations regarding whether to include
in the national technology and industrial
base each country with which the United
States maintains a mutual defense treaty, a
reciprocal defense procurement agreement,
or other defense cooperation agreement. The
report shall be based on assessments con-
ducted using the process established under
paragraph (1) and shall include, for each
country recommended for inclusion, the in-
formation specified in paragraph (3)(B).
SEC. 804. MODIFICATION OF FRAMEWORK FOR
MODERNIZING ACQUISITION PROC-
ESSES TO ENSURE INTEGRITY OF IN-
DUSTRIAL BASE.
Section 2509 of title 10, United States Code,
as added by section 845(a) of the National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020
(Public Law 116–92), is amended—
(1) in subsection (b)(2)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘, such as those identified
through the Department of Defense’s supply
chain risk management process and by the
Federal Acquisition Security Council, and’’
after ‘‘supply chain risks’’; and
(ii) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘(other than
optical transmission components)’’;
(B) in subparagraph (C)—
(i) in clause (x), by striking ‘‘; and’’ and in-
serting a semicolon;
(ii) by redesignating clause (xi) as clause
(xii); and
(iii) by inserting after clause (x) the fol-
lowing new clause:
‘‘(xi) processes and procedures related to
supply chain risk management, including
those implemented pursuant to section 806 of
the Ike Skelton National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law
111–383; 10 U.S.C. 2304 note); and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(E) Characterization and assessment of
industrial base support policies, programs,
and procedures, including—
‘‘(i) limitations and acquisition guidance
relevant to the national technology and in-
dustrial base (as defined in section 2500(1) of
this title);
‘‘(ii) limitations and acquisition guidance
relevant to section 2533a of this title;
‘‘(iii) the Industrial Base Analysis and
Sustainment program, including direct sup-
port and common design activities;
‘‘(iv) the Small Business Innovation Re-
search program;
‘‘(v) the Department of Defense Manufac-
turing Technology program;
‘‘(vi) programs related to the Defense Pro-
duction Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4511 et seq.);
‘‘(vii) the Trusted Capital Marketplace
program; and
‘‘(viii) programs in the military services.’’;
and
(2) in subsection (f)(2), by inserting ‘‘, and
supporting policies, procedures, and guid-
ance’’ after ‘‘pursuant to subsection (b)’’.
SEC. 805. ASSESSMENTS OF INDUSTRIAL BASE
CAPABILITIES AND CAPACITY.
(a) ASSESSMENTS.—The Secretary of De-
fense shall define intelligence and other in-
formation requirements, sources, and organi-
zational responsibilities for assessing foreign
adversary technological and industrial bases
and conducting comparative analyses of such
technological and industrial bases. The re-
quirements, sources, and responsibilities
shall include—
(1) examining the competitive advantages
foreign adversaries are pursuing, including
with respect to regulation, raw materials,
educational capacity, labor, and capital ac-
cessibility;
(2) assessing relative cost, speed of product
development, age and value of the installed
capital base, leadership’s technical com-
petence and agility, nationally imposed in-
hibiting conditions, the availability of
human and material resources, and the bur-
dens of government oversight;
(3) a temporal evaluation of the competi-
tive strengths and weaknesses of United
States industry, including manufacturing
surge capacity, versus the directed priorities
and capabilities of foreign adversary govern-
ments; and
(4) assessing any other issues that the Sec-
retary of Defense determines appropriate.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00096 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6783
November 16, 2020
(b) METHODOLOGY.—The Deputy Assistant
Secretary of Defense for Industrial Policy
shall incorporate inputs pursuant to sub-
section (a) as part of a methodology to con-
tinuously assess domestic and foreign indus-
tries, markets, and companies of significance
to military and industrial advantage to iden-
tify supply chain vulnerabilities.
(c) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than March 15,
2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit
to the congressional defense committees a
report on efforts to establish the continuous
assessment activity required under sub-
sections (a) and (b).
(2) ELEMENTS.—The report submitted under
paragraph (1) shall include a consideration of
whether it would be appropriate to task
some of the assessment work to an organiza-
tion independent of the Department, and any
recommendations regarding which organiza-
tion should perform such work.
SEC. 806. ANALYSES OF CERTAIN MATERIALS
AND TECHNOLOGY SECTORS FOR
ACTION TO ADDRESS SOURCING
AND INDUSTRIAL CAPACITY.
(a) ANALYSES REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense,
acting through the Undersecretary for Ac-
quisition and Sustainment and other appro-
priate officials, shall review the materials,
processes, and technology sectors under sub-
section (c) to determine and develop appro-
priate actions, consistent with the policies,
programs, and activities required under
chapter 148 of title 10, United States Code,
including—
(A) restricting procurement, with appro-
priate waivers for cost, emergency require-
ments, and non-availability of suppliers, in-
cluding restricting procurement to—
(i) suppliers in the United States;
(ii) suppliers in the national technology
and industrial base (as defined in section
2500(1) of title 10, United States Code);
(iii) suppliers in other allied nations; or
(iv) other suppliers;
(B) increasing investment to expand capac-
ity or diversifying sources of supply or alter-
native approaches to addressing military re-
quirements, through use of research and de-
velopment or procurement activities and ac-
quisition authorities;
(C) taking a combination of actions de-
scribed under subparagraphs (A) and (B); or
(D) taking no actions, restrictions, or addi-
tional investment.
(2) CONSIDERATIONS.—The analyses con-
ducted pursuant to paragraph (1) shall con-
sider national security, economic, and treaty
implications, as well as impacts on current
and potential suppliers of goods and services.
(b) RECOMMENDATIONS.—The analyses con-
ducted pursuant to subsection (a) shall be
used to inform policy, agreements, guidance
and reporting requirements under chapter
148 of title 10, United States Code, includ-
ing—
(1) the annual report to Congress required
under section 2504 of such title;
(2) the annual report on unfunded prior-
ities of the national technology and indus-
trial base required under section 2504a of
such title;
(3) Department of Defense technology and
industrial base policy guidance prescribed
under section 2506 of such title;
(4) activities to modernize acquisition
processes to ensure integrity of industrial
base pursuant to section 2509 of such title;
(5) defense memoranda of understanding
and related agreements considered in accord-
ance with section 2531 of such title;
(6) other requirements as appropriate.
(c) MATERIALS, TECHNOLOGIES, AND PROC-
ESSES OF INTEREST.—The Secretary of De-
fense shall prioritize undertaking analyses
and making recommendations under this
section for the following goods and services:
(1) Goods and services covered under exist-
ing restrictions, where a domestic non-avail-
ability determination has been made.
(2) Critical technologies identified in the
National Defense Strategy.
(3) Technologies and sectors identified in
reports required regarding the defense indus-
trial base.
(4) Microelectronics.
(5) Printed circuit boards and other elec-
tronics components.
(6) Pharmaceuticals.
(7) Medical devices.
(8) Personal protective equipment.
(9) Rare earth materials.
(10) Synthetic graphite.
(11) Coal-based rayon carbon fibers.
(12) Aluminum.
SEC. 807. MICROELECTRONICS MANUFACTURING
STRATEGY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than January 1,
2021, the Deputy Secretary of Defense, in
consultation with the Under Secretary of De-
fense for Acquisition and Sustainment, the
Under Secretary for Research and Engineer-
ing, and the Director of the Defense Ad-
vanced Research Projects Agency, shall sub-
mit to the Secretary of Defense and the
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff a strat-
egy to manufacture state-of-the art inte-
grated circuits in the United States within a
period of three to five years that includes a
plan to explore and evaluate options for re-
establishing microelectronics foundry serv-
ices and the industrial capabilities associ-
ated with such services.
(b) ELEMENTS.—In developing the strategy
required under subsection (a), the Under Sec-
retary shall consider—
(1) multiple models of public-private part-
nerships to execute the strategy;
(2) processes and criteria for competitive
selection of commercial companies, includ-
ing companies headquartered in allied and
partner countries, to provide design, foundry
and assembly, and packaging services and to
build and operate the industrial capabilities
associated with such services;
(3) the role that the broader Federal Gov-
ernment should play in organizing and sup-
porting the strategy, including any required
direct or indirect funding support, or legisla-
tive and regulatory actions, including re-
stricting procurements to domestic sources,
and providing anti-trust and export control
relief; and
(4) all potential funding sources and mech-
anisms for initial and sustaining invest-
ments.
(c) SUBMISSION OF STRATEGY TO PRESI-
DENT.—Not later February 1, 2021, the Sec-
retary of Defense shall submit the strategy,
together with any views and recommenda-
tions, and an estimated budget to implement
the strategy, to the President, the National
Security Council, and the National Eco-
nomic Council.
(d) BRIEFING.—Not later than March 1, 2021,
the Secretary of Defense shall submit the
strategy to and brief the congressional de-
fense committees on the strategy and the
Secretary’s recommendations.
SEC. 808. ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS PER-
TAINING TO PRINTED CIRCUIT
BOARDS.
(a) PURCHASES.—Not later than one year
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Defense shall require for new
contracts or other acquisition activities that
contractors, or subcontractors at any tier,
that provide covered printed circuit boards
for use by the Department of Defense certify
that, of the total value of the covered print-
ed circuit boards provided by the contractor
or subcontractor pursuant to a contract or
subcontract with the Department of Defense,
not less than the percentages set forth in
subsection (b) were manufactured and assem-
bled within a covered nation.
(b) IMPLEMENTATION.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT OF REQUIRED PERCENT-
AGES.—In establishing the certification proc-
ess under subsection (a), the Secretary shall
establish and publish increasing percentages
of values of the covered printed circuit
boards under subsection (a) to be complied
with by appropriate contractors and sub-
contractors, based on—
(A) assessment of covered nation capacity
to supply printed circuit boards, over time;
(B) assessment of threats to national secu-
rity capabilities from use of printed circuit
boards from non-covered nations;
(C) economic benefits accrued by non-cov-
ered nations which would otherwise be ac-
crued by covered nations;
(D) achieving a goal of production of 100
percent of manufacture and assembly of
printed circuit boards in covered nations
within ten years; and
(E) other criteria as determined appro-
priate.
(2) MINIMUM PERCENTAGES.—The percent-
ages established by the Secretary under this
subsection shall, in any case, be equal to or
greater than, unless specifically directed by
the Secretary for an individual contract or
subcontract—
(A) 25 percent by October 1, 2023;
(B) 50 percent by October 1, 2025;
(C) 75 percent by October 1, 2029; and
(D) 100 percent by October 1, 2032.
(3) LIMITED EXCEPTIONS.—If the Secretary
of Defense directs that a specific contract or
subcontract is required to comply with a dif-
ferent percentage than those prescribed
under this subsection, the Secretary shall
notify the congressional defense committees
not later than 30 days after such direction is
issued, along with a rationale for the
changed percentage.
(c) REMEDIATION.—In the event that a con-
tractor or subcontractor is unable to com-
plete the certification required under sub-
section (a), the Secretary may accept cov-
ered printed circuit boards from the con-
tractor or subcontractor for an appropriate
time period, not to exceed 18 months over a
five-year period, while requiring the con-
tractor to complete a remediation plan.
Such a plan shall be submitted to the con-
gressional defense committees and shall re-
quire the contractor or subcontractor to—
(1) audit its supply chain to identify any
areas of security vulnerability and compli-
ance with section 224 of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Pub-
lic Law 119–92); and
(2) meet the requirements of subsection (a)
within in an expedited fashion after the ini-
tial missed certification deadline to address
national security threats.
(d) WAIVER.—A contractor may request
that the Secretary of Defense waive the re-
quirement for certification, and the Sec-
retary may grant such a waiver, if the Sec-
retary has conclusively determined that—
(1) there are no significant national secu-
rity concerns regarding counterfeiting, qual-
ity, or unauthorized access created by any
covered printed circuit boards provided to
the Department of Defense by the contractor
in the fiscal year under the certification re-
quirement or the previous fiscal year;
(2) the contractor is otherwise in compli-
ance with all relevant cybersecurity provi-
sions relating to members of the defense in-
dustrial base, including section 244 of the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2020; and
(3) the waiver is required to support na-
tional security needs, particularly with re-
spect to acquisitions of commercial items.
(e) AVAILABILITY AND COST EXCEPTIONS.—
Subsection (a) shall not apply to the extent
that the Secretary of Defense or the Sec-
retary of the military department concerned
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00097 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6784 November 16, 2020
determines that covered printed circuit
boards of satisfactory quality and sufficient
quantity, in the required form, cannot be
procured as and when needed from covered
nations at reasonable cost, excluding com-
parisons with non-market economies, or in
time to meet an operational requirement.
(f) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
(1) the term ‘‘covered printed circuit
board’’ means any printed circuit board that
is a—
(A) noncommercial item; or
(B) commercial or commercially available
off-the-shelf item that transmits or stores
national security sensitive information for—
(i) telecommunications;
(ii) data communications;
(iii) data storage;
(iv) medical applications;
(v) networking;
(vi) fifth-generation cellular communica-
tions;
(vii) computing;
(viii) radar;
(ix) munitions; or
(x) any other system that the Secretary of
Defense determines should be covered under
this section; and
(2) the term ‘‘covered nation’’ means—
(A) the United States;
(B) a member nation of the national tech-
nology and industrial base under section 2500
of title 10, United States Code; or
(C) a nation that has agreed, in compliance
with section 36 of the Arms Export Control
Act (22 U.S.C. 2776) and section 2457 of title
10, United States Code—
(i) to comply with agreements with foreign
governments requiring the United States to
purchase supplies from foreign sources for
the purposes of offsetting sales made by the
United States Government or United States
firms under approved programs serving de-
fense requirements; or
(ii) along with the United States Govern-
ment, to remove barriers to purchases of
supplies produced in the other country or
services performed by sources of the other
country; or
(D) any country, other than the People’s
Republic of China, the Russian Federation,
Iran, or the Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea, that the Secretary designates, upon a
determination to be published in the Federal
Register, that accepting covered printed cir-
cuit boards from which—
(i) is in the national security interests of
the United States; and
(ii) does not pose a significant risk to na-
tional security systems.
(g) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed to prohibit
the Department of Defense from entering
into a contract with an entity that connects
to the facilities of a third party, for the pur-
poses of backhaul, roaming, or interconnec-
tion arrangements, on the basis of the third
party’s noncompliance with the provisions of
this section.
SEC. 809. STATEMENT OF POLICY WITH RESPECT
TO SUPPLY OF STRATEGIC MIN-
ERALS AND METALS FOR DEPART-
MENT OF DEFENSE PURPOSES.
(a) STATEMENT OF POLICY.—It is the policy
of the United States that the Department of
Defense shall pursue the following goals:
(1) Ensure, by 2030, secure sources of supply
of strategic minerals and metals that will—
(A) fully meet the demands of the domestic
defense industrial base;
(B) eliminate the dependence of the United
States on unsecure sources of supply of stra-
tegic minerals and metals; and
(C) ensure that the Department of Defense
is not reliant upon unsecure sources of sup-
ply for the processing or manufacturing of
any strategic mineral and metal deemed es-
sential to national security by the Secretary
of Defense.
(2) Provide incentives for the defense in-
dustrial base to develop robust processing
and manufacturing capabilities in the United
States to refine strategic minerals and met-
als for Department of Defense purposes.
(3) Maintain secure sources of supply of
strategic minerals and metals required to
maintain current military requirements in
the event that international supply chains
are disrupted.
(4) Achieve the goals described in para-
graphs (1) through (3) through, among other
methods—
(A) the continued and expanded use of ex-
isting programs, such as the National De-
fense Stockpile administered by the Defense
Logistics Agency; and
(B) the continued use of authorities under
title III of the Defense Production Act of 1950
(50 U.S.C. 4531 et seq.).
(b) STRATEGIC MINERALS AND METALS.—For
purposes of this section, strategic minerals
and metals include critical minerals, as de-
fined pursuant to Executive Order 13817.
SEC. 810. REPORT ON STRATEGIC AND CRITICAL
MINERALS AND METALS.
(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than June
30, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall sub-
mit to the Committees on Armed Services of
the Senate and the House of Representatives
a report on the results of a study, conducted
for purposes of this section, concerning stra-
tegic and critical minerals and metals and
vulnerabilities in supply chains of such min-
erals and metals.
(b) STRATEGIC AND CRITICAL MINERALS AND
METALS.—For purposes of this section, stra-
tegic and critical minerals and metals are
minerals and metals, including rare earth
elements, that are necessary to meet na-
tional defense and national security require-
ments, including supply chain resiliency, and
for the economic security of the United
States.
(c) ELEMENTS.—The study required for pur-
poses of the report under subsection (a) shall
do the following:
(1) Identify the strategic and critical min-
erals and metals that are currently utilized
by the Department of Defense.
(2) To the extent practicable, identify the
overall annual tonnage of each strategic or
critical mineral or metal identified pursuant
to paragraph (1) that was utilized by the De-
partment during the 10-year period ending on
December 31, 2020.
(3) Identify domestic and international
sources for the strategic and critical min-
erals and metals identified pursuant to para-
graph (1).
(4) Identify risks to access to the strategic
and critical minerals and metals identified
pursuant to paragraph (1) from supply chain
disruptions due to geopolitical, economic,
and other vulnerabilities.
(5) Evaluate the benefits of a robust domes-
tic supply chain for providing strategic and
critical minerals and metals to Department
manufacturing supply chains in real time.
(6) Evaluate the effects of the use of waiv-
ers by the Department of Defense Strategic
Materials Protection Board on the domestic
supply of strategic and critical minerals and
metals.
(7) Recommend policies and procedures for
the Department to ensure a capability to se-
cure strategic and critical minerals and met-
als necessary for emerging technologies such
as anti-microbial products, minerals, and
metals for use in medical equipment among
other technologies.
(8) Identify improvements required to the
National Defense Stockpile in order to en-
sure the Department has access to the stra-
tegic and critical minerals and metals iden-
tified pursuant to paragraph (1).
(9) Evaluate the domestic processing and
manufacturing capacity needed to supply the
Department with the strategic and critical
minerals and metals identified pursuant to
paragraph (1) in an economic and secure
manner.
(10) In consultation with the United States
Geological Survey, identify domestic loca-
tions already verified to contain large sup-
plies of strategic and critical minerals and
metals identified pursuant to paragraph (1)
with existing commercial manufacturing in-
terest.
(11) Address any other matter relating to
strategic and critical minerals and metals
that the Secretary considers appropriate.
(d) FORM.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 811. STABILIZATION OF SHIPBUILDING IN-
DUSTRIAL BASE WORKFORCE.
(a) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that the Department of the Navy
must explore and identify solutions, in con-
sultation with the Department of Labor, to
enhance shipbuilding workforce stability and
ensure industry preparedness to construct
the 355-ship fleet.
(b) WORKING GROUP TO STABILIZE SHIP-
BUILDING INDUSTRIAL BASE WORKFORCE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the Navy
shall form a working group with the Sec-
retary of Labor for the purpose of enhancing
integration of programs, resources, and ex-
pertise to strengthen the shipbuilding indus-
trial base, as well as to provide recommenda-
tions to Congress, to better stabilize the
shipbuilding industrial base workforce and
determine appropriate solutions for work-
force fluctuations.
(2) DUTIES.—The working group shall carry
out the following activities related to the
ongoing challenges with workforce stability:
(A) Analyze existing Department of the
Navy contracts with the shipbuilding indus-
try and other relevant information to better
anticipate future employment trends and
tailor workforce resources and opportunities
for workers most vulnerable to upcoming
workforce fluctuations.
(B) Identify existing Department of Labor
programs for unemployed, underemployed,
and furloughed employees that could benefit
the shipbuilding industrial base workforce
during times of workload fluctuations and
workforce instability, and explore potential
partnerships to connect employees with ap-
propriate resources.
(C) Explore possible cost sharing agree-
ments to enable the Department of the Navy
to contribute funding to existing Depart-
ment of Labor workforce programs to sup-
port the shipbuilding workforce.
(D) Examine possible programs that will
specifically assist furloughed employees who
may sporadically rely on unemployment
benefits.
(E) Explore opportunities for unemployed,
underemployed, or furloughed employees to
provide workforce training through tem-
porary partnerships with States, technical
schools, community colleges, and other local
workforce development opportunities.
(F) Review existing training programs for
the shipbuilding workforce to maximize rel-
evant and necessary training opportunities
that would broaden employee skillset during
times of unemployment, underemployment,
or furlough, where applicable.
(G) Assess the possibility of shipbuilding
worker support programs to weather a period
of unemployment, underemployment, or fur-
lough, including compensation options, al-
ternative employment, temporary stipends,
or other worker support opportunities.
(H) Study cross-State credentialing re-
quirements and identify any restrictions
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00098 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6785
November 16, 2020
that inhibit the flexibility of the ship-
building workforce to seek employment op-
portunities across State lines, and make rec-
ommendations to streamline licensing,
credentialing, certification, and qualifica-
tion requirements within the shipbuilding
industry.
(I) Review additional or new contracting
authorities that could enable the Depart-
ment of the Navy to award short-term, flexi-
ble contracts that will prioritize work for
unemployed, underemployed, or furloughed
employees within the shipbuilding work-
force.
(J) Identify specific workforce support pro-
grams to support suppliers of all sizes within
the shipbuilding industrial base, and assess
any additional support from prime contrac-
tors that would improve the stability of such
suppliers.
(K) Assess whether greater collaboration
with the United States Coast Guard and its
shipbuilding contractors and subcontractors
would improve workforce stability by assess-
ing a totality of shipbuilding demands.
(L) Consider potential pilot programs that
will specifically address shipbuilding indus-
trial base workforce stability.
(M) Explore any additional opportunities
to invest in recruiting, retaining, and train-
ing a skilled shipbuilding workforce.
(N) Consider and incorporate the findings
and recommendations, as appropriate, of the
report on shipbuilder training and the de-
fense industrial base required under section
1037 of the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92).
(3) NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENT REGARDING
ESTABLISHMENT AND STRUCTURE.—Not later
than 90 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy, in co-
ordination with the Secretary of Labor, shall
notify the congressional defense committees
regarding the membership and structure of
the working group.
(4) REPORT.—Not later than one year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of the Navy, in consultation with
the Secretary of Labor, shall submit to the
congressional defense committees, the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions of the Senate, and the Committee
on Education and Labor of the House of Rep-
resentatives a report with the findings and
recommendations of the working group.
SEC. 812. MISCELLANEOUS LIMITATIONS ON THE
PROCUREMENT OF GOODS OTHER
THAN UNITED STATES GOODS.
Section 2534 of title 10, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) by striking paragraphs (2) through (5);
(B) by inserting after paragraph (1) the fol-
lowing new paragraph:
‘‘(2) COMPONENTS FOR NAVAL VESSELS.—
‘‘(A) Vessel propellers with a diameter of
six feet or more.
‘‘(B) The following components of vessels,
to the extent they are unique to marine ap-
plications: gyrocompasses, electronic navi-
gation chart systems, steering controls, pro-
pulsion and machinery control systems, and
totally enclosed lifeboats.’’;
(C) by redesignating paragraph (6) as para-
graph (3); and
(D) in paragraph (3), as redesignated by
subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘(k)’’ and in-
serting ‘‘(j)’’;
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) by striking paragraph (2) and redesig-
nating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2); and
(B) in paragraph (2), as redesignated by
subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘subsection
(a)(3)(A)(iii)’’ and inserting ‘‘subsection
(a)(2)(A)’’;
(3) in subsection (c)—
(A) by striking ‘‘ITEMS.’’ and all that fol-
lows through ‘‘Subsection (a) does not
apply’’ in paragraph (1) and inserting
‘‘ITEMS.—Subsection (a) does not apply’’; and
(B) by striking paragraphs (2) though (5);
(4) in subsection (g)—
(A) by striking ‘‘(1) This section’’ and in-
serting ‘‘This section’’; and
(B) by striking paragraph (2);
(5) in subsection (h), by striking ‘‘sub-
section (a)(3)(B)’’ and inserting ‘‘subsection
(a)(2)(B)’’;
(6) in subsection (i)(3), by striking ‘‘Acqui-
sition, Technology, and Logistics’’ and in-
serting ‘‘Acquisition and Sustainment’’;
(7) by striking subsection (j); and
(8) by redesignating the first subsection
designated subsection (k) as subsection (j).
SEC. 813. USE OF DOMESTICALLY SOURCED STAR
TRACKERS IN NATIONAL SECURITY
SATELLITES.
(a) IN GENERAL.— Except as provided in
subsection (a), any acquisition executive of
the Department of Defense who approves a
contract for a national security satellite
after October 1, 2021, shall require any star
tracker system included in the design of
such national security satellite to be domes-
tically sourced.
(b) EXCEPTIONS.— The application of sub-
section (a) may be waived if the acquisition
executive certifies in writing that—
(1) there is no available domestically
sourced star tracker system that meets the
national security satellite systems mission
and design requirements;
(2) the cost of the available domestically
sourced star tracker system is unreasonably
priced based on a market survey; or
(3) an urgent and compelling national secu-
rity need exists to necessitate a foreign-
made star tracker.
(c) NATIONAL SECURITY SATELLITE DE-
FINED.— In this section, ‘‘national security
satellite’’ is a satellite the principle purpose
of which is to support the national security
needs of the United States Government.
SEC. 814. MODIFICATION TO SMALL PURCHASE
THRESHOLD EXCEPTION TO
SOURCING REQUIREMENTS FOR
CERTAIN ARTICLES.
Subsection (h) of section 2533a of title 10,
United States Code, is amended to read as
follows:
‘‘(h) EXCEPTION FOR SMALL PURCHASES.—
Subsection (a) does not apply to purchases
for amounts not greater than $150,000. A pro-
posed purchase or contract for an amount
greater than $150,000 may not be divided into
several purchases or contracts for lesser
amounts in order to qualify for this excep-
tion. On October 1 of each year evenly divis-
ible by 5, the Secretary of Defense may ad-
just the dollar threshold in this subsection
based on changes in the Consumer Price
Index. The Secretary shall publish notice of
any such adjustment in the Federal Register,
and the new price threshold shall take effect
on the date of publication.’’.
Subtitle B—Acquisition Policy and
Management
SEC. 831. REPORT ON ACQUISITION RISK ASSESS-
MENT AND MITIGATION AS PART OF
ADAPTIVE ACQUISITION FRAME-
WORK IMPLEMENTATION.
(a) SERVICE ACQUISITION EXECUTIVES
INPUT.—The Service Acquisition Executives
shall report to the Secretary of Defense, the
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition
and Sustainment, the Under Secretary of De-
fense for Research and Engineering, and the
Chief Information Officer of the Department
of Defense how they are assessing, miti-
gating, and reporting on the following risks
in acquisition programs:
(1) Technical risks in engineering, soft-
ware, manufacturing and testing.
(2) Integration and interoperability risks,
including complications related to systems
working across multiple domains while using
machine learning and artificial intelligence
capabilities to continuously change and opti-
mize system performance.
(3) Operations and sustainment risks, in-
cluding as mediated by access to technical
data and intellectual property rights.
(4) Workforce and training risks, including
consideration of the role of contractors as
part of the total workforce.
(5) Supply chain risks, including cyberse-
curity, foreign control and ownership of key
elements of supply chains, and the con-
sequences a fragile and weakening defense
industrial base, combined with barriers to
industrial cooperation with allies and part-
ners pose for delivering systems and tech-
nologies in a trusted and assured manner.
(b) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than
March 31, 2021, the Under Secretary of De-
fense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall
submit to the congressional defense commit-
tees a report including—
(1) the input received from the Service Ac-
quisition Executives pursuant to subsection
(a); and
(2) the views of the Under Secretary with
respect to the matters described in para-
graphs (1) through (5) of such subsection.
SEC. 832. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT ON
IMPLEMENTATION OF SOFTWARE
ACQUISITION REFORMS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than March 15,
2021, the Comptroller General of the United
States shall brief the congressional defense
committees on the implementation by the
Department of Defense of required acquisi-
tion reforms with respect to acquiring soft-
ware for weapon systems, business systems,
and other activities that are part of the de-
fense acquisition system, with a report, or
reports, to follow as agreed upon by the com-
mittees and the Comptroller General.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The briefing and report, or
reports, required under subsection (a) shall
include an assessment of the extent to which
the Department of Defense has implemented
requirements related to the following:
(1) Software acquisition studies and their
implementation, including pursuant to sec-
tion 872 of the National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law
115–91; Defense Innovation Board analysis of
software acquisition regulations), section 868
of the John S. McCain National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public
Law 115–232; implementation of rec-
ommendations of the final report of the De-
fense Science Board Task Force on the De-
sign and Acquisition of Software for Defense
Systems).
(2) Software acquisition activities pursu-
ant to section 2322a of title 10, United States
Code (related to consideration of certain
maters during the acquisition of non-
commercial computer software), section 875
of the National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115–91; pilot
program for open source software), and sec-
tion 800 of the National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law
116–92, related to continuous integration and
delivery of software applications and up-
grades to embedded systems).
(3) Software acquisition pilots, including
the pilot program pursuant to section 873 of
the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115–91; relating
to the use of agile or iterative development
methods to tailor major software-intensive
warfighting systems and defense business
systems) and the pilot program pursuant to
section 874 of such Act (relating to using
agile best practices for software develop-
ment).
(c) ASSESSMENT OF ACQUISITION POLICY,
GUIDANCE, AND PRACTICES.—Each report
under subsection (a) should include an as-
sessment of the extent to which Department
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00099 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6786 November 16, 2020
of Defense software acquisition policy, guid-
ance, and practices reflect implementation
of relevant recommendations from related
studies, pilot programs, and directives from
the congressional defense committees.
(d) MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS FOR
COMPTROLLER GENERAL ASSESSMENT OF AC-
QUISITION PROGRAMS AND INITIATIVES.—Sec-
tion 2229b(b)(2) of title 10, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘a summary of
organizational and legislative changes and
emerging assessment methodologies since
the last assessment, and a discussion of the
implications’’ and inserting ‘‘a discussion of
selected organizational, policy, and legisla-
tive changes, as determined appropriate by
the Comptroller General, and the potential
implications’’.
(e) DEFENSE ACQUISITION SYSTEM DE-
FINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘defense ac-
quisition system’’ has the meaning given
that term in section 2545(2) of title 10, United
States Code.
Subtitle C—Amendments to General Con-
tracting Authorities, Procedures, and Limi-
tations
SEC. 841. AUTHORITY TO ACQUIRE INNOVATIVE
COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS AND SERV-
ICES USING GENERAL SOLICITATION
COMPETITIVE PROCEDURES.
(a) AUTHORITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 140 of title 10,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following new section:
‘‘§ 2380c. Authority to acquire innovative
commercial products and services using
general solicitation competitive procedures
‘‘(a) AUTHORITY.—The Secretary of Defense
may acquire innovative commercial products
and services through a competitive selection
of proposals resulting from a general solici-
tation and the peer review of such proposals.
‘‘(b) TREATMENT AS COMPETITIVE PROCE-
DURES.—Use of general solicitation competi-
tive procedures under subsection (a) shall be
considered to be use of competitive proce-
dures for purposes of chapter 137 of this title.
‘‘(c) LIMITATIONS.—(1) The Secretary may
not enter into a contract or agreement in ex-
cess of $100,000,000 using the authority under
subsection (a) without a written determina-
tion from the Under Secretary of Defense for
Acquisition and Sustainment or the relevant
service acquisition executive of the efficacy
of the effort to meet mission needs of the De-
partment of Defense or the relevant military
department.
‘‘(2) Contracts or agreements entered into
using the authority under subsection (a)
shall be fixed-price, including fixed-price in-
centive fee contracts.
‘‘(3) Notwithstanding section 2376(1) of this
title, products and services acquired using
the authority under subsection (a) shall be
treated as commercial products and services.
‘‘(d) CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION RE-
QUIRED.—(1) Not later than 45 days after the
award of a contract for an amount exceeding
$100,000,000 using the authority in subsection
(a), the Secretary of Defense shall notify the
congressional defense committees of such
award.
‘‘(2) Notice of an award under paragraph (1)
shall include the following:
‘‘(A) Description of the innovative com-
mercial product or service acquired.
‘‘(B) Description of the requirement, capa-
bility gap, or potential technological ad-
vancement with respect to which the innova-
tive commercial product or service acquired
provides a solution or a potential new capa-
bility.
‘‘(C) Amount of the contract awarded.
‘‘(D) Identification of contractor awarded
the contract.
‘‘(e) INNOVATIVE DEFINED.—. In this sec-
tion, the term ’innovative’ means—
‘‘(1) any technology, process, or method,
including research and development, that is
new as of the date of submission of a pro-
posal; or
‘‘(2) any application that is new as of the
date of submission of a proposal of a tech-
nology, process, or method existing as of
such date.’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 140 of
title 10, United States Code, is amended by
inserting after the item relating to section
2380b the following new item:
‘‘2380c. Authority to acquire innovative com-
mercial products and services
using general solicitation com-
petitive procedures.’’.
(b) REPEAL OF OBSOLETE AUTHORITY.—Sec-
tion 879 of the National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law
114–328; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is hereby re-
pealed.
SEC. 842. TRUTH IN NEGOTIATIONS ACT THRESH-
OLD FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
CONTRACTS.
Section 2306a(a)(1) of title 10, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘con-
tract if’’ and all that follows through clause
(iii) and inserting ‘‘contract if the price ad-
justment is expected to exceed $2,000,000.’’;
(2) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘sec-
tion and—’’ and all that follows through
clause (iii) and inserting ‘‘section and the
price of the subcontract is expected to ex-
ceed $2,000,000.’’; and
(3) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘sub-
contract if—’’ and all that follows through
clause (ii) and inserting ‘‘subcontract if the
price adjustment is expected to exceed
$2,000,000.’’.
SEC. 843. REVISION OF PROOF REQUIRED WHEN
USING AN EVALUATION FACTOR FOR
DEFENSE CONTRACTORS EMPLOY-
ING OR SUBCONTRACTING WITH
MEMBERS OF THE SELECTED RE-
SERVE OF THE RESERVE COMPO-
NENTS OF THE ARMED FORCES.
Section 819 of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (Public
Law 109–163; 119 Stat. 3385; 10 U.S.C. 2305
note) is amended—
(1) by striking subsection (b); and
(2) by redesignating subsection (c) as sub-
section (b).
SEC. 844. CONTRACT AUTHORITY FOR ADVANCED
DEVELOPMENT OF INITIAL OR ADDI-
TIONAL PROTOTYPE UNITS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 2302e of title 10,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) in the heading, by striking ‘‘advanced
development’’ and inserting ‘‘development
and demonstration’’; and
(2) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ‘‘provi-
sion of advanced component development,
prototype,’’ and inserting ‘‘development and
demonstration’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 137 of
title 10, United States Code, is amended by
striking the item relating to section 2302e
and inserting the following new item:
‘‘2302e. Contract authority for development
and demonstration of initial or
additional prototype units.’’.
SEC. 845. DEFINITION OF BUSINESS SYSTEM DE-
FICIENCIES FOR CONTRACTOR BUSI-
NESS SYSTEMS.
Section 893 of the Ike Skelton National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011
(Public Law 111–383; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is
amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘significant deficiencies’’
both places it appears and inserting ‘‘mate-
rial weaknesses’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘significant deficiency’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘mate-
rial weakness’’; and
(3) by amending paragraph (4) of subsection
(g) to read as follows:
‘‘(4) The term ‘material weakness’ means a
deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in
internal control over risks related to Gov-
ernment contract compliance or other short-
comings in the system, such that there is a
reasonable possibility that a material non-
compliance will not be prevented, or de-
tected and corrected, on a timely basis. A
reasonable possibility exists when the likeli-
hood of an event occurring is either reason-
ably possible, meaning the chance of the fu-
ture event occurring is more than remote
but less than likely, or is probable.’’.
SEC. 846. REPEAL OF PILOT PROGRAM ON PAY-
MENT OF COSTS FOR DENIED GOV-
ERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE
BID PROTESTS.
Section 827 of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public
Law 115–91) is repealed.
Subtitle D—Provisions Relating to Major
Defense Acquisition Programs
SEC. 861. IMPLEMENTATION OF MODULAR OPEN
SYSTEMS ARCHITECTURE REQUIRE-
MENTS.
(a) REQUIREMENTS FOR INTERFACE DELIV-
ERY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisi-
tion and Sustainment, in coordination with
the Joint All Domain Command and Control
Cross Functional Team under the super-
vision of the Department of Defense Chief In-
formation Officer and the Joint Staff Direc-
tor for Command, Control, Communications,
and Computers/Cyber, shall prescribe regula-
tions and issue guidance to the military
services, defense agencies and field activi-
ties, and combatant commands, as appro-
priate, in order to—
(A) facilitate the Department of Defense’s
access to and utilization of system, major
subsystem, and major component software-
defined interfaces;
(B) fully meet the intent of chapter 144B of
title 10, United States Code; and
(C) advance the Department’s efforts to
generate diverse and recomposable kill
chains.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The regulations and guid-
ance required in subsection (a)(1) shall in-
clude, at a minimum—
(A) requirements that each relevant pro-
gram office characterizes the desired
modularity of the system for which it is re-
sponsible, either, in the case of major de-
fense acquisition programs, in the acquisi-
tion strategy required under section 2431a of
title 10, United States Code, or, in the case of
other programs, via other documentation,
including—
(i) specification of which system, major
subsystems, and major components should be
able to execute without requiring coincident
execution of other systems, major sub-
systems, and major components;
(ii) a default configuration specifying
which systems, major subsystems, and major
components should communicate with other
systems, major subsystems, and major com-
ponents; and
(iii) specification of what information
should be communicated, the method of the
communication, and the desired function of
the communication;
(B) requirements that relevant Department
of Defense contracts include mandates for
the delivery of system, major subsystem, and
major component software-defined interfaces
for systems, major subsystems, and major
components deemed relevant in the acquisi-
tion strategy or documentation referred to
in subsection (a)(2)(a), including—
(i) software-defined interface syntax and
properties, specifically governing how values
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00100 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6787
November 16, 2020
are validly passed and received between
major subsystems and components, in ma-
chine-readable format;
(ii) a machine-readable definition of the re-
lationship between the delivered interface
and existing common standards or interfaces
available in the interface repository of sub-
section (c), if appropriate and available,
using interface field transform technology
developed under the Defense Advanced Re-
search Projects Agency System of Systems
Technology Integration Tool Chain for Het-
erogeneous Electronic Systems (STITCHES)
program or technology that is functionally
similar; and
(iii) documentation with functional de-
scriptions of software-defined interfaces,
conveying semantic meaning of interface
elements, such as the function of a given
interface field;
(C) requirements that relevant program of-
fices, including those responsible for main-
taining and upgrading legacy systems, that
have awarded contracts that do not include
the requirements specified in subparagraph
(B) of paragraph (2) nevertheless acquire the
items specified in clauses (i) through (iii) of
such subparagraph, either through contrac-
tual updates, separate negotiations or con-
tracts, or program management mecha-
nisms; and
(D) requirements that program offices de-
liver these interfaces and the associated doc-
umentation to the controlled repository es-
tablished under subsection (c).
(3) APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS AND
GUIDANCE.—
(A) APPLICABILITY.—The regulations and
guidance required under subsection (a)(1)
shall apply, at a minimum, to program of-
fices responsible for the prototyping, acqui-
sition, or sustainment of new or existing
cyber-physical weapon systems with soft-
ware-defined interfaces, or with major sub-
systems or components with software-de-
fined interfaces, developed or to be devel-
oped, wholly or in part with Federal funds,
including those applicable program offices
using other transaction authorities (OTA).
(B) EXTENSION OF SCOPE.—One year after
the promulgation of the regulations and
guidance required under subsection (a)(1) for
cyber-physical systems, the Under Secretary
of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment
shall extend the regulations and guidance to
apply to purely software systems, including
business systems and cybersecurity systems.
The Secretary may make the regulations
and guidance applicable, as practicable, to
program offices responsible for the acquisi-
tion of systems and capabilities under part
12 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation and
commercially available off the-the-shelf
items.
(C) INCLUSION OF SUBSYSTEMS AND COMPO-
NENTS.—The major subsystems and compo-
nents covered under paragraph (2)(A) shall
include all subsystems and components cov-
ered by contract line items.
(b) RIGHTS IN INTERFACE SOFTWARE.—
(1) REGULATIONS.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisi-
tion and Sustainment shall prescribe regula-
tions to define the legitimate interest of the
United States and of a contractor or subcon-
tractor in interface software. The regula-
tions shall be included in regulations of the
Department of Defense prescribed as part of
the Defense Supplement to the Federal Ac-
quisition Regulation.
(2) LIMITATION ON REGULATIONS.—The regu-
lations prescribed pursuant to paragraph (1)
may not—
(A) impair any right of the United States
or of any contractor or subcontractor with
respect to patents or copyrights or any other
right in software otherwise established by
law; or
(B) impair the right of a contractor or sub-
contractor to receive from a third party a fee
or royalty for the use of software pertaining
to an item or process developed exclusively
at private expense by the contractor or sub-
contractor, except as otherwise specifically
provided by law.
(3) ELEMENTS.—Such regulations shall in-
clude the following provisions:
(A) In the case of a software interface that
is developed by a contractor or subcon-
tractor exclusively with Federal funds (other
than an item developed under a contract or
subcontract to which regulations under sec-
tion 9(j)(2) of the Small Business Act (15
U.S.C. 638(j)(2)) apply), the United States
shall have the unlimited and non-expiring
right to use the software or release or dis-
close the software to persons outside the
government or permit the use of the soft-
ware by such persons.
(B) In the case of a software interface that
is developed in part with Federal funds and
in part at private expense and except in any
case in which the Secretary of Defense deter-
mines that negotiation of different rights in
such software would be in the best interest
of the United States, the Government—
(i) shall have Government-purpose rights
to the software interface, and, in addition,
may release or disclose the software inter-
face, or authorize others to do so, if—
(I) prior to release or disclosure, the in-
tended recipient is subject to an exclusive
for-Government-use and non-disclosure
agreement;
(II) the intended recipient is a Government
contractor receiving access to the interface
for the performance of a Government con-
tract; and
(III) the intended use is for the purpose of
system, major subsystem, and major compo-
nent segregation, interoperability, integra-
tion, or reintegration; and
(ii) may not use, or authorize other persons
to use, interface software for commercial
purposes.
(C) In the case of a software interface that
is developed exclusively at private expense,
the Government shall negotiate with the
contractor or the subcontractor to best
achieve, if practical, Government-purpose
rights to the software interface and rights to
release or disclose the software interface, or
authorize others to do so, if—
(i) prior to release or disclosure, the in-
tended recipient is subject to an exclusive
for-Government use and non-disclosure
agreement;
(ii) the intended recipient is a Government
contractor receiving access to the interface
for the performance of a Government con-
tract; and
(iii) the intended use is for the purpose of
system, major subsystem, and major compo-
nent segregation, interoperability, integra-
tion and reintegration.
(c) INTERFACE REPOSITORY.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Under Secretary
of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment
shall establish and maintain, at the appro-
priate classification level, an interface re-
pository for interfaces, syntax and prop-
erties, documentation, and communication
implementations delivered pursuant to the
requirements established under subsection
(a)(2)(B) and shall provide interfaces, access
to interfaces, and relevant documentation to
the military services, defense agencies and
field activities, combatant commands, and
contractors, as appropriate, to facilitate sys-
tem, major subsystem, and major component
segregation and reintegration.
(2) DISTRIBUTION OF INTERFACES.—Con-
sistent with section 2320 of title 10, United
States Code, and in accordance with sub-
section (b), the Under Secretary of Defense
for Acquisition and Sustainment may dis-
tribute interfaces, access to interfaces, and
relevant documentation to Government enti-
ties and contractors. Any such protected
transfer or disclosure by the Government to
a recipient is limited to only those data nec-
essary for segregation, interoperability, in-
tegration, or reintegration.
(d) SYSTEM OF SYSTEMS INTEGRATION TECH-
NOLOGY AND EXPERIMENTATION.—
(1) DEMONSTRATIONS AND ASSESSMENT.—No
later than one year after the date of the en-
actment of this Act, the Joint Staff Director
for Command, Control, Communications, and
Computers/Cyber and Department of Defense
Chief Information Officer, through the Joint
All Domain Command and Control Cross
Functional Team, shall conduct demonstra-
tions and complete an assessment of the
technologies developed under the Defense
Advanced Research Projects Agency’s Sys-
tem of Systems Integration Technology and
Experimentation program, including the
STITCHES technology, and their applica-
bility to the Joint All-Domain Command and
Control architecture. The demonstrations
and assessment shall include—
(A) at least three demonstrations of the
use of the STITCHES technology to create,
under constrained schedules and budgets,
novel kill chains involving previously incom-
patible weapon systems, sensors, and com-
mand, control, and communication systems
from multiple military services in coopera-
tion with United States Indo-Pacific Com-
mand or United States European Command;
(B) an evaluation as to whether the com-
munications enabled via the STITCHES
technology are sufficient for military mis-
sions and whether the technology results in
any substantial performance loss in commu-
nication between systems, major sub-
systems, and major components;
(C) an evaluation as to whether the
STITCHES technology obviates the need to
develop, impose, and maintain strict adher-
ence to common communication and inter-
face standards for Department of Defense
systems;
(D) the appropriate roles and responsibil-
ities of the Department of Defense Chief In-
formation Officer, the Under Secretary of
Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment,
the geographic combatant commands, the
military services, the Defense Advanced Re-
search Projects Agency, and the defense in-
dustrial base in using and maintaining the
STITCHES technology to generate diverse
and recomposable kill chains as part of the
Joint All-Domain Command and Control ar-
chitecture; and
(E) coordination with the program man-
ager for the Time Sensitive Targeting Defeat
program under the Under Secretary of De-
fense for Research and Engineering and the
Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence.
(2) CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER ASSESS-
MENT.—The Department of Defense Chief In-
formation Officer shall assess the tech-
nologies developed under the Defense Ad-
vanced Research Projects Agency’s System
of Systems Integration Technology and Ex-
perimentation program, including the
STITCHES interface field transform tech-
nology, and their applicability to the De-
partment’s business systems and cybersecu-
rity tools. This assessment shall include—
(A) at least two demonstrations of the use
of the STITCHES technology in enabling
communication between business systems;
(B) in coordination with the Cross Func-
tional Team under the Principal Cyber Ad-
viser and the Integrated Adaptive Cyber De-
fense program office of the National Secu-
rity Agency, at least two demonstrations of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00101 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6788 November 16, 2020
the use of the STITCHES technology in ena-
bling communication between and orchestra-
tion of previously incompatible cybersecu-
rity tools; and
(C) an evaluation as to how the STITCHES
technology could be used in concert with or
instead of existing cybersecurity standards,
frameworks, and technologies designed to
enable communication across cybersecurity
tools.
(3) SUSTAINMENT OF STITCHES ENGINEERING
RESOURCES AND CAPABILITIES DEVELOPED BY
DARPA.—To conduct the demonstrations and
assessments required under this subsection
and to execute the Joint All Domain Com-
mand and Control program, the Joint All Do-
main Command and Control program office
shall sustain the STITCHES engineering re-
sources and capabilities developed by the De-
fense Advanced Research Projects Agency.
(e) TRANSFER OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR
STITCHES.—One year after the date of en-
actment of this Act, the Secretary of De-
fense may transfer responsibility for main-
taining the STITCHES engineering capabili-
ties to a different organization.
(f) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) DESIRED MODULARITY.—The term ‘‘de-
sired modularity’’ means the desired degree
to which systems, major constitutive sub-
systems and components within a system,
and major subsystems and components
across subsystems can function as modules
that can communicate across component
boundaries and through interfaces and can
be separated and recombined to achieve var-
ious effects, missions, or capabilities.
(2) MACHINE-READABLE FORMAT.—The term
‘‘machine-readable format’’ means a format
that can be easily processed by a computer
without human intervention.
SEC. 862. SUSTAINMENT REVIEWS.
(a) ANNUAL SUSTAINMENT REVIEWS.—Sec-
tion 2441(a) of title 10, United States Code, is
amended by inserting ‘‘annually thereafter’’
before ‘‘throughout the life cycle of the
weapon system’’.
(b) SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS OF
SUSTAINMENT REVIEWS.—Section 2441 of title
10, United States Code, is amended by adding
at the end the following new subsection:
‘‘(d) SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS OF
SUSTAINMENT REVIEWS.—(1) The Secretary of
each military department shall submit no
fewer than ten sustainment reviews required
by this section to the congressional defense
committees annually. The Secretary of each
military department shall select the ten re-
views from among the systems with the
highest independent cost estimates for the
remainder of the life cycle of the program.
‘‘(2) The Secretary shall submit the re-
views required under paragraph (1) to the
congressional defense committees annually
not later than 30 days after submission of the
President’s annual budget request to Con-
gress under section 1105 of title 31. The
sustainment reviews shall be posted on a
publicly available website maintained by the
Director of the Cost Assessment and Pro-
gram Evaluation office and, for those sys-
tems with operating and support cost
growth, shall include comments from the
military departments regarding actions
being taken to reduce the operating and sup-
port costs. The reviews may include classi-
fied appendices, as appropriate.’’.
(c) COMPTROLLER GENERAL STUDY.—Not
later than 180 days after the Secretaries of
the military departments post the initial
sustainment reviews required under para-
graph (1) of subsection (d) of section 2441 of
title 10, United States Code (as added by sub-
section (b) of this section) on a publicly
available website as required under para-
graph (2) of such subsection (d), the Comp-
troller General of the United States shall as-
sess steps the military departments are tak-
ing to quantify and address operating and
support cost growth. The assessment shall
include—
(1) an evaluation of—
(A) the causes of operating and support
cost growth for selected systems covered by
the sustainment reviews, as well as any
other systems the Comptroller General de-
termines appropriate;
(B) the extent to which the Department
has mitigated operating and support cost
growth of these systems; and
(C) any other issues related to potential
operating and support cost growth the Comp-
troller General determines appropriate; and
(2) any recommendations of the Comp-
troller General, including steps the military
departments could take to reduce operating
and support cost growth for fielded weapon
systems, as well as lessons learned to be in-
corporated in future weapon system acquisi-
tions.
SEC. 863. RECOMMENDATIONS FOR FUTURE DI-
RECT SELECTIONS.
The Secretary of each military department
shall provide to the congressional defense
committees in the future-years defense pro-
gram submitted under section 221 of title 10,
United States Code, for fiscal year 2022 a list
of at least one acquisition program for which
it would be appropriate to have a large num-
ber of users provide direct assessment of the
outcome of a competitive contract award.
SEC. 864. DISCLOSURES FOR CERTAIN SHIP-
BUILDING MAJOR DEFENSE ACQUI-
SITION PROGRAM OFFERS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 137 of title 10,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following new section:
‘‘§ 2339c. Disclosures for certain shipbuilding
major defense acquisition program offers
‘‘(a) GENERAL.—Any covered offeror seek-
ing to be awarded a shipbuilding construc-
tion contract as part of a major defense ac-
quisition program with funds from the Ship-
building and Conversion, Navy account shall
disclose with its offer and any subsequent
offer revisions, including the final proposal
revision offer, whether any part of the
offeror’s planned contract performance will
or is expected to include foreign government
subsidized performance, financing, financial
guarantees, or tax concessions.
‘‘(b) DISCLOSURE.—An offeror shall make a
disclosure required under subsection (a) in a
format prescribed by the Secretary of the
Navy and shall include therein a specific de-
scription of the extent to which the offeror’s
planned contract performance will include,
with or without contingencies, any foreign
government subsidized performance, financ-
ing, financial guarantees, or tax concessions.
‘‘(c) CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION.—Not
later than 5 days after awarding a contract
described under subsection (a) to an offeror
that made a disclosure under subsection (b),
the Secretary of the Navy shall notify the
congressional defense committees and sum-
marize such disclosure.
‘‘(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) COVERED OFFEROR.—The term ‘covered
offeror’ means any offeror that currently re-
quires or may reasonably be expected to re-
quire during the period of contract perform-
ance a method to mitigate or negate foreign
ownership under subsection (f)(6) of part
2004.34 of title 32, Code of Federal Regula-
tions.
‘‘(2) FOREIGN GOVERNMENT SUBSIDIZED PER-
FORMANCE.—The term ‘foreign government
subsidized performance’ means any financial
support, materiel, services, or guarantees of
support, services, supply, performance, or in-
tellectual property concessions, that may be
provided to or for the offeror or the offeror’s
Department of Defense customer by a foreign
government or entity effectively owned or
controlled by a foreign government, which
may have the effect of supplementing, sup-
plying, servicing, or reducing the cost or
price of an end item, or supporting, financing
in whole or in part, or guaranteeing contract
performance by the offeror.
‘‘(3) MAJOR DEFENSE ACQUISITION PRO-
GRAM.—The term ‘major defense acquisition
program’ has the meaning given the term in
section 2430 of this title.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 137 of
title 10, United States Code, is amended by
inserting after the item relating to section
2339b the following new item:
‘‘2339c. Disclosures for certain shipbuilding
major defense acquisition pro-
gram offers.’’.
Subtitle E—Small Business Matters
SEC. 871. PROMPT PAYMENT OF CONTRACTORS.
Section 2307(a)(2) of title 10, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘if a
specific payment date is not established by
contract’’; and
(2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘if—’’
and all that follows through ‘‘the prime con-
tractor agrees’’ in clause (ii) and inserting
‘‘if the prime contractor agrees or proposes’’.
SEC. 872. EXTENSION OF PILOT PROGRAM FOR
STREAMLINED AWARDS FOR INNO-
VATIVE TECHNOLOGY PROGRAMS.
Section 873(f) of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public
Law 114–92; 10 U.S.C. 2306a) is amended by
striking ‘‘2020’’ and inserting ‘‘2023’’.
SEC. 873. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
Section 9(b) of the Small Business Act (15
U.S.C. 638(b)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (7)—
(A) in subparagraph (F), by striking ‘‘and’’
at the end;
(B) in subparagraph (G), by adding ‘‘and’’
at the end; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(H) with respect to a Federal agency to
which subsection (f)(1) or (n)(1) applies,
whether the Federal agency has satisfied the
requirement under each applicable sub-
section for the year covered by the report;’’;
(2) in paragraph (9), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(3) in paragraph (10), by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(4) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(11) with respect to a Federal agency to
which subsection (f)(1) or (n)(1) applies and
that the Administration determines has not
satisfied the requirement under either appli-
cable subsection, require the head of that
Federal agency to submit to the Committee
on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of
the Senate and the Committee on Small
Business of the House of Representatives a
report regarding why the Federal agency has
not satisfied the requirement.’’.
Subtitle F—Provisions Related to Software-
Driven Capabilities
SEC. 881. INCLUSION OF SOFTWARE IN GOVERN-
MENT PERFORMANCE OF ACQUISI-
TION FUNCTIONS.
(a) INCLUSION OF SOFTWARE.—Section
1706(a) of title 10, United States Code, is
amended by adding at the end the following
new paragraph:
‘‘(14) Program lead software.’’.
(b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.—Section 1706
of such title is further amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘for each
major defense acquisition program and each
major automated information system pro-
gram’’ and inserting ‘‘for each acquisition
program’’; and
(2) by striking subsection (c).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00102 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6789
November 16, 2020
SEC. 882. BALANCING SECURITY AND INNOVA-
TION IN SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT
AND ACQUISITION.
(a) REQUIREMENTS FOR SOLICITATIONS OF
COMMERCIAL AND DEVELOPMENTAL SOLU-
TIONS.—The Under Secretary of Defense for
Acquisition and Sustainment, in coordina-
tion with the Chief Information Officer of
the Department of Defense, shall develop re-
quirements for inclusion in solicitations for
both commercial and developmental solu-
tions, and for the evaluation of bids, of ap-
propriate software security criteria, includ-
ing—
(1) delineation of what processes were or
will be used for a secure software develop-
ment lifecycle, including management of
supply chain and third-party software
sources and component risks; and
(2) an associated vulnerability manage-
ment plan or tools.
(b) SECURITY REVIEW OF CODE.—The Under
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and
Sustainment, in coordination with the Chief
Information Officer of the Department of De-
fense, shall develop processes for security re-
view of code for the purpose of publication
and other procedures necessary to fully im-
plement the pilot program required under
section 875 of the National Defense Author-
ization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law
115–91; 10 U.S.C. 2223 note).
(c) COORDINATION WITH SOFTWARE ACQUISI-
TION PATHWAY EFFORTS.—The requirements
and procedures required under subsections
(a) and (b) shall be developed in conjunction
with the Department of Defense’s efforts to
incorporate input and finalize the procedures
described in the Interim Procedures for Op-
eration of the Software Acquisition Path-
way.
SEC. 883. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT ON
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY ACQUISI-
TION AND LICENSING.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than October 1,
2021, the Comptroller General of the United
States shall submit to the congressional de-
fense committees a report evaluating the im-
plementation of the Department of Defense’s
Instruction on Intellectual Property Acquisi-
tion and Licensing (DODI 5010.44), estab-
lished under section 2322 of title 10, United
States Code.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report required under
subsection (a) shall assess the following:
(1) The extent to which the Department of
Defense is fulfilling the core principles es-
tablished in DODI 5010.44.
(2) The extent to which the Defense Acqui-
sition University, Department of Defense
components, and program offices are car-
rying out their responsibilities under DODI
5010.44.
(3) The progress of the Department in es-
tablishing an IP Cadre, including the extent
to which such experts are executing their
roles and responsibilities.
(4) The performance of the Department in
assessing and demonstrating the implemen-
tation of DODI 5010.44, including the effec-
tiveness of the IP Cadre;
(5) The effect implementation of DODI
5010.44 has had on particular acquisitions;
(6) Any other matters the Comptroller
General determines appropriate.
SEC. 884. PILOT PROGRAM EXPLORING THE USE
OF CONSUMPTION-BASED SOLU-
TIONS TO ADDRESS SOFTWARE-IN-
TENSIVE WARFIGHTING CAPA-
BILITY.
(a) FINDING.—In its final report, the Sec-
tion 809 Panel recommended the adoption of
consumption-based approaches at the De-
partment of Defense, stating, ‘‘More things
will be sold as a service in the future. XaaS
could really mean everything in the context
of the Internet of things (IoT). Consumption-
based solutions are appearing in many indus-
try sectors, from last mile transportation
(e.g., bike shares and electric scooters) to ag-
riculture (e.g., tractor-as-a-service for farm-
ers in developing countries). Most smart
phone users are familiar with software up-
dates that provide bug fixes or new features.
A more extreme example of technology inno-
vation enabled by the IoT is the ability to
deliver physical performance improvements
to vehicles through over-the-air software up-
dates. . . In the not-so-distant future, cloud
computing and the IoT will enable consump-
tion-based solution offerings and delivery
models that are hard to imagine today.’’
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress—
(1) that the Department of Defense should
take advantage of ‘‘as-a-service’’ or ‘‘aaS’’
approaches in commercial capability devel-
opment, particularly where the capability is
software-defined, and cloud-enabled;
(2) to support the Department of Defense’s
commitment to new approaches to develop-
ment and acquisition of software;
(3) that the Department should explore a
variety of approaches, to include the use of
consumption-based solutions for software-in-
tensive warfighting capability; and
(4) that, in conducting activities under the
pilot program established under this pro-
gram, the Department should use the Soft-
ware pathway under the new Adaptive Ac-
quisition Framework.
(c) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the avail-
ability of appropriations, the Secretary of
Defense is authorized to establish a pilot
program to explore the use of consumption-
based solutions to address software-intensive
warfighting capability.
(d) SELECTION OF INITIATIVES.—The Sec-
retary of each military department and the
commander of each combatant command
with acquisition authority shall propose for
selection by the Secretary of Defense for the
pilot program at least one and not more than
three initiatives that are well-suited to ex-
plore consumption-based solutions to address
software-intensive warfighting capability.
The initiatives may be new or existing pro-
grams of record and shall focus on software-
defined or machine-enabled warfighting ap-
plications, and may include applications
that—
(1) rapidly analyze sensor data;
(2) secure warfighter networks, including
multi-level security;
(3) swiftly transport information across
various networks and network modalities; or
(4) otherwise enable joint all-domain oper-
ational concepts, including in a contested
environment.
(e) CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS.—Contracts
for consumption-based solutions entered into
pursuant to the pilot program shall provide
for—
(1) the solution to be measurable on a fre-
quent interval customary for the type of so-
lution;
(2) the contractor to notify the govern-
ment when consumption reaches 75 percent
and 90 percent of the contract funded
amount; and
(3) discretion for the contracting officer to
add new features or capabilities without ad-
ditional competition for the contract, pro-
vided that the amount of the new features or
capabilities does not exceed 25 percent of the
total contract value.
(f) DURATION OF INITIATIVES.—Each initia-
tive carried out under the pilot program
shall be carried out during the three-year pe-
riod following selection of the initiative.
(g) MONITORING AND EVALUATION OF PILOT
PROGRAM.—The Director of the Office of Cost
Assessment and Program Evaluation shall
establish continuous monitoring to evaluate
the pilot program established under sub-
section (c), including collecting data on cost,
schedule, and performance from the program
office, the user community, and the contrac-
tors.
(h) REPORTS.—
(1) INITIAL REPORT.—Not later than Janu-
ary 31, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall
submit to the congressional defense commit-
tees a report on initiatives selected for the
pilot program, roles and responsibilities for
implementing the pilot program, and the
monitoring and evaluation approach for the
pilot.
(2) PROGRESS REPORT.—Not later than April
15, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall sub-
mit to the congressional defense committees
a report on the progress of the initiatives.
(3) FINAL REPORT.—Not later than 3 years
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the
congressional defense committees a report
on the cost, schedule, and performance out-
comes of the initiatives. The report shall
also include lessons learned about the use of
consumption-based solutions for software-in-
tensive capabilities and any recommenda-
tions for statutory or regulatory changes to
facilitate their use.
(i) CONSUMPTION-BASED SOLUTION DE-
FINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘consump-
tion-based solution’’ means any combination
of software, hardware or equipment, and
labor or services that provides a seamless ca-
pability that is metered and billed based on
actual usage and predetermined pricing per
resource unit, and includes the ability to
rapidly scale capacity up or down.
Subtitle G—Other Matters
SEC. 891. SAFEGUARDING DEFENSE-SENSITIVE
UNITED STATES INTELLECTUAL
PROPERTY, TECHNOLOGY, AND
OTHER DATA AND INFORMATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense
shall establish, enforce, and track actions
being taken to protect defense-sensitive
United States intellectual property, tech-
nology, and other data and information, in-
cluding hardware and software, from acquisi-
tion by the Government of the People’s Re-
public of China.
(b) LIST OF CRITICAL TECHNOLOGY.—The
Secretary of Defense shall establish and
maintain a list of critical national security
technology.
(c) RESTRICTIONS ON EMPLOYMENT OF DE-
FENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE EMPLOYEES WITH
CHINESE COMPANIES.—The Secretary of De-
fense shall provide for mechanisms to re-
strict employees or former employees of the
defense industrial base that contribute to
the technology referenced in subsection (b)
from working directly for companies wholly
owned by, or under the direction of, the Gov-
ernment of the Peoples Republic of China.
(d) REPORTS.—
(1) DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE REPORT.—Not
later than May 1, 2021, the Secretary of De-
fense shall submit to the congressional de-
fense committees a report on progress in im-
plementing the measures described in sub-
sections (a) through (c).
(2) COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT.— Not
later than December 1, 2021, the Comptroller
General of the United States shall submit to
the congressional defense committees a re-
port reviewing the report submitted under
paragraph (1) and providing an assessment of
the effectiveness of the measures imple-
mented under this section.
(3) FORM.—The reports required under this
subsection shall be submitted in unclassified
form but may contain classified annexes.
SEC. 892. DOMESTIC COMPARATIVE TESTING AC-
TIVITIES.
Section 2350a(g)(1)(A) of title 10, United
States Code, is amended by inserting ‘‘and
conventional defense equipment, munitions,
and technologies manufactured and devel-
oped domestically’’ after ‘‘in subsection
(a)(2)’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00103 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6790 November 16, 2020
SEC. 893. REPEAL OF APPRENTICESHIP PRO-
GRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 2870 of title 10,
United States Code, as added by section 865
of the National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92), is
repealed.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of subchapter III of
chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code, is
amended by striking the item relating to
section 2870.
(2) OBSOLETE PROVISION.—Section 865 of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92) is repealed.
TITLE IX—DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Defense
and Related Matters
SEC. 901. ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
FOR SPECIAL OPERATIONS AND LOW
INTENSITY CONFLICT AND RELATED
MATTERS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—
(1) CLARIFICATION OF CHAIN OF ADMINISTRA-
TIVE COMMAND.—Section 138(b)(2) of title 10,
United States Code, is amended—
(A) by redesignating clauses (i), (ii), and
(iii) of subparagraph (B) as subclauses (I),
(II), and (III), respectively;
(B) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and
(B) as clauses (i) and (ii), respectively;
(C) by inserting ‘‘(A)’’ after ‘‘(2)’’;
(D) in clause (i) of subparagraph (A), as re-
designated by this paragraph, by inserting
before the period at the end the following:
‘‘through the administrative chain of com-
mand specified in section 167(f) of this title;’’
and
(E) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(B) In the discharge of the responsibilities
specified in subparagraph (A)(i), the Assist-
ant Secretary is immediately subordinate to
the Secretary of Defense and the Deputy
Secretary of Defense. No officer below the
Secretary or the Deputy Secretary may in-
tervene to exercise authority, direction, or
control over the Assistant Secretary in the
discharge of such responsibilities.’’.
(2) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.—Subparagraph
(A) of such section, as redesignated by para-
graph (2), is further amended in the matter
preceding clause (i), as so redesignated, by
striking ‘‘section 167(j)’’ and inserting ‘‘sec-
tion 167(k)’’.
(b) FULFILLMENT OF SPECIAL OPERATIONS
RESPONSIBILITIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 139b of title 10,
United States Code, is amended to read as
follows:
‘‘§ 139b. Secretariat for Special Operations;
Special Operations Policy and Oversight
Council
‘‘(a) SECRETARIAT FOR SPECIAL OPER-
ATIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In order to fulfill the re-
sponsibilities of the Assistant Secretary of
Defense for Special Operations and Low In-
tensity Conflict specified in section
138(b)(2)(A)(i) of this title, there shall be
within the Office of the Assistant Secretary
of Defense for Special Operations and Low
Intensity Conflict an office to be known as
the ‘Secretariat for Special Operations’.
‘‘(2) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the Secre-
tariat is to assist the Assistant Secretary in
exercising authority, direction, and control
with respect to the special operations-pecu-
liar administration and support of the spe-
cial operations command, including the
readiness and organization of special oper-
ations forces, resources and equipment, and
civilian personnel as specified in such sec-
tion.
‘‘(3) DIRECTOR.—The Director of the Secre-
tariat for Special Operations shall be ap-
pointed by the Secretary of Defense from
among individuals qualified to serve as the
Director. The Director shall have a grade of
Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense.
‘‘(4) ADMINISTRATIVE CHAIN OF COMMAND.—
For purposes of the support of the Secre-
tariat for the Assistant Secretary in the ful-
fillment of the responsibilities referred to in
paragraph (1), the administrative chain of
command is as specified in section 167(f) of
this title. No officer below the Secretary of
Defense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense
(other than the Assistant Secretary) may in-
tervene to exercise authority, direction, or
control over the Secretariat in its support of
the Assistant Secretary in the discharge of
such responsibilities.
‘‘(b) SPECIAL OPERATIONS POLICY AND OVER-
SIGHT COUNCIL.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In order to fulfill the re-
sponsibilities specified in section
138(b)(2)(A)(i) of this title, there shall also be
within the Office of the Assistant Secretary
of Defense for Special Operations and Low
Intensity Conflict a team known as the ‘Spe-
cial Operation Policy and Oversight Coun-
cil’. The team is lead by the Assistant Sec-
retary of Defense for Special Operations and
Low Intensity Conflict, or the Assistant Sec-
retary’s designee..
‘‘(2) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the Council
is to integrate the functional activities of
the headquarters of the Department of De-
fense in order to most efficiently and effec-
tively provide for special operations forces
and capabilities. In fulfilling this purpose,
the Council shall develop and continuously
improve policy, joint processes, and proce-
dures that facilitate the development, acqui-
sition, integration, employment, and
sustainment of special operations forces and
capabilities.
‘‘(3) MEMBERSHIP.—The Council shall in-
clude the following:
‘‘(A) The Assistant Secretary, who shall
act as leader of the Council.
‘‘(B) Appropriate senior representatives of
each of the following:
‘‘(i) The Under Secretary of Defense for Re-
search and Engineering.
‘‘(ii) The Under Secretary of Defense for
Management and Support.
‘‘(iii) The Under Secretary of Defense
(Comptroller).
‘‘(iv) The Under Secretary of Defense for
Personnel and Readiness.
‘‘(v) The Under Secretary of Defense for In-
telligence.
‘‘(vi) The General Counsel of the Depart-
ment of Defense.
‘‘(vii) The other Assistant Secretaries of
Defense under the Under Secretary of De-
fense for Policy.
‘‘(viii) The military departments.
‘‘(ix) The Joint Staff.
‘‘(x) The United States Special Operations
Command.
‘‘(xi) Such other officials or Agencies, ele-
ments, or components of the Department of
Defense as the Secretary of Defense con-
siders appropriate.
‘‘(4) OPERATION.—The Council shall operate
continuously.’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 4 of such
title is amended by striking the item relat-
ing to section 139b and inserting the fol-
lowing new item:
‘‘139b. Secretariat for Special Operations;
Special Operations Policy and
Oversight Council.’’.
(c) DOD DIRECTIVE ON RESPONSIBILITIES OF
ASD SOLIC.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense shall publish a De-
partment of Defense directive establishing
policy and procedures related to the exercise
of authority, direction, and control of all
special-operations peculiar administrative
matters relating to the organization, train-
ing, and equipping of special operations
forces by the Assistant Secretary of Defense
for Special Operations and Low Intensity
Conflict as specified by section 138(b)(2)(A)(i)
of title 10, United States Code, as amended
by subsection (a)(1).
(2) MATTERS FOR INCLUDING.—The directive
required by paragraph (1) shall include the
following:
(A) A specification of responsibilities for
coordination on matters affecting the orga-
nization, training, and equipping of special
operations forces.
(B) An identification and specification of
updates to applicable documents and instruc-
tions of the Department of Defense.
(C) Mechanisms to ensure the inclusion of
the Assistant Secretary in all Departmental
governance forums affecting the organiza-
tion, training, and equipping of special oper-
ations forces.
(D) Such other matters as the Secretary
considers appropriate.
(3) APPLICABILITY.— The directive required
by paragraph (1) shall apply throughout the
Department of Defense to all components of
the Department of Defense.
(4) LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF CERTAIN
FUNDING PENDING PUBLICATION.—Of the
amounts authorized to be appropriated by
this Act for fiscal year 2021 for operation and
maintenance, Defense-wide, and available for
the Office of the Secretary of Defense, not
more than 75 percent may be obligated or ex-
pended until the date that is 15 days after
the date on which the Secretary publishes
the directive required by paragraph (1).
SEC. 902. REDESIGNATION AND CODIFICATION IN
LAW OF OFFICE OF ECONOMIC AD-
JUSTMENT.
(a) REDESIGNATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Office of Economic
Adjustment in the Office of the Secretary of
Defense is hereby redesignated as the ‘‘Office
of Local Defense Community Cooperation’’.
(2) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law,
map, regulation, document, paper, or other
record of the United States to the office re-
ferred to in paragraph (1) shall be deemed to
be a reference to the ‘‘Office of Local Defense
Community Cooperation’’.
(b) CODIFICATION IN LAW.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 4 of title 10,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following new section:
‘‘§ 146. Office of Local Defense Community
Cooperation
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—There is an Office of
Local Defense Community Cooperation in
the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense
for Acquisition and Sustainment.
‘‘(b) DIRECTOR.—The Office shall be headed
by the Director of the Office of Local Defense
Community Cooperation, who shall be as-
signed to such position by the Under Sec-
retary from among civilian employees of the
Department of Defense who are qualified to
serve in the position.
‘‘(c) FUNCTIONS.—Subject to the authority,
direction, and control of the Under Sec-
retary, the Office shall—
‘‘(1) in cooperation with the other compo-
nents, of the Department of Defense be the
primary office within the Department for the
provision of assistance to States, counties,
municipalities, regions, and communities in-
tended to—
‘‘(A) foster greater cooperation with mili-
tary installations in order to enhance the
military mission, achieve facility and infra-
structure savings and reduced operating
costs, address encroachment and compatible
land use issues, support military families,
and increase military, civilian, and indus-
trial readiness and resiliency; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00104 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6791
November 16, 2020
‘‘(B) address impacts caused by changes in
defense programs, including basing deci-
sions, defense industry expansions or con-
tractions, increases or reductions in Federal
civilian or contractor personnel, and expan-
sions, realignments, and closures of military
installations;
‘‘(2) provide support to the Economic Ad-
justment Committee within the Executive
Office of the President, or any successor
interagency coordination body; and
‘‘(3) perform such other functions as the
Secretary of Defense may prescribe.
‘‘(d) ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not
later than June 1 each year, the Director of
the Office of Local Defense Community Co-
operation shall submit to the congressional
defense committees a report on the activi-
ties of the Office during the preceding year,
including the assistance provided pursuant
to subsection (c)(1) during such year.’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 4 of such
title is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing new item:
‘‘146. Office of Local Defense Community Co-
operation.’’.
SEC. 903. MODERNIZATION OF PROCESS USED BY
THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TO
IDENTIFY, TASK, AND MANAGE CON-
GRESSIONAL REPORTING REQUIRE-
MENTS.
(a) ANALYSIS REQUIRED.—The Assistant
Secretary of Defense for Legislative Affairs
shall conduct an analysis of the process used
by the Department of Defense to identify re-
ports to Congress required by annual na-
tional defense authorization Acts, assign re-
sponsibility for preparation of such reports,
and manage the completion and delivery of
such reports to Congress for the purpose of
identifying mechanisms to optimize and oth-
erwise modernize the process.
(b) CONSULTATION.—The Assistant Sec-
retary shall conduct the analysis required by
subsection (a) with the assistance of and in
consultation with the Chief Data Officer of
the Department of Defense and the Director
of the Defense Digital Service.
(c) ELEMENTS.—The analysis required by
subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1) A business process reengineering of the
process described in subsection (a).
(2) An assessment of applicable commer-
cially available analytics tools, tech-
nologies, and services in connection with
such business process reengineering.
(3) Such other actions as the Assistant
Secretary considers appropriate for purposes
of the analysis.
(d) BRIEFING.—Not later than November 15,
2020, the Assistant Secretary shall brief the
congressional defense committees on the re-
sults of the analysis required by subsection
(a). The briefing shall address the following:
(1) The results of the analysis and of the
business process reengineering described in
subsection (c)(1).
(2) A description of the actions being
taken, and to be taken, to optimize and oth-
erwise improve the process described in sub-
section (a).
(3) Such recommendations for administra-
tive and legislative action as the Assistant
Secretary considers appropriate to facilitate
the optimization and improvement of the
process described in subsection (a) as a result
of the analysis and the business process re-
engineering.
(4) Such other matters as the Assistant
Secretary considers appropriate in connec-
tion with the analysis, the business process
reengineering and the optimization and im-
provement of the process described in sub-
section (a).
SEC. 904. INCLUSION OF VICE CHIEF OF THE NA-
TIONAL GUARD BUREAU AS AN ADVI-
SOR TO THE JOINT REQUIREMENTS
OVERSIGHT COUNCIL.
Section 181(d)(3) of title 10, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in the heading, by inserting ‘‘AND VICE
CHIEF OF THE NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU’’ after
‘‘OF STAFF’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘of the Chiefs of Staff’’ and
inserting ‘‘of—
‘‘(A) the Chiefs of Staff’’;
(3) by striking the period at the end and in-
serting ‘‘; and’’; and
(4) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(B) the Vice Chief of the National Guard
Bureau when matters involving non-Federal-
ized National Guard capabilities in support
of homeland defense or civil support mis-
sions are under consideration by the Coun-
cil.’’.
SEC. 905. ASSIGNMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR
THE ARCTIC REGION WITHIN THE
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DE-
FENSE.
The Assistant Secretary of Defense for
International Security Affairs shall assign
responsibility for the Arctic region to the
Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for
the Western Hemisphere or any other Deputy
Assistant Secretary of Defense the Secretary
of Defense considers appropriate.
Subtitle B—Department of Defense
Management Reform
SEC. 911. TERMINATION OF POSITION OF CHIEF
MANAGEMENT OFFICER OF THE DE-
PARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
(a) TERMINATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The position of Chief Man-
agement Officer of the Department of De-
fense is terminated, effective on the date
specified by the Secretary of Defense, which
date may not be later than September 30,
2022.
(2) NOTICE.—The Secretary shall submit to
the Committees on Armed Services of the
Senate and the House of Representatives a
notice on the effective date specified pursu-
ant to paragraph (1).
(b) CONFORMING REPEAL OF ESTABLISHING
AUTHORITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 132a of title 10,
United States Code, is repealed.
(2) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sec-
tions at the beginning of chapter 4 of such
title is amended by striking the item relat-
ing to section 132a.
(3) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this subsection shall take effect on
the effective date specified pursuant to sub-
section (a)(1).
SEC. 912. REPORT ON ASSIGNMENT OF RESPON-
SIBILITIES, DUTIES, AND AUTHORI-
TIES OF CHIEF MANAGEMENT OFFI-
CER TO OTHER OFFICERS OR EM-
PLOYEES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
DEFENSE.
(a) REPORT.—Not later than 45 days before
the effective date specified pursuant to sec-
tion 911(a)(1), the Secretary of Defense shall
submit to the Committees on Armed Serv-
ices of the Senate and the House of Rep-
resentatives a report setting forth the fol-
lowing:
(1) The position and title of each officer or
employee of the Department of Defense, and
the component of such officer or employee,
in whom the Secretary will vest responsi-
bility and authority to perform responsibil-
ities and duties, and exercise authorities, as-
signed to the Chief Management Officer of
the Department of Defense, whether by stat-
ute or by directive, instruction, policy, or
practice of the Department of Defense, on
the termination of the position of Chief Man-
agement Officer under section 911.
(2) A description of the responsibilities, du-
ties, and authorities, if any, assigned to the
Chief Management Officer by statute that
the Secretary recommends for discontinu-
ation or modification, and a justification for
such recommendation.
(3) A description of the responsibilities, du-
ties, and authorities, if any, assigned to the
Chief Management Officer by directive, in-
struction, policy, or practice of the Depart-
ment that the Secretary recommends for dis-
continuation or modification, and a jus-
tification for such recommendation.
(4) A description of the general process and
timeline for the effective transfer of each re-
sponsibility, duty, and authority assigned to
the Chief Management Officer by statute or
by policy, instruction, or practice of the De-
partment to the officer or employee in whom
such responsibility, duty, and authority will
be vested as described in paragraph (1).
(5) A description of the manner and
timeline in which the resources of the Chief
Management Officer, including funding and
human capital, will be realigned or
repurposed to other organizations in the Of-
fice of the Secretary of Defense or to other
components of the Department.
(6) A description of the general process and
timeline for the assignment of responsibility
of each issue under the jurisdiction of the
Chief Management Officer current identified
by the Comptroller General of the United
States as ‘‘high risk’’ to an officer or em-
ployee in the Department who is specifically
charged by the Secretary to initiate and sus-
tain progress toward resolution of such
issue.
(7) Such recommendations (including rec-
ommendations for legislative action) as the
Secretary considers appropriate for addi-
tional authorities and resources (including
funding and human capital resources) nec-
essary to ensure that each officer or em-
ployee, in whom the Secretary vests respon-
sibility and authority as described in para-
graph (1) is capable of exercising such re-
sponsibility and authority effectively.
(8) Such other matters in connection with
the termination of the position of Chief Man-
agement Officer, and the transition of the re-
sponsibilities, duties, and authorities of the
Chief Management Officer in connection
with such termination, as the Secretary con-
siders appropriate.
(b) VESTING OF CERTAIN RESPONSIBILITIES,
DUTIES, AND AUTHORITIES IN PARTICULAR OF-
FICERS.—In setting forth matters under para-
graph (1) of subsection (a), the report re-
quired by that subsection shall address, in
particular, the following:
(1) Vesting of responsibilities, duties, and
authorities of the Chief Management Officer
in the Deputy Secretary of Defense in the
Deputy Secretary’s capacity as the Chief Op-
erating Officer of the Department of Defense
for purposes of functions specified in section
1123 of title 31, United States Code.
(2) Vesting of responsibilities, duties, and
authorities of the Chief Management Officer
in the Performance Improvement Officer of
the Department of Defense under section
142a of title 10, United States Code (as added
by section 913 of this Act), for purposes of
functions specified in section 1124 of title 31,
United States Code.
(c) OTHER RESPONSIBILITIES, DUTIES AND
AUTHORITIES.—In addition to any other re-
sponsibilities, duties, and authorities of the
Chief Management Officer, the report re-
quired by subsection (a) shall specifically ad-
dress responsibilities, duties, and authorities
of the Chief Management Officer with re-
spect to the following:
(1) Establishment of policies for, and the
direction and management of, enterprise
business operations and shared business serv-
ices of the Department, as set forth in sec-
tion 132a(b) of title 10, United States Code,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00105 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6792 November 16, 2020
and section 921(b) of the John S. McCain Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2019 (10 U.S.C. 2222 note).
(2) Exercise of authority, direction, and
control over the Defense Agencies and De-
partment of Defense Field Activities for
shared business services and budget review,
assessment, certification, and reporting, as
set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section
132a of title 10, United States Code, and sec-
tion 192 of that title.
(3) Minimization of duplication of efforts,
maximization of efficiency and effectiveness,
and establishment of metrics for perform-
ance among and for all components of the
Department, as set forth in section 132a(b) of
title 10, United States Code.
(4) Issuance and maintenance of guidance
on covered defense business systems, devel-
opment and maintenance of the defense busi-
ness enterprise architecture, exercise of au-
thorities and responsibilities with respect to
common enterprise data, leadership of and
matters within the Defense Business Coun-
cil, and service as the appropriate approval
official in the case of certain covered defense
business systems and programs, as set forth
in section 2222 of title 10, United States
Code.
(5) The Financial Improvement and Audit
Remediation Plan, as set forth in section
240b of title 10, United States Code.
(6) Receipt of audit reports, as set forth in
section 240d of title 10, United States Code.
(7) Discharge by the Department of the an-
nual reviews required by section 11319 of title
40, United States Code.
(8) Business transformation efforts of the
defense commissary system and the ex-
change stores system, as set forth in section
631 of the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92).
(9) Analysis of Department business man-
agement and operations datasets, as set
forth in section 922 of the John S. McCain
National Defense Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2019 (10 U.S.C. 2222 note).
(10) Reviews, reports, and other actions re-
quired by sections 924, 925, 926, 927, and 1624
of the John S. McCain National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019, to the
extent such reviews, reports, and actions
have not been completed as of the date of the
report under subsection (a).
(11) Science and technology activities in
support of business systems information
technology acquisition as set forth in section
217 of the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (10 U.S.C. 2445a
note).
(12) Relationships with the Chief Manage-
ment Officers of the military departments,
and the development and update of a stra-
tegic management plan for the Department,
as set forth in section 904 of the National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008
(Public Law 110–181) and the amendments
made by that section.
SEC. 913. PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT OFFI-
CER OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DE-
FENSE.
(a) PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT OFFICER.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 4 of title 10,
United States Code, is amended by inserting
after section 142 the following new section:
‘‘§ 142a. Performance Improvement Officer of
the Department of Defense
‘‘(a) There is an Performance Improvement
Officer of the Department of Defense, who is
designated as provided in section 1124(a)(1) of
title 31.
‘‘(b) The Performance Improvement Officer
shall—
‘‘(1) perform the duties and responsibil-
ities, and exercise the powers set forth in
section 1124 of title 31; and
‘‘(2) perform such additional duties and re-
sponsibilities, and exercise such other pow-
ers, as the Secretary of Defense and the Dep-
uty Secretary of Defense may prescribe.
‘‘(c) Subject to the authority, direction,
and control of the Secretary of Defense, the
Performance Improvement Officer reports,
without intervening authority, directly to
the Deputy Secretary of Defense, in the Dep-
uty Secretary’s role as the Chief Operating
Officer of the Department of Defense under
section 1123 of title 31.
‘‘(d) The Performance Improvement Officer
may communicate views on matters within
the responsibility of the Officer directly to
the Deputy Secretary of Defense, without ob-
taining the approval or concurrence of any
other officer in the Department of Defense.’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
section at the beginning of chapter 4 of such
title is amended by inserting after the item
relating to section 142 the following new
item:
‘‘142a. Performance Improvement Officer of
the Department of Defense.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The amendments made by
subsection (a) shall take effect on such date
as the Secretary of Defense shall specify for
purposes of this section, which date may not
be later than one day before the effective
date specified by the Secretary pursuant to
section 911(a)(1).
(2) NOTICE.—The Secretary shall submit to
the Committees on Armed Services of the
Senate and the House of Representatives a
notice on the effective date specified pursu-
ant to paragraph (1).
SEC. 914. ASSIGNMENT OF CERTAIN RESPON-
SIBILITIES AND DUTIES TO PAR-
TICULAR OFFICERS OF THE DE-
PARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
(a) CERTAIN RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES
OF DEPUTY SECRETARY OF DEFENSE.—
(1) CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER OF THE DE-
PARTMENT OF DEFENSE.—Section 132 of title
10, United States Code, is amended—
(A) by redesignating subsections (c), (d),
and (e) as subsections (d), (e), and (f), respec-
tively; and
(B) by inserting after subsection (b) the
following new subsection (c):
‘‘(c)(1) In accordance with section 1123 of
title 31, the Deputy Secretary performs the
duties, has the responsibilities, and exercises
the powers of the Chief Operating Officer of
the Department of Defense.
‘‘(2) Subject to the authority, direction,
and control of the Secretary of Defense, the
Deputy Secretary shall supervise the Per-
formance Improvement Officer of the De-
partment of Defense in the Officer’s perform-
ance of duties and responsibilities specified
in section 142a of this title.’’.
(2) DESIGNATION OF PRIORITY DEFENSE BUSI-
NESS SYSTEMS.—Section 2222(h)(5)(B) of such
title is amended by striking ‘‘the Chief Man-
agement Officer of the Department of De-
fense’’ and inserting ‘‘the Deputy Secretary
of Defense, or such other officer of the De-
partment of Defense as the Secretary or the
Deputy Secretary may designate,’’.
(b) PERIODIC REVIEWS OF DEFENSE AGENCIES
AND DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FIELD ACTIVI-
TIES IN CONNECTION WITH BUSINESS ENTER-
PRISE REFORM.—Section 192(c) of such title is
amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraph (3), as redes-
ignated by section 923(a)(1) of the John S.
McCain National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232; 132
Stat. 1930), as paragraph (4);
(2) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2),
as added by section 923(a)(2) of the John S.
McCain National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2019, as paragraphs (2) and
(3), respectively;
(3) in paragraph (2), as redesignated by
paragraph (2) of this subsection—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘the
Chief Management Officer of the Department
of Defense’’ and inserting ‘‘the Secretary,
the Deputy Secretary of Defense, or an offi-
cer of the Department of Defense designated
by the Secretary or the Deputy Secretary’’;
(B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘the
Chief Management Officer’’ and inserting
‘‘the officer conducting such review’’; and
(C) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘the
Chief Management Officer’’ and inserting
‘‘the Secretary’’; and
(4) in paragraph (3), as so redesignated, by
striking ‘‘the Chief Management Officer’’
each place it appears in subparagraphs (A)
and (B) and inserting ‘‘the officer conducting
such review’’.
(c) RESPONSIBILITY OF UNDER SECRETARY OF
DEFENSE (COMPTROLLER) FOR FINANCIAL IM-
PROVEMENT AND AUDIT REMEDIATION PLAN.—
Subsection (a) of section 240b of such title is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Under Secretary of
Defense (Comptroller) shall, together with
such other officers and employees of the De-
partment of Defense as the Secretary of De-
fense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense
may designate, shall maintain a plan to be
known as the ‘Financial Improvement and
Audit Remediation Plan’.’’.
(d) PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT OFFICER
FUNCTIONS FOR DEFENSE BUSINESS SYS-
TEMS.—Section 2222 of such title is amend-
ed—
(1) in subsection (e)(6)(C), by inserting
‘‘and the Performance Improvement Officer
of the Department of Defense’’ after ‘‘The
Director of Cost Assessment and Program
Evaluation’’; and
(2) in subsection (f)(2)(B)—
(A) by redesignating clauses (i) through
(iii) as clauses (ii) through (iv), respectively;
and
(B) by inserting before clause (ii), as redes-
ignated by paragraph (1), the following new
clause (i):
‘‘(i) The Performance Improvement Officer
of the Department of Defense.’’.
(e) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall take effect on the
effective date specified in section 911(a)(1).
SEC. 915. ASSIGNMENT OF RESPONSIBILITIES
AND DUTIES OF CHIEF MANAGE-
MENT OFFICER TO OFFICERS OR
EMPLOYEES OF THE DEPARTMENT
OF DEFENSE TO BE DESIGNATED.
(a) TITLE 10, UNITED STATES CODE.—Title
10, United States Code, is amended as fol-
lows:
(1) In section 240d(d)(1)(A), by striking ‘‘the
Chief Management Officer of the Department
of Defense’’ and inserting ‘‘any other officer
or employee of the Department of Defense
that the Secretary of Defense or the Deputy
Secretary of Defense may designate for pur-
poses of this section’’.
(2) Section 2222 is amended—
(A) in subsection (c)(2)—
(i) by striking ‘‘the Chief Management Of-
ficer of the Department of Defense,’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘and the Chief Management
Officer of each of the military departments’’
and inserting ‘‘the Chief Management Officer
of each of the military departments, and
other appropriate officers or employees of
the Department and its components’’;
(B) in subsection (e)—
(i) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘the Chief
Management Officer of the Department of
Defense’’ and inserting ‘‘such officers or em-
ployees of the Department of Defense as the
Secretary shall designate’’;
(ii) in paragraph (6)—
(I) in subparagraph (A)—
(aa) by striking ‘‘The Chief Management
Officer of the Department of Defense’’ and
inserting ‘‘Such officers of the Department
of Defense as the Secretary shall designate’’;
and
(bb) by striking ‘‘the Chief Management
Officer’’ and inserting ‘‘such officers’’; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00106 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6793
November 16, 2020
(II) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘The
Chief Management Officer and the Under
Secretary of Defense (Comptroller)’’ and in-
serting ‘‘The Under Secretary of Defense
(Comptroller) and such other officers of the
Department as the Secretary shall des-
ignate’’;
(C) in subsection (f)(1), by striking ‘‘the
Chief Management Office and the Chief In-
formation Office of the Department of De-
fense’’ and inserting ‘‘the Chief Information
Officer of the Department of Defense and
such other officers or employees of the De-
partment of Defense as the Secretary may
designate’’; and
(D) in subsection (g)(2), by striking ‘‘the
Chief Management Officer of the Department
of Defense’’ each place it appears in subpara-
graphs (A) and (B)(ii) and inserting ‘‘an offi-
cer or employee of the Department of De-
fense designated by the Secretary’’.
(b) TITLE 40, UNITED STATES CODE.—Sec-
tion 11319(d)(4) of title 40, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘the Chief
Management Officer of the Department of
Defense (of any successor to such Officer)’’
and inserting ‘‘the officer of the Department
of Defense designated by the Secretary of
Defense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense
for such purpose’’.
(c) PUBLIC LAW 116–92.—Section 631(a) of
the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92) is
amended by striking ‘‘the Chief Management
Officer of the Department of Defense’’ and
inserting ‘‘such officer of the Department of
Defense as the Secretary of Defense or the
Deputy Secretary of Defense may des-
ignate’’.
(d) PUBLIC LAW 115–232.—The John S.
McCain National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232) is
amended as follows:
(1) In section 921(b)(1) (10 U.S.C. 2222
note)—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘the
Chief Management Officer of the Department
of Defense’’ and inserting ‘‘such officer or
employee of the Department of Defense as
the Secretary of Defense or the Deputy Sec-
retary of Defense shall designate’’;
(B) in subparagraph (B)—
(i) in the subparagraph heading, by strik-
ing ‘‘CMO’’;
(ii) by striking ‘‘the Chief Management Of-
ficer’’ the first place it appears and inserting
‘‘the Secretary shall, acting through such of-
ficer or employee of the Department as the
Secretary or the Deputy Secretary shall des-
ignate’’; and
(iii) by striking ‘‘by the Chief Management
Officer’’.
(2) In section 922 (10 U.S.C. 2222 note)—
(A) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘The
Chief Management Officer of the Department
of Defense’’ and inserting ‘‘An officer or em-
ployee of the Department of Defense des-
ignated by the Secretary of Defense or the
Deputy Secretary of Defense’’; and
(B) in subsection (b)—
(i) in paragraph (1)—
(I) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by striking ‘‘The Chief Management Of-
ficer’’ and inserting ‘‘The officer or employee
designated pursuant to subsection (a)’’; and
(II) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘The
Chief Management Officer’’ and inserting
‘‘such officer or employee’’; and
(ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘the Chief
Management Officer shall take appropriate
actions’’ and inserting ‘‘all appropriate ac-
tions shall be taken’’.
(3) In section 924 (10 U.S.C. 191 note)—
(A) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘the
Chief Management Officer of the Department
of Defense’’ in the matter preceding para-
graph (1) and inserting ‘‘such officer of the
Department of Defense as the Secretary or
Defense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense
shall designate’’;
(B) in subsection (b)—
(i) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘the Chief Management Officer’’
and inserting ‘‘the officer designated pursu-
ant to subsection (a)’’; and
(ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘the
Chief Management Officer’’ and inserting
‘‘such officer’’; and
(C) in subsection (c)—
(i) by striking ‘‘the Chief Management Of-
ficer’’ the first place it appears and inserting
‘‘the officer designated pursuant to sub-
section (a)’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘the Chief Management Of-
ficer’’ the second place it appears and insert-
ing ‘‘such officer’’.
(4) In section 925(a) (132 Stat. 1932), by
striking ‘‘the Chief Management Officer of
the Department of Defense’’ in the matter
preceding paragraph (1) and inserting ‘‘such
officer of the Department of Defense as the
Secretary or Defense or the Deputy Sec-
retary of Defense shall designate’’.
(5) In section 926(a) (132 Stat. 1932), by
striking ‘‘the Chief Management Officer of
the Department of Defense’’ in the matter
preceding paragraph (1) and inserting ‘‘such
officer of the Department of Defense as the
Secretary or Defense or the Deputy Sec-
retary of Defense shall designate’’.
(6) In section 927 (132 Stat. 1933)—
(A) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘the
Chief Management Officer of the Department
of Defense’’ and inserting ‘‘such officer of the
Department of Defense as the Secretary or
Defense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense
shall designate’’; and
(B) in subsections (c) and (d), by striking
‘‘the Chief Management Officer’’ each place
it appears and inserting ‘‘the officer des-
ignated pursuant to subsection (a)’’.
(7) In section 1624(a) (10 U.S.C. 2222 note)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘the Chief
Management Officer of the Department of
Defense’’ and inserting ‘‘such officer of the
Department of Defense as the Secretary or
Defense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense
shall designate’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘the Chief Management Of-
ficer’’ each place it appears in paragraphs (2),
(3), and (4) and inserting ‘‘the officer des-
ignated pursuant to paragraph (1)’’; and
(C) by inserting ‘‘and Security’’ after ‘‘for
Intelligence’’ each place it appears.
(e) PUBLIC LAW 114–92.—The National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016
(Public Law 114–92) is amended as follows:
(1) In section 217—
(A) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘the Dep-
uty Chief Management Officer, and the Chief
Information Officer’’ and inserting ‘‘the
Chief Information Officer, and any other offi-
cer of the Department of Defense designated
by the Secretary of Defense or the Deputy
Secretary of Defense for such purpose’’; and
(B) in subsections (b), (f)(1)(A)(ii), and
(f)(2)(B), by striking ‘‘the Deputy Chief Man-
agement Officer’’ each place it appears and
inserting ‘‘any officer designated pursuant to
subsection (a)’’.
(2) In section 881(a) (10 U.S.C. 2302 note), by
striking ‘‘the Deputy Chief Management Of-
ficer,’’.
(f) PUBLIC LAW 110–81.—Section 904 of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2008 (Public Law 110–81; 122 Stat.
273)) is amended—
(1) in subsection (b)(4), by striking ‘‘the
Chief Management Officer and Deputy Chief
Management Officer of the Department of
Defense’’ and inserting ‘‘such officer of the
Department of Defense as the Secretary of
Defense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense
shall designate’’; and
(2) in subsection (d)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘the Chief
Management Officer of the Department of
Defense’’ and inserting ‘‘such officer of the
Department of Defense as the Secretary of
Defense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense
may designate for purposes of this sub-
section’’; and
(B) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘the Chief
Management Officer’’ and inserting ‘‘the of-
ficer designated pursuant to paragraph (1)’’.
(g) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall take effect on the
effective date specified in section 911(a)(1).
SEC. 916. DEFINITION OF ENTERPRISE BUSINESS
OPERATIONS FOR TITLE 10, UNITED
STATES CODE.
Effective on the effective date specified in
section 911(a)(1) of this Act, section 101(e) of
title 10, United States Code, is amended by
adding at the end the following new para-
graph:
‘‘(9) ENTERPRISE BUSINESS OPERATIONS.—
The term ‘enterprise business operations’—
‘‘(A) means activities that constitute
cross-cutting business operations used by
multiple components of the Department of
Defense, but excludes activities that are di-
rectly tied to a single military department
or Department of Defense component; and
‘‘(B) includes business-support functions
designated by the Secretary of Defense or
the Deputy Secretary of Defense, including
aspects of financial management,
healthcare, acquisition and procurement,
supply chain and logistics, certain informa-
tion technology, real property, and human
resources operations.’’.
SEC. 917. ANNUAL REPORT ON ENTERPRISE BUSI-
NESS OPERATIONS OF THE DEPART-
MENT OF DEFENSE.
(a) ANNUAL REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later
than March 31 each year, the Secretary of
Defense shall submit to Congress a report
that includes the following:
(1) Each proposed budget for the enterprise
business operations of a Defense Agency or
Department of Defense Field Activity for the
fiscal year beginning in the year in which
such report is submitted.
(2) An identification of each proposed
budget described in paragraph (1) that does
not achieve required levels of efficiency and
effectiveness for enterprise business oper-
ations.
(3) A discussion of the actions that the
Secretary proposes to take, including rec-
ommendations for legislative action that the
Secretary considers appropriate, to address
inadequate levels of efficiency and effective-
ness for enterprise business operations
achieved by the proposed budgets described
in paragraph (1).
(4) Any additional comments that the Sec-
retary considers appropriate regarding inad-
equate levels of efficiency and effectiveness
for enterprise business operations achieved
by the proposed budgets described in para-
graph (1).
(b) SUBMITTAL.—The Secretary may submit
a report required by subsection (a) through
the Deputy Secretary of Defense.
(c) ENTERPRISE BUSINESS OPERATIONS DE-
FINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘enterprise
business operations’’ has the meaning given
that term in paragraph (9) of section 101(e) of
title 10, United States Code (as added by sec-
tion 916 of this Act).
SEC. 918. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.
(a) TITLE 10, UNITED STATES CODE.—Title
10, United States Code, is amended as fol-
lows:
(1) In section 131(b)—
(A) by striking paragraph (2);
(B) by redesignating paragraphs (3)
through (9) as paragraphs (2) through (8), re-
spectively; and
(C) in paragraph (7), as redesignated by
subparagraph (B)—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00107 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6794 November 16, 2020
(i) by redesignating subparagraphs (A)
through (F) as subparagraphs (B) through
(G), respectively; and
(ii) by inserting before subparagraph (B),
as redesignated by clause (i), the following
new subparagraph (A):
‘‘(A) The Performance Improvement Offi-
cer of the Department of Defense.’’.
(2) In section 133a(c)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘, the
Deputy Secretary of Defense, and the Chief
Management Officer of the Department of
Defense’’ and inserting ‘‘and the Deputy Sec-
retary of Defense’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘the Chief
Management Officer,’’.
(3) In section 133b(c)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘the Chief
Management Officer of the Department of
Defense,’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘the Chief
Management Officer,’’.
(4) In section 137a(d), by striking ‘‘the
Chief Management Officer of the Department
of Defense,’’.
(5) In section 138(d), by striking ‘‘the Chief
Management Officer of the Department of
Defense,’’.
(6) In section 240b(b)(1)(C)(ii), by striking
‘‘, the Chief Management Officer,’’.
(b) EXECUTIVE SCHEDULE LEVEL II.—Sec-
tion 5313 of title 5, United States Code, is
amended by striking the item relating to the
Chief Management Officer of the Department
of Defense.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall take effect on the
effective date specified in section 911(a)(1).
Subtitle C—Space Force Matters
PART I—AMENDMENTS TO INTEGRATE
THE SPACE FORCE INTO LAW
SEC. 931. CLARIFICATION OF SPACE FORCE AND
CHIEF OF SPACE OPERATIONS AU-
THORITIES.
(a) COMPOSITION OF SPACE FORCE.—Section
9081 of title 10, United States Code, is amend-
ed by striking subsection (b) and inserting
the following new subsection (b):
‘‘(b) COMPOSITION.—The Space Force con-
sists of—
‘‘(1) the Regular Space Force;
‘‘(2) all persons appointed or enlisted in, or
conscripted into, the Space Force, including
those not assigned to units, necessary to
form the basis for a complete and immediate
mobilization for the national defense in the
event of a national emergency; and
‘‘(3) all Space Force units and other Space
Force organizations, including installations
and supporting and auxiliary combat, train-
ing, administrative, and logistic elements.’’.
(b) FUNCTIONS.—Section 9081 of title 10,
United States Code, is further amended—
(1) by striking subsection (c) and inserting
the following new subsection (c):
‘‘(c) FUNCTIONS.—The Space Force shall be
organized, trained, and equipped to—
‘‘(1) provide freedom of operation for the
United States in, from, and to space;
‘‘(2) conduct space operations; and
‘‘(3) protect the interests of the United
States in space.’’; and
(2) by striking subsection (d).
(c) CLARIFICATION OF CHIEF OF SPACE OPER-
ATIONS AUTHORITIES.—Section 9082 of title 10,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘general
officers of the Air Force’’ and inserting ‘‘gen-
eral, flag, or equivalent officers of the Space
Force’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following new
paragraphs:
‘‘(3) The President may appoint an officer
as Chief of Space Operations only if—
‘‘(A) the officer has had significant experi-
ence in joint duty assignments; and
‘‘(B) such experience includes at least one
full tour of duty in a joint duty assignment
(as defined in section 664(d) of this title) as a
general, flag, or equivalent officer of the
Space Force.
‘‘(4) The President may waive paragraph (3)
in the case of an officer if the President de-
termines such action is necessary in the na-
tional interest.’’;
(2) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘grade of
general’’ and inserting ‘‘grade in the Space
Force equivalent to the grade of general in
the Army, Air Force, and Marine Corps, or
admiral in the Navy’’; and
(3) in subsection (d)—
(A) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(B) by redesignating paragraph (5) as para-
graph (6); and
(C) by inserting after paragraph (4) the fol-
lowing new paragraph (5):
‘‘(5) perform duties prescribed for the Chief
of Space Operations by sections 171 and 2547
of this title and other provision of law; and’’.
(d) REPEAL OF OFFICER CAREER FIELD FOR
SPACE.—Section 9083 of title 10, United
States Code, is repealed.
(e) REGULAR SPACE FORCE.—Chapter 908 of
title 10, United States Code, as amended by
subsection (d), is further amended by adding
at the end the following new section 9083:
‘‘§ 9083. Regular Space Force: composition
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Regular Space
Force is the component of the Space Force
that consists of persons whose continuous
service on active duty in both peace and war
is contemplated by law, and of retired mem-
bers of the Regular Space Force.
‘‘(b) COMPOSITION.—The Regular Space
Force includes—
‘‘(1) the officers and enlisted members of
the Regular Space Force; and
‘‘(2) the retired officers and enlisted mem-
bers of the Regular Space Force.’’.
(f) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sec-
tions at the beginning of chapter 908 of title
10, United States Code, is amended by strik-
ing the item relating to section 9083 and in-
serting the following new item:
‘‘9083. Regular Space Force: composition.’’.
SEC. 931A. OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF SPACE OP-
ERATIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 908 of title 10,
United States Code, as amended by section
931(e) of this Act, is further amended—
(1) by redesignating section 9083 as section
9085; and
(2) by inserting after section 9082 the fol-
lowing new sections:
‘‘§ 9083. Office of the Chief of Space Oper-
ations: function; composition
‘‘(a) FUNCTION.—There is in the executive
part of the Department of the Air Force an
Office of the Chief of Space Operations to as-
sist the Secretary of the Air Force in car-
rying out the responsibilities of the Sec-
retary.
‘‘(b) COMPOSITION.—The Office of the Chief
of Space Operations is composed of the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(1) The Chief of Space Operations.
‘‘(2) Such other offices and officials as may
be established by law or as the Secretary of
the Air Force may establish or designate.
‘‘(3) Other members of the Space Force and
Air Force assigned or detailed to the Office
of the Chief of Space Operations.
‘‘(4) Civilian employees in the Department
of the Air Force assigned or detailed to the
Office of the Chief of Space Operations.
‘‘(c) ORGANIZATION.—Except as otherwise
specifically prescribed by law, the Office of
the Chief of Space Operations shall be orga-
nized in such manner, and the members of
the Office of the Chief of Space Operations
shall perform such duties and have such ti-
tles, as the Secretary of the Air Force may
prescribe.
‘‘§ 9084. Office of the Chief of Space Oper-
ations: general duties
‘‘(a) PROFESSIONAL ASSISTANCE.—The Of-
fice of the Chief of Space Operations shall
furnish professional assistance to the Sec-
retary of the Air Force, the Chief of Space
Operations, and other personnel of the Office
of the Secretary of the Air Force or the Of-
fice of the Chief of Space Operations.
‘‘(b) AUTHORITIES.—Under the authority,
direction, and control of the Secretary of the
Air Force, the Office of the Chief of Space
Operations shall—
‘‘(1) subject to subsections (c) and (d) of
section 9014 of this title, prepare for such
employment of the Space Force, and for such
recruiting, organizing, supplying, equipping
(including research and development), train-
ing, servicing, mobilizing, demobilizing, ad-
ministering, and maintaining of the Space
Force, as will assist in the execution of any
power, duty, or function of the Secretary of
the Air Force or the Chief of Space Oper-
ations;
‘‘(2) investigate and report upon the effi-
ciency of the Space Force and its prepara-
tion to support military operations by com-
manders of the combatant commands;
‘‘(3) prepare detailed instructions for the
execution of approved plans and supervise
the execution of those plans and instruc-
tions;
‘‘(4) as directed by the Secretary of the Air
Force or the Chief of Space Operations, co-
ordinate the action of organizations of the
Space Force; and
‘‘(5) perform such other duties, not other-
wise assigned by law, as may be prescribed
by the Secretary of the Air Force.’’.
(b) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sec-
tions at the beginning of chapter 908 of such
title, as amended by section 931(f) of this
Act, is further amended by striking the item
related to section 9083 and inserting the fol-
lowing the following new items:
‘‘9083. Office of the Chief of Space Oper-
ations: function; composition.
‘‘9084. Office of the Chief of Space Oper-
ations: general duties.
‘‘9085. Regular Space Force: composition.’’.
SEC. 932. AMENDMENTS TO DEPARTMENT OF THE
AIR FORCE PROVISIONS IN TITLE 10,
UNITED STATES CODE.
(a) SUBTITLE.—
(1) HEADING.—The heading of subtitle D of
title 10, United States Code, is amended to
read as follows:
‘‘Subtitle D—Air Force and Space Force’’.
(2) TABLE OF SUBTITLES.—The table of sub-
titles at the beginning of such title is
amended is amended by striking the item re-
lating to subtitle D and inserting the fol-
lowing new item:
‘‘D. Air Force and Space Force .......... 9011’’.
(b) ORGANIZATION.—
(1) SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE.—Section
9013 of title 10, United States Code, is amend-
ed—
(A) in subsection (f), by inserting ‘‘and offi-
cers of the Space Force’’ after ‘‘Officers of
the Air Force’’; and
(B) in subsection (g)(1), by inserting ‘‘,
members of the Space Force,’’ after ‘‘mem-
bers of the Air Force’’.
(2) OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR
FORCE.—Section 9014 of such title is amend-
ed—
(A) in subsection (b), by striking paragraph
(4) and inserting the following new para-
graph (4)
‘‘(4) The Inspector General of the Depart-
ment of the Air Force.’’;
(B) in subsection (c)—
(i) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘and the
Air Staff’’ and inserting ‘‘, the Air Staff, and
the Office of the Chief of Space Operations’’;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00108 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6795
November 16, 2020
(ii) in paragraph (2), by inserting ‘‘or the
Office of the Chief of Space Operations’’ after
‘‘the Air Staff’’;
(iii) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘to the
Chief of Staff and to the Air Staff’’ and all
that follows through the end and inserting
‘‘to the Chief of Staff of the Air Force and
the Air Staff, and to the Chief of Space Oper-
ations and the Office of the Chief of Space
Operations, and shall ensure that each such
office or entity provides the Chief of Staff
and Chief of Space Operations such staff sup-
port as the Chief concerned considers nec-
essary to perform the Chief’s duties and re-
sponsibilities.’’; and
(iv) in paragraph (4)—
(I) by inserting ‘‘and the Office of the Chief
of Space Operations’’ after ‘‘the Air Staff’’;
and
(II) by inserting ‘‘and the Chief of Space
Operations’’ after ‘‘Chief of Staff’’;
(C) in subsection (d)—
(i) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘and the
Air Staff’’ and inserting ‘‘, the Air Staff, and
the Office of the Chief of Space Operations’’;
(ii) in paragraph (2), by inserting ‘‘and the
Office of the Chief of Space Operations’’ after
‘‘the Air Staff’’; and
(iii) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘to the
Chief of Staff of the Air Force and to the Air
Staff’’ and all that follows through the end
and inserting ‘‘to the Chief of Staff of the
Air Force and the Air Staff, and to the Chief
of Space Operations and the Office of the
Chief of Space Operations, and shall ensure
that each such office or entity provides the
Chief of Staff and Chief of Space Operations
such staff support as the Chief concerned
considers necessary to perform the Chief’s
duties and responsibilities.’’; and
(D) in subsection (e)—
(i) by striking ‘‘and the Air Staff’’ and in-
serting ‘‘, the Air Staff, and the Office of the
Chief of Space Operations’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘to the other’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘to any of the others’’.
(3) SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE: SUCCES-
SORS TO DUTIES.—Section 9017(4) of such title
is amended by inserting before the period the
following: ‘‘of the Air Force and the Chief of
Space Operations, in the order prescribed by
the Secretary of the Air Force and approved
by the Secretary of Defense’’.
(4) INSPECTOR GENERAL.—Section 9020 of
such title is amended—
(A) in subsection (a)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘Department of the’’ after
‘‘Inspector General of the’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘or the general, flag, or
equivalent officers of the Space Force’’ after
‘‘general officers of the Air Force’’;
(B) in subsection (b)—
(i) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘or the Chief of Staff’’ and in-
serting ‘‘, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force,
or the Chief of Space Operations’’;
(ii) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘Depart-
ment of the’’ before ‘‘Air Force’’; and
(iii) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘or the
Chief of Staff’’ and inserting ‘‘, the Chief of
Staff, or the Chief of Space Operations’’ ; and
(C) in subsection (e), by inserting ‘‘or the
Space Force’’ before ‘‘for a tour of duty’’.
(5) THE AIR STAFF: FUNCTION; COMPOSI-
TION.—Section 9031(b)(8) of such title is
amended by inserting ‘‘or the Space Force’’
after ‘‘of the Air Force’’.
(6) SURGEON GENERAL: APPOINTMENT; DU-
TIES.—Section 9036(b) of such title is amend-
ed—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘Sec-
retary of the Air Force and the Chief of Staff
of the Air Force on all health and medical
matters of the Air Force’’ and inserting
‘‘Secretary of the Air Force, the Chief of
Staff of the Air Force, and the Chief of Space
Operations on all health and medical mat-
ters of the Air Force and the Space Force’’;
and
(B) in paragraph (2)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘and the Space Force’’
after ‘‘of the Air Force’’ the first place it ap-
pears; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘and members of the
Space Force’’ after ‘‘of the Air Force’’ the
second place it appears.
(7) JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL, DEPUTY
JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL: APPOINTMENT; DU-
TIES.—Section 9037 of such title is amended—
(A) in subsection (e)(2)(B), by inserting ‘‘or
the Space Force’’ after ‘‘of the Air Force’’;
and
(B) in subsection (f)(1), by striking ‘‘the
Secretary of the Air Force or the Chief of
Staff of the Air Force’’ and inserting ‘‘the
Secretary of the Air Force, the Chief of Staff
of the Air Force, or the Chief of Space Oper-
ations’’.
(8) CHIEF OF CHAPLAINS: APPOINTMENT; DU-
TIES.—Section 9039(a) of such title is amend-
ed by striking ‘‘in the Air Force’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘for the Air Force and the Space Force’’.
(9) PROVISION OF CERTAIN PROFESSIONAL
FUNCTIONS FOR THE SPACE FORCE.—Section
9063 of such title is amended—
(A) in subsections (a) through (i), by strik-
ing ‘‘in the Air Force’’ each place it appears
and inserting ‘‘in the Air Force and the
Space Force’’; and
(B) in subsection (i), as amended by sub-
paragraph (A), by inserting ‘‘or the Space
Force’’ after ‘‘members of the Air Force’’.
(c) PERSONNEL.—
(1) GENDER-FREE BASIS FOR ACCEPTANCE OF
ORIGINAL ENLISTMENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 9132 of title 10,
United States Code, is amended by inserting
‘‘or the Regular Space Force’’ after ‘‘Regular
Air Force’’.
(B) HEADING.—The heading of such section
9132 is amended to read as follows:
‘‘§ 9132. Regular Air Force and Regular Space
Force: gender-free basis for acceptance of
original enlistments’’.
(C) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sec-
tions at the beginning of chapter 913 of such
title is amended by striking the item relat-
ing to section 9132 and inserting the fol-
lowing new item:
‘‘9132. Regular Air Force and Regular Space
Force: gender-free basis for ac-
ceptance of original enlist-
ments.’’.
(2) REENLISTMENT AFTER SERVICE AS AN OF-
FICER.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 9138 of such title
is amended in subsection (a)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘or the Regular Space
Force’’ after ‘‘Regular Air Force’’ both
places it appears; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘or the Space Force’’ after
‘‘officer of the Air Force’’ both places it ap-
pears.
(B) HEADING.—The heading of such section
9132 is amended to read as follows:
‘‘§ 9132. Regular Air Force and Regular Space
Force: reenlistment after service as an offi-
cer’’.
(C) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sec-
tions at the beginning of chapter 913 of such
title, as amended by paragraph (1)(C), is fur-
ther by striking the item relating to section
9138 and inserting the following new item:
‘‘9138. Regular Air Force and Regular Space
Force: reenlistment after serv-
ice as an officer.’’.
(3) APPOINTMENTS IN THE REGULAR AIR
FORCE AND REGULAR SPACE FORCE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 9160 of such title
is amended—
(i) by inserting ‘‘or the Regular Space
Force’’ after ‘‘Regular Air Force’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘or the Space Force’’ be-
fore the period.
(B) CHAPTER HEADING.—The heading of
chapter 915 of such title is amended to read
as follows:
‘‘CHAPTER 915—APPOINTMENTS IN THE
REGULAR AIR FORCE AND THE REG-
ULAR SPACE FORCE’’.
(C) TABLES OF CHAPTERS.—The table of
chapters at the beginning of subtitle D of
such title, and at the beginning of part II of
subtitle D of such title, are each amended by
striking the item relating to chapter 915 and
inserting the following new item:
‘‘915. Appointments in the Regular
Air Force and the Regular Space
Force ............................................ 9151’’.
(4) RETIRED COMMISSIONED OFFICERS: STA-
TUS.—Section 9203 of such title is amended
by inserting ‘‘or the Space Force’’ after ‘‘the
Air Force’’.
(5) DUTIES: CHAPLAINS; ASSISTANCE RE-
QUIRED OF COMMANDING OFFICERS.—Section
9217(a) of such title is amended by inserting
‘‘or the Space Force’’ after ‘‘the Air Force’’.
(6) RANK: COMMISSIONED OFFICERS SERVING
UNDER TEMPORARY APPOINTMENTS.—Section
9222 of such title is amended by inserting ‘‘or
the Space Force’’ after ‘‘the Air Force’’ both
places it appears.
(7) REQUIREMENT OF EXEMPLARY CONDUCT.—
Section 9233 of such title is amended—
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by inserting ‘‘and in the Space Force’’ after
‘‘the Air Force’’; and
(B) in paragraphs (3) and (4), by inserting
‘‘or the Space Force, respectively’’ after ‘‘the
Air Force’’.
(8) ENLISTED MEMBERS: OFFICERS NOT TO USE
AS SERVANTS.—Section 9239 of such title is
amended by inserting ‘‘or the Space Force’’
after ‘‘Air Force’’ both places it appears.
(9) PRESENTATION OF UNITED STATES FLAG
UPON RETIREMENT.—Section 9251(a) of such
title is amended by inserting ‘‘or the Space
Force’’ after ‘‘member of the Air Force’’.
(10) SERVICE CREDIT: REGULAR ENLISTED
MEMBERS; SERVICE AS AN OFFICER TO BE
COUNTED AS ENLISTED SERVICE.—Section 9252
of such title is amended—
(A) by inserting ‘‘or the Regular Space
Force’’ after ‘‘Regular Air Force’’; and
(B) by inserting ‘‘in the Space Force,’’
after ‘‘in the Air Force,’’.
(11) WHEN SECRETARY MAY REQUIRE HOS-
PITALIZATION.—Section 9263 of such title is
amended by inserting ‘‘or the Space Force’’
after ‘‘member of the Air Force’’.
(12) DECORATIONS AND AWARDS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 937 of such title
is amended by inserting ‘‘or the Space
Force’’ after ‘‘the Air Force’’ each place it
appears in the following provisions:
(i) Section 9271.
(ii) Section 9272.
(iii) Section 9273.
(iv) Section 9276.
(v) Section 9281 other than the first place
it appears in subsection (a).
(vi) Section 9286(a) other than the first
place it appears.
(B) MEDAL OF HONOR; AIR FORCE CROSS; DIS-
TINGUISHED-SERVICE MEDAL: DELEGATION OF
POWER TO AWARD.—Section 9275 of such title
is amended by inserting before the period at
the end the following: ‘‘, or to an equivalent
commander of a separate space force or high-
er unit in the field’’.
(13) TWENTY YEARS OR MORE: REGULAR OR
RESERVE COMMISSIONED OFFICERS.—Section
9311(a) of such title is amended by inserting
‘‘or the Space Force’’ after ‘‘officer of the
Air Force’’.
(14) TWENTY TO THIRTY YEARS: ENLISTED
MEMBERS.—Section 9314 of such title is
amended by inserting ‘‘or the Space Force’’
after ‘‘member of the Air Force’’.
(15) THIRTY YEARS OR MORE: REGULAR EN-
LISTED MEMBERS.—Section 9317 of such title
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00109 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6796 November 16, 2020
is amended by inserting ‘‘or the Space
Force’’ after ‘‘Air Force’’.
(16) THIRTY YEARS OR MORE: REGULAR COM-
MISSIONED OFFICERS.—Section 9318 of such
title is amended by inserting ‘‘or the Space
Force’’ after ‘‘Air Force’’.
(17) FORTY YEARS OR MORE: AIR FORCE OFFI-
CERS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 9324 of such title
is amended in subsections (a) and (b) by in-
serting ‘‘or the Space Force’’ after ‘‘Air
Force’’.
(B) HEADING.—The heading of such section
9324 is amended to read as follows:
‘‘§ 9324. Forty years or more: Air Force offi-
cers and Space Force officers’’.
(C) TABLE OF SECTIONS AMENDMENT.—The
table of sections at the beginning of chapter
941 of such title is amended by striking the
item relating to section 9324 and inserting
the following new item:
‘‘9324. Forty years or more: Air Force offi-
cers and Space Force officers.’’.
(18) COMPUTATION OF YEARS OF SERVICE:
VOLUNTARY RETIREMENT; ENLISTED MEM-
BERS.—Section 9325(a) of such title is amend-
ed by inserting ‘‘or the Space Force’’ after
‘‘Air Force’’.
(19) COMPUTATION OF YEARS OF SERVICE:
VOLUNTARY RETIREMENT; REGULAR AND RE-
SERVE COMMISSIONED OFFICERS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 9326(a) of such
title is amended—
(i) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by inserting ‘‘or the Space Force’’ after ‘‘of
the Air Force’’; and
(ii) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘or the
Air Force’’ and inserting ‘‘, the Air Force, or
the Space Force’’.
(B) TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.—Such section
9326(a) is further amended by striking ‘‘his’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘the offi-
cer’s’’.
(20) COMPUTATION OF RETIRED PAY: LAW AP-
PLICABLE.—Section 9329 of such title is
amended by inserting ‘‘or the Space Force’’
after ‘‘Air Force’’.
(21) RETIRED GRADE.—
(A) HIGHER GRADE AFTER 30 YEARS OF SERV-
ICE: WARRANT OFFICERS AND ENLISTED MEM-
BERS.—Section 9344 of such title is amend-
ed—
(i) in subsection (a), by inserting ‘‘or the
Space Force’’ after ‘‘member of the Air
Force’’; and
(ii) in subsection (b)—
(I) in paragraphs (1) and (3), by inserting
‘‘or the Space Force’’ after ‘‘Air Force’’ each
place it appears; and
(II) in paragraph (2), by inserting ‘‘or the
Regular Space Force’’ after ‘‘Regular Air
Force’’.
(B) RESTORATION TO FORMER GRADE: RE-
TIRED WARRANT OFFICERS AND ENLISTED MEM-
BERS.—Section 9345 of such title is amended
by inserting ‘‘or the Space Force’’ after
‘‘member of the Air Force’’.
(C) RETIRED LISTS.—Section 9346 of such
title is amended—
(i) in subsections (a) and (d), by inserting
‘‘or the Regular Space Force’’ after ‘‘Regular
Air Force’’;
(ii) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting before
the semicolon the following: ‘‘, or for com-
missioned officers of the Space Force other
than of the Regular Space Force’’; and
(iii) in subsections (b)(2) and (c), by insert-
ing ‘‘or the Space Force’’ after ‘‘Air Force’’.
(22) RECOMPUTATION OF RETIRED PAY TO RE-
FLECT ADVANCEMENT ON RETIRED LIST.—Sec-
tion 9362(a) of such title is amended by in-
serting ‘‘or the Space Force’’ after ‘‘Air
Force’’.
(23) FATALITY REVIEWS.—Section 9381(a) of
such title is amended in paragraphs (1), (2),
and (3) by inserting ‘‘or the Space Force’’
after ‘‘Air Force’’.
(d) TRAINING.—
(1) MEMBERS OF AIR FORCE: DETAIL AS STU-
DENTS, OBSERVERS, AND INVESTIGATORS AT
EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS, INDUSTRIAL
PLANTS, AND HOSPITALS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 9401 of title 10,
United States Code, is amended—
(i) in subsection (a), by inserting ‘‘and
members of the Space Force’’ after ‘‘mem-
bers of the Air Force’’;
(ii) in subsection (b), by inserting ‘‘or the
Regular Space Force’’ after ‘‘Regular Air
Force’’;
(iii) in subsection (c),by inserting ‘‘or Re-
serve of the Space Force’’ after ‘‘Reserve of
the Air Force’’;
(iv) in subsection (e), by inserting ‘‘or the
Space Force’’ after ‘‘Air Force’’; and
(v) in subsection (f)—
(I) by inserting ‘‘or the Regular Space
Force’’ after ‘‘Regular Air Force’’; and
(II) by inserting ‘‘or the Space Force Re-
serve’’ after ‘‘the reserve components of the
Air Force’’.
(B) TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.—Subsection
(c) of such section 9401 is further amended—
(i) by striking ‘‘his’’ and inserting ‘‘the Re-
serve’s’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘he’’ and inserting ‘‘the Re-
serve’’,
(C) HEADING.—The heading of such section
9401 is amended to read as follows:
‘‘§ 9401. Members of Air Force and Space
Force: detail as students, observers and in-
vestigators at educational institutions, in-
dustrial plants, and hospitals’’.
(D) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sec-
tions at the beginning of chapter 951 of such
title is amended by striking the item relat-
ing to section 9401 and inserting the fol-
lowing new item:
‘‘9401. Members of Air Force and Space
Force: detail as students, ob-
servers, and investigators at
educational institutions, indus-
trial plants, and hospitals.’’.
(2) ENLISTED MEMBERS OF AIR FORCE:
SCHOOLS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 9402 of such title
is amended—
(i) in subsection (a)—
(I) in the first sentence, by inserting ‘‘and
enlisted members of the Space Force’’ after
‘‘members of the Air Force’’; and
(II) in the third sentence, by inserting
‘‘and Space Force officers’’ after ‘‘Air Force
officers’’; and
(ii) in subsection (b), by inserting ‘‘or the
Space Force’’ after ‘‘Air Force’’ each place it
appears.
(B) HEADING.—The heading of such section
9402 is amended to read as follows:
‘‘§ 9402. Enlisted members Air Force or Space
Force: schools’’.
(C) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sec-
tions at the beginning of chapter 951 of such
title is amended by striking the item relat-
ing to section 9402 and inserting the fol-
lowing new item:
‘‘9402. Enlisted members of Air Force or
Space Force: schools.’’.
(3) SERVICE SCHOOLS: LEAVES OF ABSENCE
FOR INSTRUCTORS.—Section 9406 of such title
is amended by inserting ‘‘or Space Force’’
after ‘‘Air Force’’.
(4) DEGREE GRANTING AUTHORITY FOR
UNITED STATES AIR FORCE INSTITUTE OF TECH-
NOLOGY.—Section 9414(d)(1) of such title is
amended by inserting ‘‘or the Space Force’’
after ‘‘needs of the Air Force’’.
(5) UNITED STATES AIR FORCE INSTITUTE OF
TECHNOLOGY: ADMINISTRATION.—Section
9414b(a)(2) is amended—
(A) by inserting ‘‘or the Space Force’’ after
‘‘the Air Force’’ each place it appears; and
(B) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ‘‘or
the equivalent grade in the Space Force’’
after ‘‘brigadier general’’.
(6) COMMUNITY COLLEGE OF THE AIR FORCE:
ASSOCIATE DEGREES.—Section 9415 of such
title is amended—
(A) in subsection (a) in the matter pre-
ceding paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘in the Air
Force’’ and inserting ‘‘in the Department of
the Air Force’’; and
(B) in subsection (b)—
(i) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘or the
Space Force’’ after ‘‘Air Force’’;
(ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘other
than’’ and all that follows through the end
and inserting ‘‘other than the Air Force or
the Space Force who are serving as instruc-
tors at Department of the Air Force training
schools.’’; and
(iii) in paragraph (3), by inserting ‘‘or the
Space Force’’ after ‘‘Air Force’’.
(7) AIR FORCE ACADEMY ESTABLISHMENT; SU-
PERINTENDENT; FACULTY.—Section 9431(a) of
such title is amended by striking ‘‘Air Force
cadets’’ and inserting ‘‘cadets’’.
(8) AIR FORCE ACADEMY SUPERINTENDENT;
FACULTY: APPOINTMENT AND DETAIL.—Section
9433(a) of such title is amended by inserting
‘‘or the Space Force’’ after ‘‘Air Force’’.
(9) AIR FORCE ACADEMY PERMANENT PROFES-
SORS; DIRECTOR OF ADMISSIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 9436 of such title
is amended—
(i) in subsection (a)—
(I) in the first sentence, by inserting ‘‘in
the Air Force or the equivalent grade in the
Space Force’’ after ‘‘colonel’’;
(II) in the second sentence, by inserting
‘‘and a permanent professor appointed from
the Regular Space Force has the grade equiv-
alent to the grade of colonel in the Regular
Air Force’’ after ‘‘grade of colonel’’; and
(III) in the third sentence, by inserting ‘‘in
the Air Force or the equivalent grade in the
Space Force’’ after ‘‘lieutenant colonel’’; and
(ii) in subsection (b)—
(I) in the first sentence, ‘‘in the Air Force
or the equivalent grade in the Space Force’’
after ‘‘colonel’’ each place it appears; and
(II) in the second sentence, by inserting
‘‘and a person appointed from the Regular
Space Force has the grade equivalent to the
grade of colonel in the Regular Air Force’’
after ‘‘grade of colonel’’.
(B) TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.—Subsections
(a) and (b) of such section 9436 are further
amended by striking ‘‘he’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘such person’’.
(10) CADETS: APPOINTMENT; NUMBERS, TERRI-
TORIAL DISTRIBUTION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 9442 of such title
is amended—
(i) by striking ‘‘Air Force Cadets’’ each
place it appears and inserting ‘‘cadets’’; and
(ii) in subsection (b)(2), by inserting ‘‘or
the Regular Space Force’’ after ‘‘Regular Air
Force’’.
(B) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.—Subsection
(b)(4) of such section 9442 is amended by
striking ‘‘him’’ and inserting ‘‘the Sec-
retary’’.
(11) CADETS: AGREEMENT TO SERVE AS OFFI-
CER.—Section 9448(a) of such title is amend-
ed—
(A) in paragraph (2)(A), by inserting ‘‘or
the Regular Space Force’’ after ‘‘Regular Air
Force’’; and
(B) in paragraph (3)(A), by inserting before
the semicolon the following: ‘‘or as a Reserve
in the Space Force for service in the Space
Force Reserve’’.
(12) CADETS: ORGANIZATION; SERVICE; IN-
STRUCTION.—Section 9449 of such title is
amended by striking subsection (d).
(13) CADETS: HAZING.—Section 9452(c) of
such title is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘an Air Force cadet’’ and
inserting ‘‘a cadet’’; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00110 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6797
November 16, 2020
(B) by striking ‘‘or Marine Corps’’ and in-
serting ‘‘Marine Corps, or Space Force’’.
(14) CADETS: DEGREE AND COMMISSION ON
GRADUATION.—Section 9453(b) of such title is
amended by inserting ‘‘or in the equivalent
grade in the Regular Space Force’’ after
‘‘Regular Air Force’’.
(15) SUPPORT OF ATHLETIC PROGRAMS.—Sec-
tion 9462(c)(2) of such title is amended by
striking ‘‘personnel of the Air Force’’ and in-
serting ‘‘personnel of the Department of the
Air Force’’.
(16) SCHOOLS AND CAMPS: ESTABLISHMENT:
PURPOSE.—Section 9481 of such title is
amended—
(A) by inserting ‘‘, the Space Force,’’ after
‘‘members of the Air Force,’’; and
(B) by inserting ‘‘or the Space Force Re-
serve’’ after ‘‘the Air Force Reserve’’.
(17) SCHOOLS AND CAMPS: OPERATION.—Sec-
tion 9482 of such title is amended—
(A) in paragraph (4), by inserting ‘‘or the
Regular Space Force’’ after ‘‘Regular Air
Force’’; and
(B) in paragraph (7), in the matter pre-
ceding subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘or
Space Force’’ after ‘‘Air Force’’.
(e) SERVICE, SUPPLY, AND PROCUREMENT.—
(1) EQUIPMENT: BAKERIES, SCHOOLS, KITCH-
ENS, AND MESS HALLS.—Section 9536 of title
10, United States Code, is amended in the
matter preceding paragraph (1) by inserting
‘‘or the Space Force’’ after ‘‘the Air Force’’.
(2) RATIONS.—Section 9561 of such title is
amended—
(A) in subsection (a)—
(i) in the first sentence, by inserting ‘‘and
the Space Force ration’’ after ‘‘the Air Force
ration’’; and
(ii) in the second sentence, by inserting ‘‘or
the Space Force’’ after ‘‘the Air Force’’; and
(B) in subsection (b), by inserting ‘‘or the
Space Force’’ after ‘‘the Air Force’’.
(3) CLOTHING.—Section 9562 of such title is
amended by inserting ‘‘and members of the
Space Force’’ after ‘‘the Air Force’’.
(4) CLOTHING: REPLACEMENT WHEN DE-
STROYED TO PREVENT CONTAGION.—Section
9563 of such title is amended by inserting ‘‘or
the Space Force’’ after ‘‘member of the Air
Force’’.
(5) COLORS, STANDARDS, AND GUIDONS OF DE-
MOBILIZED ORGANIZATIONS: DISPOSITION.—Sec-
tion 9565 of such title is amended—
(A) in subsection (a), in the matter pre-
ceding paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘or the
Space Force’’ after ‘‘organizations of the Air
Force’’; and
(B) in subsection (b), by inserting ‘‘or the
Space Force’’ after ‘‘the Air Force’’.
(6) UTILITIES: PROCEEDS FROM OVERSEAS OP-
ERATIONS.—Section 9591 of such title is
amended by inserting ‘‘or the Space Force’’
after ‘‘the Air Force’’.
(7) QUARTERS: HEAT AND LIGHT.—Section
9593 of such title is amended by inserting
‘‘and members of the Space Force’’ after
‘‘the Air Force’’.
(8) AIR FORCE MILITARY HISTORY INSTITUTE:
FEE FOR PROVIDING HISTORICAL INFORMATION
TO THE PUBLIC.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 9594 of such title
is amended—
(i) in subsections (a) and (d), by inserting
‘‘Department of the’’ before ‘‘Air Force Mili-
tary History’’ each place it appears; and
(ii) in subsection (e)(1)—
(I) by inserting ‘‘Department of the’’ before
‘‘Air Force Military History’’; and
(II) by inserting ‘‘and the Space Force’’
after ‘‘materials of the Air Force’’.
(B) HEADING.—The heading of such section
9594 is amended to read as follows:
‘‘§ 9594. Department of the Air Force Military
History Institute: fee for providing histor-
ical information to the public’’.
(C) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sec-
tions at the beginning of chapter 967 of such
title is amended by striking the item relat-
ing to section 9594 and inserting the fol-
lowing new item:
‘‘9594. Department of the Air Force Military
History Institute: fee for pro-
viding historical information to
the public.’’.
(9) SUBSISTENCE AND OTHER SUPPLIES: MEM-
BERS OF ARMED FORCES; VETERANS; EXECUTIVE
OR MILITARY DEPARTMENTS AND EMPLOYEES;
PRICES.—Section 9621 of such title is amend-
ed—
(A) in subsection (a)—
(i) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘and
members of the Space Force’’ after ‘‘the Air
Force’’; and
(ii) in paragraph (2), by inserting ‘‘and offi-
cers of the Space Force’’ after ‘‘the Air
Force’’;
(B) in subsection (b), by inserting ‘‘or the
Space Force’’ after ‘‘the Air Force’’;
(C) in subsection (c), by inserting ‘‘or the
Space Force’’ after ‘‘the Air Force’’;
(D) in subsection (d), by striking ‘‘or Ma-
rine Corps’’ and inserting ‘‘Marine Corps, or
Space Force’’;
(E) in subsection (e)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘or the Space Force’’ after
‘‘the Air Force’’ the first place it appears;
and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘or the Space Force, re-
spectively’’ after ‘‘the Air Force’’ the second
place it appears;
(F) in subsection (f), by inserting ‘‘or the
Space Force’’ after ‘‘the Air Force’’; and
(G) in subsection (h)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘or the Space Force’’ after
‘‘the Air Force’’ the first place it appears;
and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘or members of the Space
Force’’ after ‘‘members of the Air Force’’.
(10) RATIONS: COMMISSIONED OFFICERS IN
FIELD.—Section 9622 of such title is amended
by inserting ‘‘and commissioned officers of
the Space Force’’ after ‘‘officers of the Air
Force’’.
(11) MEDICAL SUPPLIES: CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES
OF THE AIR FORCE.—Section 9624(a) of such
title is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘air base’’ and inserting
‘‘Air Force or Space Force military installa-
tion’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘Air Force when’’ and in-
serting ‘‘Department of the Air Force when’’.
(12) ORDNANCE PROPERTY: OFFICERS OF
ARMED FORCES; CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES OF AIR
FORCE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 9625 of such title
is amended—
(i) in subsection (a), by inserting ‘‘or the
Space Force’’ after ‘‘officers of the Air
Force’’; and
(ii) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘the Air
Force’’ and inserting ‘‘the Department of the
Air Force’’.
(B) HEADING.—The heading of such section
is amended to read as follows:
‘‘§ 9625. Ordnance property: officers of the
armed forces; civilian employees of the De-
partment of the Air Force; American Na-
tional Red Cross; educational institutions;
homes for veterans’ orphans’’.
(C) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sec-
tions at the beginning of chapter 969 of such
title is amended by striking the item relat-
ing to section 9625 and inserting the fol-
lowing new item:
‘‘9625. Ordnance property: officers of the
armed forces; civilian employ-
ees of the Department of the
Air Force; American National
Red Cross; educational institu-
tions; homes for veterans’ or-
phans.’’.
(13) SUPPLIES: EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS.—
Section 9627 of such title is amended—
(A) by inserting ‘‘or the Space Force’’ after
‘‘for the Air Force’’;
(B) by inserting ‘‘or the Space Force’’ after
‘‘officer of the Air Force’’; and
(C) by striking ‘‘air science and tactics’’
and inserting ‘‘science and tactics’’.
(14) SUPPLIES: MILITARY INSTRUCTION
CAMPS.—Section 9654 of such title is amend-
ed—
(A) by inserting ‘‘or Space Force’’ after
‘‘an Air Force’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘air science and tactics’’
and inserting ‘‘science and tactics’’.
(15) DISPOSITION OF EFFECTS OF DECEASED
PERSONS BY SUMMARY COURT-MARTIAL.—Sec-
tion 9712(a)(1) of such title is amended by in-
serting ‘‘or the Space Force’’ after ‘‘the Air
Force’’.
(16) ACCEPTANCE OF DONATIONS: LAND FOR
MOBILIZATION, TRAINING, SUPPLY BASE, OR
AVIATION FIELD.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 9771 of such title
is amended in paragraph (2) by inserting ‘‘or
space mission-related facility’’ after ‘‘avia-
tion field’’.
(B) HEADING.—The heading of such section
9771 is amended to read as follows:
‘‘§ 9771. Acceptance of donations: land for mo-
bilization, training, supply base, aviation
field, or space mission-related facility’’.
(C) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sec-
tions at the beginning of chapter 979 of such
title is amended by striking the item relat-
ing to section 9771 and inserting the fol-
lowing new item:
‘‘9771. Acceptance of donations: land for mo-
bilization, training, supply
base, aviation field, or space
mission-related facility.’’.
(17) ACQUISITION AND CONSTRUCTION: AIR
BASES AND DEPOTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 9773 of such title
is amended—
(i) in subsection (a)—
(I) by striking ‘‘permanent air bases’’ and
inserting ‘‘permanent Air Force and Space
Force military installations’’;
(II) by striking ‘‘existing air bases’’ and in-
serting ‘‘existing installations’’; and
(III) by inserting ‘‘or the Space Force’’
after ‘‘training of the Air Force’’;
(ii) in subsections (b) and (c), by striking
‘‘air bases’’ each place it appears and insert-
ing ‘‘installations’’;
(iii) in subsection (b)(7), by inserting ‘‘or
Space Force’’ after ‘‘Air Force’’;
(iv) in subsection (c)—
(I) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘or Space
Force’’ after ‘‘Air Force’’; and
(II) in paragraphs (3) and (4), by inserting
‘‘or the Space Force’’ after ‘‘the Air Force’’
both places it appears; and
(v) in subsection (f), by striking ‘‘air base’’
and inserting ‘‘installation’’.
(B) HEADING.—The heading of such section
9773 is amended to read as follows:
‘‘§ 9773. Acquisition and construction: instal-
lations and depots’’.
(C) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sec-
tions at the beginning of chapter 979 of such
title is amended by striking the item relat-
ing to section 9773 and inserting the fol-
lowing new item:
‘‘9773. Acquisition and construction: installa-
tions and depots.’’.
(18) EMERGENCY CONSTRUCTION: FORTIFICA-
TIONS.—Section 9776 of such title is amended
by striking ‘‘air base’’ and inserting ‘‘instal-
lation’’.
(19) USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.—Section 9779
of such title is amended—
(A) in subsection (a), by inserting ‘‘or the
Space Force’’ after ‘‘economy of the Air
Force’’; and
(B) in subsection (b), by inserting ‘‘or the
Space Force’’ after ‘‘support of the Air
Force’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00111 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6798 November 16, 2020
(20) DISPOSITION OF REAL PROPERTY AT MIS-
SILE SITES.—Section 9781(a)(2) of such title is
amended—
(A) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by striking ‘‘Air Force’’ and inserting
‘‘Department of the Air Force’’;
(B) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘Air
Force’’ the first two places it appears and in-
serting ‘‘Department of the Air Force’’; and
(C) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘Air
Force’’ and inserting ‘‘Department of the Air
Force’’.
(21) MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF REAL
PROPERTY.—Section 9782 of such title is
amended in subsections (c) and (d) by insert-
ing ‘‘or the Space Force’’ after ‘‘the Air
Force’’ both places it appears.
(22) SETTLEMENT OF ACCOUNTS: REMISSION
OR CANCELLATION OF INDEBTEDNESS OF MEM-
BERS.—Section 9837(a) of such title is amend-
ed by inserting ‘‘or the Space Force’’ after
‘‘member of the Air Force’’.
(23) FINAL SETTLEMENT OF OFFICER’S AC-
COUNTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 9840 of such title
is amended by inserting ‘‘or the Space
Force’’ after ‘‘Air Force’’.
(B) TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.—Such section
9840 is further amended—
(i) by striking ‘‘he’’ each place it appears
and inserting ‘‘the officer’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘his’’ each place it appears
and inserting ‘‘the officer’s’’.
(24) PAYMENT OF SMALL AMOUNTS TO PUBLIC
CREDITORS.—Section 9841 of such title is
amended by inserting ‘‘or Space Force’’ after
‘‘official of Air Force’’.
(25) SETTLEMENT OF ACCOUNTS OF LINE OFFI-
CERS.—Section 9842 of such title is amended
by inserting ‘‘or the Space Force’’ after ‘‘Air
Force’’.
(f) SERVICE OF INCUMBENTS IN CERTAIN PO-
SITIONS WITHOUT REAPPOINTMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The individual serving in
a position under a provision of law specified
in paragraph (2) as of the date of the enact-
ment of this Act may continue to serve in
such position after that date without further
appointment as otherwise provided by such
provision of law, notwithstanding the
amendment of such provision of law by sub-
section (b).
(2) PROVISIONS OF LAW.—The provisions of
law specified in this paragraph are the provi-
sions of title 10, United States Code, as fol-
lows:
(A) Section 9020, relating to the Inspector
General of the Department of the Air Force.
(B) Section 9036. relating to the Surgeon
General of the Air Force.
(C) Section 9037(a), relating to the Judge
Advocate General of the Air Force.
(D) Section 9037(d), relating to the Deputy
Judge Advocate General of the Air Force.
(E) Section 9039, relating to the Chief of
Chaplains for the Air Force and the Space
Force.
SEC. 933. AMENDMENTS TO OTHER PROVISIONS
OF TITLE 10, UNITED STATES CODE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—Section 101(b)(13) of title
10, United States Code, is amended in para-
graph (13), by striking ‘‘or Marine Corps’’
and inserting ‘‘Marine Corps, or Space
Force’’.
(b) OTHER PROVISIONS OF SUBTITLE A.—
(1) SPACE FORCE I.—Subtitle A of title 10,
United States Code, as amended by sub-
section (a), is further amended by striking
‘‘and Marine Corps’’ each place it appears
and inserting ‘‘Marine Corps, and Space
Force’’ in the following provisions:
(A) Section 116(a)(1) in the matter pre-
ceding subparagraph (A).
(B) Section 533(a)(2).
(C) Section 646.
(D) Section 661(a).
(E) Section 712(a).
(F) Section 717(c)(1).
(G) Subsections (c) and (d) of section 741.
(H) Section 743.
(I) Section 1111(b)(4).
(J) Subsections (a)(2)(A) and (c)(2)(A)(ii) of
section 1143.
(K) Section 1174(j).
(L) Section 1463(a)(1).
(M) Section 1566.
(N) Section 2217(c)(2).
(O) Section 2259(a).
(P) Section 2640(j).
(2) SPACE FORCE II.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Such subtitle is further
amended by striking ‘‘Marine Corps,’’ each
place it appears and inserting ‘‘Marine
Corps, Space Force,’’ in the following provi-
sions:
(i) Section 123(a).
(ii) Section 172(a).
(iii) Section 518.
(iv) Section 747.
(v) Section 749.
(vi) Section 1552(c)(1).
(vii) Section 2632(c)(2)(A).
(viii) Section 2686(a).
(ix) Section 2733(a).
(B) HEADING.—The heading of section 747 of
such title is amended to read as follows:
‘‘§ 747. Command: when different commands
of Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps,
Space Force, and Coast Guard join’’.
(C) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sec-
tions at the beginning of chapter 43 of such
title is amended by striking the item relat-
ing to section 747 and inserting the following
new item:
‘‘747. Command: when different commands of
Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine
Corps, Space Force, and Coast
Guard join.’’.
(3) SPACE FORCE III.—Such subtitle is fur-
ther amended by striking ‘‘or Marine Corps’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘Marine
Corps, or Space Force’’ in the following pro-
visions:
(A) Section 125(b).
(B) Section 541(a).
(C) Section 601(a).
(D) Section 603(a).
(E) Section 619(a).
(F) Section 619a(a).
(G) Section 624(c).
(H) Section 625(b).
(I) Subsections (a) and (d) of section 631.
(J) Section 632(a).
(K) Section 637(a)(2).
(L) Section 638(a).
(M) Section 741(d).
(N) Section 771.
(O) Section 772.
(P) Section 773.
(Q) Section 1123.
(R) Section 1143(d).
(S) Section 1174(a)(2).
(T) Section 1251(a).
(U) Section 1252(a).
(V) Section 1253(a).
(W) Section 1375.
(X) Section 1413a(h).
(Y) Section 1551.
(Z) Section 1561(a).
(AA) Section 1731(a)(1)(A)(ii).
(BB) Section 2102(a).
(CC) Section 2103a(a)(2).
(DD) Section 2104(b)(5).
(EE) Section 2107.
(FF) Section 2421.
(GG) Section 2631(a).
(HH) Section 2787(a).
(4) REGULAR SPACE FORCE I.—Such subtitle
is further amended by striking ‘‘or Regular
Marine Corps’’ each place it appears and in-
serting ‘‘Regular Marine Corps, or Regular
Space Force’’ in the following provisions:
(A) Section 531(c).
(B) Section 532(a) in the matter preceding
paragraph (1).
(C) Subsections (a)(1), (b)(1), and (f) of sec-
tion 533.
(D) Section 633(a).
(E) Section 634(a).
(F) Section 635.
(G) Section 636(a).
(H) Section 647(c).
(I) Section 688(b)(1).
(J) Section 1181.
(5) REGULAR SPACE FORCE II.—Such subtitle
is further amended by striking ‘‘Regular Ma-
rine Corps,’’ each place it appears and insert-
ing ‘‘Regular Marine Corps, Regular Space
Force,’’ in the following provisions:
(A) Section 505.
(B) Section 506.
(C) Section 508.
(6) TRANSFER, ETC. OF FUNCTIONS, POWERS,
AND DUTIES.—Section 125(b) of such title, as
amended by paragraph (3)(A), is further
amended by striking ‘‘or 9062(c)’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘9062(c), or 9081’’.
(7) JOINT STAFF MATTERS.—
(A) APPOINTMENT OF CHAIRMAN; GRADE AND
RANK.—Section 152 of such title is amended—
(i) in subsection (b)(1)(C), by striking ‘‘or
the Commandant of the Marine Corps’’ and
inserting ‘‘the Commandant of the Marine
Corps, or the Chief of Space Operations’’; and
(ii) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘or, in
the case of the Navy, admiral’’ and inserting
‘‘, in the case of the Navy, admiral, or, in the
case of an officer of the Space Force, the
equivalent grade,’’.
(B) INCLUSION OF SPACE FORCE ON JOINT
STAFF.—Section 155(a) of such title is amend-
ed—
(i) in paragraph (2) by inserting ‘‘the Space
Force and’’ before ‘‘the Coast Guard’’;
(ii) by redesignating paragraph (3) as para-
graph (4); and
(iii) by inserting after paragraph (2) the
following new paragraph (3):
‘‘(3) Officers of the Space Force assigned to
serve on the Joint Staff shall be selected by
the Chairman in a number that, to the ex-
tent practicable, bears the same proportion
to the numbers of officers of the armed
forces selected under paragraph (2) as the
number of Regular members of the Space
Force bears to the number of Regular mem-
bers of the armed forces specified in that
paragraph (with the Navy and the Marine
Corps treated as a single armed force for pur-
poses of this paragraph).’’.
(8) ARMED FORCES POLICY COUNCIL.—Section
171(a) of such title is amended—
(A) in paragraph (15), by striking ‘‘and’’;
(B) in paragraph (16), by striking the pe-
riod and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(17) the Chief of Space Operations.’’.
(9) JOINT REQUIREMENTS OVERSIGHT COUN-
CIL.—Section 181(c)(1) of such title is amend-
ed by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(F) A Space Force officer in the grade
equivalent to the grade of general in the
Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, or admi-
ral in the Navy.’’.
(10) UNFUNDED PRIORITIES.—Section 222a(b)
of such title is amended—
(A) by redesignating paragraph (5) as para-
graph (6); and
(B) by inserting after paragraph (4) the fol-
lowing new paragraph:
‘‘(5) The Chief of Space Operations.’’.
(11) THEATER SECURITY COOPERATION EX-
PENSES.—Section 312(b)(3) of such title is
amended by inserting ‘‘the Chief of Space
Operations,’’ after ‘‘the Commandant of the
Marine Corps,’’.
(12) WESTERN HEMISPHERE INSTITUTE.—Sec-
tion 343(e)(1)(E) of such title is amended by
inserting ‘‘or Space Force’’ after ‘‘for the Air
Force’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00112 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6799
November 16, 2020
(13) ORIGINAL APPOINTMENTS OF COMMIS-
SIONED OFFICERS.—Section 531(a) of such title
is amended—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘and in
the grades of ensign, lieutenant (junior
grade), and lieutenant in the Regular Navy’’
and inserting ‘‘in the grades of ensign, lieu-
tenant (junior grade), and lieutenant in the
Regular Navy, and in the equivalent grades
in the Regular Space Force’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘and in
the grades of lieutenant commander, com-
mander, and captain in the Regular Navy’’
and inserting ‘‘in the grades of lieutenant
commander, commander, and captain in the
Regular Navy, and in the equivalent grades
in the Regular Space Force’’.
(14) SERVICE CREDIT UPON ORIGINAL APPOINT-
MENT AS A COMMISSIONED OFFICER.—Section
533(b)(2) of such title is amended by striking
‘‘or captain in the Navy’’ and inserting ‘‘,
captain in the Navy, or an equivalent grade
in the Space Force’’.
(15) SENIOR JOINT OFFICER POSITIONS: REC-
OMMENDATIONS TO THE SECRETARY OF DE-
FENSE.—Section 604(a)(1)(A) of such title is
amended by inserting ‘‘and the name of at
least one Space Force officer’’ after ‘‘Air
Force officer’’.
(16) FORCE SHAPING AUTHORITY.—Section
647(a)(2) of such title is amended by striking
‘‘of that armed force’’.
(17) MEMBERS: REQUIRED SERVICE.—Section
651(b) of such title is amended by striking
‘‘of his armed force’’.
(18) CAREER FLEXIBILITY TO ENHANCE RETEN-
TION OF MEMBERS.—Section 710(c)(1) of such
title is amended by striking ‘‘the armed
force concerned’’ and inserting ‘‘an armed
force’’.
(19) SENIOR MEMBERS OF MILITARY STAFF
COMMITTEE OF UNITED NATIONS.—Section 711
of such title is amended by inserting ‘‘or the
Space Force’’ after ‘‘Air Force’’.
(20) RANK: CHIEF OF SPACE OPERATIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 743 of such title
is amended by striking ‘‘and the Com-
mandant of the Marine Corps’’ and inserting
‘‘the Commandant of the Marine Corps, and
the Chief of Space Operations’’.
(B) HEADING.—The heading of such section
743 is amended to read as follows:
‘‘§ 743. Rank: Chief of Staff of the Army; Chief
of Naval Operations; Chief of Staff of the
Air Force; Commandant of the Marine
Corps; Chief of Space Operations’’.
(C) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sec-
tions at the beginning of chapter 43 of such
title is amended by striking the item relat-
ing to section 743 and inserting the following
new item:
‘‘743. Rank: Chief of Staff of the Army; Chief
of Naval Operations; Chief of
Staff of the Air Force; Com-
mandant of the Marine Corps;
Chief of Space Operations.’’.
(21) UNIFORM CODE OF MILITARY JUSTICE.—
Chapter 47 of such title (the Uniform Code of
Military Justice) is amended—
(A) in section 822(a)(7) (article 22(a)(7)), by
striking ‘‘Marine Corps’’ and inserting ‘‘Ma-
rine Corps, or the commanding officer of a
corresponding unit of the Space Force’’;
(B) in section 823(a) (article 23(a))—
(i) in paragraph (2)—
(I) by striking ‘‘Air Force base’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘Air Force or Space Force military in-
stallation’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘or the Air Force’’ and in-
serting ‘‘the Air Force, or the Space Force’’;
and
(ii) in paragraph (4), by inserting ‘‘or a cor-
responding unit of the Space Force’’ after
‘‘Air Force’’; and
(C) in section 824(a)(3) (article 24(a)(3)), by
inserting ‘‘or a corresponding unit of the
Space Force’’ after ‘‘Air Force’’.
(22) SERVICE AS CADET OR MIDSHIPMAN NOT
COUNTED FOR LENGTH OF SERVICE.—Section
971(b)(2) of such title is amended by striking
‘‘or Air Force’’ and inserting ‘‘, Air Force, or
Space Force’’.
(23) REFERRAL BONUS.—Section 1030(h)(3) of
such title is amended by inserting ‘‘and the
Space Force’’ after ‘‘concerning the Air
Force’’.
(24) RETURN TO ACTIVE DUTY FROM TEM-
PORARY DISABILITY.—Section 1211(a) of such
title is amended—
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘or the Air Force’’ and inserting
‘‘, the Air Force, or the Space Force’’; and
(B) in paragraph (6)—
(i) by striking ‘‘or the Air Force, who’’ and
inserting ‘‘the Air Force, or the Space Force
who’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘or the Air Force, as’’ and
inserting ‘‘the Air Force, or the Space Force,
as’’.
(25) YEARS OF SERVICE.—Section 1405(c) of
such title is amended by striking ‘‘or Air
Force’’ and inserting ‘‘, Air Force, or Space
Force’’.
(26) RETIRED PAY BASE FOR PERSONS WHO BE-
CAME MEMBERS BEFORE SEPTEMBER 8, 1980.—
Section 1406 of such title is amended—
(A) in the heading of subsection (e), by in-
serting ‘‘AND SPACE FORCE’’ after ‘‘AIR
FORCE’’; and
(B) in subsection (i)(3)—
(i) in subparagraph (A)—
(I) by redesignating clause (v) as clause
(vi); and
(II) by inserting after clause (iv) the fol-
lowing new clause (v):
‘‘(v) Chief of Space Operations.’’; and
(ii) in subparagraph (B)—
(I) by redesignating clause (v) as clause
(vi); and
(II) by inserting after clause (iv) the fol-
lowing new clause (v):
‘‘(v) The senior enlisted advisor of the
Space Force.’’.
(27) SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR MILITARY
PERSONNEL IN THE ACQUISITION FIELD.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 1722a(a) of such
title is amended by striking ‘‘and the Com-
mandant of the Marine Corps (with respect
to the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine
Corps, respectively)’’ and inserting ‘‘, the
Commandant of the Marine Corps, and the
Chief of Space Operations (with respect to
the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps,
and Space Force, respectively)’’.
(B) CLARIFYING AMENDMENT.—Such section
1722a(a) is further amended by striking ‘‘the
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition,
Technology, and Logistics’’ and inserting
‘‘the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisi-
tion and Sustainment’’.
(28) SENIOR MILITARY ACQUISITION ADVI-
SORS.—Section 1725(e)(1)(C) of such title is
amended by inserting ‘‘and Space Force’’ be-
fore the period.
(29) MILITARY FAMILY READINESS COUNCIL.—
Section 1781a(b)(1) of such title is amended
by striking ‘‘Marine Corps, and Air Force’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘Air
Force, Marine Corps, and Space Force’’.
(30) FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM FOR
SPECIALLY SELECTED MEMBERS.—Section 2107
of such title is amended—
(A) in subsection (a)—
(i) by striking ‘‘or as a’’ and inserting ‘‘, as
a’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘or as an officer in the
equivalent grade in the Space Force’’ after
‘‘Marine Corps,’’;
(B) in subsection (b)—
(i) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘the re-
serve component of the armed force in which
he is appointed as a cadet or midshipman’’
and inserting ‘‘the reserve component of an
armed force’’; and
(ii) in paragraph (5), by striking ‘‘reserve
component of that armed force’’ each place
it appears and inserting ‘‘reserve component
of an armed force’’; and
(C) in subsection (d), by striking ‘‘second
lieutenant or ensign’’ and inserting ‘‘second
lieutenant, ensign, or an equivalent grade in
the Space Force’’.
(31) SPACE RAPID CAPABILITIES OFFICE.—
Section 2273a(d) of such title is amended by
striking paragraph (3).
(32) ACQUISITION-RELATED FUNCTIONS OF
CHIEFS OF THE ARMED FORCES.—Section
2547(a) of such title is amended by striking
‘‘and the Commandant of the Marine Corps’’
and inserting ‘‘the Commandant of the Ma-
rine Corps, and the Chief of Space Oper-
ations’’.
(33) AGREEMENTS RELATED TO MILITARY
TRAINING, TESTING, AND OPERATIONS.—Section
2684a(i) of such title is amended by inserting
‘‘Space Force,’’ before ‘‘or Defense-wide ac-
tivities’’ each place it appears.
(c) PROVISIONS OF SUBTITLE B.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle B of title 10,
United States Code, is amended by striking
‘‘or Marine Corps’’ each place it appears and
inserting ‘‘Marine Corps, or Space Force’’ in
the following provisions:
(A) Section 7452(c).
(B) Section 7621(d).
(2) COMPUTATION OF YEARS OF SERVICE.—
Section 7326(a)(1) of such title is amended by
striking ‘‘or the Air Force’’ and inserting ‘‘,
the Air Force, or the Space Force’’.
(d) PROVISIONS OF SUBTITLE C.—
(1) CADETS; HAZING.—Section 8464(f) of title
10, United States Code, is amended by strik-
ing ‘‘or Marine Corps’’ and inserting ‘‘Marine
Corps, or Space Force’’.
(2) SALES PRICES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 8802 of such title
is amended by striking ‘‘or the Air Force’’
and inserting ‘‘, the Air Force, or the Space
Force’’.
(B) HEADING.—The heading of such section
8802 is amended to read as follows:
‘‘§ 8802. Sales: members of Army, Air Force,
and Space Force; prices’’.
(C) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sec-
tions at the beginning of chapter 879 of such
title is amended by striking the item relat-
ing to section 8802 and inserting the fol-
lowing new item:
‘‘8802. Sales: members of Army, Air Force,
and Space Force; prices.’’.
(3) SALES TO CERTAIN VETERANS.—Section
8803 of such title is amended by striking ‘‘or
the Marine Corps’’ and inserting ‘‘the Marine
Corps, or the Space Force’’.
(4) SUBSISTENCE AND OTHER SUPPLIES.—Sec-
tion 8806(d) of such title is amended by strik-
ing ‘‘or Air Force or Marine Corps’’ and in-
serting ‘‘, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Space
Force’’.
(5) SCOPE OF CHAPTER ON PRIZE.—Section
8851(a) of such title is amended by striking
‘‘or the Air Force’’ and inserting ‘‘, the Air
Force, or the Space Force’’.
SEC. 934. AMENDMENTS TO PROVISIONS OF LAW
RELATING TO PAY AND ALLOW-
ANCES.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—Section 101 of title 37,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) in paragraphs (3) and (4), by inserting
‘‘Space Force,’’ after ‘‘Marine Corps,’’ each
place it appears; and
(2) in paragraph (5)(C), by inserting ‘‘and
the Space Force’’ after ‘‘Air Force’’.
(b) BASIC PAY RATES.—
(1) COMMISSIONED OFFICERS.—Footnote 2 of
the table titled ‘‘COMMISSIONED OFFI-
CERS’’ in section 601(c) of the John Warner
National Defense Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2007 (Public Law 109–364; 37 U.S.C.
1009 note) is amended by inserting after
‘‘Commandant of the Marine Corps,’’ the fol-
lowing: ‘‘Chief of Space Operations,’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00113 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6800 November 16, 2020
(2) ENLISTED MEMBERS.—Footnote 2 of the
table titled ‘‘ENLISTED MEMBERS’’ in sec-
tion 601(c) of the John Warner National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007
(Public Law 109–364; 37 U.S.C. 1009 note) is
amended by inserting after ‘‘Sergeant Major
of the Marine Corps,’’ the following: ‘‘the
senior enlisted advisor of the Space Force,’’.
(c) PAY GRADES: ASSIGNMENT TO; GENERAL
RULES.—Section 201(a) of title 37, United
States Code, is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘(a) For the purpose’’ and
inserting ‘‘(a)(1) Subject to paragraph (2), for
the purpose’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(2) For the purpose of computing their
basic pay, commissioned officers of the
Space Force are assigned to the pay grades
in the table in paragraph (1) by grade or rank
in the Air Force that is equivalent to the
grade or rank in which such officers are serv-
ing in the Space Force.’’.
(d) PAY OF SENIOR ENLISTED MEMBERS.—
Section 210(c) of title 37, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraph (5) as para-
graph (6); and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (4) the fol-
lowing new paragraph (5):
‘‘(5) The senior enlisted advisor of the
Space Force.’’.
(e) ALLOWANCES OTHER THAN TRAVEL AND
TRANSPORTATION ALLOWANCES.—
(1) PERSONAL MONEY ALLOWANCE.—Section
414 of title 37, United States Code, is amend-
ed—
(A) in subsection (a)(5), by inserting ‘‘Chief
of Space Operations,’’ after ‘‘Commandant of
the Marines Corps,’’; and
(B) in subsection (b), by inserting ‘‘the sen-
ior enlisted advisor of the Space Force,’’
after ‘‘the Sergeant Major of the Marine
Corps,’’.
(2) CLOTHING ALLOWANCE: ENLISTED MEM-
BERS.—Section 418(d) of such title is amend-
ed—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘or Ma-
rine Corps’’ and inserting ‘‘Marine Corps, or
Space Force’’; and
(B) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘or the
Marine Corps’’ and inserting ‘‘the Marine
Corps, or the Space Force’’.
(f) TRAVEL AND TRANSPORTATION ALLOW-
ANCES: PARKING EXPENSES.—Section 481i(b)
of title 37, United States Code, is amended by
striking ‘‘or Marine Corps’’ and inserting
‘‘Marine Corps, or Space Force’’.
(g) LEAVE.—
(1) ADDITION OF SPACE FORCE.—Chapter 9 of
title 37, United States Code, is amended by
inserting ‘‘Space Force,’’ after ‘‘Marines
Corps,’’ each place it appears in the fol-
lowing provisions:
(A) Subsections (b)(1) and (e)(1) of section
501.
(B) Section 502(a).
(C) Section 503(a).
(2) ADDITION OF REGULAR SPACE FORCE.—
Section 501(b)(5)(C) of such title is amended
by striking ‘‘or Regular Marine Corps’’ and
inserting ‘‘Regular Marine Corps, or Regular
Space Force’’.
(3) TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.—Chapter 9 of
such title is further amended as follows:
(A) In section 501(b)(1)—
(i) by striking ‘‘his’’ each place it appears
and inserting ‘‘the member’s’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘he’’ and inserting ‘‘the
member’’.
(B) In section 502—
(i) by striking ‘‘his designated representa-
tive’’ each place it appears and inserting
‘‘the Secretary’s designated representative’’;
(ii) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘he’’ each
place it appears and inserting ‘‘the member’’;
and
(iii) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘his’’
and inserting ‘‘the member’s’’.
(h) ALLOTMENT AND ASSIGNMENT OF PAY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subsections (a), (c), and
(d) of section 701 of title 37, United States
Code, are each amended by striking ‘‘or Ma-
rine Corps’’ and inserting ‘‘Marine Corps, or
Space Force’’.
(2) TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.—Such section
701 is further amended—
(A) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘his’’ and
inserting ‘‘the officer’s’’;
(B) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘his’’ and
inserting ‘‘the person’s’’; and
(C) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘his pay,
and if he does so’’ and inserting ‘‘the mem-
ber’s pay, and if the member does so’’.
(3) HEADING.—The heading of such section
701 is amended to read as follows:
‘‘§ 701. Members of the Army, Navy, Air Force,
Marine Corps, and Space Force; contract
surgeons’’.
(4) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sec-
tions at the beginning of chapter 13 of such
title is amended by striking the item relat-
ing to section 701 and inserting the following
new item:
‘‘701. Members of the Army, Navy, Air Force,
Marine Corps, and Space Force;
contract surgeons.’’.
(i) FORFEITURE OF PAY.—
(1) FORFEITURE FOR ABSENCE FOR INTEM-
PERATE USE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 802 of title 37,
United States Code, is amended by striking
‘‘or Marine Corps’’ and inserting ‘‘Marine
Corps, or Space Force’’.
(B) TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.—Such section
802 is further amended by striking ‘‘his’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘the
member’s’’.
(2) FORFEITURE WHEN DROPPED FROM
ROLLS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 803 of such title
is amended by striking ‘‘or the Air Force’’
and inserting ‘‘, the Air Force, or the Space
Force’’.
(B) HEADING.—The heading of such section
803 is amended to read as follows:
‘‘§ 803. Commissioned officers of the Army,
Air Force, or Space Force: forfeiture of pay
when dropped from rolls’’.
(C) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sec-
tions at the beginning of chapter 15 of such
title is amended by striking the item relat-
ing to section 803 and inserting the following
new item:
‘‘803. Commissioned officers of the Army, Air
Force, or Space Force: for-
feiture of pay when dropped
from rolls.’’.
(j) EFFECT ON PAY OF EXTENSION OF ENLIST-
MENT.—Section 906 of title 37, United States
Code, is amended by inserting ‘‘Space
Force,’’ after ‘‘Marine Corps,’’.
(k) ADMINISTRATION OF PAY.—
(1) PROMPT PAYMENT REQUIRED.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 1005 of title 37,
United States Code, is amended by striking
‘‘and of the Air Force’’ and inserting ‘‘, the
Air Force, and the Space Force’’.
(B) HEADING.—The heading of such section
1005 is amended to read as follows:
‘‘§ 1005. Army, Air Force, and Space Force:
prompt payments required’’.
(C) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sec-
tions at the beginning of chapter 15 of such
title is amended by striking the item relat-
ing to section 803 and inserting the following
new item:
‘‘1005. Army, Air Force, and Space Force:
prompt payments required.’’.
(2) DEDUCTIONS FROM PAY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 1007 of such title
is amended—
(i) in subsections (b), (d), (f), and (g), by
striking ‘‘or the Air Force’’ and inserting ‘‘,
the Air Force, or the Space Force’’; and
(ii) in subsection (e), by striking ‘‘or Ma-
rine Corps’’ and inserting ‘‘Marine Corps, or
Space Force’’.
(B) TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.—Such section
1007 is further amended—
(i) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘him’’ and
inserting ‘‘the member’’;
(ii) in subsection (d), by striking ‘‘his’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘the
member’s’’; and
(iii) in subsection (f)—
(I) by striking ‘‘his’’ and inserting ‘‘the of-
ficer’s’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘he’’ both places it appears
and inserting ‘‘the officer’’.
SEC. 935. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO PROVI-
SIONS OF LAW ON VETERANS’ BENE-
FITS.
(a) ADDITION OF SPACE SERVICE TO REF-
ERENCES TO MILITARY, NAVAL, OR AIR SERV-
ICE.—Title 38, United States Code, is amend-
ed by striking ‘‘or air service’’ and inserting
‘‘air, or space service’’ each place it appears
in the following provisions:
(1) Paragraphs (2), (5), (12), (16), (17), (18),
(24), and (32) of section 101.
(2) Section 105(a).
(3) Section 106(b).
(4) Section 701.
(5) Paragraphs (1) and (2)(A) of section 1101.
(6) Section 1103.
(7) Section 1110.
(8) Subsections (b)(1) and (c)(1) of section
1112.
(9) Section 1113(b).
(10) Section 1131.
(11) Section 1132.
(12) Section 1133.
(13) Section 1137.
(14) Section 1141.
(15) Section 1153.
(16) Section 1301.
(17) Subsections (a) and (b) of section 1302.
(18) Section 1310(b).
(19) Section 1521(j).
(20) Section 1541(h).
(21) Subsections (a)(2)(B) and (e)(3) of sec-
tion 1710.
(22) Section 1712(a).
(23) Section 1712A(c).
(24) Section 1717(d)(1).
(25) Subsections (b) and (c) of section
1720A.
(26) Section 1720D(c)(3).
(27) Section 1720E(a).
(28) Section 1720G(a)(2)(B).
(29) Subsections (b)(2), (e)(1), and (e)(4) of
section 1720I.
(30) Section 1781(a)(3).
(31) Section 1783(b)(1).
(32) Section 1922(a).
(33) Section 2002(b)(1).
(34) Section 2101A(a)(1).
(35) Subsections (a)(1)(C) and (d) of section
2301.
(36) Section 2302(a).
(37) Section 2303(b)(2).
(38) Subsections (b)(4)(A) and (g)(2) of sec-
tion 2306.
(39) Section 2402(a)(1).
(40) Section 3018B(a).
(41) Section 3102(a)(1)(A)(ii).
(42) Subsections (a) and (b)(2)(A) of section
3103.
(43) Section 3113(a).
(44) Section 3501(a).
(45) Section 3512(b)(1)(B)(iii).
(46) Section 3679(c)(2)(A).
(47) Section 3701(b)(2).
(48) Section 3712(e)(2).
(49) Section 3729(c)(1).
(50) Subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section
3901(1).
(51) Subsections (c)(1)(A) and (d)(2)(B) of
section 5103A.
(52) Section 5110(j).
(53) Section 5111(a)(2)(A).
(54) Section 5113(b)(3)(C).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00114 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6801
November 16, 2020
(55) Section 5303(e).
(56) Section 6104(c).
(57) Section 6105(a).
(58) Subsections (a)(1) and (b)(3) of section
6301.
(59) Section 6303(b).
(60) Section 6304(b)(1).
(61) Section 8301.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—
(1) ARMED FORCES.—Paragraph (10) of sec-
tion 101 of title 38, United States Code, is
amended by inserting ‘‘Space Force,’’ after
‘‘Air Force,’’.
(2) SECRETARY CONCERNED.—Paragraph
(25)(C) of such section is amended by insert-
ing ‘‘or the Space Force’’ before the semi-
colon.
(3) SPACE FORCE RESERVE.—Paragraph (27)
of such section is amended—
(A) by redesignating subparagraphs (E)
through (G) as subparagraphs (F) through
(H), respectively; and
(B) by inserting after subparagraph (D) the
following new subparagraph (E):
‘‘(E) the Space Force Reserve;’’.
(c) PLACEMENT OF EMPLOYEES IN MILITARY
INSTALLATIONS.—Section 701 of title 38,
United States Code, is amended by striking
‘‘and Air Force’’ and inserting ‘‘Air Force,
and Space Force’’.
(d) CONSIDERATION TO BE ACCORDED TIME,
PLACE, AND CIRCUMSTANCES OF SERVICE.—
Section 1154(b) of title 38, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘or air organi-
zation’’ and inserting ‘‘air, or space organi-
zation’’.
(e) PREMIUM PAYMENTS.—Section 1908 of
title 38, United States Code, is amended by
inserting ‘‘Space Force,’’ after ‘‘Marine
Corps,’’.
(f) SECRETARY CONCERNED FOR GI BILL.—
Section 3020(l)(3) of title 38, United States
Code, is amended by inserting ‘‘or the Space
Force’’ before the semicolon.
(g) DEFINITIONS FOR POST-9/11 GI BILL.—
Section 3301(2)(C) of title 38,United States
Code, is amended by inserting ‘‘or the Space
Force’’ after ‘‘Air Force’’.
(h) PROVISION OF CREDIT PROTECTION AND
OTHER SERVICES.—Section 5724(c)(2) of title
38, United States Code, is amended by strik-
ing ‘‘or Marine Corps’’ and inserting ‘‘Marine
Corps, or Space Force’’.
SEC. 936. AMENDMENTS TO OTHER PROVISIONS
OF THE UNITED STATES CODE.
(a) TITLE 5; DEFINITION OF ARMED FORCES.—
Section 2101(2) of title 5, United States Code,
is amended by inserting after ‘‘Marine
Corps,’’ the following: ‘‘Space Force,’’.
(b) TITLE 14.—
(1) VOLUNTARY RETIREMENT.—Section 2152
of title 14, United States Code, is amended by
striking ‘‘or Marine Corps’’ and inserting
‘‘Marine Corps, or Space Force’’.
(2) COMPUTATION OF LENGTH OF SERVICE.—
Section 2513 of such title is amended by in-
serting after ‘‘Air Force,’’ the following:
‘‘Space Force,’’.
(c) TITLE 18; FIREARMS AS NONMAILABLE.—
Section 1715 of such title is amended by in-
serting ‘‘Space Force,’’ after ‘‘Marine
Corps,’’.
(d) TITLE 31.—
(1) DEFINITIONS RELATING TO CLAIMS.—Sec-
tion 3701(a)(7) of title 31, United States Code,
is amended by inserting ‘‘Space Force,’’ after
‘‘Marine Corps,’’.
(2) COLLECTION AND COMPROMISE.—Section
3711(f) of such title is amended in paragraphs
(1) and (3) by inserting ‘‘Space Force,’’ after
‘‘Marine Corps,’’ each place it appears.
(e) TITLE 41; HONORABLE DISCHARGE CER-
TIFICATE IN LIEU OF BIRTH CERTIFICATE.—Sec-
tion 6309(a) of title 41, United States Code, is
amended by inserting ‘‘Space Force,’’ after
‘‘Marine Corps,’’.
(f) TITLE 51; POWERS OF THE ADMINISTRA-
TION IN PERFORMANCE OF FUNCTIONS.—Sec-
tion 20113(l) of title 51, United States Code, is
amended—
(1) in the subsection heading, by striking
‘‘SERVICES’’ and inserting ‘‘FORCES’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘and Marine Corps’’ and in-
serting ‘‘Marine Corps, and Space Force’’.
SEC. 937. APPLICABILITY TO OTHER PROVISIONS
OF LAW.
(a) SECRETARY OF DEFENSE AUTHORITY.—
The authority of the Secretary of Defense
with respect to the Air Force or members of
the Air Force under any covered provision of
law may be exercised by the Secretary with
respect to the Space Force or members of the
Space Force.
(b) SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE AUTHOR-
ITY.—The authority of the Secretary of the
Air Force with respect to the Air Force or
members of the Air Force under any covered
provision of law may be exercised with re-
spect to the Space Force or members of the
Space Force.
(c) BENEFITS FOR MEMBERS.—A member of
the Space Force shall be eligible for any ben-
efit under a covered provision of law that is
available to a member of the Air Force under
the same terms and conditions as the provi-
sion of law applies to members of the Air
Force.
(d) COVERED PROVISION OF LAW DEFINED.—
In this section, the term ‘‘covered provision
of law’’ means a provision of law other than
a provision of title 5, 10, 14, 18, 31, 37, 38, 41,
or 51, United States Code.
PART II—OTHER MATTERS
SEC. 941. MATTERS RELATING TO RESERVE COM-
PONENTS FOR THE SPACE FORCE.
(a) LIMITATION ON ESTABLISHMENT OF SPACE
NATIONAL GUARD.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Space National Guard
may not be established as a reserve compo-
nent of the Space Force until the Secretary
of Defense certifies in writing, to the con-
gressional defense committees that a Space
National Guard is the organization best suit-
ed to discharge in an effective and efficient
manner the missions intended to be assigned
to the Space National Guard.
(2) BASIS FOR CERTIFICATION.—The certifi-
cation must be based on the results of a
study conducted for purposes of this sub-
section by the Assistant Secretary of the Air
Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs.
(3) PROPOSED MISSIONS.—The certification
shall include a description of each mission
proposed to be assigned to the Space Na-
tional Guard in connection with the certifi-
cation.
(b) SPACE FORCE RESERVE.—
(1) INCLUSION WITHIN SPACE FORCE.—Section
9081(b)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is
amended by inserting ‘‘, including the Reg-
ular Space Force and the Space Force Re-
serve,’’ after ‘‘space forces’’.
(2) NAMED RESERVE COMPONENT.—Section
10101 of title 10, United States Code, is
amended—
(A) by redesignating paragraph (7) as para-
graph (8); and
(B) by inserting after paragraph (6) the fol-
lowing new paragraph (7):
‘‘(7) The Space Force Reserve.’’.
(3) COMPOSITION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 1003 of such title
is amended—
(i) by redesignating section 10114 as section
10115; and
(ii) by inserting after section 10113 the fol-
lowing new section 10114:
‘‘§ 10114. Space Force Reserve: composition
‘‘The Space Force Reserve is a reserve
component of the Space Force to provide a
reserve for active duty. It consists of the
members of the officers’ section of the Space
Force Reserve and of the enlisted section of
the Space Force Reserve.’’.
(B) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 1003 of
such title is amended by striking the item
relating to section 10114 and inserting the
following new items:
‘‘10114. Space Force Reserve: composition.
‘‘10115. Coast Guard Reserve.’’.
(4) SPACE FORCE RESERVE COMMAND.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 1006 of such title
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing new section:
‘‘§ 10175. Space Force Reserve Command
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMAND.—The
Secretary of the Air Force, with the advice
and assistance of the Chief of Space Oper-
ations, shall establish a Space Force Reserve
Command. The Space Force Reserve Com-
mand shall be operated as a separate com-
mand of the Space Force.
‘‘(b) COMMANDER.—The Chief of Space
Force Reserve is the Commander of the
Space Force Reserve Command. The com-
mander of the Space Force Reserve Com-
mand reports directly to the Chief of Space
Operations.
‘‘(c) ASSIGNMENT OF FORCES.—The Sec-
retary of the Air Force—
‘‘(1) shall assign to the Space Force Re-
serve Command all forces of the Space Force
Reserve stationed in the continental United
States other than forces assigned to the uni-
fied combatant command for special oper-
ations forces established pursuant to section
167 of this title; and
‘‘(2) except as otherwise directed by the
Secretary of Defense in the case of forces as-
signed to carry out functions of the Sec-
retary of the Air Force specified in section
9013 of this title, shall assign to the combat-
ant commands all such forces assigned to the
Space Force Reserve Command under para-
graph (1) in the manner specified by the Sec-
retary of Defense.’’.
(B) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 1006 of
such title is amended by adding at the end
the following new item:
‘‘10175. Space Force Reserve Command.’’.
(c) MILITARY PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT.—
Any authority in title 10, United States
Code, may be applied to a member of the
Space Force Reserve in the same manner as
such authority is applied to a similarly situ-
ated member of the Air Force Reserve. In the
application of such authority to a member of
the Space Force Reserve, any reference to a
grade of a member of in the Air Force or Air
Force Reserve shall be deemed to refer to the
equivalent grade in the Space Force or Space
Force Reserve.
(d) REPORT ON INTEGRATION OF SPACE
FORCE RESERVE INTO LAW.—Not later than
270 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall sub-
mit to the Committees on Armed Services of
the Senate and the House or Representatives
a report setting forth the amendments to
title 10, United States Code, and any other
laws, necessary to fully integrate the Space
Force Reserve into statutory authorities on
the personnel, activities, missions, and man-
agement of the Space Force.
SEC. 942. TRANSFERS OF MILITARY AND CIVILIAN
PERSONNEL TO THE SPACE FORCE.
(a) PROHIBITION ON INVOLUNTARY TRANS-
FER.—A member of the Armed Forces or ci-
vilian employee of the Department of De-
fense may not be transferred to the military
or civilian part of the Space Force, as the
case may be, without the consent of such
member or employee.
(b) STATUS WITHIN SPACE FORCE UPON
TRANSFER.—Any member of the Armed
Forces or civilian employee of the Depart-
ment of Defense who is transferred to the
Space Force shall, after transfer, have the
status of member or civilian employee, as
the case may be, of the Space Force.
(c) DETAIL OR ASSIGNMENT OF MEMBERS.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00115 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6802 November 16, 2020
(1) PERMANENT NATURE OF DETAIL OR AS-
SIGNMENT.—The detail or assignment of any
member of the Armed Forces to the Space
Force on or after the date of the enactment
of this Act shall be permanent, and shall be
treated as a transfer to which subsection (b)
applies.
(2) ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF NATURE.—Any
member undergoing a detail or assignment
described in paragraph (1) shall execute a
written acknowledgment, before undergoing
such detail or assignment, of the permanent
nature of the detail or assignment by reason
of paragraph (1).
SEC. 943. LIMITATION ON TRANSFER OF MILI-
TARY INSTALLATIONS TO THE JU-
RISDICTION OF THE SPACE FORCE.
(a) LIMITATION.—A military installation
(whether or not under the jurisdiction of the
Department of the Air Force) may not be
transferred to the jurisdiction or command
of the Space Force until the Secretary of the
Air Force briefs the congressional defense
committees on the results of a business case
analysis, conducted by the Secretary in con-
nection with the transfer, of the cost and ef-
ficacy of the transfer.
(b) TIMING OF BRIEFING.—The briefing on a
business case analysis conducted pursuant to
subsection (a) shall be provided not later
than 15 days after the date of the completion
of the business case analysis by the Sec-
retary.
SEC. 944. CLARIFICATION OF PROCUREMENT OF
COMMERCIAL SATELLITE COMMU-
NICATIONS SERVICES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 963 of title 10,
United States Code, is amended by inserting
before section 9532 the following new section:
‘‘§ 9531. Procurement of commercial satellite
communications services
‘‘The Secretary of the Air Force shall be
responsible for the procurement of commer-
cial satellite communications services for
the Department of Defense.’’.
(b) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sec-
tions at the beginning of chapter 963 of such
title is amended by inserting before the item
relating to section 9532 the following new
item:
‘‘9531. Procurement of commercial satellite
communications services.’’.
SEC. 945. TEMPORARY EXEMPTION FROM AU-
THORIZED DAILY AVERAGE OF MEM-
BERS IN PAY GRADES E–8 AND E–9.
Section 517 of title 10, United States Code,
shall not apply to the Space Force until Oc-
tober 1, 2023.
SEC. 946. APPLICATION OF ACQUISITION DEM-
ONSTRATION PROJECT TO DEPART-
MENT OF THE AIR FORCE EMPLOY-
EES ASSIGNED TO ACQUISITION PO-
SITIONS WITHIN THE SPACE FORCE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 81 of title 10,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following new section:
‘‘§ 1599i. Application of acquisition dem-
onstration project to Department of the Air
Force employees assigned to acquisition
positions within the Space Force
‘‘For purposes of the demonstration
project authorized by section 1762 of this
title, the Secretary of Defense may apply the
provisions of such section, including any reg-
ulations, procedures, waivers, or guidance
implementing such section, to employees of
the Department of the Air Force assigned to
acquisition positions within the Space
Force.’’.
(b) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sec-
tions at the beginning of such chapter is
amended by adding at the end the following
new item:
‘‘1599i. Application of acquisition demonstra-
tion project to Department of
the Air Force employees as-
signed to acquisition positions
within the Space Force.’’.
SEC. 947. AIR AND SPACE FORCE MEDAL.
(a) SUPERSEDURE OF AIRMAN’S MEDAL WITH
AIR AND SPACE FORCE MEDAL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 9280 of title 10,
United States Code, is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘Airman’s Medal’’ each
place it appears and inserting ‘‘Air and
Space Force Medal’’; and
(B) in subsection (a)(1), by inserting ‘‘or
the Space Force’’ after ‘‘the Air Force’’.
(2) SECTION HEADING.—The heading of such
section is amended to read as follows:
‘‘§ 9280. Air and Space Force Medal: award;
limitations’’.
(3) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sec-
tions at the beginning of chapter 937 of such
title is amended by striking the item relat-
ing to section 9280 and inserting the fol-
lowing new item:
‘‘9280. Air and Space Force Medal: award;
limitations.’’.
(b) DIFFERENTIATION IN DESIGN.—The Presi-
dent shall ensure that the design of the Air
and Space Force Medal and accompanying
ribbon (and any related bar or device) award-
ed under section 9280 of title 10, United
States Code (as amended by subsection (a)),
differs in an appropriate manner from the de-
sign of the Airman’s Medal and accom-
panying ribbon, bar, or device awarded under
section 9280 of title 10, United States Code,
as such section was in effect on the date be-
fore the date of the enactment of this Act.
Subtitle D—Organization and Management of
Other Department of Defense Offices and
Elements
SEC. 951. ANNUAL REPORT ON ESTABLISHMENT
OF FIELD OPERATING AGENCIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter I of chapter
134 of title 10, United States Code, is amend-
ed by inserting after section 2245 the fol-
lowing new section:
‘‘§ 2246. Establishment of field operating
agencies: annual report
‘‘(a) ANNUAL REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later
than January 31 each year, the Secretary of
Defense shall submit to the congressional de-
fense committees a report on each, if any,
field operating agency established during the
preceding year.
‘‘(b) ELEMENTS.—Each report under sub-
section (a) shall include, for each field oper-
ating agency covered by such report, the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(1) The name of such agency.
‘‘(2) The physical location of such agency.
‘‘(3) The title and grade (whether military
or civilian) of the head of such agency.
‘‘(4) The chain of command, supervision, or
authority through which the head of such
agency reports to the Office of the Secretary
of Defense or the military department or
Armed Forces headquarters, as applicable.
‘‘(5) The mission of such agency.
‘‘(6) The number of personnel authorized to
be assigned to such agency, and the number
of such authorizations encumbered by mili-
tary personnel and civilian employees of the
Department of Defense or military depart-
ment, as applicable.
‘‘(7) The purpose underlying the establish-
ment of such agency.
‘‘(8) Any cost savings or other efficiencies
that have accrued, or are anticipated to ac-
crue, to the Department of Defense or any of
its components in connection with the estab-
lishment and operation of such agency.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of subchapter I of
chapter 134 of such title is amended by in-
serting after the item relating to section 2245
the following new item:
‘‘2246. Establishment of field operating agen-
cies: annual report.’’.
SEC. 952. BRIEFING ON ASSIGNMENT OF MEM-
BERS OF THE ARMED FORCES ON
ACTIVE DUTY TO THE JOINT ARTIFI-
CIAL INTELLIGENCE CENTER OF
THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
Not later than 90 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of De-
fense, with appropriate representatives of
the Armed Forces, shall brief the Commit-
tees on Armed Services of the Senate and the
House of Representatives on the feasibility
and the current status of assigning members
of the Armed Forces on active duty to the
Joint Artificial Intelligence Center (JAIC) of
the Department of Defense. The briefing
shall include an assessment of such assign-
ment on each of the following:
(1) The strengthening of ties between the
Joint Artificial Intelligence Center and oper-
ational forces for purposes of—
(A) identifying tactical and operational
use cases for artificial intelligence (AI);
(B) improving data collection; and
(C) establishing effective liaison between
the Center and operational forces for identi-
fication and clarification of concerns in the
widespread adoption and dissemination of ar-
tificial intelligence.
(2) The creation of opportunities for addi-
tional non-traditional broadening assign-
ments for members on active duty.
(3) The career trajectory of active duty
members so assigned, including potential
negative effects on career trajectory.
(4) The improvement and enhancement of
the capacity of the Center to influence De-
partment-wide policies that affect the adop-
tion of artificial intelligence.
SEC. 953. THREATS TO UNITED STATES FORCES
FROM SMALL UNMANNED AERIAL
SYSTEMS WORLDWIDE.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress makes the fol-
lowing findings:
(1) United States military forces face an
ever increasing and constantly evolving
threat from small unmanned aerial systems
in operations worldwide, whether in the
United States or abroad.
(2) The Department of Defense is already
doing important work to address the threats
from small unmanned aerial systems world-
wide, though the need for engagement in
that area continues.
(b) EXECUTIVE AGENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the
Army is the executive agent of the Depart-
ment of Defense for programs, projects, and
activities to counter small unmanned aerial
systems (in this section referred to as the
‘‘Counter-Small Unmanned Aerial Systems
Program’’).
(2) FUNCTIONS.—The functions of the Sec-
retary as executive agent shall be as follows:
(A) To develop the strategy required by
subsection (c).
(B) To carry out such other activities to
counter threats to United States forces
worldwide from small unmanned aerial sys-
tems as the Secretary of Defense and the
Secretary of the Army consider appropriate.
(3) STRUCTURE.—The Secretary as execu-
tive agent shall carry out the functions spec-
ified in paragraph (2) through such adminis-
trative structures as the Secretary considers
appropriate.
(c) STRATEGY TO COUNTER THREATS FROM
SMALL UNMANNED AERIAL SYSTEMS.—Not
later than 90 days after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army,
as executive agent for the Counter-Small Un-
manned Aerial Systems Program, shall de-
velop and submit to relevant committees of
Congress a strategy for the Armed Forces to
effectively counter threats from small un-
manned aerial systems worldwide. The re-
port shall be submitted in classified form.
(d) REPORT ON EXECUTIVE AGENT ACTIVI-
TIES.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00116 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6803
November 16, 2020
(1) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than one
year after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of the Army, as executive
agent for the Counter-Small Unmanned Aer-
ial Systems Program, shall submit to Con-
gress a report on the Counter-Small Un-
manned Aerial Systems Program.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The report required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) A description and assessment of the
structure and activities of the executive
agent as established and put in place by the
Secretary, including the following:
(i) Any obstacles hindering the effective
discharge of its functions and activities, in-
cluding limitations in authorities or policy.
(ii) The changes, if any, to airspace man-
agement, rules of engagement, and training
plans that are required in order to optimize
the use by the Armed Forces of counter-
small unmanned aerial systems.
(B) An assessment of the implementation
of the strategy required by subsection (c),
and a description of any updates to the strat-
egy that are required in light of evolving
threats to the Armed Forces from small un-
manned aerial systems.
(e) REPORT ON THREAT FROM SMALL UN-
MANNED AERIAL SYSTEMS.—
(1) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the submittal of the strategy re-
quired by subsection (c), the Secretary of De-
fense shall submit to the appropriate com-
mittees of Congress a report that sets forth
a direct comparison between the threats
United States forces in combat settings face
from small unmanned aerial systems and the
capabilities of the United States to counter
such threats. The report shall be submitted
in classified form.
(2) COORDINATION.—The Secretary shall
prepare the report required by paragraph (1)
in coordination with the Director of the De-
fense Intelligence Agency and with such
other appropriate officials of the intelligence
community, and such other officials in the
United States Government, as the Secretary
considers appropriate.
(3) ELEMENTS.—The report required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) An evaluation and assessment of the
current and evolving threat being faced by
United States forces from small unmanned
aerial systems.
(B) A description of the counter-small un-
manned aerial system systems acquired by
the Department of Defense as of the date of
the enactment of this Act, and an assess-
ment whether such systems are adequate to
meet the current and evolving threat de-
scribed in subparagraph (A).
(4) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS
DEFINED.—In this subsection, the term ‘‘ap-
propriate committees of Congress’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Select Committee on Intelligence of the
Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Permanent Select Committee on Intel-
ligence of the House of Representatives.
(f) INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT OF COUNTER-
SMALL UNMANNED AERIAL SYSTEMS PRO-
GRAM.—
(1) ASSESSMENT.—Not later than 60 days
after the submittal of the strategy required
by subsection (c), the Secretary of Defense
shall seek to enter into a contract with a
Federally funded research and development
center to conduct an assessment of the effi-
cacy of the Counter-Small Unmanned Aerial
Systems Program.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The assessment conducted
pursuant to paragraph (1) shall include the
following:
(A) An identification of metrics to assess
progress in the implementation of the strat-
egy required by subsection (c), which metrics
shall take into account the threat assess-
ment required for purposes of subsection (e).
(B) An assessment of progress, and key
challenges, in the implementation of the
strategy using such metrics, and rec-
ommendations for improvements in the im-
plementation of the strategy.
(C) An assessment of the extent to which
the Department of Defense is coordinating
adequately with other departments and
agencies of the United States Government,
and other appropriate entities, in the devel-
opment and procurement of counter-small
unmanned aerial systems for the Depart-
ment.
(D) An assessment of the extent to which
the designation of the Secretary of the Army
as executive agent for the Counter-Small Un-
manned Aerial Systems Program has re-
duced redundancies and increased effi-
ciencies in procurement of counter-small un-
manned aerial systems.
(E) An assessment whether United States
technological progress on counter-small un-
manned aerial systems is sufficient to main-
tain a competitive edge over the small un-
manned aerial systems technology available
to United States adversaries.
(3) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
entry into the contract referred to in para-
graph (1), the Secretary shall submit to the
congressional defense committees a report
setting forth the results of the assessment
required under the contract.
TITLE X—GENERAL PROVISIONS
Subtitle A—Financial Matters
SEC. 1001. GENERAL TRANSFER AUTHORITY.
(a) AUTHORITY TO TRANSFER AUTHORIZA-
TIONS.—
(1) AUTHORITY.—Upon determination by
the Secretary of Defense that such action is
necessary in the national interest, the Sec-
retary may transfer amounts of authoriza-
tions made available to the Department of
Defense in this division for fiscal year 2021
between any such authorizations for that fis-
cal year (or any subdivisions thereof).
Amounts of authorizations so transferred
shall be merged with and be available for the
same purposes as the authorization to which
transferred.
(2) LIMITATION.—Except as provided in
paragraph (3), the total amount of authoriza-
tions that the Secretary may transfer under
the authority of this section may not exceed
$4,000,000,000.
(3) EXCEPTION FOR TRANSFERS BETWEEN
MILITARY PERSONNEL AUTHORIZATIONS.—A
transfer of funds between military personnel
authorizations under title IV shall not be
counted toward the dollar limitation in para-
graph (2).
(b) LIMITATIONS.—The authority provided
by subsection (a) to transfer authoriza-
tions—
(1) may only be used to provide authority
for items that have a higher priority than
the items from which authority is trans-
ferred; and
(2) may not be used to provide authority
for an item that has been denied authoriza-
tion by Congress.
(c) EFFECT ON AUTHORIZATION AMOUNTS.—A
transfer made from one account to another
under the authority of this section shall be
deemed to increase the amount authorized
for the account to which the amount is
transferred by an amount equal to the
amount transferred.
(d) NOTICE TO CONGRESS.—The Secretary
shall promptly notify Congress of each trans-
fer made under subsection (a).
SEC. 1002. APPLICATION OF FINANCIAL IM-
PROVEMENT AND AUDIT REMEDI-
ATION PLAN TO FISCAL YEARS FOL-
LOWING FISCAL YEAR 2020.
Section 240b(a)(2)(A)(iii) of title 10, United
States Code, is amended by striking ‘‘for fis-
cal year 2018’’ and all that follows and insert-
ing ‘‘for each fiscal year after fiscal year 2020
occurs by not later than March 31 following
such fiscal year;’’.
SEC. 1003. INCENTIVES FOR THE ACHIEVEMENT
BY THE COMPONENTS OF THE DE-
PARTMENT OF DEFENSE OF UN-
QUALIFIED AUDIT OPINIONS ON THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
(a) INCENTIVES REQUIRED.—Not later than
180 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense
(Comptroller) shall, acting through the Dep-
uty Chief Financial Officer of the Depart-
ment of Defense, develop and issue guidance
to incentivize the achievement by each de-
partment, agency, and other component of
the Department of Defense of unqualified
audit opinions on their financial statements.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Under Secretary shall submit to the appro-
priate committees of Congress a report set-
ting forth a description and assessment of
current and proposed incentives for the
achievement of unqualified audit opinions as
described in subsection (a).
(c) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS
DEFINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘appro-
priate committees of Congress’’ means—
(1) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on the Budget, and the Com-
mittee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
(2) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on the Budget, and the Com-
mittee on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives.
Subtitle B—Counterdrug Activities
SEC. 1011. CODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR
JOINT TASK FORCES OF THE DE-
PARTMENT OF DEFENSE TO SUP-
PORT LAW ENFORCEMENT AGEN-
CIES CONDUCTING COUNTERTER-
RORISM OR COUNTER-
TRANSNATIONAL ORGANIZED CRIME
ACTIVITIES.
(a) CODIFICATION OF SECTION 1022 OF FY 2004
NDAA.—Chapter 15 of title 10, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end a new
section 285 consisting of—
(1) a heading as follows:
‘‘§ 285. Authority for joint task forces to sup-
port law enforcement agencies conducting
counterterrorism or counter-transnational
organized crime activities’’; and
(2) a text consisting of the text of section
1022 of the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2004 (10 U.S.C. 271 note).
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS IN CONNEC-
TION WITH CODIFICATION.—Section 285 of title
10, United States Code, as added by sub-
section (a), is amended—
(1) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘During
fiscal years 2006 through 2022, funds for drug
interdiction’’ and inserting ‘‘Funds for drug
interdiction’’;
(2) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘of each
year in which the authority in subsection (a)
is in effect’’ and inserting ‘‘each year’’;
(3) in subsection (d)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking the para-
graph designation and all that follows
through ‘‘Support’’ in paragraph (2)(A) and
inserting ‘‘(1) Support’’;
(B) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as
paragraph (2); and
(C) in paragraph (2), as so redesignated, by
striking ‘‘subparagraph (A)’’ and inserting
‘‘paragraph (1)’’; and
(4) in subsection (e)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘of title
10, United States Code’’ and inserting ‘‘of
this title’’; and
(B) by striking the second paragraph (2).
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 15 of
such title is amended by adding at the end
the following new item:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00117 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6804 November 16, 2020
‘‘285. Authority for joint task forces to sup-
port law enforcement agencies
conducting counterterrorism or
counter-transnational orga-
nized crime activities.’’.
(d) CONFORMING REPEAL.—Section 1022 of
the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2004 is repealed.
Subtitle C—Naval Vessels and Shipyards
SEC. 1021. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO
PURCHASE USED VESSELS WITH
FUNDS IN THE NATIONAL DEFENSE
SEALIFT FUND.
Section 2218(f)(3) of title 10, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) by striking subparagraphs (E) and (G);
and
(2) by redesignating subparagraph (F) as
subparagraph (E).
SEC. 1022. WAIVER DURING WAR OR THREAT TO
NATIONAL SECURITY OF RESTRIC-
TIONS ON OVERHAUL, REPAIR, OR
MAINTENANCE OF VESSELS IN FOR-
EIGN SHIPYARDS.
Section 8680 of title 10, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (c) as sub-
section (d); and
(2) by inserting after subsection (b) the fol-
lowing new subsection: (c)
‘‘(c) WAIVER.—(1) The Secretary of the
Navy may waive the restrictions in sub-
sections (a) and (b) for the duration of a pe-
riod of threat to the national security inter-
ests of the United States upon a written de-
termination by the Secretary that such a
waiver is necessary in the national security
interest of the United States.
‘‘(2) Not later than 15 days after making a
determination under paragraph (1), the Sec-
retary shall provide to the congressional de-
fense committees a written notification on
the determination.
‘‘(3) In this subsection, the term ‘period of
threat to the national security interests of
the United States’ means the following:
‘‘(A) A period of war.
‘‘(B) Any other period determined by Sec-
retary of Defense in which the national secu-
rity interests of the United States are
threatened by the application, or the immi-
nent danger of application, of physical force
by any foreign government or agency against
the United States, citizens of the United
States, the property of citizens of the United
States, or the commercial interests of citi-
zens of the United States.’’.
SEC. 1023. MODIFICATION OF WAIVER AUTHOR-
ITY ON PROHIBITION ON USE OF
FUNDS FOR RETIREMENT OF CER-
TAIN LEGACY MARITIME MINE
COUNTERMEASURE PLATFORMS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1046(b)(1) of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2018 (Public law 115–91; 131 Stat.
1556) is amended by striking ‘‘certifies’’ and
inserting ‘‘, with the concurrence of the Di-
rector of Operational Test and Evaluation,
certifies in writing’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by subsection (a) shall take effect on
the date of the enactment of this Act, and
shall apply with respect to waivers under
subsection (b)(1) of section 1046 of the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2018 of the prohibition under subsection
(a) of that section that occur on or after that
date.
SEC. 1024. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR REIM-
BURSEMENT OF EXPENSES FOR CER-
TAIN NAVY MESS OPERATIONS
AFLOAT.
Section 1014(b) of the Duncan Hunter Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2009 (Public Law 110–417; 122 Stat. 4585),
as most recently amended by section 1023(a)
of the National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114–92; 129
Stat. 966), is further amended by striking
‘‘September 30, 2020’’ and inserting ‘‘Sep-
tember 30, 2025’’.
SEC. 1025. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON ACTIONS
NECESSARY TO ACHIEVE A 355-SHIP
NAVY.
It is the sense of Congress that to achieve
the national policy of the United States to
have available, as soon as practicable, not
fewer than 355 battle force ships—
(1) the Navy must be adequately resourced
to increase the size of the Navy in accord-
ance with the national policy, which in-
cludes the associated ships, aircraft, per-
sonnel, sustainment, and munitions;
(2) across fiscal years 2021 through 2025, the
Navy should start construction on not fewer
than—
(A) 12 Arleigh Burke-class destroyers;
(B) 10 Virginia-class submarines;
(C) 2 Columbia-class submarines;
(D) 3 San Antonio-class amphibious ships;
(E) 1 LHA-class amphibious ship;
(F) 6 John Lewis-class fleet oilers; and
(G) 5 guided missile frigates;
(3) new guided missile frigate construction
should increase to a rate of between two and
four ships per year once design maturity and
construction readiness permit;
(4) the Columbia-class submarine program
should be funded with additions to the Navy
budget significantly above the historical av-
erage, given the critical single national mis-
sion that these vessels will perform and the
high priority of the shipbuilding budget for
implementing the National Defense Strat-
egy;
(5) stable shipbuilding rates of construc-
tion should be maintained for each vessel
class, utilizing multi-year or block buy con-
tract authorities when appropriate, until a
deliberate transition plan is identified; and
(6) prototyping of potential new shipboard
subsystems should be accelerated to build
knowledge systematically, and, to the max-
imum extent practicable, shipbuilding proto-
typing should occur at the subsystem-level
in advance of ship design.
Subtitle D—Counterterrorism
SEC. 1031. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON USE
OF FUNDS FOR TRANSFER OR RE-
LEASE OF INDIVIDUALS DETAINED
AT UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION,
GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA, TO THE
UNITED STATES.
Section 1033 of the John S. McCain Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232; 132 Stat. 1953),
as amended by section 1043 of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2020 (Public Law 116–92), is further amended
by striking ‘‘December 31, 2020’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘December 31, 2021’’.
SEC. 1032. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON USE
OF FUNDS TO CLOSE OR RELIN-
QUISH CONTROL OF UNITED STATES
NAVAL STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY,
CUBA.
Section 1036 of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public
Law 115–91; 131 Stat. 1551), as most recently
amended by section 1045 of the National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020
(Public Law 116–92), is further amended by
striking ‘‘fiscal year 2018, 2019, or 2020’’ and
inserting ‘‘fiscal years 2018 through 2021’’.
SEC. 1033. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON USE
OF FUNDS FOR TRANSFER OR RE-
LEASE OF INDIVIDUALS DETAINED
AT UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION,
GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA, TO CER-
TAIN COUNTRIES.
Section 1035 of the John S. McCain Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232; 132 Stat. 1954),
as amended by section 1042 of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2020 (Public Law 116–92), is further amended
by striking ‘‘December 31, 2020’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘December 31, 2021’’.
SEC. 1034. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON USE
OF FUNDS TO CONSTRUCT OR MOD-
IFY FACILITIES IN THE UNITED
STATES TO HOUSE DETAINEES
TRANSFERRED FROM UNITED
STATES NAVAL STATION, GUANTA-
NAMO BAY, CUBA.
Section 1034(a) of the John S. McCain Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232; 132 Stat. 1954),
as amended by section 1044 of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2020 (Public Law 116–92), is further amended
by striking ‘‘December 31, 2020’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘December 31, 2021’’.
Subtitle E—Miscellaneous Authorities and
Limitations
SEC. 1041. INCLUSION OF DISASTER-RELATED
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS AC-
TIVITIES AMONG LAW ENFORCE-
MENT ACTIVITIES AUTHORITIES
FOR SALE OR DONATION OF EXCESS
PERSONAL PROPERTY OF THE DE-
PARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
(a) INCLUSION.—Subsection (a)(1)(A) of sec-
tion 2576a of title 10, United States Code, is
amended by inserting ‘‘disaster-related
emergency preparedness,’’ after ‘‘counterter-
rorism,’’.
(b) PREFERENCE IN TRANSFERS.—Subsection
(d) of such section is amended to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘(d) PREFERENCE FOR CERTAIN TRANS-
FERS.—In considering applications for the
transfer of personal property under this sec-
tion, the Secretary shall give a preference to
applications indicating that the transferred
property will be used in the counterdrug,
counterterrorism, disaster-related emer-
gency preparedness, or border security ac-
tivities of the recipient agency. Applications
that request vehicles used for disaster-re-
lated emergency preparedness, such as high-
water rescue vehicles, should receive the
highest preference.’’.
SEC. 1042. EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR DE-
PARTMENT OF DEFENSE CLANDES-
TINE ACTIVITIES THAT SUPPORT
OPERATIONAL PREPARATION OF
THE ENVIRONMENT.
(a) AUTHORITY.—Subject to subsections (b)
through (d), the Secretary of Defense may
expend up to $15,000,000 in any fiscal year for
clandestine activities for any purpose the
Secretary determines to be proper for prepa-
ration of the environment for operations of a
confidential nature. Such a determination is
final and conclusive upon the accounting of-
ficers of the United States. The Secretary
may certify the amount of any such expendi-
ture authorized by the Secretary that the
Secretary considers advisable not to specify,
and the Secretary’s certificate is sufficient
voucher for the expenditure of that amount.
(b) FUNDS.—Funds for expenditures under
this section in a fiscal year shall be derived
from amounts authorized to be appropriated
for that fiscal year for operation and mainte-
nance, Defense-wide.
(c) LIMITATION ON DELEGATION.—The Sec-
retary of Defense may not delegate the au-
thority under this section with respect to
any expenditure in excess of $100,000.
(d) EXCLUSION OF INTELLIGENCE ACTIVI-
TIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—This section does not con-
stitute authority to conduct, or expend funds
for, intelligence, counterintelligence, or in-
telligence-related activities.
(2) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection, the
terms ‘‘intelligence’’ and ‘‘counterintel-
ligence’’ have the meaning given those terms
in section 3 of the National Security Act of
1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).
(e) ANNUAL REPORT.—Not later than De-
cember 31 each year, the Secretary of De-
fense shall submit to the congressional de-
fense committees a report on expenditures
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00118 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6805
November 16, 2020
made under this section during the fiscal
year preceding the year in which the report
is submitted. Each report shall include, for
each expenditure under this section during
the fiscal year covered by such report—
(1) the amount and date of such expendi-
ture;
(2) a detailed description of the purpose for
which such expenditure was made;
(3) an explanation why other authorities
available to the Department of Defense could
not be used for such expenditure; and
(4) any other matters the Secretary con-
siders appropriate.
SEC. 1043. CLARIFICATION OF AUTHORITY OF
MILITARY COMMISSIONS UNDER
CHAPTER 47A OF TITLE 10, UNITED
STATES CODE, TO PUNISH CON-
TEMPT.
(a) CLARIFICATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter IV of chapter
47A of title 10, United States Code, is amend-
ed by adding at the end the following new
section:
‘‘§ 949o–1. Contempt
‘‘(a) AUTHORITY TO PUNISH.—(1) With re-
spect to any proceeding under this chapter, a
judicial officer specified in paragraph (2)
may punish for contempt any person who—
‘‘(A) uses any menacing word, sign, or ges-
ture in the presence of the judicial officer
during the proceeding;
‘‘(B) disturbs the proceeding by any riot or
disorder; or
‘‘(C) willfully disobeys a lawful writ, proc-
ess, order, rule, decree, or command issued
with respect to the proceeding.
‘‘(2) A judicial officer referred to in para-
graph (1) is any of the following:
‘‘(A) Any judge of the United States Court
of Military Commission Review.
‘‘(B) Any military judge detailed to a mili-
tary commission or any other proceeding
under this chapter.
‘‘(b) PUNISHMENT.—The punishment for
contempt under subsection (a) may not ex-
ceed confinement for 30 days, a fine of $1,000,
or both.
‘‘(c) REVIEW.—(1) A punishment under this
section—
‘‘(A) is not reviewable by the convening au-
thority of a military commission under this
chapter;
‘‘(B) if imposed by a military judge, shall
constitute a judgment, subject to review in
the first instance only by the United States
Court of Military Commission Review and
then only by the United States Court of Ap-
peals for the District of Columbia Circuit;
and
‘‘(C) if imposed by a judge of the United
States Court of Military Commission Re-
view, shall constitute a judgment of the
court subject to review only by the United
States Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia Circuit.
‘‘(2) In reviewing a punishment for con-
tempt imposed under this section, the re-
viewing court shall affirm such punishment
unless the court finds that imposing such
punishment was an abuse of the discretion of
the judicial officer who imposed such punish-
ment.
‘‘(3) A petition for review of punishment
for contempt imposed under this section
shall be filed not later than 60 days after the
date on which the authenticated record upon
which the contempt punishment is based and
any contempt proceedings conducted by the
judicial officer are served on the person pun-
ished for contempt.
‘‘(d) PUNISHMENT NOT CONVICTION.—Punish-
ment for contempt is not a conviction or
sentence within the meaning of section 949m
of this title. The imposition of punishment
for contempt is not governed by other provi-
sions of this chapter applicable to military
commissions, except that the Secretary of
Defense may prescribe procedures for con-
tempt proceedings and punishments, pursu-
ant to the authority provided in section 949a
of this title.’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of subchapter IV of
such chapter is amended by adding at the
end the following new item:
‘‘949o–1. Contempt.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section
950t of title 10, United States Code, is amend-
ed—
(1) by striking paragraph (31); and
(2) by redesignating paragraph (32) as para-
graph (31).
(c) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—The amend-
ments made by subsections (a) and (b) shall
not be construed to affect the lawfulness of
any punishment for contempt adjudged prior
to the effective date of such amendments.
(d) APPLICABILITY.—The amendments made
by subsections (a) and (b) shall take effect on
the date of the enactment of this Act, and
shall apply with respect to conduct by a per-
son that occurs on or after such date.
SEC. 1044. PROHIBITION ON ACTIONS TO IN-
FRINGE UPON FIRST AMENDMENT
RIGHTS OF PEACEABLE ASSEMBLY
AND PETITION FOR REDRESS OF
GRIEVANCES.
Amounts authorized to be appropriated by
this Act shall not be used for any program,
project, or activity, or any use of personnel,
to conduct actions against United States
citizens that infringe upon their rights under
the First Amendment to the Constitution
peaceably to assemble and/or to petition the
Government for a redress of grievances.
SEC. 1045. ARCTIC PLANNING, RESEARCH, AND
DEVELOPMENT.
(a) ARCTIC PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTA-
TION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense
and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
shall begin planning and implementing such
changes as may be necessary for require-
ments, training, equipment, doctrine, and
capability development of the Armed Forces
should an expanded role of the Armed Forces
in the Arctic be determined by the Secretary
to be in the national security interests of the
United States.
(2) TRAINING.—In carrying out paragraph
(1), the Secretary shall direct the Armed
Forces to carry out training in the Arctic or
training relevant to carrying out military
operations in the Arctic.
(b) ARCTIC RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAM.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If pursuant to subsection
(a), the Secretary of Defense determines that
an expanded role for the Armed Forces is in
the national security interests of the United
States, the Secretary shall establish a re-
search and development program on the cur-
rent and future requirements and needs of
the Armed Forces for operations in the Arc-
tic.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The program required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) Development of materiel solutions for
operating in extreme weather environments
of the Arctic, including equipment for indi-
vidual members of the Armed Forces, ground
vehicles, and communications systems.
(B) Development of a plan for fielding fu-
ture weapons platforms able to operate in
Arctic conditions for surface combatants,
submarines, aviation platforms, assault craft
unit connectors, auxiliaries, littoral craft,
unmanned aerial vehicles, and any other sys-
tems that may be needed in the Arctic.
(C) Development of capabilities to mon-
itor, assess, and predict environmental and
weather conditions in the Arctic and their
effect on military operations.
(D) Determining requirements for logistics
and sustainment of the Armed Forces oper-
ating in the Arctic.
SEC. 1046. CONSIDERATION OF SECURITY RISKS
IN CERTAIN TELECOMMUNICATIONS
ARCHITECTURE FOR FUTURE OVER-
SEAS BASING DECISIONS OF THE DE-
PARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
The Secretary of Defense shall take into
account the security risks of 5G and 6G tele-
communications network architecture, in-
cluding the use of telecommunications
equipment provided by at-risk vendors such
as Huawei Technologies Company, Ltd., and
the Zhongxing Telecommunications Equip-
ment Corporation (ZTE), in all future over-
seas stationing decisions of the Department
of Defense, including—
(1) security risks from threats to oper-
ational and information security of United
States military personnel and equipment;
and
(2) the sufficiency of potential mitigation
by the Department and the host nation con-
cerned of such security risks, including
through cost-sharing agreements related to
such mitigation.
SEC. 1047. FOREIGN MILITARY TRAINING PRO-
GRAMS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be
cited as the ‘‘Secure United States Bases
Act’’.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE DEFENSE COMMITTEES.—
The term ‘‘appropriate defense committees’’
means—
(A) the Committee on Armed Services of
the Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Armed Services of
the House of Representatives.
(2) COVERED INDIVIDUALS.—The term ‘‘cov-
ered individuals’’ means any foreign national
(except foreign nationals of Australia, Can-
ada, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom
who have been granted a security clearance
that is reciprocally accepted by the United
States for access to classified information)
who—
(A) is seeking physical access to a Depart-
ment of Defense installation or facility with-
in the United States; and
(B)(i) is selected, nominated, or accepted
for training or education for a period of more
than 30 days occurring on a Department of
Defense installation or facility within the
United States; or
(ii) is an immediate family member accom-
panying any foreign national who has been
selected, nominated, or accepted for such
training or education.
(3) IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER.—The term
‘‘immediate family member’’ means—
(A) spouse;
(B) parents and stepparents;
(C) siblings, stepsiblings, and half-siblings;
and
(D) children and stepchildren.
(4) UNITED STATES.—The term ‘‘United
States’’ means the several States, the Dis-
trict of Columbia, the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico, and Guam.
(c) ESTABLISHMENT OF VETTING PROCE-
DURES; MONITORING REQUIREMENTS FOR CER-
TAIN MILITARY TRAINING.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT OF VETTING PROCE-
DURES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense shall establish pro-
cedures to vet covered individuals for eligi-
bility for physical access to Department of
Defense installations and facilities within
the United States, including—
(i) biographic and biometric screening of
covered individuals;
(ii) continuous review of whether covered
individuals should continue to be authorized
such physical access;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00119 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6806 November 16, 2020
(iii) biographic checks of the covered indi-
vidual’s immediate family members; and
(iv) any other measures that the Secretary
of Defense determines appropriate for vet-
ting.
(B) INFORMATION REQUIRED.—The Secretary
of Defense shall identify the information re-
quired to conduct the vetting.
(C) COLLECTION OF INFORMATION.—The Sec-
retary of Defense shall—
(i) collect information to vet individuals
under the procedures established under this
subsection; and
(ii) as required for the effective implemen-
tation of this section, shall seek to enter
into agreements with the relevant Federal
departments and agencies to facilitate the
sharing of information in the possession of
such departments and agencies concerning
the covered individuals.
(2) DETERMINATION AUTHORITY.—
(A) REVIEW.—The results of vetting—
(i) will be reviewed within the Department
of Defense by an organization with an as-
signed security and counterintelligence mis-
sion; and
(ii) will be the basis for that organization’s
recommendation regarding whether physical
access should be authorized by the appro-
priate authority.
(B) EFFECT OF DENIAL.—If the organization
recommends that a covered individual not be
authorized physical access to Department of
Defense installations and facilities within
the United States, such physical access may
only be authorized for such covered indi-
vidual by the Secretary of Defense or the
Deputy Secretary of Defense.
(C) NOTIFICATION.—The Secretary of State
shall be notified of any covered individuals
who are not authorized physical access based
on the results of the vetting under this sub-
section.
(3) ADDITIONAL SECURITY MEASURES.—Be-
ginning on the date that is 181 days after the
date of the enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary of Defense shall—
(A) ensure that all Department of Defense
Common Access Cards issued to foreign na-
tionals in the United States—
(i) comply with the credentialing standards
issued by the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment; and
(ii) include a visual indicator, as required
by the standard developed by the National
Institute of Standards and Technology;
(B) ensure that physical access by covered
individuals is limited, as appropriate, to De-
partment of Defense installations or facili-
ties within the United States that are di-
rectly associated with their training or edu-
cation or necessary to access authorized ben-
efits;
(C) establish a policy regarding the posses-
sion of firearms on Department of Defense
property by covered individuals; and
(D) ensure that covered individuals who
have been granted physical access are incor-
porated into the Department of Defense In-
sider Threat Program.
(4) NOTIFICATION.—The Secretary of De-
fense shall notify the appropriate congres-
sional committees of the establishment of
the procedures required under paragraph (1).
(d) REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) BRIEFING.—Not later than 90 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Defense shall provide a briefing
to the appropriate congressional committees
regarding the establishment of any Depart-
ment of Defense policy or guidance related
to the implementation of this section.
(2) REPORT.—Not later than 2 years after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Defense shall submit a report to
the appropriate congressional committees
regarding the impact and effects of this sec-
tion, including—
(A) any positive or negative impacts on the
training of foreign military students;
(B) the effectiveness of the vetting proce-
dures implemented in preventing harm to
United States military personnel or commu-
nities;
(C) how any of the negative impacts have
been mitigated; and
(D) a proposed plan to mitigate any ongo-
ing negative impacts to the vetting and
training of foreign military students by the
Department of Defense.
SEC. 1048. REPORTING OF ADVERSE EVENTS RE-
LATING TO CONSUMER PRODUCTS
ON MILITARY INSTALLATIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense
shall ensure that any adverse event related
to a consumer product that occurs on a mili-
tary installation is reported on the internet
website saferproducts.gov.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ADVERSE EVENT.—The term ‘‘adverse
event’’ means—
(A) any event that indicates that a con-
sumer product—
(i) fails to comply with an applicable con-
sumer product safety rule or with a vol-
untary consumer product safety standard
upon which the Consumer Product Safety
Commission has relied under section 9 of the
Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C.
2058);
(ii) fails to comply with any other rule,
regulation, standard, or ban under that Act
or any other Act enforced by the Commis-
sion;
(iii) contains a defect which could create a
substantial product hazard described in sec-
tion 15(a)(2) of the Consumer Product Safety
Act (15 U.S.C. 2064(a)(2)); or
(iv) creates an unreasonable risk of serious
injury or death; or
(B) any other harm described in subsection
(b)(1)(A) of section 6A of the Consumer Prod-
uct Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2055a) and required
to be reported in the database established
under subsection (a) of that section.
(2) CONSUMER PRODUCT.—The term ‘‘con-
sumer product’’ has the meaning given that
term in section 3 of the Consumer Product
Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2052).
SEC. 1049. INCLUSION OF UNITED STATES NAVAL
SEA CADET CORPS AMONG YOUTH
AND CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS
AUTHORIZED TO RECEIVE ASSIST-
ANCE FROM THE NATIONAL GUARD.
Section 508(d) of title 32, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraph (14) as para-
graph (15); and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (13) the fol-
lowing new paragraph (14):
‘‘(14) The United States Naval Sea Cadet
Corps.’’.
SEC. 1050. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE POLICY
FOR THE REGULATION OF DAN-
GEROUS DOGS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense, through the Vet-
erinary Service Activity of the Department
of Defense, shall establish a standardized
policy applicable across all military commu-
nities for the regulation of dangerous dogs
that is—
(1) breed-neutral; and
(2) consistent with advice from profes-
sional veterinary and animal behavior ex-
perts in regard to effective regulation of dan-
gerous dogs.
(b) REGULATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary shall prescribe regulations im-
plementing the policy established under sub-
section (a).
(2) BEST PRACTICES.—The regulations pre-
scribed under paragraph (1) shall include
strategies, for implementation within all
military communities, for the prevention of
dog bites that are consistent with the fol-
lowing best practices:
(A) Enforcement of comprehensive, non-
breed-specific regulations relating to dan-
gerous dogs, with emphasis on identification
of dangerous dog behavior and chronically ir-
responsible owners.
(B) Enforcement of animal control regula-
tions, such as leash laws and stray animal
control policies.
(C) Promotion and communication of re-
sources for pet spaying and neutering.
(D) Investment in community education
initiatives, such as teaching criteria for pet
selection, pet care best practices, owner re-
sponsibilities, and safe and appropriate
interaction with dogs.
(c) MILITARY COMMUNITIES DEFINED.—In
this section, the term ‘‘military commu-
nities’’ means—
(1) all installations of the Department; and
(2) all military housing, including
privatized military housing under sub-
chapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, United
States Code.
SEC. 1051. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE BASING
OF KC–46A AIRCRAFT OUTSIDE THE
CONTIGUOUS UNITED STATES.
It is the sense of Congress that the Sec-
retary of the Air Force, as part of the stra-
tegic basing process for KC–46A aircraft at
installations outside the contiguous United
States (OCONUS), should—
(1) consider the benefits derived from bas-
ing such aircraft at locations that—
(A) support day-to-day air refueling oper-
ations, operations plans of multiple combat-
ant commands, and flexibility for contin-
gency operations;
(B) have—
(i) a strategic location that is essential to
the defense of the United States and its in-
terests;
(ii) receivers for boom or probe-and-drogue
combat training opportunities with joint and
international partners; and
(iii) sufficient airfield and airspace avail-
ability and capacity to meet requirements;
(C) possess facilities that take full advan-
tage of existing infrastructure to provide—
(i) runway, hangars, and aircrew and main-
tenance operations; and
(ii) sufficient fuel receipt, storage, and dis-
tribution for 5-day peacetime operating
stock; and
(D) minimize overall construction and
operational costs;
(2) prioritize United States responsiveness
and flexibility to continued long-term great
power competition and other major threats,
as outlined in the 2017 National Security
Strategy and the 2018 National Defense
Strategy; and
(3) take into account the advancement of
adversary weapons systems, with respect to
both capacity and range.
SEC. 1052. EFFICIENT USE OF SENSITIVE COM-
PARTMENTED INFORMATION FA-
CILITIES.
Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Director of
National Intelligence, in consultation with
the Secretary of Defense, shall issue revised
guidance authorizing and directing Govern-
ment agencies and their appropriately
cleared contractors to process, store, use,
and discuss sensitive compartmented infor-
mation (SCI) at facilities previously ap-
proved to handle such information, without
need for further approval by agency or by
site. Such guidance shall apply to controlled
access programs of the intelligence commu-
nity and to special access programs of the
Department of Defense.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00120 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6807
November 16, 2020
SEC. 1053. ASSISTANCE FOR FARMER AND
RANCHER STRESS AND MENTAL
HEALTH OF INDIVIDUALS IN RURAL
AREAS.
(a) DEFINITION OF SECRETARY.—In this sec-
tion, the term ‘‘Secretary’’ means the Sec-
retary of Agriculture.
(b) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that—
(1) according to the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention, the suicide rate is 45
percent greater in rural areas of the United
States than the suicide rate in urban areas
of the United States;
(2) farmers face social isolation, the poten-
tial for financial losses, barriers to seeking
mental health services, and access to lethal
means to commit suicide; and
(3) as commodity prices fall and farmers
face uncertainty, reports of farmer suicides
are increasing.
(c) PUBLIC SERVICE ANNOUNCEMENT CAM-
PAIGN TO ADDRESS FARM AND RANCH MENTAL
HEALTH.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, in con-
sultation with the Secretary of Health and
Human Services, shall carry out a public
service announcement campaign to address
the mental health of farmers and ranchers.
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—The public service an-
nouncement campaign under paragraph (1)
shall include television, radio, print, out-
door, and digital public service announce-
ments.
(3) CONTRACTOR.—The Secretary may enter
into a contract or other agreement with a
third party to carry out the public service
announcement campaign under paragraph
(1).
(4) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to the
Secretary to carry out this subsection
$3,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
(d) EMPLOYEE TRAINING PROGRAM TO MAN-
AGE FARMER AND RANCHER STRESS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle A of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture Reorganization Act of
1994 (7 U.S.C. 6912 et seq.) is amended by add-
ing at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 224B. EMPLOYEE TRAINING PROGRAM TO
MANAGE FARMER AND RANCHER
STRESS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall es-
tablish a voluntary program to train em-
ployees of the Farm Service Agency, the
Risk Management Agency, and the Natural
Resources Conservation Service in the man-
agement of stress experienced by farmers
and ranchers, including the detection of
stress and suicide prevention.
‘‘(b) REQUIREMENT.—Not later than 180
days after the date on which the Secretary
submits a report on the results of the pilot
program being carried out by the Secretary
as of the date of enactment of this section to
train employees of the Department in the
management of stress experienced by farm-
ers and ranchers, and based on the rec-
ommendations contained in that report, the
Secretary shall develop a training program
to carry out subsection (a).
‘‘(c) REPORT.—Not less frequently than
once every 2 years, the Secretary shall sub-
mit to the Committee on Agriculture of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of
the Senate a report describing the imple-
mentation of this section.’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(A) Subtitle A of the Department of Agri-
culture Reorganization Act of 1994 is amend-
ed by redesignating section 225 (7 U.S.C. 6925)
as section 224A.
(B) Section 296(b) of the Department of Ag-
riculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C.
7014(b)) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(11) The authority of the Secretary to
carry out section 224B.’’.
(e) TASK FORCE FOR ASSESSMENT OF CAUSES
OF MENTAL STRESS AND BEST PRACTICES FOR
RESPONSE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall con-
vene a task force of agricultural and rural
stakeholders at the national, State, and
local levels—
(A) to assess the causes of mental stress in
farmers and ranchers; and
(B) to identify best practices for respond-
ing to that mental stress.
(2) SUBMISSION OF REPORT.—Not later than
1 year after the date of enactment of this
Act, the task force convened under para-
graph (1) shall submit to the Secretary a re-
port containing the assessment and best
practices under subparagraphs (A) and (B),
respectively, of that paragraph.
(3) COLLABORATION.—In carrying out this
subsection, the task force convened under
paragraph (1) shall collaborate with non-
governmental organizations and State and
local agencies.
SEC. 1054. ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS AND LIMITA-
TIONS ON THE TRANSFER OF DE-
PARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROPERTY
FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT ACTIVI-
TIES.
(a) ADDITIONAL TRAINING OF RECIPIENT
AGENCY PERSONNEL REQUIRED.—Subsection
(b)(6) of section 2576a of title 10, United
States Code, is amended by inserting before
the period at the end the following: ‘‘, in-
cluding respect for the rights of citizens
under the Constitution of the United States
and de-escalation of force’’.
(b) CERTAIN PROPERTY NOT
TRANSFERRABLE.—Such section is further
amended—
(1) by redesignating subsections (e) and (f)
as subsections (f) and (g), respectively; and
(2) by inserting after subsection (d) the fol-
lowing new subsection (e):
‘‘(d) PROPERTY NOT TRANSFERRABLE.—The
Secretary may not transfer to a Tribal,
State, or local law enforcement agency
under this section the following:
‘‘(1) Bayonets.
‘‘(2) Grenades (other than stun and flash-
bang grenades).
‘‘(3) Weaponized tracked combat vehicles.
‘‘(4) Weaponized drones.’’.
Subtitle F—Studies and Reports
SEC. 1061. REPORT ON POTENTIAL IMPROVE-
MENTS TO CERTAIN MILITARY EDU-
CATIONAL INSTITUTIONS OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than December
1, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit
to the Committees on Armed Services of the
Senate and the House of Representatives a
report setting forth the results of a review
and assessment, obtained by the Secretary
for purposes of the report, of the potential
effects on the military education provided by
the educational institutions of the Depart-
ment of Defense specified in subsection (b) of
the actions described in subsection (c).
(2) CONDUCTING ORGANIZATION.—The review
and assessment required for purposes of the
report shall be performed by an organization
selected by the Secretary from among orga-
nizations independent of the Department
that have expertise in the analysis of mat-
ters in connection with higher education.
(b) EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS OF THE DE-
PARTMENT OF DEFENSE.—The educational in-
stitutions of the Department of Defense
specified in this subsection are the following:
(1) The senior level service schools and in-
termediate level service schools (as such
terms are defined in section 2151(b) of title
10, United States Code).
(2) The Air Force Institute of Technology.
(3) The National Defense University.
(4) The Joint Special Operations Univer-
sity.
(5) The Army Armament Graduate School.
(6) Any other military educational institu-
tion of the Department specified by the Sec-
retary for purposes of this section.
(c) ACTIONS.—The actions described in this
subsection with respect to the educational
institutions of the Department of Defense
specified in subsection (b) are the following:
(1) Modification of admission and gradua-
tion requirements.
(2) Expansion of use of case studies in cur-
ricula for professional military education.
(3) Reduction or expansion of degree-grant-
ing authority.
(4) Reduction or expansion of the accept-
ance of research grants.
(5) Reduction of the number of attending
students generally.
(6) Modification of military personnel ca-
reer milestones in order to prioritize instruc-
tor positions.
(7) Increase in educational and perform-
ance requirements for military personnel se-
lected to be instructors.
(8) Expansion of ‘‘visiting’’ or ‘‘adjunct’’
faculty.
(9) Modification of civilian faculty man-
agement practices, including employment
practices.
(10) Reduction of the number of attending
students through the sponsoring of edu-
cation of an increased number of students at
non-Department of Defense institutions of
higher education.
(11) Modification of enlisted personnel
management and career milestones to in-
crease attendance at non-Department of De-
fense institutions of higher education
(d) ADDITIONAL ELEMENTS.—In addition to
the matters described in subsection (a), the
review and report under this section shall
also include the following:
(1) A comparison of admission standards
and graduation requirements of the edu-
cational institutions of the Department of
Defense specified in subsection (b) with ad-
mission standards and graduation require-
ments of public and private institutions of
higher education that are comparable to the
educational institutions of the Department
of Defense.
(2) A comparison of the goals and missions
of the educational institutions of the Depart-
ment of Defense specified in subsection (b)
with the goals and missions of such public
and private institutions of higher education.
(3) Any other matters the Secretary con-
siders appropriate for purposes of this sec-
tion.
(e) JCS EVALUATION OF REVIEW AND AS-
SESSMENT.—Not later than 90 days after the
date on which the report required by sub-
section (a) is submitted to Congress, the
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall,
in consultation with the other members of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, submit to the Com-
mittees on Armed Services of the Senate and
the House of Representatives a report set-
ting forth any evaluation by the Joint Chiefs
of Staff of the review and assessment covered
by the report under subsection (a).
SEC. 1062. REPORTS ON STATUS AND MOD-
ERNIZATION OF THE NORTH WARN-
ING SYSTEM.
(a) REPORT ON STATUS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the
congressional defense committees a report
on the status of the North Warning System.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The report under paragraph
(1) shall include the following:
(A) A description and assessment of the
status and operational integrity of the infra-
structure of the North Warning System.
(B) An assessment of the technology cur-
rently used by the North Warning System
compared with the technology considered
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00121 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6808 November 16, 2020
necessary by the Commander of the North
American Aerospace Defense Command to
detect current and anticipated threats.
(C) An assessment of the infrastructure
and ability of the Alaska Radar System to
integrate into the broader North Warning
System.
(D) An assessment of the ability of the
North Warning System to integrate with
current and anticipated space-based sensor
platforms.
(b) REPORT ON PLAN FOR MODERNIZATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary shall submit to the congres-
sional defense committees a report setting
forth a plan for the modernization of the ca-
pabilities provided by the current North
Warning System.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The plan under paragraph
(1) shall include the following:
(A) A detailed timeline for the moderniza-
tion of the North Warning System based on
the status of the system as reported pursu-
ant to subsection (a).
(B) The technological advancements nec-
essary for ground-based North Warning Sys-
tem sites to address current and anticipated
threats (as specified by the Commander of
the North American Aerospace Defense Com-
mand).
(C) An assessment of the number of future
North Warning System sites required in
order to address current and anticipated
threats (as so specified).
(D) Any new or complementary tech-
nologies required to accomplish the mission
of the North Warning System.
(E) The cost and schedule, by year, of the
plan.
SEC. 1063. STUDIES ON THE FORCE STRUCTURE
FOR MARINE CORPS AVIATION.
(a) STUDIES REQUIRED.—The Secretary of
Defense shall provide for performance of
three studies on the force structure for Ma-
rine Corps aviation through 2030.
(b) RESPONSIBILITY FOR STUDIES.—One of
the three studies performed pursuant to sub-
section (a) shall be performed by each of the
following:
(1) The Secretary of the Navy, in consulta-
tion with the Commandant of the Marine
Corps.
(2) An appropriate Federally funded re-
search and development center (FFRDC), as
selected by the Secretary for purposes of this
section.
(3) An appropriate organization described
in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 which is exempt from taxation
under section 501(a) of such code, as selected
by the Secretary for purposes of this section.
(c) PERFORMANCE.—
(1) INDEPENDENT PERFORMANCE.—Each
study performed pursuant to subsection (a)
shall be performed independently of each
other such study,
(2) MATTERS TO BE CONSIDERED.—In per-
forming a study pursuant to subsection, the
officer or entity performing the study take
into account, within the context of the cur-
rent force structure for Marine Corps avia-
tion, the following:
(A) The 2018 National Defense Strategy and
the 2018 National Military Strategy.
(B) The Marine Corps Force Design 2030.
(C) Potential roles and missions for Marine
Corps aviation given new operating concepts
for the Marine Corps.
(D) The potential for increased require-
ments for survivable and dispersed strike
aircraft.
(E) The potential for increased require-
ments for tactical or intratheater lift, am-
phibious lift, or surface connectors.
(d) STUDY RESULTS.—The results of each
study performed pursuant to subsection (a)
shall include the following:
(1) The various force structures for Marine
Corps aviation through 2030 considered under
such study, together with the assumptions
and possible scenarios identified for each
such force structure.
(2) A recommendation for the force struc-
ture for Marine Corps aviation through 2030,
including the following in connection with
such force structure:
(A) Numbers and type of aviation assets,
numbers and types of associated unmanned
assets, and basic capabilities of each such
asset.
(B) A description and assessment of the de-
viation of such force structure from the most
recent Marine Corps Aviation Plan.
(C) Any other information required for as-
sessment of such force structure, including
supporting analysis.
(3) A presentation and discussion of minor-
ity views among participants in such study.
(e) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than April 1,
2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit
to the congressional defense committees a
report setting forth the results of each study
performed pursuant to subsection (a).
(2) FORM.—The report under this sub-
section shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 1064. STUDY ON UNEMPLOYMENT RATE OF
FEMALE VETERANS WHO SERVED
ON ACTIVE DUTY IN THE ARMED
FORCES AFTER SEPTEMBER 11, 2001.
(a) STUDY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in con-
sultation with the Bureau of Labor Statis-
tics of the Department of Labor, shall con-
duct a study on why Post-9/11 Veterans who
are female are at higher risk of unemploy-
ment than all other groups of female vet-
erans and their non-veteran counterparts.
(2) CONDUCT OF STUDY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall con-
duct the study under paragraph (1) primarily
through the Center for Women Veterans
under section 318 of title 38, United States
Code.
(B) CONSULTATION.—In carrying out the
study conducted under paragraph (1), the
Secretary may consult with—
(i) other Federal agencies, such as the De-
partment of Defense, the Office of Personnel
Management, and the Small Business Ad-
ministration;
(ii) foundations; and
(iii) entities in the private sector.
(3) ELEMENTS OF STUDY.—The study con-
ducted under paragraph (1) shall include,
with respect to Post-9/11 Veterans who are
female, at a minimum, an analysis of the fol-
lowing:
(A) Rank at time of separation from the
Armed Forces.
(B) Geographic location upon such separa-
tion.
(C) Educational level upon such separation.
(D) The percentage of such veterans who
enrolled in an education or employment
training program of the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs or the Department of Labor
after such separation.
(E) Industries that have employed such
veterans.
(F) Military occupational specialties avail-
able to such veterans.
(G) Barriers to employment of such vet-
erans.
(H) Causes to fluctuations in employment
of such veterans.
(I) Current employment training programs
of the Department of Veterans Affairs or the
Department of Labor that are available to
such veterans.
(J) Economic indicators that impact unem-
ployment of such veterans.
(K) Health conditions of such veterans that
could impact employment.
(L) Whether there are differences in the
analyses conducted under subparagraphs (A)
through (K) based on the race of such vet-
eran.
(M) The difference between unemployment
rates of Post-9/11 Veterans who are female
compared to unemployment rates of Post-9/
11 Veterans who are male, including an anal-
ysis of potential causes of such difference.
(b) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after completing the study under subsection
(a), the Secretary shall submit to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate
and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of
the House of Representatives a report on
such study.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The report required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) The analyses conducted under sub-
section (a)(3).
(B) A description of the methods used to
conduct the study under subsection (a).
(C) Such other matters relating to the un-
employment rates of Post-9/11 Veterans who
are female as the Secretary considers appro-
priate.
(c) POST-9/11 VETERAN DEFINED.—In this
section, the term ‘‘Post-9/11 Veteran’’ means
a veteran who served on active duty in the
Armed Forces on or after September 11, 2001.
SEC. 1065. REPORT ON GREAT LAKES AND IN-
LAND WATERWAYS SEAPORTS.
(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Homeland Security shall
submit a report to the Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs of
the Senate and the Committee on Homeland
Security of the House of Representatives
containing the results of the review and an
explanation of the methodology used for the
review conducted pursuant to subsection (b)
regarding the screening practices for foreign
cargo arriving at seaports on the Great
Lakes and inland waterways.
(2) FORM.—The report required under para-
graph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified
form, to the maximum extent possible, but
may include a classified annex, if necessary.
(b) SCOPE OF REVIEW.—
(1) SEAPORT SELECTION.—In selecting sea-
ports on inland waterways to include in the
review under this subsection, the Secretary
of Homeland Security shall ensure that the
inland waterways seaports are—
(A) equal in number to the Great Lakes
seaports included in the review;
(B) comparable to Great Lakes seaports in-
cluded in the review, as measured by number
of imported shipments arriving at the sea-
port each year; and
(C) covered by at least the same number of
Field Operations offices as the Great Lakes
seaports included in the review, but are not
covered by the same Field Operations offices
as such Great Lakes seaports.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The Secretary of Homeland
Security shall conduct a review of all Great
Lakes and selected inland waterways sea-
ports that receive international cargo—
(A) to determine, for each such seaport—
(i) the current screening capability, includ-
ing the types and numbers of screening
equipment and whether such equipment is
physically located at a seaport or assigned
and available in the area and made available
to use;
(ii) the number of U.S. Customs and Border
Protection personnel assigned from a Field
Operations office, broken out by role;
(iii) the expenditures for procurement and
overtime incurred by U.S. Customs and Bor-
der Protection during the most recent fiscal
year;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00122 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6809
November 16, 2020
(iv) the types of cargo received, such as
containerized, break-bulk, and bulk;
(v) the legal entity that owns the seaport;
(vi) a description of U.S. Customs and Bor-
der Protection’s use of space at the seaport,
including—
(I) whether U.S. Customs and Border Pro-
tection or the General Services Administra-
tion owns or leases any facilities; and
(II) if U.S. Customs and Border Protection
is provided space at the seaport, a descrip-
tion of such space, including the number of
workstations; and
(vii) the current cost-sharing arrangement
for screening technology or reimbursable
services;
(B) to identify, for each Field Operations
office—
(i) any ports of entry that are staffed re-
motely from service ports;
(ii) the distance of each such service port
from the corresponding ports of entry; and
(iii) the number of officers and the types of
equipment U.S. Customs and Border Protec-
tion utilizes to screen cargo entering or
exiting through such ports; and
(C) that includes a threat assessment of in-
coming containerized and noncontainerized
cargo at Great Lakes seaports and selected
inland waterways seaports.
SEC. 1066. REPORT ON THE CHEMICAL AND BIO-
LOGICAL DEFENSE PROGRAM OF
THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 60
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to
the congressional defense committees a re-
port on the Chemical and Biological Defense
Program of the Department of Defense.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall include the following:
(1) An assessment of the significance of the
Chemical and Biological Defense Program
within the 2018 National Defense Strategy.
(2) A description and assessment of the
threats the Chemical and Biological Defense
Program is designed to address.
(3) An assessment of the capacity of cur-
rent Chemical and Biological Defense Pro-
gram facilities to complete their missions if
funding levels for the Program are reduced.
(4) An estimate of the length of time re-
quired to return the Chemical and Biological
Defense Program to its current capacity if
funding levels reduced for the Program as de-
scribed in paragraph (3) are restored.
(5) An assessment of the threat posed to
members of the Armed Forces as a result of
a reduction in testing of gear for field readi-
ness by the Chemical and Biological Defense
Program by reason of reduced funding levels
for the Program.
(6) A description and assessment of the ne-
cessity of Non Traditional Agent Defense
Testing under the Chemical and Biological
Defense Program for Individual Protection
Systems, Collective Protection Systems,
field decontamination systems, and chemical
agent detectors.
(c) FORM.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall be submitted in classified
form, available for review by any Member of
Congress, but shall include an unclassified
summary.
SEC. 1067. REPORT ON ROUND-THE-CLOCK AVAIL-
ABILITY OF CHILDCARE FOR MEM-
BERS OF THE ARMED FORCES AND
CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES OF THE DE-
PARTMENT OF DEFENSE WHO WORK
ROTATING SHIFTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 270 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate
and the House of Representatives a report
setting forth the results of a study, con-
ducted by the Secretary for purposes of the
report, on the feasibility and advisability of
making round-the-clock childcare available
for children of members of the Armed Forces
and civilian employees of the Department of
Defense who works on rotating shifts at
military installations.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall include the following:
(1) The results of the study described in
that subsection.
(2) If the Secretary determines that mak-
ing round-the-clock childcare available as
described in subsection (a) is feasible and ad-
visable, such matters as the Secretary con-
siders appropriate in connection with mak-
ing such childcare available, including—
(A) an identification of the installations at
which such childcare would be beneficial to
members of the Armed Forces, civilian em-
ployees of the Department, or both;
(B) an identification of any barriers to
making such childcare available at the in-
stallations identified pursuant to subpara-
graph (A);
(C) an assessment whether the childcare
needs of members of the Armed Forces and
civilian employees of the Department de-
scribed in subsection (a) would be better met
by an increase in assistance for childcare
fees;
(D) a description and assessment of the ac-
tions, if any, being taken to make such
childcare available at the installations iden-
tified pursuant to subparagraph (A); and
(E) such recommendations for legislative
or administrative action as the Secretary
considers appropriate to make such
childcare available at the installations iden-
tified pursuant to subparagraph (A), or at
any other military installations.
Subtitle G—Other Matters
SEC. 1081. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE STRA-
TEGIC ARCTIC PORTS.
(a) REPORT.—Not later than March 1, 2021,
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the
congressional defense committees a report
setting forth an updated assessment of the
estimated cost of constructing, maintaining,
and operating a strategic port in the Arctic
at each potential site evaluated in the report
pursuant to section 1752(b) of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2020 (Public Law 116–92). The report under
this subsection shall include, for each poten-
tial site at which construction of such a port
could be completed by 2030, an estimate of
the number of days per year that such port
would be usable by vessels of the Navy and
the Coast Guard.
(b) DESIGNATION OF STRATEGIC ARCTIC
PORTS.—Not later than 90 days after the date
on which the report required by subsection
(a) is submitted, the Secretary of Defense
may, in consultation with the Chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Commanding
General of the United States Army Corps of
Engineers, the Commandant of the Coast
Guard, and the Administrator of the Mari-
time Administration, designate one or more
ports as Department of Defense Strategic
Arctic Ports from the sites identified in the
report referred to in subsection (a).
(c) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section may be construed to authorize
any additional appropriations for the De-
partment of Defense for the establishment of
any port designated pursuant to this section.
(d) ARCTIC DEFINED.—In this section, the
term ‘‘Arctic’’ has the meaning given that
term in section 112 of the Arctic Research
and Policy Act of 1984 (15 U.S.C. 4111).
SEC. 1082. PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT
MATTERS.
(a) BRIEFINGS ON FIELDING OF NEWEST GEN-
ERATIONS OF PPE TO THE ARMED FORCES.—
(1) BRIEFINGS REQUIRED.—Not later than
January 31, 2021, each Secretary of a mili-
tary department shall submit to Congress a
briefing on the fielding of the newest genera-
tions of personal protective equipment (PPE)
to the Armed Forces under the jurisdiction
of such Secretary.
(2) ELEMENTS.—Each briefing under para-
graph (1) shall include, for each Armed Force
covered by such briefing, the following:
(A) A description and assessment of the
fielding of newest generations of personal
protective equipment to members of such
Armed Force, including the following:
(i) The number (aggregated by total num-
ber and by sex) of members of such Armed
Force issued the Army Soldiers Protective
System and the Modular Scalable Vest Gen-
eration II body armor as of December 31,
2020.
(ii) The number (aggregated by total num-
ber and by sex) of members of such Armed
Force issued Marine Corps Plate Carrier
Generation III (PC Gen III) body armor as of
that date.
(iii) The number (aggregated by total num-
ber and by sex) of members of such Armed
Force fitted with legacy personal protective
equipment as of that date.
(B) A description and assessment of the
barriers, if any, to the fielding of such gen-
erations of equipment to such members.
(C) A description and assessment of chal-
lenges in the fielding of such generations of
equipment to such members, including cost
overruns, contractor delays, and other chal-
lenges.
(b) SYSTEM FOR TRACKING DATA ON INJURIES
AMONG MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES IN
USE OF NEWEST GENERATION PPE.—
(1) SYSTEM REQUIRED.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Director of the De-
fense Health Agency (DHA) shall develop and
maintain a system for tracking data on inju-
ries among members of the Armed Forces in
and during the use of newest generation per-
sonal protective equipment.
(B) SCOPE OF SYSTEM.—The system re-
quired by this paragraph may, at the elec-
tion of the Director, be new for purposes of
this subsection or within or a modification
of an appropriate existing system (such as
the Defense Occupational And Environ-
mental Health Readiness System
(DOEHRS)).
(2) BRIEFING.—Not later than January 31,
2025, the Director shall submit to Congress a
briefing on the prevalence among members
of the Armed Forces of preventable injuries
attributable to ill-fitting or malfunctioning
personal protective equipment.
(c) ASSESSMENTS OF MEMBERS OF THE
ARMED FORCES OF INJURIES INCURRED IN CON-
NECTION WITH ILL-FITTING OR MALFUNC-
TIONING PPE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each health assessment
specified in paragraph (2) that is undertaken
after the date of the enactment of this Act
shall include the following:
(A) One or more questions on whether
members incurred an injury in connection
with ill-fitting or malfunctioning personal
protective equipment during the period cov-
ered by such assessment, including the na-
ture of such injury.
(B) In the case members who have so in-
curred such an injury, one or more elements
of self-evaluation of such injury by such
members for purposes of facilitating timely
documentation and enhanced monitoring of
such members and injuries.
(2) ASSESSMENTS.—The health assessments
specified in this paragraph are the following:
(A) The annual Periodic Health Assess-
ment (PHA) of members of the Armed
Forces.
(B) The post-deployment health assess-
ment of members of the Armed Forces.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00123 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6810 November 16, 2020
SEC. 1083. ESTIMATE OF DAMAGES FROM FED-
ERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMIS-
SION ORDER 20–48.
(a) LIMITATION, ESTIMATE, AND CERTIFI-
CATION.—None of the funds authorized to be
appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2021
may be used by the Secretary of Defense to
comply with the Order and Authorization
adopted by the Federal Communications
Commission on April 19, 2020 (FCC 20–48)
until the Secretary—
(1) submits to the congressional defense
committees an estimate of the extent of cov-
ered costs and the range of eligible reimburs-
able costs associated with interference re-
sulting from such order and authorization to
the Global Positioning System of the De-
partment of Defense; and
(2) certifies to the congressional defense
committees that the estimate submitted
under paragraph (1) is accurate with a high
degree of certainty.
(b) COVERED COSTS.—For purposes of this
section, covered costs include costs that
would be incurred—
(1) to upgrade, repair, or replace poten-
tially affected receivers of the Federal Gov-
ernment;
(2) to modify, repair, or replace equipment,
spares, associated ancillary equipment, soft-
ware, facilities, operating manuals, training,
or compliance with regulations, including
with regard to the underlying platform or
system in which a capability of the Global
Positioning System is embedded; and
(3) for personnel of the Department to en-
gineer, validate, and verify that any required
remediation provides the Department with
the same operational capability for the af-
fected system prior to terrestrial operation
in the 1525 to 1559 megahertz or 1626.5 to
1660.5 megahertz bands of electromagnetic
spectrum.
(c) RANGE OF ELIGIBLE REIMBURSABLE
COSTS.—For purposes of this section, the
range of eligible reimbursable costs in-
cludes—
(1) costs associated with engineering,
equipment, software, site acquisition, and
construction;
(2) any transaction expense that the Sec-
retary determines is legitimate and prudent;
(3) costs relating to term-limited Federal
civil servant and contractor staff; and
(4) the costs of research, engineering stud-
ies, or other expenses the Secretary deter-
mines reasonably incurred.
SEC. 1084. MODERNIZATION EFFORT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
(1) the term ‘‘Assistant Secretary’’ means
the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for
Communications and Information;
(2) the term ‘‘covered agency’’—
(A) means any Federal entity that the As-
sistant Secretary determines is appropriate;
and
(B) includes the Department of Defense;
(3) the term ‘‘Federal entity’’ has the
meaning given the term in section 113(l) of
the National Telecommunications and Infor-
mation Administration Organization Act (47
U.S.C. 923(l));
(4) the term ‘‘Federal spectrum’’ means
frequencies assigned on a primary basis to a
covered agency;
(5) the term ‘‘infrastructure’’ means infor-
mation technology systems and information
technologies, tools, and databases; and
(6) the term ‘‘NTIA’’ means the National
Telecommunications and Information Ad-
ministration.
(b) INITIAL INTERAGENCY SPECTRUM INFOR-
MATION TECHNOLOGY COORDINATION.—Not
later than 90 days after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, the Assistant Secretary, in
consultation with the Policy and Plans
Steering Group, shall identify a process to
establish goals, including parameters to
measure the achievement of those goals, for
the modernization of the infrastructure of
covered agencies relating to managing the
use of Federal spectrum by those agencies,
which shall include—
(1) the standardization of data inputs, mod-
eling algorithms, modeling and simulation
processes, analysis tools with respect to Fed-
eral spectrum, assumptions, and any other
tool to ensure interoperability and
functionality with respect to that infrastruc-
ture;
(2) other potential innovative techno-
logical capabilities with respect to that in-
frastructure, including cloud-based data-
bases, artificial intelligence technologies,
automation, and improved modeling and
simulation capabilities;
(3) ways to improve the management of
covered agencies’ use of Federal spectrum
through that infrastructure, including by—
(A) increasing the efficiency of that infra-
structure;
(B) addressing validation of usage with re-
spect to that infrastructure;
(C) increasing the accuracy of that infra-
structure;
(D) validating models used by that infra-
structure; and
(E) monitoring and enforcing requirements
that are imposed on covered agencies with
respect to the use of Federal spectrum by
covered agencies;
(4) ways to improve the ability of covered
agencies to meet mission requirements in
congested environments with respect to Fed-
eral spectrum, including as part of auto-
mated adjustments to operations based on
changing conditions in those environments;
(5) the creation of a time-based automated
mechanism—
(A) to share Federal spectrum between cov-
ered agencies to collaboratively and dynami-
cally increase access to Federal spectrum by
those agencies; and
(B) that could be scaled across Federal
spectrum; and
(6) the collaboration between covered agen-
cies necessary to ensure the interoperability
of Federal spectrum.
(c) SPECTRUM INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
MODERNIZATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 240 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Assistant Secretary shall submit to Congress
a report that contains the plan of the NTIA
to modernize and automate the infrastruc-
ture of the NTIA relating to managing the
use of Federal spectrum by covered agencies
so as to more efficiently manage that use.
(2) CONTENTS.—The report required under
paragraph (1) shall include—
(A) an assessment of the current, as of the
date on which the report is submitted, infra-
structure of the NTIA described in that para-
graph;
(B) an acquisition strategy for the modern-
ized infrastructure of the NTIA described in
that paragraph, including how that modern-
ized infrastructure will enable covered agen-
cies to be more efficient and effective in the
use of Federal spectrum;
(C) a timeline for the implementation of
the modernization efforts described in that
paragraph;
(D) plans detailing how the modernized in-
frastructure of the NTIA described in that
paragraph will—
(i) enhance the security and reliability of
that infrastructure so that such infrastruc-
ture satisfies the requirements of subchapter
II of chapter 35 of title 44, United States
Code;
(ii) improve data models and analysis tools
to increase the efficiency of the spectrum
use described in that paragraph;
(iii) enhance automation and workflows,
and reduce the scope and level of manual ef-
fort, in order to—
(I) administer the management of the spec-
trum use described in that paragraph; and
(II) improve data quality and processing
time; and
(iv) improve the timeliness of spectrum
analyses and requests for information, in-
cluding requests submitted pursuant to sec-
tion 552 of title 5, United States Code;
(E) an operations and maintenance plan
with respect to the modernized infrastruc-
ture of the NTIA described in that para-
graph;
(F) a strategy for coordination between the
covered agencies within the Policy and Plans
Steering Group, which shall include—
(i) a description of—
(I) those coordination efforts, as in effect
on the date on which the report is submitted;
and
(II) a plan for coordination of those efforts
after the date on which the report is sub-
mitted, including with respect to the efforts
described in subsection (d);
(ii) a plan for standardizing—
(I) electromagnetic spectrum analysis
tools;
(II) modeling and simulation processes and
technologies; and
(III) databases to provide technical inter-
ference assessments that are usable across
the Federal Government as part of a com-
mon spectrum management infrastructure
for covered agencies;
(iii) a plan for each covered agency to im-
plement a modernization plan described in
subsection (d)(1) that is tailored to the par-
ticular timeline of the agency;
(G) identification of manually intensive
processes involved in managing Federal spec-
trum and proposed enhancements to those
processes;
(H) metrics to evaluate the success of the
modernization efforts described in that para-
graph and any similar future efforts; and
(I) an estimate of the cost of the mod-
ernization efforts described in that para-
graph and any future maintenance with re-
spect to the modernized infrastructure of the
NTIA described in that paragraph, including
the cost of any personnel and equipment re-
lating to that maintenance.
(d) INTERAGENCY INPUTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, the head
of each covered agency shall submit to the
Assistant Secretary and the Policy and
Plans Steering Group a report that describes
the plan of the agency to modernize the in-
frastructure of the agency with respect to
the use of Federal spectrum by the agency so
that such modernized infrastructure of the
agency is interoperable with the modernized
infrastructure of the NTIA, as described in
subsection (c).
(2) CONTENTS.—Each report submitted by
the head of a covered agency under para-
graph (1) shall—
(A) include—
(i) an assessment of the current, as of the
date on which the report is submitted, man-
agement capabilities of the agency with re-
spect to the use of frequencies that are as-
signed to the agency, which shall include a
description of any challenges faced by the
agency with respect to that management;
(ii) a timeline for completion of the mod-
ernization efforts described in that para-
graph; and
(iii) a description of potential innovative
technological capabilities for the manage-
ment of frequencies that are assigned to the
agency, as determined under subsection (b);
(iv) identification of agency-specific re-
quirements or constraints relating to the in-
frastructure of the agency;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00124 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6811
November 16, 2020
(v) identification of any existing, as of the
date on which the report is submitted, sys-
tems of the agency that are duplicative of
the modernized infrastructure of the NTIA,
as proposed under subsection (c); and
(vi) with respect to the report submitted
by the Secretary of Defense—
(I) a strategy for the integration of sys-
tems or the flow of data among the Armed
Forces, the military departments, the De-
fense Agencies and Department of Defense
Field Activities, and other components of
the Department of Defense;
(II) a plan for the implementation of solu-
tions to the use of Federal spectrum by the
Department of Defense involving informa-
tion at multiple levels of classification; and
(III) a strategy for addressing, within the
modernized infrastructure of the Department
of Defense described in that paragraph, the
exchange of information between the Depart-
ment of Defense and the NTIA in order to ac-
complish required processing of all Depart-
ment of Defense domestic spectrum coordi-
nation and management activities; and
(B) be submitted in an unclassified format,
with a classified annex, as appropriate.
(3) NOTIFICATION OF CONGRESS.—Upon sub-
mission of the report required under para-
graph (1), the head of each covered agency
shall notify Congress that the head of the
covered agency has submitted the report.
(e) GAO OVERSIGHT.—The Comptroller Gen-
eral of the United States shall—
(1) not later than 90 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, conduct a review of
the infrastructure of covered agencies, as
that infrastructure exists on the date of en-
actment of this Act;
(2) after all of the reports required under
subsection (d) have been submitted, conduct
oversight of the implementation of the mod-
ernization plans submitted by the NTIA and
covered agencies under subsections (c) and
(d), respectively;
(3) not later than 1 year after the date on
which the Comptroller General begins con-
ducting oversight under paragraph (2), and
annually thereafter, submit a report regard-
ing that oversight to—
(A) with respect to the implementation of
the modernization plan of the Department of
Defense, the Committee on Armed Services
of the Senate and the Committee on Armed
Services of the House of Representatives;
and
(B) with respect to the implementation of
the modernization plans of all covered agen-
cies, including the Department of Defense,
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation of the Senate and the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives; and
(4) provide regular briefings to—
(A) with respect to the application of this
section to the Department of Defense, the
Committee on Armed Services of the Senate
and the Committee on Armed Services of the
House of Representatives; and
(B) with respect to the application of this
section to all covered agencies, including the
Department of Defense, the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation of
the Senate and the Committee on Energy
and Commerce of the House of Representa-
tives.
SEC. 1085. SENSE OF SENATE ON GOLD STAR
FAMILIES REMEMBRANCE WEEK.
(a) FINDINGS.—The Senate makes the fol-
lowing findings:
(1) The last Sunday in September—
(A) is designated as ‘‘Gold Star Mother’s
Day’’ under section 111 of title 36, United
States Code; and
(B) was first designated as ‘‘Gold Star
Mother’s Day’’ under the Joint Resolution
entitled ‘‘Joint Resolution designating the
last Sunday in September as ‘Gold Star
Mother’s Day’, and for other purposes’’, ap-
proved June 23, 1936 (49 Stat. 1895).
(2) There is no date dedicated to families
affected by the loss of a loved one who died
in service to the United States.
(3) A gold star symbolizes a family member
who died in the line of duty while serving in
the Armed Forces.
(4) The members and veterans of the
Armed Forces, through their service, bear
the burden of protecting the freedom of the
people of the United States.
(5) The selfless example of the service of
the members and veterans of the Armed
Forces, as well as the sacrifices made by the
families of those individuals, inspires all in-
dividuals in the United States to sacrifice
and work diligently for the good of the
United States.
(6) The sacrifices of the families of the fall-
en members of the Armed Forces and the
families of veterans of the Armed Forces
should never be forgotten.
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense
of the Senate that the Senate—
(1) designates the week of September 20
through September 26, 2020, as ‘‘Gold Star
Families Remembrance Week’’;
(2) honors and recognizes the sacrifices
made by—
(A) the families of members of the Armed
Forces who made the ultimate sacrifice in
order to defend freedom and protect the
United States; and
(B) the families of veterans of the Armed
Forces; and
(3) encourages the people of the United
States to observe Gold Star Families Re-
membrance Week by—
(A) performing acts of service and good
will in their communities; and
(B) celebrating families in which loved
ones made the ultimate sacrifice so that oth-
ers could continue to enjoy life, liberty, and
the pursuit of happiness.
SEC. 1086. CONTINUITY OF THE ECONOMY PLAN.
(a) REQUIREMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The President shall de-
velop and maintain a plan to maintain and
restore the economy of the United States in
response to a significant event.
(2) PRINCIPLES.—The plan required under
paragraph (1) shall—
(A) be consistent with—
(i) a free market economy; and
(ii) the rule of law; and
(B) respect private property rights.
(3) CONTENTS.—The plan required under
paragraph (1) shall—
(A) examine the distribution of goods and
services across the United States necessary
for the reliable functioning of the United
States during a significant event;
(B) identify the economic functions of rel-
evant actors, the disruption, corruption, or
dysfunction of which would have a debili-
tating effect in the United States on—
(i) security;
(ii) economic security;
(iii) defense readiness; or
(iv) public health or safety;
(C) identify the critical distribution mech-
anisms for each economic sector that should
be prioritized for operation during a signifi-
cant event, including—
(i) bulk power and electric transmission
systems;
(ii) national and international financial
systems, including wholesale payments,
stocks, and currency exchanges;
(iii) national and international commu-
nications networks, data-hosting services,
and cloud services;
(iv) interstate oil and natural gas pipe-
lines; and
(v) mechanisms for the interstate and
international trade and distribution of mate-
rials, food, and medical supplies, including
road, rail, air, and maritime shipping;
(D) identify economic functions of relevant
actors, the disruption, corruption, or dys-
function of which would cause—
(i) catastrophic economic loss;
(ii) the loss of public confidence; or
(iii) the widespread imperilment of human
life;
(E) identify the economic functions of rel-
evant actors that are so vital to the econ-
omy of the United States that the disrup-
tion, corruption, or dysfunction of those eco-
nomic functions would undermine response,
recovery, or mobilization efforts during a
significant event;
(F) incorporate, to the greatest extent
practicable, the principles and practices con-
tained within Federal plans for the con-
tinuity of Government and continuity of op-
erations;
(G) identify—
(i) industrial control networks on which
the interests of national security outweigh
the benefits of dependence on internet
connectivity, including networks that are re-
quired to maintain defense readiness; and
(ii) for each industrial control network de-
scribed in clause (i), the most feasible and
optimal locations for the installation of—
(I) parallel services;
(II) stand-alone analog services; and
(III) services that are otherwise hardened
against failure;
(H) identify critical economic sectors for
which the preservation of data in a pro-
tected, verified, and uncorrupted status
would be required for the quick recovery of
the economy of the United States in the face
of a significant disruption following a sig-
nificant event;
(I) include a list of raw materials, indus-
trial goods, and other items, the absence of
which would significantly undermine the
ability of the United States to sustain the
functions described in subparagraphs (B),
(D), and (E);
(J) provide an analysis of supply chain di-
versification for the items described in sub-
paragraph (I) in the event of a disruption
caused by a significant event;
(K) include—
(i) a recommendation as to whether the
United States should maintain a strategic
reserve of 1 or more of the items described in
subparagraph (I); and
(ii) for each item described in subpara-
graph (I) for which the President rec-
ommends maintaining a strategic reserve
under clause (i), an identification of mecha-
nisms for tracking inventory and avail-
ability of the item in the strategic reserve;
(L) identify mechanisms in existence on
the date of enactment of this Act and mecha-
nisms that can be developed to ensure that
the swift transport and delivery of the items
described in subparagraph (I) is feasible in
the event of a distribution network disturb-
ance or degradation, including a distribution
network disturbance or degradation caused
by a significant event;
(M) include guidance for determining the
prioritization for the distribution of the
items described in subparagraph (I), includ-
ing distribution to States and Indian Tribes;
(N) consider the advisability and feasi-
bility of mechanisms for extending the cred-
it of the United States or providing other fi-
nancial support authorized by law to key
participants in the economy of the United
States if the extension or provision of other
financial support—
(i) is necessary to avoid severe economic
degradation; or
(ii) allows for the recovery from a signifi-
cant event;
(O) include guidance for determining cat-
egories of employees that should be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00125 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6812 November 16, 2020
prioritized to continue to work in order to
sustain the functions described in subpara-
graphs (B), (D), and (E) in the event that
there are limitations on the ability of indi-
viduals to travel to workplaces or to work
remotely, including considerations for de-
fense readiness;
(P) identify critical economic sectors nec-
essary to provide material and operational
support to the defense of the United States;
(Q) determine whether the Secretary of
Homeland Security, the National Guard, and
the Secretary of Defense have adequate au-
thority to assist the United States in a re-
covery from a severe economic degradation
caused by a significant event;
(R) review and assess the authority and ca-
pability of heads of other agencies that the
President determines necessary to assist the
United States in a recovery from a severe
economic degradation caused by a signifi-
cant event; and
(S) consider any other matter that would
aid in protecting and increasing the resil-
ience of the economy of the United States
from a significant event.
(b) COORDINATION.—In developing the plan
required under subsection (a)(1), the Presi-
dent shall—
(1) receive advice from—
(A) the Secretary of Homeland Security;
(B) the Secretary of Defense;
(C) the Secretary of the Treasury;
(D) the Secretary of Health and Human
Services;
(E) the Secretary of Commerce;
(F) the Secretary of Transportation;
(G) the Secretary of Energy;
(H) the Administrator of the Small Busi-
ness Administration; and
(I) the head of any other agency that the
President determines necessary to complete
the plan;
(2) consult with economic sectors relating
to critical infrastructure through sector-co-
ordinated councils, as appropriate;
(3) consult with relevant State, Tribal, and
local governments and organizations that
represent those governments; and
(4) consult with any other non-Federal en-
tity that the President determines necessary
to complete the plan.
(c) SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, and
not less frequently than every 3 years there-
after, the President shall submit the plan re-
quired under subsection (a)(1) and the infor-
mation described in paragraph (2) to—
(A) the majority and minority leaders of
the Senate;
(B) the Speaker and the minority leader of
the House of Representatives;
(C) the Committee on Armed Services of
the Senate;
(D) the Committee on Armed Services of
the House of Representatives;
(E) the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
(F) the Committee on Homeland Security
of the House of Representatives;
(G) the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions of the Senate;
(H) the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation of the Senate;
(I) the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives;
(J) the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs of the Senate;
(K) the Committee on Finance of the Sen-
ate;
(L) the Committee on Financial Services of
the House of Representatives;
(M) the Committee on Small Business and
Entrepreneurship of the Senate;
(N) the Committee on Small Business of
the House of Representatives;
(O) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate;
(P) the Committee on Environment and
Public Works of the Senate; and
(Q) any other committee of the Senate or
the House of Representatives that has juris-
diction over the subject of the plan.
(2) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.—The informa-
tion described in this paragraph is—
(A) any change to Federal law that would
be necessary to carry out the plan required
under subsection (a)(1); and
(B) any proposed changes to the funding
levels provided in appropriation Acts for the
most recent fiscal year that can be imple-
mented in future appropriation Acts or addi-
tional resources necessary to—
(i) implement the plan required under sub-
section (a)(1); or
(ii) maintain any program offices and per-
sonnel necessary to—
(I) maintain the plan required under sub-
section (a)(1) and the plans described in sub-
section (a)(3)(F); and
(II) conduct exercises, assessments, and up-
dates to the plans described in subclause (I)
over time.
(3) BUDGET OF THE PRESIDENT.—The Presi-
dent may include the information described
in paragraph (2)(B) in the budget required to
be submitted by the President under section
1105(a) of title 31, United States Code.
(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) The term ‘‘agency’’ has the meaning
given the term in section 551 of title 5,
United States Code.
(2) The term ‘‘economic sector’’ means a
sector of the economy of the United States.
(3) The term ‘‘relevant actor’’ means—
(A) the Federal government;
(B) a State, local, or Tribal government; or
(C) the private sector.
(4) The term ‘‘significant event’’ means an
event that causes severe degradation to eco-
nomic activity in the United States due to—
(A) a cyber attack; or
(B) another significant event that is nat-
ural or human-caused.
(5) The term ‘‘State’’ means any State of
the United States, the District of Columbia,
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Vir-
gin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Is-
lands, and any possession of the United
States.
SEC. 1087. IMPROVING THE AUTHORITY FOR OP-
ERATIONS OF UNMANNED AIRCRAFT
FOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES.
Section 350 of the FAA Reauthorization
Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–254; 49 U.S.C 44809
note) is amended
(1) in the section heading, by striking ‘‘AT
INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION’’ and in-
serting ‘‘FOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES’’; and
(2) in subsection (a)—
(A) by striking ‘‘aircraft system operated
by’’ and inserting the following: ‘‘aircraft
system—
‘‘(1) operated by’’;
(B) in paragraph (1), as added by subpara-
graph (A), by striking the period at the end
and inserting a semicolon; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) flown as part of the established cur-
riculum of an elementary school or sec-
ondary school (as such terms are defined in
section 8101 of the Elementary and Sec-
ondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
7801));
‘‘(3) flown as part of an established Junior
Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (JROTC)
program; or
‘‘(4) flown as part of an educational pro-
gram that is chartered by a recognized com-
munity-based organization (as defined in
subsection (h) of such section).’’.
SEC. 1088. REQUIREMENT TO POST A 100 WORD
SUMMARY TO REGULATIONS.GOV.
Section 553(b) of title 5, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(2) in paragraph (3), by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by inserting after paragraph (3) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(4) the Internet address of a summary of
not more than 100 words in length of the pro-
posed rule, in plain language, that shall be
posted on the Internet website under section
206(d) of the E-Government Act of 2002 (44
U.S.C. 3501 note) (commonly known as regu-
lations.gov).’’.
SEC. 1089. MODIFICATION OF LICENSURE RE-
QUIREMENTS FOR HEALTH CARE
PROFESSIONALS PROVIDING TREAT-
MENT VIA TELEMEDICINE.
Section 1730C(b) of title 38, United States
Code, is amended to read as follows:
‘‘(b) COVERED HEALTH CARE PROFES-
SIONALS.—For purposes of this section, a cov-
ered health care professional is any of the
following individuals:
‘‘(1) A health care professional who—
‘‘(A) is an employee of the Department ap-
pointed under section 7306, 7401, 7405, 7406, or
7408 of this title or title 5;
‘‘(B) is authorized by the Secretary to pro-
vide health care under this chapter;
‘‘(C) is required to adhere to all standards
for quality relating to the provision of
health care in accordance with applicable
policies of the Department; and
‘‘(D)(i) has an active, current, full, and un-
restricted license, registration, or certifi-
cation in a State to practice the health care
profession of the health care professional; or
‘‘(ii) with respect to a health care profes-
sion listed under section 7402(b) of this title,
has the qualifications for such profession as
set forth by the Secretary.
‘‘(2) A postgraduate health care employee
who—
‘‘(A) is appointed under section 7401(1),
7401(3), or 7405 of this title or title 5 for any
category of personnel described in paragraph
(1) or (3) of section 7401 of this title;
‘‘(B) must obtain an active, current, full,
and unrestricted license, registration, or cer-
tification or meet qualification standards set
forth by the Secretary within a specified
time frame; and
‘‘(C) is under the clinical supervision of a
health care professional described in para-
graph (1); or
‘‘(3) A health professions trainee who—
‘‘(A) is appointed under section 7405 or 7406
of this title; and
‘‘(B) is under the clinical supervision of a
health care professional described in para-
graph (1).’’.
SEC. 1090. RESTRICTIONS ON CONFUCIUS INSTI-
TUTES.
(a) DEFINITION.—In this section, the term
‘‘Confucius Institute’’ means a cultural in-
stitute directly or indirectly funded by the
Government of the People’s Republic of
China.
(b) RESTRICTIONS ON CONFUCIUS INSTI-
TUTES.—An institution of higher education
or other postsecondary educational institu-
tion (referred to in this section as an ‘‘insti-
tution’’) shall not be eligible to receive Fed-
eral funds from the Department of Education
(except funds under title IV of the Higher
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.)
or other Department of Education funds that
are provided directly to students) unless the
institution ensures that any contract or
agreement between the institution and a
Confucius Institute includes clear provisions
that—
(1) protect academic freedom at the insti-
tution;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00126 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6813
November 16, 2020
(2) prohibit the application of any foreign
law on any campus of the institution; and
(3) grant full managerial authority of the
Confucius Institute to the institution, in-
cluding full control over what is being
taught, the activities carried out, the re-
search grants that are made, and who is em-
ployed at the Confucius Institute.
SEC. 1090A. ADDITIONAL CARE FOR NEWBORN
CHILDREN OF VETERANS.
Section 1786 of title 38, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘The Sec-
retary’’ and inserting ‘‘Except as provided in
subsection (c), the Secretary’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(c) EXCEPTION BASED ON MEDICAL NECES-
SITY.—Pursuant to such regulations as the
Secretary shall prescribe to carry out this
section, the Secretary may furnish more
than seven days of health care services de-
scribed in subsection (b), and may furnish
transportation necessary to receive such
services, to a newborn child based on medical
necessity if the child is in need of additional
care, including if the child has been dis-
charged or released from a hospital and re-
quires readmittance to ensure the health and
welfare of the child.’’.
SEC. 1090B. ADDITIONAL DISEASES ASSOCIATED
WITH EXPOSURE TO CERTAIN HER-
BICIDE AGENTS FOR WHICH THERE
IS A PRESUMPTION OF SERVICE
CONNECTION FOR VETERANS WHO
SERVED IN THE REPUBLIC OF VIET-
NAM.
Section 1116(a)(2) of title 38, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end the
following new subparagraphs:
‘‘(I) Parkinsonism.
‘‘(J) Bladder cancer.
‘‘(K) Hypothyroidism.’’.
Subtitle H—Wireless Supply Chain
Innovation and Multilateral Security
SEC. 1091. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle:
(1) 3GPP.—The term ‘‘3GPP’’ means the
Third Generation Partnership Project.
(2) 5G NETWORK.—The term ‘‘5G network’’
means a radio network as described by 3GPP
Release 15 or higher.
(3) COMMISSION.—The term ‘‘Commission’’
means the Federal Communications Com-
mission.
(4) NTIA ADMINISTRATOR.—The term ‘‘NTIA
Administrator’’ means the Assistant Sec-
retary of Commerce for Communications and
Information.
(5) OPEN-RAN.—The term ‘‘Open-RAN’’
means the Open Radio Access Network ap-
proach to standardization adopted by the O-
RAN Alliance, Telecom Infra Project, or
3GPP, or any similar set of open standards
for multi-vendor network equipment inter-
operability.
(6) RELEVANT COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS.—
The term ‘‘relevant committees of Congress’’
means—
(A) the Select Committee on Intelligence
of the Senate;
(B) the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate;
(C) the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
(D) the Committee on Armed Services of
the Senate;
(E) the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation of the Senate;
(F) the Committee on Appropriations of
the Senate;
(G) the Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence of the House of Representatives;
(H) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of
the House of Representatives;
(I) the Committee on Homeland Security
of the House of Representatives;
(J) the Committee on Armed Services of
the House of Representatives;
(K) the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives; and
(L) the Committee on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1092. COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY SE-
CURITY FUNDS.
(a) USE OF DIGITAL TELEVISION TRANSITION
AND PUBLIC SAFETY FUND.—As soon as prac-
ticable after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Commission shall transfer from the
Digital Television Transition and Public
Safety Fund established under section
309(j)(8)(E) of the Communications Act of
1934 (47 U.S.C. 309(j)(8)(E))—
(1) $50,000,000 to the Public Wireless Supply
Chain Innovation Fund established under
subsection (b) of this section; and
(2) $25,000,000 to the Multilateral Tele-
communications Security Fund established
under subsection (c) of this section.
(b) PUBLIC WIRELESS SUPPLY CHAIN INNOVA-
TION FUND.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—There is established in
the Treasury of the United States a trust
fund to be known as the ‘‘Public Wireless
Supply Chain Innovation Fund’’ (referred to
in this subsection as the ‘‘R&D Fund’’).
(B) AVAILABILITY.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Amounts deposited in the
R&D Fund shall remain available through
the end of the tenth fiscal year beginning
after the date of enactment of this Act.
(ii) REMAINDER TO TREASURY.—Any
amounts remaining in the R&D Fund after
the end of the tenth fiscal year beginning
after the date of enactment of this Act shall
be deposited in the general fund of the Treas-
ury.
(2) USE OF FUND.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Amounts deposited in the
R&D Fund shall be available to the NTIA
Administrator to make grants under this
subsection in such amounts as the NTIA Ad-
ministrator determines appropriate, subject
to subparagraph (B) of this subparagraph.
(B) LIMITATION ON GRANT AMOUNTS.—The
amount of a grant awarded under this sub-
section to a recipient for a specific research
focus area may not exceed $50,000,000.
(3) ADMINISTRATION OF FUND.—The NTIA
Administrator, in consultation with the
Commission, the Director of the National In-
stitute of Standards and Technology, the
Secretary of Homeland Security, the Sec-
retary of Defense, and the Director of the In-
telligence Advanced Research Projects Ac-
tivity of the Office of the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence, shall establish criteria
for grants awarded under this subsection,
and administer the R&D Fund, to support re-
search and the commercial application of
that research, including in the following
areas:
(A) Promoting the development of tech-
nology, including software, hardware, and
microprocessing technology, that will en-
hance competitiveness in the fifth-genera-
tion (commonly known as ‘‘5G’’) and suc-
cessor wireless technology supply chains.
(B) Accelerating development and deploy-
ment of open interface standards-based com-
patible, interoperable equipment, such as
equipment developed pursuant to the stand-
ards set forth by organizations such as the O-
RAN Alliance, the Telecom Infra Project,
3GPP, the Open-RAN Software Community,
or any successor organizations.
(C) Promoting compatibility of new 5G
equipment with future open standards-based,
interoperable equipment.
(D) Managing integration of multi-vendor
network environments.
(E) Objective criteria to define equipment
as compliant with open standards for multi-
vendor network equipment interoperability.
(F) Promoting development and inclusion
of security features enhancing the integrity
and availability of equipment in multi-ven-
dor networks.
(G) Promoting the application of network
function virtualization to facilitate multi-
vendor interoperability and a more diverse
vendor market.
(4) NONDUPLICATION OF RESEARCH.—To the
greatest extent practicable, the NTIA Ad-
ministrator shall ensure that any research
funded by a grant awarded under this sub-
section avoids duplication of other Federal
or private sector research.
(5) TIMING.—Not later than 1 year after the
date of enactment of this Act, the NTIA Ad-
ministrator shall begin awarding grants
under this subsection.
(6) FEDERAL ADVISORY BODY.—
(A) ESTABLISHMENT.—The NTIA Adminis-
trator shall establish a Federal advisory
committee, in accordance with the Federal
Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.),
composed of government and private sector
experts, to advise the NTIA Administrator
on the administration of the R&D Fund.
(B) COMPOSITION.—The advisory committee
established under subparagraph (A) shall be
composed of—
(i) representatives from—
(I) the Commission;
(II) the Department of Defense;
(III) the Intelligence Advanced Research
Projects Activity of the Office of the Direc-
tor of National Intelligence;
(IV) the National Institute of Standards
and Technology;
(V) the Department of State;
(VI) the National Science Foundation; and
(VII) the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity; and
(ii) other representatives from the private
and public sectors, at the discretion of the
NTIA Administrator.
(C) DUTIES.—The advisory committee es-
tablished under subparagraph (A) shall ad-
vise the NTIA Administrator on technology
developments to help inform—
(i) the strategic direction of the R&D
Fund; and
(ii) efforts of the Federal Government to
promote a more secure, diverse, sustainable,
and competitive supply chain.
(7) REPORTS TO CONGRESS.—
(A) INITIAL REPORT.—Not later than 180
days after the date of enactment of this Act,
the NTIA Administrator shall submit to the
relevant committees of Congress a report
with—
(i) additional recommendations on pro-
moting the competitiveness and sustain-
ability of trusted suppliers in the wireless
supply chain; and
(ii) any additional authorities needed to fa-
cilitate the timely adoption of open stand-
ards-based equipment, including authority to
provide loans, loan guarantees, and other
forms of credit extension that would maxi-
mize the use of designated funds.
(B) ANNUAL REPORT.—For each fiscal year
for which amounts in the R&D Fund are
available under this subsection, the NTIA
Administrator shall submit to Congress a re-
port that—
(i) describes how, and to whom, amounts in
the R&D Fund have been deployed;
(ii) details the progress of the NTIA Ad-
ministrator in meeting the objectives de-
scribed in paragraph (3); and
(iii) includes any additional information
that the NTIA Administrator determines ap-
propriate.
(c) MULTILATERAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS
SECURITY FUND.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT OF FUND.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—There is established in
the Treasury of the United States a trust
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00127 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6814 November 16, 2020
fund to be known as the ‘‘Multilateral Tele-
communications Security Fund’’.
(B) USE OF FUND.—Amounts deposited in
the Multilateral Telecommunications Secu-
rity Fund shall be available to the Secretary
of State to make expenditures under this
subsection in such amounts as the Secretary
of State determines appropriate.
(C) AVAILABILITY.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Amounts deposited in the
Multilateral Telecommunications Security
Fund—
(I) shall remain available through the end
of the tenth fiscal year beginning after the
date of enactment of this Act; and
(II) may only be allocated upon the Sec-
retary of State reaching an agreement with
foreign government partners to participate
in the common funding mechanism described
in paragraph (2).
(ii) REMAINDER TO TREASURY.—Any
amounts remaining in the Multilateral Tele-
communications Security Fund after the end
of the tenth fiscal year beginning after the
date of enactment of this Act shall be depos-
ited in the general fund of the Treasury.
(2) ADMINISTRATION OF FUND.—The Sec-
retary of State, in consultation with the
NTIA Administrator, the Secretary of Home-
land Security, the Secretary of Defense, the
Secretary of the Treasury, the Director of
National Intelligence, and the Commission,
shall establish a common funding mecha-
nism, in coordination with foreign partners,
that uses amounts from the Multilateral
Telecommunications Security Fund to sup-
port the development and adoption of secure
and trusted telecommunications tech-
nologies.
(3) ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later
than 1 year after the date of enactment of
this Act, and annually thereafter for each
fiscal year during which amounts in the Mul-
tilateral Telecommunications Security Fund
are available, the Secretary of State shall
submit to the relevant committees of Con-
gress a report on the status and progress of
the funding mechanism established under
paragraph (2), including—
(A) any funding commitments from foreign
partners, including each specific amount
committed;
(B) governing criteria for use of the Multi-
lateral Telecommunications Security Fund;
(C) an account of—
(i) how, and to whom, funds have been de-
ployed;
(ii) amounts remaining in the Multilateral
Telecommunications Security Fund; and
(iii) the progress of the Secretary of State
in meeting the objective described in para-
graph (2); and
(D) additional authorities needed to en-
hance the effectiveness of the Multilateral
Telecommunications Security Fund in
achieving the security goals of the United
States.
SEC. 1093. PROMOTING UNITED STATES LEADER-
SHIP IN INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZA-
TIONS AND COMMUNICATIONS
STANDARDS-SETTING BODIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of State,
the Secretary of Commerce, and the Chair-
man of the Commission, or their designees,
shall consider how to enhance representation
of the United States at international forums
that set standards for 5G networks and for
future generations of wireless communica-
tions networks, including—
(1) the International Telecommunication
Union (commonly known as ‘‘ITU’’);
(2) the International Organization for
Standardization (commonly known as
‘‘ISO’’);
(3) the Inter-American Telecommuni-
cations Commission (commonly known as
‘‘CITEL’’); and
(4) the voluntary standards organizations
that develop protocols for wireless devices
and other equipment, such as the 3GPP and
the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers (commonly known as ‘‘IEEE’’).
(b) ANNUAL REPORT.—The Secretary of
State, the Secretary of Commerce, and the
Chairman of the Commission shall jointly
submit to the relevant committees of Con-
gress an annual report on the progress made
under subsection (a).
Subtitle I—Semiconductor Manufacturing
Incentives
SEC. 1094. SEMICONDUCTOR INCENTIVE GRANTS.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
(1) the term ‘‘appropriate committees of
Congress’’ means—
(A) the Select Committee on Intelligence,
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation, the Committee on Foreign
Relations, the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices, the Committee on Appropriations, the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs, and the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity and Governmental Affairs of the Sen-
ate; and
(B) the Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence, the Committee on Energy and
Commerce, the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs, the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Science, Space, and Tech-
nology, the Committee on Appropriations,
the Committee on Financial Services, and
the Committee on Homeland Security of the
House of Representatives;
(2) the term ‘‘covered entity’’ means a pri-
vate entity, a consortium of private entities,
or a consortium of public and private enti-
ties with a demonstrated ability to con-
struct, expand, or modernize a facility relat-
ing to the fabrication, assembly, testing, ad-
vanced packaging, or advanced research and
development of semiconductors;
(3) the term ‘‘covered incentive’’—
(A) means an incentive offered by a govern-
mental entity to a covered entity for the
purposes of constructing within the jurisdic-
tion of the governmental entity, or expand-
ing or modernizing an existing facility with-
in that jurisdiction, a facility described in
paragraph (2); and
(B) includes any tax incentive (such as an
incentive or reduction with respect to em-
ployment or payroll taxes or a tax abate-
ment with respect to personal or real prop-
erty), a workforce-related incentive (includ-
ing a grant agreement relating to workforce
training or vocational education), any con-
cession with respect to real property, fund-
ing for research and development with re-
spect to semiconductors, and any other in-
centive determined appropriate by the Sec-
retary, in consultation with the Secretary of
State;
(4) the term ‘‘foreign adversary’’ means
any foreign government or foreign non-
government person that is engaged in a long-
term pattern, or is involved in a serious in-
stance, of conduct that is significantly ad-
verse to—
(A) the national security of the United
States or an ally of the United States; or
(B) the security and safety of United
States persons;
(5) the term ‘‘governmental entity’’ means
a State or local government;
(6) the term ‘‘Secretary’’ means the Sec-
retary of Commerce; and
(7) the term ‘‘semiconductor’’ has the
meaning given the term by the Secretary.
(b) GRANT PROGRAM.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall estab-
lish in the Department of Commerce a pro-
gram that, in accordance with the require-
ments of this section, provides grants to cov-
ered entities.
(2) PROCEDURE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—A covered entity shall
submit to the Secretary an application that
describes the project for which the covered
entity is seeking a grant under this section.
(B) ELIGIBILITY.—In order for a covered en-
tity to qualify for a grant under this section,
the covered entity shall demonstrate to the
Secretary, in the application submitted by
the covered entity under subparagraph (A),
that—
(i) the covered entity has a documented in-
terest in constructing, expanding, or mod-
ernizing a facility described in subsection
(a)(2); and
(ii) with respect to the project described in
clause (i), the covered entity has—
(I) been offered a covered incentive;
(II) made commitments to worker and
community investment, including through—
(aa) training and education benefits paid
by the covered entity; and
(bb) programs to expand employment op-
portunity for economically disadvantaged
individuals; and
(III) secured commitments from regional
educational and training entities and insti-
tutions of higher education to provide work-
force training, including programming for
training and job placement of economically
disadvantaged individuals.
(C) CONSIDERATIONS FOR REVIEW.—With re-
spect to the review by the Secretary of an
application submitted by a covered entity
under subparagraph (A)—
(i) the Secretary may not approve the ap-
plication unless the Secretary—
(I) confirms that the covered entity has
satisfied the eligibility criteria under sub-
paragraph (B); and
(II) determines that the project to which
the application relates is in the interest of
the United States; and
(ii) the Secretary may consider whether—
(I) the covered entity has previously re-
ceived a grant made under this subsection;
and
(II) the governmental entity offering the
applicable covered incentive has benefitted
from a grant previously made under this sub-
section.
(3) AMOUNT.—The amount of a grant made
by the Secretary to a covered entity under
this subsection shall be in an amount that is
not more than $3,000,000,000.
(4) USE OF FUNDS.—A covered entity that
receives a grant under this subsection may
only use the grant amounts to—
(A) finance the construction, expansion, or
modernization of a facility described in sub-
section (a)(2), as documented in the applica-
tion submitted by the covered entity under
paragraph (2)(A), or for similar uses in state
of practice and legacy facilities, as deter-
mined necessary by the Secretary for pur-
poses relating to the national security and
economic competitiveness of the United
States;
(B) support workforce development for the
facility described in subparagraph (A); or
(C) support site development for the facil-
ity described in subparagraph (A).
(5) CLAWBACK.—The Secretary shall re-
cover the full amount of a grant provided to
a covered entity under this subsection if—
(A) as of the date that is 5 years after the
date on which the Secretary makes the
grant, the project to which the grant relates
has not been completed, except that the Sec-
retary may issue a waiver with respect to
the requirement under this subparagraph if
the Secretary determines that issuing such a
waiver is appropriate and in the interests of
the United States; or
(B) during the applicable term with respect
to the grant, the covered entity engages in
any joint research or technology licensing
effort—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00128 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6815
November 16, 2020
(i) with the Government of the People’s
Republic of China, the Government of the
Russian Federation, the Government of Iran,
the Government of North Korea, or another
foreign adversary; and
(ii) that relates to a sensitive technology
or product, as determined by the Secretary.
(c) CONSULTATION AND COORDINATION RE-
QUIRED.—In carrying out the program estab-
lished under subsection (b), the Secretary
shall consult and coordinate with the Sec-
retary of State and the Secretary of Defense.
(d) GAO REVIEWS.—The Comptroller Gen-
eral of the United States shall—
(1) not later than 2 years after the date of
enactment of this Act, and biennially there-
after until the date that is 10 years after
that date of enactment, conduct a review of
the program established under subsection
(b), which shall include, at a minimum—
(A) a determination of the number of in-
stances in which grants were provided under
that subsection during the period covered by
the review in violation of a requirement of
this section;
(B) an evaluation of how—
(i) the program is being carried out, includ-
ing how recipients of grants are being se-
lected under the program; and
(ii) other Federal programs are leveraged
for manufacturing, research, and training to
complement the grants awarded under the
program; and
(C) a description of the outcomes of
projects supported by grants made under the
program, including a description of—
(i) facilities described in subsection (a)(2)
that were constructed, expanded, or modern-
ized as a result of grants made under the pro-
gram;
(ii) research and development carried out
with grants made under the program; and
(iii) workforce training programs carried
out with grants made under the program, in-
cluding efforts to hire individuals from dis-
advantaged populations; and
(2) submit to the appropriate committees
of Congress the results of each review con-
ducted under paragraph (1).
SEC. 1095. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
(a) DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EFFORTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense
shall, in consultation with the Secretary of
Commerce, the Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity, and the Director of National Intel-
ligence, work with the private sector
through a public-private partnership, includ-
ing by incentivizing the formation of a con-
sortium of United States companies, to en-
sure the development and production of ad-
vanced, measurably secure microelectronics
for use by the Department of Defense, the in-
telligence community, critical infrastruc-
ture sectors, and other national security ap-
plications. Such work may include providing
incentives for the creation, expansion, or
modernization of one or more commercially
competitive and sustainable microelec-
tronics manufacturing or advanced research
and development facilities.
(2) RISK MITIGATION REQUIREMENTS.—A par-
ticipant in a consortium formed with incen-
tives under paragraph (1) shall—
(A) have the potential to perform fabrica-
tion, assembly, package, or test functions for
microelectronics deemed critical to national
security as defined by export control regu-
latory agencies in consultation with the Na-
tional Security Adviser and the Secretary of
Defense;
(B) include management processes to iden-
tify and mitigate supply chain security
risks; and
(C) be able to produce microelectronics
consistent with applicable measurably se-
cure supply chain and operational security
standards established under section 224(b) of
the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92).
(3) NATIONAL SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS.—
The Secretary of Defense and the Director of
National Intelligence shall select partici-
pants for the consortium formed with incen-
tives under paragraph (1). In selecting such
participants, the Secretary and the Director
may jointly consider whether the United
States companies—
(A) have participated in previous programs
and projects of the Department of Defense,
Department of Energy, or the intelligence
community, including—
(i) the Trusted Integrated Circuit program
of the Intelligence Advanced Research
Projects Activity;
(ii) trusted and assured microelectronics
projects, as administered by the Department
of Defense;
(iii) the Electronics Resurgence Initiative
(ERI) program of the Defense Advanced Re-
search Projects Agency; or
(iv) relevant semiconductor research pro-
grams of Advanced Research Projects Agen-
cy–Energy;
(B) have demonstrated an ongoing commit-
ment to performing contracts for the Depart-
ment of Defense and the intelligence commu-
nity;
(C) are approved by the Defense Counter-
intelligence and Security Agency or the Of-
fice of the Director of National Intelligence
as presenting an acceptable security risk,
taking into account supply chain assurance
vulnerabilities, counterintelligence risks,
and any risks presented by companies whose
owners are located outside the United
States; and
(D) are evaluated periodically for foreign
ownership, control, or influence by foreign
adversaries.
(4) NONTRADITIONAL DEFENSE CONTRACTORS
AND COMMERCIAL ENTITIES.—Arrangements
entered into to carry out paragraph (1) shall
be in such form as the Secretary of Defense
determines appropriate to encourage indus-
try participation of nontraditional defense
contractors or commercial entities and may
include a contract, a grant, a cooperative
agreement, a commercial agreement, the use
of other transaction authority under section
2371 of title 10, United States Code, or an-
other such arrangement.
(5) DISCHARGE.—The Secretary of Defense
shall carry out paragraph (1) jointly through
the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense
for Research and Engineering and the Office
of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acqui-
sition and Sustainment, or such other com-
ponent of the Department of Defense as the
Secretary considers appropriate.
(6) OTHER INITIATIVES.—The Secretary of
Defense shall dedicate initiatives within the
Department of Defense to advance radio fre-
quency, mixed signal, radiation tolerant, and
radiation hardened microelectronics that
support national security and dual-use appli-
cations.
(7) REPORTS.—
(A) REPORT BY SECRETARY OF DEFENSE.—
Not later than 90 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of De-
fense shall submit to Congress a report on
the plans of the Secretary to carry out para-
graph (1).
(B) BIENNIAL REPORTS BY COMPTROLLER
GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES.—Not later
than 1 year after the date on which the Sec-
retary submits the report required by sub-
paragraph (A) and not less frequently than
once every 2 years thereafter for a period of
10 years, the Comptroller General of the
United States shall submit to Congress a re-
port on the activities carried out under this
subsection.
(b) DEFENSE PRODUCTION ACT OF 1950 EF-
FORTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 120 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the President shall submit to Congress a re-
port on a plan for use by the Department of
Defense of authorities available in title III of
the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C.
4531 et seq.) to establish and enhance a do-
mestic production capability for microelec-
tronics technologies and related tech-
nologies, subject to the availability of appro-
priations for that purpose.
(2) CONSULTATION.—The President shall de-
velop the plan required by paragraph (1) in
coordination with the Secretary of Defense,
and in consultation with the Secretary of
State, the Secretary of Commerce, and ap-
propriate stakeholders in the private sector.
SEC. 1096. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE STUDY
ON STATUS OF MICROELECTRONICS
TECHNOLOGIES IN THE UNITED
STATES INDUSTRIAL BASE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Commencing not later
than 120 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce and
the Secretary of Homeland Security, in con-
sultation with the Secretary of Defense and
the heads of other appropriate Federal de-
partments and agencies, shall undertake a
review, which shall include a survey, using
authorities in section 705 of the Defense Pro-
duction Act (50 U.S.C. 4555), to assess the ca-
pabilities of the United States industrial
base to support the national defense in light
of the global nature of the supply chain and
significant interdependencies between the
United States industrial base and the indus-
trial base of foreign countries with respect
to the manufacture, design, and end use of
microelectronics.
(b) RESPONSE TO SURVEY.—The Secretary
shall ensure compliance with the survey
from among all relevant potential respond-
ents, including the following:
(1) Corporations, partnerships, associa-
tions, or any other organized groups domi-
ciled and with substantial operations in the
United States.
(2) Corporations, partnerships, associa-
tions, or any other organized groups domi-
ciled in the United States with operations
outside the United States.
(3) Foreign domiciled corporations, part-
nerships, associations, or any other orga-
nized groups with substantial operations or
business presence in, or substantial revenues
derived from, the United States.
(4) Foreign domiciled corporations, part-
nerships, associations, or any other orga-
nized groups in defense treaty or assistance
countries where the production of the entity
concerned involves critical technologies cov-
ered by section 2.
(c) INFORMATION REQUESTED.—The informa-
tion sought from a responding entity pursu-
ant to the survey required by subsection (a)
shall include, at minimum, information on
the following with respect to the manufac-
ture. design, or end use of microelectronics
by such entity:
(1) An identification of the geographic
scope of operations.
(2) Information on relevant cost struc-
tures.
(3) An identification of types of microelec-
tronics development, manufacture, assem-
bly, test, and packaging equipment in oper-
ation at such entity.
(4) An identification of all relevant intel-
lectual property, raw materials, and semi-
finished goods and components sourced do-
mestically and abroad by such entity.
(5) Specifications of the microelectronics
manufactured or designed by such entity, de-
scriptions of the end-uses of such microelec-
tronics, and a description of any technical
support provided to end-users of such micro-
electronics by such entity.
(6) Information on domestic and export
market sales by such entity.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00129 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6816 November 16, 2020
(7) Information on the financial perform-
ance, including income and expenditures, of
such entity.
(8) A list of all foreign and domestic sub-
sidies, and any other financial incentives, re-
ceived by such entity in each market in
which such entity operates.
(9) A list of information requests from the
People’s Republic of China to such entity,
and a description of the nature of each re-
quest and the type of information provided.
(10) Information on any joint ventures,
technology licensing agreements, and coop-
erative research or production arrangements
of such entity.
(11) A description of efforts by such entity
to evaluate and control supply chain risks it
faces.
(12) A list and description of any sales, li-
censing agreements, or partnerships between
such entity and the People’s Liberation
Army or People’s Armed Police, including
any business relationships with entities
through which such sales, licensing agree-
ments, or partnerships may occur.
(d) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Com-
merce shall, in consultation with the Sec-
retary of Defense, the Secretary of Homeland
Security, and the heads of other appropriate
Federal departments and agencies, submit to
Congress a report on the results of the re-
view required by subsection (a). The report
shall include the following:
(A) An assessment of the results of the sur-
vey.
(B) A list of critical technology areas im-
pacted by potential disruptions in produc-
tion of microelectronics, and a detailed de-
scription and assessment of the impact of
such potential disruptions on such areas.
(C) A description and assessment of gaps
and vulnerabilities in the microelectronics
supply chain and the national industrial sup-
ply base.
(2) FORM.— The report required by para-
graph (1) may be submitted in classified
form.
SEC. 1097. FUNDING FOR DEVELOPMENT AND
ADOPTION OF MEASURABLY SECURE
MICROELECTRONICS AND MEASUR-
ABLY SECURE MICROELECTRONICS
SUPPLY CHAINS.
(a) MULTILATERAL MICROELECTRONICS SECU-
RITY FUND.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT OF FUND.—There is es-
tablished in the Treasury of the United
States a trust fund, to be known as the
‘‘Multilateral Microelectronics Security
Fund’’ (in this section referred to as the
‘‘Fund’’), consisting of such amounts as may
be appropriated to such Fund and any
amounts that may be credited to the Fund
under paragraph (2).
(2) INVESTMENT OF AMOUNTS.—
(A) INVESTMENT OF AMOUNTS.—The Sec-
retary of the Treasury shall invest such por-
tion of the Fund as is not required to meet
current withdrawals in interest-bearing obli-
gations of the United States or in obliga-
tions guaranteed as to both principal and in-
terest by the United States.
(B) INTEREST AND PROCEEDS.—The interest
on, and the proceeds from the sale or re-
demption of, any obligations held in the
Fund shall be credited to and form a part of
the Fund.
(3) USE OF FUND.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B), amounts in the Fund shall be available,
as provided in advance in an appropriations
Act, to the Secretary of State—
(i) to provide funding through the common
funding mechanism described in subsection
(b)(1) to support the development and adop-
tion of measurably secure microelectronics
and measurably secure microelectronics sup-
ply chains; and
(ii) to otherwise carry out this section.
(B) AVAILABILITY CONTINGENT ON INTER-
NATIONAL AGREEMENT.—Amounts in the Fund
shall be available to the Secretary of State
on and after the date on which the Secretary
enters into an agreement with the govern-
ments of countries that are partners of the
United States to participate in the common
funding mechanism under paragraph (1) of
subsection (b) and the commitments de-
scribed in paragraph (2) of that subsection.
(4) AVAILABILITY OF AMOUNTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Amounts in the Fund
shall remain available through the end of the
tenth fiscal year beginning after the date of
the enactment of this Act.
(B) REMAINDER TO TREASURY.—Any
amounts remaining in the Fund after the end
of the fiscal year described in subparagraph
(A) shall be deposited in the general fund of
the Treasury.
(b) COMMON FUNDING MECHANISM FOR DE-
VELOPMENT AND ADOPTION OF MEASURABLY
SECURE MICROELECTRONICS AND MEASURABLY
SECURE MICROELECTRONICS SUPPLY CHAINS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of State, in
consultation with the Secretary of Com-
merce, the Secretary of Defense, the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security, the Secretary
of the Treasury, and the Director of National
Intelligence, shall seek to establish a com-
mon funding mechanism, in coordination
with the governments of countries that are
partners of the United States, that uses
amounts from the Fund, and amounts com-
mitted by such governments, to support the
development and adoption of secure micro-
electronics and secure microelectronics sup-
ply chains, including for use in research and
development collaborations among countries
participating in the common funding mecha-
nism.
(2) MUTUAL COMMITMENTS.—The Secretary
of State, in consultation with the United
States Trade Representative, the Secretary
of the Treasury, and the Secretary of Com-
merce, shall seek to negotiate a set of mu-
tual commitments with the governments of
countries that are partners of the United
States upon which to condition any expendi-
ture of funds pursuant to the common fund-
ing mechanism described in paragraph (1).
Such commitments shall, at a minimum—
(A) establish transparency requirements
for any subsidies or other financial benefits
(including revenue foregone) provided to
microelectronics firms located in or outside
such countries;
(B) establish consistent policies with re-
spect to countries that—
(i) are not participating in the common
funding mechanism; and
(ii) do not meet transparency requirements
established under subparagraph (A);
(C) promote harmonized treatment of
microelectronics and verification processes
for items being exported to a country consid-
ered a national security risk by a country
participating in the common funding mecha-
nism;
(D) establish consistent policies and com-
mon external policies to address nonmarket
economies as the behavior of such countries
pertains to microelectronics;
(E) align policies on supply chain integrity
and microelectronics security, including
with respect to protection and enforcement
of intellectual property rights; and
(F) promote harmonized foreign direct in-
vestment screening measures with respect to
microelectronics to align with national and
multilateral security priorities.
(c) ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not
later than one year after the date of the en-
actment of this Act, and annually thereafter
for each fiscal year during which amounts in
the Fund are available under subsection
(a)(4), the Secretary of State shall submit to
Congress a report on the status of the imple-
mentation of this section that includes a de-
scription of—
(1) any commitments made by the govern-
ments of countries that are partners of the
United States to providing funding for the
common funding mechanism described in
subsection (b)(1) and the specific amount so
committed;
(2) the criteria established for expenditure
of funds through the common funding mech-
anism;
(3) how, and to whom, amounts have been
expended from the Fund;
(4) amounts remaining in the Fund;
(5) the progress of the Secretary of State
toward entering into an agreement with the
governments of countries that are partners
of the United States to participate in the
common funding mechanism and the com-
mitments described in subsection (b)(2); and
(6) any additional authorities needed to en-
hance the effectiveness of the Fund in
achieving the security goals of the United
States.
SEC. 1098. ADVANCED SEMICONDUCTOR RE-
SEARCH AND DESIGN.
(a) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CON-
GRESS.— In this section, the term ‘‘appro-
priate committees of Congress’’ means—
(1) the Committee on Intelligence, the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation, the Committee on Foreign
Relations, the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices, the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources, the Committee on Appropria-
tions, the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs, and the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs of the Senate; and
(2) the Permanent Select Committee on In-
telligence, the Committee on Energy and
Commerce, the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs, the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Science, Space, and Tech-
nology, the Committee on Financial Serv-
ices, and the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity of the House of Representatives.
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that the leadership of the United
States in semiconductor technology and in-
novation is critical to the economic growth
and national security of the United States.
(c) SUBCOMMITTEE ON SEMICONDUCTOR
LEADERSHIP.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT REQUIRED.—The Presi-
dent shall establish in the National Science
and Technology Council a subcommittee on
matters relating to leadership of the United
States in semiconductor technology and in-
novation.
(2) DUTIES.—The duties of the sub-
committee established under paragraph (1)
are as follows:
(A) NATIONAL STRATEGY ON SEMICONDUCTOR
RESEARCH.—
(i) DEVELOPMENT.—In coordination with
the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of
Energy, the Secretary of State, the Sec-
retary of Commerce, the Secretary of Home-
land Security, the Director of the National
Science Foundation, and the Director of the
National Institute of Standards and Tech-
nology and in consultation with the semi-
conductor industry and academia, develop a
national strategy on semiconductor re-
search, development, manufacturing, and
supply chain security, including guidance for
the funding of research, and strengthening of
the domestic microelectronics workforce.
(ii) REPORTING AND UPDATES.—Not less fre-
quently than once every 5 years, to update
the strategy developed under clause (i) and
to submit the revised strategy to the appro-
priate committees of Congress.
(iii) IMPLEMENTATION.—In coordination
with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00130 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6817
November 16, 2020
of Energy, the Secretary of State, the Sec-
retary of Commerce, the Secretary of Home-
land Security, the Director of the National
Science Foundation, and the Director of the
National Institute of Standards and Tech-
nology, on an annual basis coordinate and
recommend each agency’s semiconductor re-
lated research and development programs
and budgets to ensure consistency with the
National Semiconductor Strategy.
(B) FOSTERING COORDINATION OF RESEARCH
AND DEVELOPMENT.—To foster the coordina-
tion of semiconductor research and develop-
ment.
(3) SUNSET.—The subcommittee established
under paragraph (1) shall terminate on the
date that is 10 years after the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
(d) INDUSTRIAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE.—The
President shall establish a standing sub-
committee of the President’s Council of Ad-
visors on Science and Technology to advise
the United States Government on matters
relating to microelectronics policy.
(e) NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR TECHNOLOGY
CENTER.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary of
Commerce shall establish a national semi-
conductor technology center to conduct re-
search and prototyping of advanced semicon-
ductor technology to strengthen the eco-
nomic competitiveness and security of the
domestic supply chain, which will be oper-
ated as a public private-sector consortium
with participation from the private sector,
the Department of Defense, the Department
of Energy, the Department of Homeland Se-
curity, the National Science Foundation,
and the National Institute of Standards and
Technology
(2) FUNCTIONS.—The functions of the center
established under paragraph (1) shall be as
follows:
(A) To conduct advanced semiconductor
manufacturing, design research and proto-
typing that strengthens the entire domestic
ecosystem and is aligned with the National
Strategy on Semiconductor Research.
(B) To establish a National Advanced
Packaging Manufacturing Program led by
the National Institute of Standards and
Technology, in coordination with the Center,
to strengthen semiconductor advanced test,
assembly, and packaging capability in the
domestic ecosystem, and which shall coordi-
nate with the Manufacturing USA institute
established under paragraph (4).
(C) To establish an investment fund, in
partnership with the private sector, to sup-
port startups in the domestic semiconductor
ecosystem.
(D) To establish a Semiconductor Manufac-
turing Program through the Director of the
National Institute of Standards and Tech-
nology to enable advances and break-
throughs in measurement science, standards,
material characterization, instrumentation,
testing, and manufacturing capabilities that
will accelerate the underlying research and
development for metrology of next genera-
tion semiconductors and ensure the competi-
tiveness and leadership of the United States
within this sector.
(E) To work with the Secretary of Labor,
the private sector, educational institutions,
and workforce training entities to develop
workforce training programs and apprentice-
ships in advanced microelectronic packaging
capabilities.
(3) COMPONENTS.—The fund established
under paragraph (2)(C) shall cover the fol-
lowing:
(A) Advanced metrology and characteriza-
tion for manufacturing of microchips using 3
nanometer transistor processes or more ad-
vanced processes.
(B) Metrology for security and supply
chain verification.
(4) CREATION OF A MANUFACTURING USA IN-
STITUTE.—The fund established under para-
graph (2)(C) may also cover the creation of a
Manufacturing USA institute described in
section 34(d) of the National Institute of
Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C.
278s(d)) that is focused on semiconductor
manufacturing. Such institute may empha-
size the following:
(A) Research to support the virtualization
and automation of maintenance of semicon-
ductor machinery.
(B) Development of new advanced test, as-
sembly and packaging capabilities.
(C) Developing and deploying educational
and skills training curricula needed to sup-
port the industry sector and ensure the U.S.
can build and maintain a trusted and pre-
dictable talent pipeline.
(f) DOMESTIC PRODUCTION REQUIREMENTS.—
The head of any executive agency receiving
funding under this section shall develop poli-
cies to require domestic production, to the
extent possible, for any intellectual property
resulting from microelectronics research and
development conducted as a result of these
funds and domestic control requirements to
protect any such intellectual property from
foreign adversaries.
SEC. 1099. PROHIBITION RELATING TO FOREIGN
ADVERSARIES.
None of the funds appropriated pursuant to
an authorization in this subtitle may be pro-
vided to an entity—
(1) under the foreign ownership, control, or
influence of the Government of the People’s
Republic of China or the Chinese Communist
Party, or other foreign adversary (as defined
in section 1091(a)(4)); or
(2) determined to have beneficial owner-
ship from foreign individuals subject to the
jurisdiction, direction, or influence of for-
eign adversaries (as so defined).
TITLE XI—CIVILIAN PERSONNEL
MATTERS
Subtitle A—Department of Defense Matters
SEC. 1101. ENHANCED PAY AUTHORITY FOR CER-
TAIN ACQUISITION AND TECH-
NOLOGY POSITIONS IN THE DEPART-
MENT OF DEFENSE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter I of chapter
87 of title 10, United States Code, is amended
by inserting after section 1701a the following
new section:
‘‘§ 1701b. Enhanced pay authority for certain
acquisition and technology positions
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of De-
fense may carry out a program using the pay
authority specified in subsection (d) to fix
the rate of basic pay for positions described
in subsection (c) in order to assist the Office
of the Secretary of Defense and the military
departments in attracting and retaining
high-quality acquisition and technology ex-
perts in positions responsible for managing
and developing complex, high-cost, techno-
logical acquisition efforts of the Department
of Defense.
‘‘(b) APPROVAL REQUIRED.—The program
may be carried out only with approval as fol-
lows:
‘‘(1) Approval of the Under Secretary of De-
fense for Acquisition and Sustainment, in
the case of positions in the Office of the Sec-
retary of Defense.
‘‘(2) Approval of the service acquisition ex-
ecutive of the military department con-
cerned, in the case of positions in a military
department.
‘‘(c) POSITIONS.—The positions described in
this subsection are positions that—
‘‘(1) require expertise of an extremely high
level in a scientific, technical, professional,
or acquisition management field; and
‘‘(2) are critical to the successful accom-
plishment of an important acquisition or
technology development mission.
‘‘(d) RATE OF BASIC PAY.—The pay author-
ity specified in this subsection is authority
as follows:
‘‘(1) Authority to fix the rate of basic pay
for a position at a rate not to exceed 150 per-
cent of the rate of basic pay payable for level
I of the Executive Schedule, upon the ap-
proval of the Under Secretary of Defense for
Acquisition and Sustainment or the service
acquisition executive concerned, as applica-
ble.
‘‘(2) Authority to fix the rate of basic pay
for a position at a rate in excess of 150 per-
cent of the rate of basic pay payable for level
I of the Executive Schedule, upon the ap-
proval of the Secretary of Defense.
‘‘(e) LIMITATIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The authority in sub-
section (a) may be used only to the extent
necessary to competitively recruit or retain
individuals exceptionally well qualified for
positions described in subsection (c).
‘‘(2) NUMBER OF POSITIONS.—The authority
in subsection (a) may not be used with re-
spect to more than five positions in the Of-
fice of the Secretary of Defense and more
than five positions in each military depart-
ment at any one time.
‘‘(3) TERM OF POSITIONS.—The authority in
subsection (a) may be used only for positions
having terms less than five years.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of subchapter I of
chapter 87 of such title is amended by insert-
ing after the item relating to section 1701a
the following new item:
‘‘1701b. Enhanced pay authority for certain
acquisition and technology po-
sitions.’’.
(c) REPEAL OF PILOT PROGRAM.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1111 of the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2016 (10 U.S.C. 1701 note) is repealed.
(2) CONTINUATION OF PAY.—The repeal in
paragraph (1) shall not be interpreted to pro-
hibit the payment of basic pay at rates fixed
under such section 1111 before the date of the
enactment of this Act for positions having
terms that continue after that date.
SEC. 1102. ENHANCED PAY AUTHORITY FOR CER-
TAIN RESEARCH AND TECHNOLOGY
POSITIONS IN THE SCIENCE AND
TECHNOLOGY REINVENTION LAB-
ORATORIES OF THE DEPARTMENT
OF DEFENSE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 139 of title 10,
United States Code, is amended by inserting
after section 2358b the following new section:
‘‘§ 2358c. Enhanced pay authority for certain
research and technology positions in
science and technology reinvention labora-
tories
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of De-
fense may carry out a program using the pay
authority specified in subsection (d) to fix
the rate of basic pay for positions described
in subsection (c) in order to assist the mili-
tary departments in attracting and retaining
high quality acquisition and technology ex-
perts in positions responsible for managing
and performing complex, high-cost research
and technology development efforts in the
science and technology reinvention labora-
tories of the Department of Defense.
‘‘(b) APPROVAL REQUIRED.—The program
may be carried out in a military department
only with the approval of the service acquisi-
tion executive of the military department
concerned.
‘‘(c) POSITIONS.—The positions described in
this subsection are positions in the science
and technology reinvention laboratories of
the Department of Defense that—
‘‘(1) require expertise of an extremely high
level in a scientific, technical, professional,
or acquisition management field; and
‘‘(2) are critical to the successful accom-
plishment of an important research or tech-
nology development mission.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00131 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6818 November 16, 2020
‘‘(d) RATE OF BASIC PAY.—The pay author-
ity specified in this subsection is authority
as follows:
‘‘(1) Authority to fix the rate of basic pay
for a position at a rate not to exceed 150 per-
cent of the rate of basic pay payable for level
I of the Executive Schedule, upon the ap-
proval of the service acquisition executive
concerned.
‘‘(2) Authority to fix the rate of basic pay
for a position at a rate in excess of 150 per-
cent of the rate of basic pay payable for level
I of the Executive Schedule, upon the ap-
proval of the Secretary of the military de-
partment concerned.
‘‘(e) LIMITATIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The authority in sub-
section (a) may be used only to the extent
necessary to competitively recruit or retain
individuals exceptionally well qualified for
positions described in subsection (c).
‘‘(2) NUMBER OF POSITIONS.—The authority
in subsection (a) may not be used with re-
spect to more than five positions in each
military department at any one time.
‘‘(3) TERM OF POSITIONS.—The authority in
subsection (a) may be used only for positions
having a term of less than five years.
‘‘(f) SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY REINVENTION
LABORATORIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DE-
FENSE DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘science and technology reinvention labora-
tories of the Department of Defense’ means
the laboratories designated as science and
technology reinvention laboratories by sec-
tion 1105(a) of the National Defense Author-
ization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (10 U.S.C.
2358 note).’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 139 of
such title is amended by inserting after the
item relating to section 2358b the following
new item:
‘‘2358c. Enhanced pay authority for certain
research and technology posi-
tions in science and technology
reinvention laboratories.’’.
(c) REPEAL OF PILOT PROGRAM.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1124 of the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2017 (Public Law 114–328; 130 Stat. 2456;
10 U.S.C. 2358 note) is repealed.
(2) CONTINUATION OF PAY.—The repeal in
paragraph (1) shall not be interpreted to pro-
hibit the payment of basic pay at rates fixed
under such section 1124 before the date of the
enactment of this Act for positions having
terms that continue after that date.
SEC. 1103. EXTENSION OF ENHANCED APPOINT-
MENT AND COMPENSATION AU-
THORITY FOR CIVILIAN PERSONNEL
FOR CARE AND TREATMENT OF
WOUNDED AND INJURED MEMBERS
OF THE ARMED FORCES.
Section 1599c(b) of title 10, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘December 31,
2020’’ both places it appears and inserting
‘‘December 31, 2025’’.
SEC. 1104. EXTENSION OF OVERTIME RATE AU-
THORITY FOR DEPARTMENT OF THE
NAVY EMPLOYEES PERFORMING
WORK ABOARD OR DOCKSIDE IN
SUPPORT OF THE NUCLEAR-POW-
ERED AIRCRAFT CARRIER FORWARD
DEPLOYED IN JAPAN.
Section 5542(a)(6)(B) of title 5, United
States Code, is amended by striking ‘‘Sep-
tember 30, 2021’’ and inserting ‘‘September
30, 2023’’.
SEC. 1105. EXPANSION OF DIRECT HIRE AUTHOR-
ITY FOR CERTAIN DEPARTMENT OF
DEFENSE PERSONNEL TO INCLUDE
INSTALLATION MILITARY HOUSING
OFFICE POSITIONS SUPERVISING
PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING.
Section 9905(a) of title 5, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end the
following new paragraph:
‘‘(11) Any position in the military housing
office of a military installation whose pri-
mary function is supervision of military
housing covered by subchapter IV of chapter
169 of title 10.’’.
SEC. 1106. EXTENSION OF SUNSET OF INAPPLICA-
BILITY OF CERTIFICATION OF EXEC-
UTIVE QUALIFICATIONS BY QUALI-
FICATION CERTIFICATION REVIEW
BOARD OF OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
MANAGEMENT FOR INITIAL AP-
POINTMENTS TO SENIOR EXECUTIVE
SERVICE POSITIONS IN DEPART-
MENT OF DEFENSE.
Section 1109(e) of the John S. McCain Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232; 132 Stat. 2010;
5 U.S.C. 3393 note) is amended by striking
‘‘on the date’’ and all that follows and in-
serting ‘‘on August 13, 2023.’’
SEC. 1107. PILOT PROGRAM ON ENHANCED PAY
AUTHORITY FOR CERTAIN HIGH-
LEVEL MANAGEMENT POSITIONS IN
THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
(a) PILOT PROGRAM AUTHORIZED.—The Sec-
retary of Defense may carry out a pilot pro-
gram to assess the feasibility and advis-
ability of using the pay authority specified
in subsection (d) to fix the rate of basic pay
for positions described in subsection (c) in
order to assist the Department of Defense in
attracting and retaining personnel with sig-
nificant experience in high-level manage-
ment of complex organizations and enter-
prise functions in order to lead implementa-
tion by the Department of the National De-
fense Strategy.
(b) APPROVAL REQUIRED.—The pilot pro-
gram may be carried out only with approval
as follows:
(1) Approval of the Deputy Secretary of De-
fense, in the case of a position not under the
authority, direction, and control of an Under
Secretary of Defense and not under the au-
thority, direction, and control of the Under
Secretary of a military department.
(2) Approval of the applicable Under Sec-
retary of Defense, in the case of a position
under the authority, direction, and control
of an Under Secretary of Defense.
(3) Approval of the Under Secretary or an
Assistant Secretary of the military depart-
ment concerned, in the case of a position in
a military department.
(c) POSITIONS.—The positions described in
this subsection are positions that require ex-
pertise of an extremely high level in innova-
tive leadership and management of enter-
prise-wide business operations, including fi-
nancial management, health care, supply
chain and logistics, information technology,
real property stewardship, and human re-
sources, across a large and complex organiza-
tion.
(d) RATE OF BASIC PAY.—The pay authority
specified in this subsection is authority as
follows:
(1) Authority to fix the rate of basic pay
for a position at a rate not to exceed 150 per-
cent of the rate of basic pay payable for level
I of the Executive Schedule, upon the ap-
proval of the applicable official under sub-
section (b).
(2) Authority to fix the rate of basic pay
for a position at a rate in excess of 150 per-
cent of the rate of basic pay payable for level
I of the Executive Schedule, upon the ap-
proval of the Secretary of Defense.
(e) LIMITATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The authority in sub-
section (a) may be used only to the extent
necessary to competitively recruit or retain
individuals exceptionally well qualified for
positions described in subsection (c).
(2) NUMBER OF POSITIONS.—The authority in
subsection (a) may not be used with respect
to—
(A) more than 10 positions in the Office of
the Secretary of Defense and components of
the Department of Defense other than the
military departments at any one time; and
(B) more than five positions in each mili-
tary department at any one time.
(3) TERM OF POSITIONS.—The authority in
subsection (a) may be used only for positions
having terms less than five years.
(4) PAST SERVICE.—An individual may not
be appointed to a position pursuant to the
authority provided by subsection (a) if the
individual separated or retired from Federal
civil service or service as a commissioned of-
ficer of an Armed Force on a date that is less
than five years before the date of such ap-
pointment of the individual.
(f) TERMINATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The authority to fix rates
of basic pay for a position under this section
shall terminate on October 1, 2025.
(2) CONTINUATION OF PAY.—Nothing in para-
graph (1) shall be construed to prohibit the
payment after October 1, 2025, of basic pay at
rates fixed under this section before that
date for positions whose terms continue
after that date.
SEC. 1108. PILOT PROGRAM ON EXPANDED AU-
THORITY FOR APPOINTMENT OF RE-
CENTLY RETIRED MEMBERS OF THE
ARMED FORCES TO POSITIONS IN
THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
(a) PILOT PROGRAM REQUIRED.—The Sec-
retary of Defense shall carry out a pilot pro-
gram to assess the feasibility and advis-
ability of expanding the use of the authority
in section 3326 of title 5, United States Code,
to appoint retired members of the Armed
Forces described in subsection (b) of that
section to positions in the Department of De-
fense described in subsection (b) of this sec-
tion.
(b) POSITIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The positions in the De-
partment described in this subsection are po-
sitions classified at or below GS–13 under the
General Schedule under subchapter III of
chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code, or
an equivalent level under another wage sys-
tem, in the competitive service—
(A) to which appointments are authorized
using Direct Hire Authority or Expedited
Hiring Authority; and
(B) that have been certified by the Sec-
retary of the military department concerned
as lacking sufficient numbers of potential
applicants who are not retired members of
the Armed Forces.
(2) LIMITATION ON DELEGATION OF CERTIFI-
CATION.—The Secretary of a military depart-
ment may not delegate the authority to
make a certification described in paragraph
(1)(B) to an individual in a grade lower than
colonel, captain in the Navy, or an equiva-
lent grade in the Space Force, or an indi-
vidual with an equivalent civilian grade.
(c) DURATION.—The duration of the pilot
program shall be three years.
(d) REPORT.—Not later than two years
after the commencement of the pilot pro-
gram, the Secretary of Defense shall submit
to the congressional defense committees a
report on the pilot program. The report shall
include the following:
(1) A description of the pilot program, in-
cluding the positions to which appointments
are authorized to be made under the pilot
program and the number of retired members
appointed to each such position under the
pilot program.
(2) Any other matters in connection with
the pilot program that the Secretary con-
siders appropriate.
SEC. 1109. DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY AND RELO-
CATION INCENTIVES FOR POSITIONS
AT REMOTE LOCATIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 81 of title 10,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following new section:
‘‘§ 1599i. Direct hire authority and relocation
incentives for positions at remote locations
‘‘(a) DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00132 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6819
November 16, 2020
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense
may appoint, without regard to any provi-
sion of subchapter I of chapter 33 of title 5,
qualified applicants to positions in the com-
petitive service to fill vacancies at covered
locations.
‘‘(2) COVERED LOCATIONS.—For purposes of
this section, a covered location is a location
for which the Secretary has determined that
critical hiring needs are not being met due
to the geographic remoteness or isolation or
extreme climate conditions of the location.
‘‘(b) RELOCATION INCENTIVES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—An individual appointed
to a position pursuant to subsection (a) may
be paid a relocation incentive in connection
with the relocation of the individual to the
location of the position.
‘‘(2) AMOUNT.—The amount of a relocation
incentive payable to an individual under this
subsection may not exceed the amount equal
to—
‘‘(A) 25 percent of the annual rate of basic
pay of the employee for the position con-
cerned as of the date on which the service pe-
riod in such position agreed to by the indi-
vidual under paragraph (3) commences; mul-
tiplied by
‘‘(B) the number of years (including frac-
tions of a year) of such service period (not to
exceed four years).
‘‘(3) SERVICE AGREEMENT.—To receive a re-
location incentive under this subsection, an
individual appointed to a position under sub-
section (a) shall enter into an agreement
with the Secretary of Defense to complete a
period of service at the covered location. The
period of obligated service of the individual
at such location under the agreement may
not exceed four years. The agreement shall
include such repayment or alternative em-
ployment obligations as the Secretary con-
siders appropriate for failure of the indi-
vidual to complete the period of obligated
service specified in the agreement.
‘‘(4) RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER RELOCATION
PAY.—A relocation incentive paid to an indi-
vidual for a relocation under this subsection
is in addition to any other relocation incen-
tive or payment payable to the individual for
such relocation by law.
‘‘(c) SUNSET.—Effective on September 30,
2022, the authority provided under subsection
(a) and the authority to provide relocation
incentives under subsection (b) shall ex-
pire.’’.
(b) OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS.—The Sec-
retary of Defense shall develop outcome
measurements to evaluate the effect of the
authority provided under subsection (a) of
section 1599i of title 10, United States Code,
as added by subsection (a), and any reloca-
tion incentives provided under subsection (b)
of such section.
(c) REPORT REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than March 1,
2022, the Secretary of Defense shall submit
to the congressional defense committees a
report on the effect of the authority provided
under subsection (a) of section 1599i of title
10, United States Code, as added by sub-
section (a), and any relocation incentives
provided under subsection (b) of such sec-
tion.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The report required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) A description and assessment of the ef-
fectiveness and achievements of the author-
ity and relocation incentives described in
paragraph (1), including—
(i) the number of employees hired to cov-
ered locations described in section 1599i(a)(2)
of title 10, United States Code, as added by
subsection (a); and
(ii) the cost-per-placement of such employ-
ees.
(B) A comparison of the effectiveness and
use of the authority and relocation incen-
tives described in paragraph (1) to authori-
ties under title 5, United States Code, used
by the Department of Defense before the
date of the enactment of this Act to support
hiring at remote or rural locations.
(C) An assessment of—
(i) the minority community outreach ef-
forts made in using the authority and pro-
viding relocation incentives described in
paragraph (1); and
(ii) participation outcomes.
(D) Such other matters as the Secretary
considers appropriate.
(d) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 81 of
title 10, United States Code, is amended by
adding at the end the following new item:
‘‘1599i. Direct hire authority and relocation
incentives for positions at re-
mote locations.’’.
SEC. 1110. MODIFICATION OF DIRECT HIRE AU-
THORITY FOR CERTAIN PERSONNEL
INVOLVED WITH DEPARTMENT OF
DEFENSE MAINTENANCE ACTIVI-
TIES.
Section 9905(a)(1) of title 5, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘including’’
and all that follows and inserting the fol-
lowing: ‘‘including—
‘‘(A) depot-level maintenance and repair;
and
‘‘(B) support functions for such activi-
ties.’’.
SEC. 1110A. FIRE FIGHTERS ALTERNATIVE WORK
SCHEDULE DEMONSTRATION
PROJECT FOR THE NAVY REGION
MID-ATLANTIC FIRE AND EMER-
GENCY SERVICES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Commander, Navy Region Mid-Atlantic,
shall establish and carry out, for a period of
not less than five years, a Fire Fighters Al-
ternative Work Schedule demonstration
project for the Navy Region Mid-Atlantic
Fire and Emergency Services. Such dem-
onstration project shall provide, with respect
to each employee of the Navy Region Mid-
Atlantic Fire and Emergency Services,
that—
(1) assignments to tours of duty are sched-
uled in advance over periods of not less than
two weeks;
(2) tours of duty are scheduled using a reg-
ularly recurring pattern of 48-hour shifts fol-
lowed by 48 or 72 consecutive non-work
hours, as determined by mutual agreement
between the Commander, Navy Region Mid-
Atlantic, and the exclusive employee rep-
resentative at each Navy Region Mid-Atlan-
tic installation, in such a manner that each
employee is regularly scheduled for 144-hours
in any two-week period;
(3) for any such employee that is a fire
fighter working an alternative work sched-
ule, such employee shall earn overtime com-
pensation in a manner consistent with other
applicable law and regulation;
(4) no right shall be established to any
form of premium pay, including night, Sun-
day, holiday, or hazard duty pay; and
(5) leave accrual and use shall be con-
sistent with other applicable law and regula-
tion.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date on which the demonstration project
under this section terminates, the Com-
mander, Navy Region Mid-Atlantic, shall
submit to the Committees on Armed Serv-
ices of the Senate and the House of Rep-
resentatives a report detailing—
(1) any financial savings or expenses di-
rectly and inseparably linked to the dem-
onstration project;
(2) any intangible quality of life and mo-
rale improvements achieved by the dem-
onstration project; and
(3) any adverse impact of the demonstra-
tion project occurring solely as the result of
the transition to the demonstration project.
SEC. 1110B. REPORT BY COMPTROLLER GENERAL
OF THE UNITED STATES ON DIVER-
SITY AND INCLUSION WITHIN THE
CIVILIAN WORKFORCE OF THE DE-
PARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after enactment of this act, the Comptroller
General of the United States shall submit to
Congress a report on issues related to diver-
sity and inclusion within the civilian work-
force of the Department of Defense.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall include the following:
(1) A description of the demographic com-
position of the civilian workforce of the De-
partment.
(2) An assessment of any differences in pro-
motion outcomes among demographic groups
of the civilian workforce of the Department.
(3) An assessment of the extent to which
the Department has identified barriers to di-
versity in its civilian workforce.
Subtitle B—Government-Wide Matters
SEC. 1111. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY
AUTHORITY TO GRANT ALLOW-
ANCES, BENEFITS, AND GRATUITIES
TO CIVILIAN PERSONNEL ON OFFI-
CIAL DUTY IN A COMBAT ZONE.
Paragraph (2) of section 1603(a) of the
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations
Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror,
and Hurricane Recovery, 2006 (Public Law
109–234; 120 Stat. 443), as added by section
1102 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Pub-
lic Law 110–417; 122 Stat. 4616) and as most
recently amended by section 1104 of the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92), is further
amended by striking ‘‘2021’’ and inserting
‘‘2022’’.
SEC. 1112. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY
TO WAIVE ANNUAL LIMITATION ON
PREMIUM PAY AND AGGREGATE
LIMITATION ON PAY FOR FEDERAL
CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES WORKING
OVERSEAS.
Subsection (a) of section 1101 of the Dun-
can Hunter National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110–417;
122 Stat. 4615), as most recently amended by
section 1105 of the National Defense Author-
ization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law
116–92), is further amended by striking
‘‘through 2020’’ and inserting ‘‘through 2021’’.
SEC. 1113. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS TO AU-
THORITY FOR REIMBURSEMENT OF
FEDERAL, STATE, AND LOCAL IN-
COME TAXES INCURRED DURING
TRAVEL, TRANSPORTATION, AND RE-
LOCATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 5724b(b) of title 5,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘or relocation expenses re-
imbursed’’ and inserting ‘‘and relocation ex-
penses reimbursed’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘of chapter 41’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘or chapter 41’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by subsection (a) shall take effect on
January 1, 2018, immediately after the com-
ing into effect of the amendments made by
subsection (a) of section 1114 of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2020 (Public Law 116–92), as provided for in
subsection (c) of such section 1114.
TITLE XII—MATTERS RELATING TO
FOREIGN NATIONS
Subtitle A—Assistance and Training
SEC. 1201. AUTHORITY TO BUILD CAPACITY FOR
ADDITIONAL OPERATIONS.
Section 333(a) of title 10, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end the
following new paragraph:
‘‘(8) Cyberspace operations.’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00133 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6820 November 16, 2020
SEC. 1202. AUTHORITY TO BUILD CAPACITY FOR
AIR SOVEREIGNTY OPERATIONS.
Section 333(a) of title 10, United States
Code, as amended by section 1201, is further
amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (7) and (8)
as paragraphs (8) and (9), respectively; and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (6) the fol-
lowing new paragraph (7):
‘‘(7) Air sovereignty operations.’’.
SEC. 1203. MODIFICATION TO THE INTER-EURO-
PEAN AIR FORCES ACADEMY.
Section 350(b) of title 10, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘that are’’ and
all that follows through the period at the
end and inserting ‘‘that are—
‘‘(1) members of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization;
‘‘(2) signatories to the Partnership for
Peace Framework Documents; or
‘‘(3)(A) within the United States Africa
Command area of responsibility; and
‘‘(B) eligible for assistance under chapter 5
of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961 (22 U.S.C. 2347 et seq.).’’.
SEC. 1204. MODIFICATION TO SUPPORT OF SPE-
CIAL OPERATIONS FOR IRREGULAR
WARFARE.
Subsection (a) of section 1202 of the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2018 (Public Law 115–91; 131 Stat. 1639),
as most recently amended by section 1207 of
the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92), is fur-
ther amended by striking ‘‘$10,000,000’’ and
inserting ‘‘$15,000,000’’.
SEC. 1205. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF
AUTHORITY TO SUPPORT BORDER
SECURITY OPERATIONS OF CERTAIN
FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
(a) FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR SUPPORT.—Sub-
section (b) of section 1226 of the National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016
(22 U.S.C. 2151 note) is amended to read as
follows:
‘‘(b) FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR SUPPORT.—
Amounts to provide support under the au-
thority of subsection (a) may be derived only
from amounts authorized to be appropriated
and available for operation and mainte-
nance, Defense-wide.’’.
(b) EXTENSION.—Subsection (h) of such sec-
tion is amended by striking ‘‘December 31,
2021’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 2023’’.
SEC. 1206. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR
PARTICIPATION IN MULTINATIONAL
CENTERS OF EXCELLENCE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 344 of title 10,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) in the section heading, by striking
‘‘multinational military centers of excel-
lence’’ and inserting ‘‘multinational centers
of excellence’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘multinational military
center of excellence’’ each place it appears
and inserting ‘‘multinational center of excel-
lence’’;
(3) by striking ‘‘multinational military
centers of excellence’’ each place it appears
and inserting ‘‘multinational centers of ex-
cellence’’;
(4) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting ‘‘or en-
tered into by the Secretary of State,’’ after
‘‘Secretary of State,’’;
(5) in subsection (e)—
(A) in the subsection heading, by striking
‘‘MULTINATIONAL MILITARY CENTER OF EXCEL-
LENCE ’’ and inserting ‘‘MULTINATIONAL CEN-
TER OF EXCELLENCE’’;
(B) by redesignating paragraphs (1)
through (4) as subparagraphs (A) through
(D), respectively, and moving the subpara-
graphs two ems to the right;
(C) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), as so redesignated, by striking ‘‘means
an entity’’ and inserting ‘‘means—
‘‘(1) an entity’’;
(D) in subparagraph (D), as so redesig-
nated, by striking the period at the end and
inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(E) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(2) the European Centre of Excellence for
Countering Hybrid Threats, established in
2017 and located in Helsinki, Finland.’’;
(6) by redesignating subsection (e) as sub-
section (f); and
(7) by inserting after subsection (d) the fol-
lowing new subsection (e):
‘‘(e) NOTIFICATION.—Not later than 30 days
before the date on which the Secretary of
Defense authorizes participation under sub-
section (a) in a new multinational center of
excellence, the Secretary shall notify the
congressional defense committees of such
participation.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Title 10,
United States Code, is amended, in the table
of sections at the beginning of subchapter V
of chapter 16, by striking the item relating
to section 344 and inserting the following:
‘‘344. Participation in multinational centers
of excellence.’’.
SEC. 1207. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE WOMEN,
PEACE, AND SECURITY ACT OF 2017.
(a) IN GENERAL.—During the period begin-
ning on the date of the enactment of this Act
and ending on September 30, 2025, the Sec-
retary of Defense shall undertake activities
consistent with the Women, Peace, and Secu-
rity Act of 2017 (Public Law 115–68; 131 Stat.
1202) and with the guidance specified in this
section, including—
(1) establishing Department of Defense-
wide policies and programs that advance the
implementation of that Act, including mili-
tary doctrine and Department-specific and
combatant command-specific programs;
(2) ensuring the Department sufficient per-
sonnel to serve as gender advisors, including
by hiring and training full-time equivalent
personnel, as necessary, and establishing
roles, responsibilities, and requirements for
gender advisors;
(3) the deliberate integration of gender
analysis into relevant training for members
of the Armed Forces across ranks, as de-
scribed in the Women’s Entrepreneurship
and Economic Empowerment Act of 2018
(Public Law 115–428; 132 Stat. 5509); and
(4) security cooperation activities that fur-
ther the implementation of the Women,
Peace, and Security Act of 2017 (Public Law
115–68; 131 Stat. 1202).
(b) BUILDING PARTNER DEFENSE INSTITU-
TION AND SECURITY FORCE CAPACITY.—
(1) INCORPORATION OF GENDER ANALYSIS AND
PARTICIPATION OF WOMEN INTO SECURITY CO-
OPERATION ACTIVITIES.—Consistent with the
Women, Peace, and Security Act of 2017
(Public Law 115–68; 131 Stat. 1202), the Sec-
retary of Defense, in coordination with the
Secretary of State, shall seek to incorporate
gender analysis and participation by women,
as appropriate, into the institutional and na-
tional security force capacity-building ac-
tivities of security cooperation programs
carried out under title 10, United States
Code, including by—
(A) incorporating gender analysis and
women, peace, and security priorities, in-
cluding sex-disaggregated data, into edu-
cational and training materials and pro-
grams authorized by section 333 of title 10,
United States Code;
(B) advising on the recruitment, employ-
ment, development, retention, and pro-
motion of women in such national security
forces, including by—
(i) identifying existing military career op-
portunities for women;
(ii) exposing women and girls to careers
available in such national security forces
and the skills necessary for such careers; and
(iii) encouraging women’s and girls’ inter-
est in such careers by highlighting as role
models women of the United States and ap-
plicable foreign countries in uniform;
(C) addressing sexual harassment and
abuse against women within such national
security forces;
(D) integrating gender analysis into secu-
rity sector policy, planning, and training for
such national security forces; and
(E) improving infrastructure to address the
requirements of women serving in such na-
tional security forces, including appropriate
equipment for female security and police
forces.
(2) BARRIERS AND OPPORTUNITIES.—Partner
country assessments conducted in the course
of Department security cooperation activi-
ties to build the capacity of the national se-
curity forces of foreign countries shall in-
clude attention to the barriers and opportu-
nities with respect to strengthening recruit-
ment, employment, development, retention,
and promotion of women in the military
forces of such partner countries.
(c) DEPARTMENT-WIDE POLICIES ON WOMEN,
PEACE, AND SECURITY.—Not later than 90
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall initiate a
process to establish standardized policies de-
scribed in subsection (a)(1).
(d) FUNDING.—The Secretary of Defense
may use funds authorized to be appropriated
in each fiscal year to the Department of De-
fense for operation and maintenance as spec-
ified in the table in section 4301 for carrying
out the full implementation of the Women,
Peace, and Security Act of 2017 (Public Law
115–68; 131 Stat. 1202) and the guidance on the
matters described in paragraphs (1) through
(4) of subsection (a) and subparagraphs (A)
through (E) of subsection (b)(1).
(e) ANNUAL REPORT.—Not later than one
year after the date of the enactment of this
Act, and annually thereafter through 2025,
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the
appropriate committees of Congress a report
on the steps the Department has taken to
implement the Women, Peace, and Security
Act of 2017 (Public Law 115–68; 131 Stat. 1202),
including—
(1) a description of the progress made on
each matter described in paragraphs (1)
through (4) of subsection (a) and subpara-
graphs (A) through (E) of subsection (b)(1);
and
(2) an identification of the amounts used
for such purposes.
(f) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS
DEFINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘appro-
priate committees of Congress’’ means—
(1) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the
Senate; and
(2) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the
House of Representatives.
SEC. 1208. TED STEVENS CENTER FOR ARCTIC SE-
CURITY STUDIES.
(a) PLAN REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense, in coordination
with the Secretary of State, shall submit to
the congressional defense committees a plan
to establish a Department of Defense Re-
gional Center for Security Studies for the
Arctic.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The plan required by para-
graph (1) shall include the following:
(A) A description of the benefits of estab-
lishing such a center, including the manner
in which the establishment of such a center
would benefit United States and Department
interests in the Arctic region.
(B) A description of the mission and pur-
pose of such a center, including specific pol-
icy guidance from the Office of the Secretary
of Defense.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00134 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6821
November 16, 2020
(C) An analysis of suitable reporting rela-
tionships with the applicable combatant
commands.
(D) An assessment of suitable locations for
such a center that are—
(i) in proximity to other academic institu-
tions that study security implications with
respect to the Arctic region;
(ii) in proximity to the designated lead for
Arctic affairs of the United States Northern
Command;
(iii) in proximity to a central hub of as-
signed Arctic-focused Armed Forces so as to
suitably advance relevant professional devel-
opment of skills unique to the Arctic region;
and
(iv) in a State located outside the contig-
uous United States.
(E) A description of the establishment and
operational costs of such a center, including
for—
(i) military construction for required fa-
cilities;
(ii) facility renovation;
(iii) personnel costs for faculty and staff;
and
(iv) other costs the Secretary of Defense
considers appropriate.
(F) An evaluation of the existing infra-
structure, resources, and personnel available
at military installations and at universities
and other academic institutions that could
reduce the costs described in accordance
with subparagraph (E).
(G) An examination of partnership oppor-
tunities with United States allies and part-
ners for potential collaboration and burden
sharing.
(H) A description of potential courses and
programs that such a center could carry out,
including—
(i) core, specialized, and advanced courses;
(ii) planning workshops;
(iii) seminars;
(iv) confidence-building initiatives; and
(v) academic research.
(I) A description of any modification to
title 10, United States Code, necessary for
the effective operation of such a center.
(3) FORM.—The plan required by paragraph
(1) shall be submitted in unclassified form,
but may include a classified annex.
(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not earlier than 30 days
after the submittal of the plan required by
subsection (a), and subject to the avail-
ability of appropriations, the Secretary of
Defense may establish and administer a De-
partment of Defense Regional Center for Se-
curity Studies for the Arctic, to be known as
the ‘‘Ted Stevens Center for Arctic Security
Studies’’, for the purpose described in sec-
tion 342(a) of title 10, United States Code.
(2) LOCATION.—The Ted Stevens Center for
Arctic Security Studies may be located—
(A) in proximity to other academic institu-
tions that study security implications with
respect to the Arctic region;
(B) in proximity to the designated lead for
Arctic affairs of the United States Northern
Command;
(C) in proximity to a central hub of as-
signed Arctic-focused Armed Forces so as to
suitably advance relevant professional devel-
opment of skills unique to the Arctic region;
and
(D) in a State located outside the contig-
uous United States.
SEC. 1209. FUNCTIONAL CENTER FOR SECURITY
STUDIES IN IRREGULAR WARFARE.
(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense, in consultation
with the Secretary of State, shall submit to
the congressional defense committees a re-
port that assesses the merits and feasibility
of establishing and administering a Depart-
ment of Defense Functional Center for Secu-
rity Studies in Irregular Warfare.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The report required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) A description of the benefits to the
United States, and the allies and partners of
the United States, of establishing such a
functional center, including the manner in
which the establishment of such a functional
center would enhance and sustain focus on,
and advance knowledge and understanding
of, matters of irregular warfare, including
cybersecurity, nonstate actors, information
operations, counterterrorism, stability oper-
ations, and the hybridization of such mat-
ters.
(B) A detailed description of the mission
and purpose of such a functional center, in-
cluding applicable policy guidance from the
Office of the Secretary of Defense.
(C) An analysis of appropriate reporting
and liaison relationships between such a
functional center and—
(i) the geographic and functional combat-
ant commands;
(ii) other Department of Defense stake-
holders; and
(iii) other government and nongovernment
entities and organizations.
(D) An enumeration and valuation of cri-
teria applicable to the determination of a
suitable location for such a functional cen-
ter.
(E) A description of the establishment and
operational costs of such a functional center,
including for—
(i) military construction for required fa-
cilities;
(ii) facility renovation;
(iii) personnel costs for faculty and staff;
and
(iv) other costs the Secretary of Defense
considers appropriate.
(F) An evaluation of the existing infra-
structure, resources, and personnel available
at military installations and at universities
and other academic and research institutions
that could reduce the costs described in sub-
paragraph (E).
(G) An examination of partnership oppor-
tunities with United States allies and part-
ners for potential collaboration and burden
sharing.
(H) A description of potential courses and
programs that such a functional center could
carry out, including—
(i) core, specialized, and advanced courses;
(ii) planning workshops and structured
after-action reviews or debriefs;
(iii) seminars;
(iv) initiatives on executive development,
relationship building, partnership outreach,
and any other matter the Secretary of De-
fense considers appropriate; and
(v) focused academic research and studies
in support of Department priorities.
(I) A description of any modification to
title 10, United States Code, or any other
provision of law, necessary for the effective
establishment and administration of such a
functional center.
(3) FORM.—The report required by para-
graph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may include a classified annex.
(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not earlier than 30 days
after the submittal of the report required by
subsection (a), and subject to the avail-
ability of appropriated funds, the Secretary
of Defense may establish and administer a
Department of Defense Functional Center for
Security Studies in Irregular Warfare.
(2) TREATMENT AS A REGIONAL CENTER FOR
SECURITY STUDIES.—A Department of Defense
Functional Center for Security Studies in Ir-
regular Warfare established under paragraph
(1) shall be operated and administered in the
same manner as the Department of Defense
Regional Centers for Security Studies under
section 342 of title 10, United States Code,
and in accordance with such regulations as
the Secretary of Defense may prescribe.
(3) LIMITATION.—No other institution or
element of the Department may be des-
ignated as a Department of Defense func-
tional center, except by an Act of Congress.
(4) LOCATION.—The location of a Depart-
ment of Defense Functional Center for Secu-
rity Studies in Irregular Warfare established
under paragraph (1) shall be selected based
on an objective, criteria-driven administra-
tive or competitive award process, in accord-
ance with which the merits of locating such
functional center in Tempe, Arizona, may be
evaluated together with other suitable loca-
tions.
SEC. 1210. OPEN TECHNOLOGY FUND.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be
cited as the ‘‘Open Technology Fund Author-
ization Act’’.
(b) FINDINGS.—Congress finds the fol-
lowing:
(1) The political, economic, and social ben-
efits of the internet are important to ad-
vancing democracy and freedom throughout
the world.
(2) Authoritarian governments are invest-
ing billions of dollars each year to create,
maintain, and expand repressive internet
censorship and surveillance systems to limit
free association, control access to informa-
tion, and prevent citizens from exercising
their rights to free speech.
(3) Over 2⁄3 of the world’s population live in
countries in which the internet is restricted.
Governments shut down the internet more
than 200 times every year.
(4) Internet censorship and surveillance
technology is rapidly being exported around
the world, particularly by the Government of
the People’s Republic of China, enabling
widespread abuses by authoritarian govern-
ments.
(c) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that it is in the interest of the
United States—
(1) to promote global internet freedom by
countering internet censorship and repres-
sive surveillance;
(2) to protect the internet as a platform
for—
(A) the free exchange of ideas;
(B) the promotion of human rights and de-
mocracy; and
(C) the advancement of a free press; and
(3) to support efforts that prevent the de-
liberate misuse of the internet to repress in-
dividuals from exercising their rights to free
speech and association, including countering
the use of such technologies by authori-
tarian regimes.
(d) ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OPEN TECH-
NOLOGY FUND.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The United States Inter-
national Broadcasting Act of 1994 (22 U.S.C.
6201 et seq.) is amended by inserting after
section 309 the following:
‘‘SEC. 309A. OPEN TECHNOLOGY FUND.
‘‘(a) AUTHORITY.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
a grantee entity, to be known as the ‘Open
Technology Fund’, which shall carry out this
section.
‘‘(2) IN GENERAL.—Grants authorized under
section 305 shall be available to award an-
nual grants to the Open Technology fund for
the purpose of—
‘‘(A) promoting, consistent with United
States law, unrestricted access to uncen-
sored sources of information via the inter-
net; and
‘‘(B) enabling journalists, including jour-
nalists employed by or affiliated with the
Voice of America, Radio Free Europe/Radio
Liberty, Radio Free Asia, the Middle East
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00135 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6822 November 16, 2020
Broadcasting Networks, the Office of Cuba
Broadcasting, or any entity funded by or
partnering with the United States Agency
for Global Media to create and disseminate
news and information consistent with the
purposes, standards, and principles specified
in sections 302 and 303.
‘‘(b) USE OF GRANT FUNDS.—The Open
Technology Fund shall use grant funds re-
ceived pursuant to subsection (a)(2)—
‘‘(1) to advance freedom of the press and
unrestricted access to the internet in repres-
sive environments overseas through tech-
nology development, rather than through
media messaging;
‘‘(2) to research, develop, implement, and
maintain—
‘‘(A) technologies that circumvent tech-
niques used by authoritarian governments,
nonstate actors, and others to block or cen-
sor access to the internet, including cir-
cumvention tools that bypass internet block-
ing, filtering, and other censorship tech-
niques used to limit or block legitimate ac-
cess to content and information; and
‘‘(B) secure communication tools and other
forms of privacy and security technology
that facilitate the creation and distribution
of news and enable audiences to access media
content on censored websites;
‘‘(3) to advance internet freedom by sup-
porting private and public sector research,
development, implementation, and mainte-
nance of technologies that provide secure
and uncensored access to the internet to
counter attempts by authoritarian govern-
ments, nonstate actors, and others to im-
properly restrict freedom online;
‘‘(4) to research and analyze emerging
technical threats and develop innovative so-
lutions through collaboration with the pri-
vate and public sectors to maintain the tech-
nological advantage of the United States
Government over authoritarian govern-
ments, nonstate actors, and others;
‘‘(5) to develop, acquire, and distribute req-
uisite internet freedom technologies and
techniques for the United States Agency for
Global Media, in accordance with paragraph
(2), and digital security interventions, to
fully enable the creation and distribution of
digital content between and to all users and
regional audiences;
‘‘(6) to prioritize programs for countries,
the governments of which restrict freedom of
expression on the internet, that are impor-
tant to the national interest of the United
States in accordance with section
7050(b)(2)(C) of the Department of State, For-
eign Operations, and Related Programs Ap-
propriations Act, 2020 (division G of Public
Law 116–94); and
‘‘(7) to carry out any other effort con-
sistent with the purposes of this Act or press
freedom overseas if requested or approved by
the United States Agency for Global Media.
‘‘(c) METHODOLOGY.—In carrying out sub-
section (b), the Open Technology Fund
shall—
‘‘(1)(A) support fully open-source tools,
code, and components, to the extent prac-
ticable, to ensure such supported tools and
technologies are as secure, transparent, and
accessible as possible; and
‘‘(B) require that any such tools, compo-
nents, code, or technology supported by the
Open Technology Fund remain fully open-
source, to the extent practicable;
‘‘(2) support technologies that undergo
comprehensive security audits to ensure that
such technologies are secure and have not
been compromised in a manner detrimental
to the interests of the United States or to in-
dividuals or organizations benefitting from
programs supported by the Open Technology
Fund;
‘‘(3) review and periodically update, as nec-
essary, security auditing procedures used by
the Open Technology Fund to reflect current
industry security standards;
‘‘(4) establish safeguards to mitigate the
use of such supported technologies for illicit
purposes;
‘‘(5) solicit project proposals through an
open, transparent, and competitive applica-
tion process to attract innovative applica-
tions and reduce barriers to entry;
‘‘(6)(A) seek input from technical, regional,
and subject matter experts from a wide
range of relevant disciplines; and
‘‘(B) to review, provide feedback, and
evaluate proposals to ensure that the most
competitive projects are funded;
‘‘(7) implement an independent review
process, through which proposals are re-
viewed by such experts to ensure the highest
degree of technical review and due diligence;
‘‘(8) maximize cooperation with the public
and private sectors, foreign allies, and part-
ner countries to maximize efficiencies and
eliminate duplication of efforts; and
‘‘(9) utilize any other methodology ap-
proved by the United States Agency for
Global Media in furtherance of the mission
of the Open Technology Fund.
‘‘(d) GRANT AGREEMENT.—Any grant agree-
ment with, or grants made to, the Open
Technology Fund under this section shall be
subject to the following limitations and re-
strictions:
‘‘(1) The headquarters of the Open Tech-
nology Fund and its senior administrative
and managerial staff shall be located in a lo-
cation which ensures economy, operational
effectiveness, and accountability to the
United States Agency for Global Media.
‘‘(2) Grants awarded under this section
shall be made pursuant to a grant agreement
requiring that—
‘‘(A) grant funds are only used only activi-
ties consistent with this section; and
‘‘(B) failure to comply with such require-
ment shall result in termination of the grant
without further fiscal obligation to the
United States.
‘‘(3) Each grant agreement under this sec-
tion shall require that each contract entered
into by the Open Technology Fund specify
that all obligations are assumed by the
grantee and not by the United States Gov-
ernment.
‘‘(4) Each grant agreement under this sec-
tion shall require that any lease agreements
entered into by the Open Technology Fund
shall be, to the maximum extent possible, as-
signable to the United States Government.
‘‘(5) Administrative and managerial costs
for operation of the Open Technology Fund—
‘‘(A) should be kept to a minimum; and
‘‘(B) to the maximum extent feasible,
should not exceed the costs that would have
been incurred if the Open Technology Fund
had been operated as a Federal entity rather
than as a grantee.
‘‘(6) Grant funds may not be used for any
activity whose purpose is influencing the
passage or defeat of legislation considered by
Congress.
‘‘(e) RELATIONSHIP TO THE UNITED STATES
AGENCY FOR GLOBAL MEDIA.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Open Technology
Fund shall be subject to the oversight and
governance by the United States Agency for
Global Media in accordance with section 305.
‘‘(2) ASSISTANCE.—The United States Agen-
cy for Global Media, its broadcast entities,
and the Open Technology Fund should render
such assistance to each other as may be nec-
essary to carry out the purposes of this sec-
tion or any other provision under this Act.
‘‘(3) NOT A FEDERAL AGENCY OR INSTRUMEN-
TALITY.—Nothing in this section may be con-
strued to make the Open Technology Fund
an agency or instrumentality of the Federal
Government.
‘‘(4) DETAILEES.—Employees of a grantee of
the United States Agency for Global Media
may be detailed to the Agency, in accord-
ance with the Intergovernmental Personnel
Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4701 et seq.) and Federal
employees may be detailed to a grantee of
the United States Agency for Global Media,
in accordance with such Act.
‘‘(f) RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT-FUNDED INTERNET FREEDOM
PROGRAMS.—The United States Agency for
Global Media shall ensure that internet free-
dom research and development projects of
the Open Technology Fund are deconflicted
with internet freedom programs of the De-
partment of State and other relevant United
States Government departments. Agencies
should still share information and best prac-
tices relating to the implementation of sub-
sections (b) and (c).
‘‘(g) REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(1) ANNUAL REPORT.—The Open Tech-
nology Fund shall highlight, in its annual re-
port, internet freedom activities, including a
comprehensive assessment of the Open Tech-
nology Fund’s activities relating to the im-
plementation of subsections (b) and (c),
which shall include—
‘‘(A) an assessment of the current state of
global internet freedom, including—
‘‘(i) trends in censorship and surveillance
technologies and internet shutdowns; and
‘‘(ii) the threats such pose to journalists,
citizens, and human rights and civil society
organizations; and
‘‘(B) a description of the technology
projects supported by the Open Technology
Fund and the associated impact of such
projects in the most recently completed
year, including—
‘‘(i) the countries and regions in which
such technologies were deployed;
‘‘(ii) any associated metrics indicating au-
dience usage of such technologies; and
‘‘(iii) future-year technology project initia-
tives.
‘‘(2) ASSESSMENT OF THE EFFECTIVENESS OF
THE OPEN TECHNOLOGY FUND.—Not later than
2 years after the date of the enactment of
this section, the Inspector General of the De-
partment of State and the Foreign Service
shall submit a report to the appropriate con-
gressional committees that indicates—
‘‘(A) whether the Open Technology Fund
is—
‘‘(i) technically sound;
‘‘(ii) cost effective; and
‘‘(iii) satisfying the requirements under
this section; and
‘‘(B) the extent to which the interests of
the United States are being served by main-
taining the work of the Open Technology
Fund.
‘‘(h) AUDIT AUTHORITIES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Financial transactions of
the Open Technology Fund that relate to
functions carried out under this section may
be audited by the Government Account-
ability Office in accordance with such prin-
ciples and procedures and under such rules
and regulations as may be prescribed by the
Comptroller General of the United States.
Any such audit shall be conducted at the
place or places at which accounts of the
Open Technology Fund are normally kept.
‘‘(2) ACCESS BY GAO.—The Government Ac-
countability Office shall have access to all
books, accounts, records, reports, files, pa-
pers, and property belonging to or in use by
the Open Technology Fund pertaining to fi-
nancial transactions as may be necessary to
facilitate an audit. The Government Ac-
countability Office shall be afforded full fa-
cilities for verifying transactions with any
assets held by depositories, fiscal agents, and
custodians. All such books, accounts,
records, reports, files, papers, and property
of the Open Technology Fund shall remain in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00136 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6823
November 16, 2020
the possession and custody of the Open Tech-
nology Fund.
‘‘(3) EXERCISE OF AUTHORITIES.—Notwith-
standing any other provision of law, the In-
spector General of the Department of State
and the Foreign Service is authorized to ex-
ercise the authorities of the Inspector Gen-
eral Act of 1978 with respect to the Open
Technology Fund.’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—The United
States International Broadcasting Act of
1994 is amended—
(A) in section 304(d) (22 U.S.C. 6203(d)), by
inserting ‘‘the Open Technology Fund,’’ be-
fore ‘‘the Middle East Broadcasting Net-
works’’;
(B) in sections 305(a)(20) and 310(c) (22
U.S.C. 6204(a)(20) and 6209(c)), by inserting
‘‘the Open Technology Fund,’’ before ‘‘or the
Middle East Broadcasting Networks’’ each
place such term appears; and
(C) in section 310 (22 U.S.C. 6209), by insert-
ing ‘‘the Open Technology Fund,’’ before
‘‘and the Middle East Broadcasting Net-
works’’ each place such term appears.
(3) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated for
the Open Technology Fund, which shall be
used to carry out section 309A of the United
States International Broadcasting Act of
1994, as added by paragraph (1)—
(A) $20,000,000 for fiscal year 2021; and
(B) $25,000,000 for fiscal year 2022.
(e) UNITED STATES ADVISORY COMMISSION
ON PUBLIC DIPLOMACY.— Section 1334 of the
Foreign Affairs Reform and Restructuring
Act of 1998 (22 U.S.C. 6553) is amended by
striking ‘‘October 1, 2020’’ and inserting ‘‘Oc-
tober 1, 2025’’.
Subtitle B—Matters Relating to Afghanistan
and Pakistan
SEC. 1211. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF
AUTHORITY FOR REIMBURSEMENT
OF CERTAIN COALITION NATIONS
FOR SUPPORT PROVIDED TO
UNITED STATES MILITARY OPER-
ATIONS.
(a) EXTENSION.—Subsection (a) of section
1233 of the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110–181;
122 Stat. 393), as most recently amended by
section 1217 of the National Defense Author-
ization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law
116–92), is further amended by striking ‘‘be-
ginning on October 1, 2019, and ending on De-
cember 31, 2020’’ and inserting ‘‘beginning on
October 1, 2020, and ending on December 31,
2021’’.
(b) MODIFICATION TO LIMITATION.—Sub-
section (d)(1) of such section is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘beginning on October 1,
2019, and ending on December 31, 2020’’ and
inserting ‘‘beginning on October 1, 2020, and
ending on December 31, 2021’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘$450,000,000’’ and inserting
‘‘$180,000,000’’.
SEC. 1212. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF
COMMANDERS’ EMERGENCY RE-
SPONSE PROGRAM.
Section 1201 of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public
Law 112–81; 125 Stat. 1619), as most recently
amended by section 1208(a) of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2020 (Public Law 116–92), is further amend-
ed—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) by striking ‘‘December 31, 2020’’ and in-
serting ‘‘December 31, 2021’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘$2,500,000’’ and inserting
‘‘$2,000,000’’;
(2) in subsection (b), by striking the sub-
section designation and heading and all that
follows through the period at the end of
paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
‘‘(b) QUARTERLY REPORTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Beginning in fiscal year
2021, not later than 45 days after the end of
each quarter fiscal year, the Secretary of De-
fense shall submit to the congressional de-
fense committees a report regarding the
source of funds and the allocation and use of
funds during that quarter fiscal year that
were made available pursuant to the author-
ity provided in this section or under any
other provision of law for the purposes of the
program under subsection (a).’’; and
(3) in subsection (f), by striking ‘‘December
31, 2020’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 2021’’.
SEC. 1213. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF
SUPPORT FOR RECONCILIATION AC-
TIVITIES LED BY THE GOVERNMENT
OF AFGHANISTAN.
(a) MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE
COVERED SUPPORT.—Subsection (a) of section
1218 of the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92)
is amended—
(1) by striking the subsection designation
and heading and all that follows through
‘‘The Secretary of Defense’’ and inserting
the following:
‘‘(a) AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE COVERED SUP-
PORT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
the Secretary of Defense’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(2) LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS.—
Amounts authorized to be appropriated or
otherwise made available for the Depart-
ment of Defense by this Act may not be obli-
gated or expended to provide covered support
until the date on which the Secretary of De-
fense submits to the appropriate committees
of Congress the report required by subsection
(b).’’.
(b) PARTICIPATION IN RECONCILIATION AC-
TIVITIES.—Such section is further amended—
(1) by redesignating subsections (i) through
(k) as subsections (j) through (l), respec-
tively;
(2) by inserting after subsection (h) the fol-
lowing new subsection (i):
‘‘(i) PARTICIPATION IN RECONCILIATION AC-
TIVITIES.—Covered support may only be used
to support a reconciliation activity that—
‘‘(1) includes the participation of members
of the Government of Afghanistan; and
‘‘(2) does not restrict the participation of
women.’’.
(c) EXTENSION.—Subsection (k) of such sec-
tion, as so redesignated, is amended by strik-
ing ‘‘December 31, 2020’’ and inserting ‘‘De-
cember 31, 2021’’.
(d) EXCLUSIONS FROM COVERED SUPPORT.—
Such section is further amended in para-
graph (2)(B) of subsection (l), as so redesig-
nated—
(1) in clause (ii), by inserting ‘‘, reimburse-
ment for travel or lodging, and stipends or
per diem payments’’ before the period at the
end; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
clause:
‘‘(iii) Any activity involving one or more
members of an organization designated as a
foreign terrorist organization pursuant to
section 219 of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189) or an individual des-
ignated as a specially designated global ter-
rorist pursuant to Executive Order 13224 (50
U.S.C. 1701 note; relating to blocking prop-
erty and prohibiting transactions with per-
sons who commit, threaten to commit, or
support terrorism).’’.
SEC. 1214. SENSE OF SENATE ON SPECIAL IMMI-
GRANT VISA PROGRAM FOR AFGHAN
ALLIES.
It is the sense of the Senate that—
(1) the special immigrant visa program for
Afghan allies is critical to the mission in Af-
ghanistan and the long-term interests of the
United States;
(2) maintaining a robust special immigrant
visa program for Afghan allies is necessary
to support United States Government per-
sonnel in Afghanistan who need translation,
interpretation, security, and other services;
(3) Afghan allies routinely risk their lives
to assist United States military and diplo-
matic personnel;
(4) honoring the commitments made to Af-
ghan allies with respect to the special immi-
grant visa program is essential to ensuring—
(A) the continued service and safety of
such allies; and
(B) the willingness of other like-minded in-
dividuals to provide similar services in any
future contingency;
(5) the Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009
(8 U.S.C. 1101 note) states that all Govern-
ment-controlled processing of applications
for special immigrant visas under that Act
‘‘should be completed not later than 9
months after the date on which an eligible
alien submits all required materials to com-
plete an application for such visa’’;
(6) any backlog in processing special immi-
grant visa applications should be addressed
as quickly as possible so as to honor the
United States commitment to Afghan allies
as soon as possible;
(7) failure to process such applications in
an expeditious manner puts lives at risk and
jeopardizes a critical element of support to
United States operations in Afghanistan; and
(8) to prevent harm to the operations of
the United States Government in Afghani-
stan, additional visas should be made avail-
able to principal aliens who are eligible for
special immigrant status under that Act.
SEC. 1215. SENSE OF SENATE AND REPORT ON
UNITED STATES PRESENCE IN AF-
GHANISTAN.
(a) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense
of the Senate that—
(1) the United States and our coalition
partners have made progress in the fight
against al-Qaeda and ISIS in Afghanistan;
however, both groups—
(A) maintain an ability to operate in Af-
ghanistan;
(B) seek to undermine stability in the re-
gion; and
(C) threaten the security of Afghanistan,
the United States, and the allies of the
United States;
(2) the South Asia strategy correctly em-
phasizes the importance of a conditions-
based United States presence in Afghanistan;
therefore, any decision to withdraw the
Armed Forces of the United States from Af-
ghanistan should be done in an orderly man-
ner in response to conditions on the ground,
and in coordination with the Government of
Afghanistan and United States allies and
partners in the Resolute Support mission,
rather than arbitrary timelines;
(3) a precipitous withdrawal of the Armed
Forces of the United States and United
States diplomatic and intelligence personnel
from Afghanistan without effective, counter-
vailing efforts to secure gains in Afghanistan
may allow violent extremist groups to regen-
erate, threatening the security of the Afghan
people and creating a security vacuum that
could destabilize the region and provide
ample safe haven for extremist groups seek-
ing to conduct external attacks;
(4) ongoing diplomatic efforts to secure a
peaceful, negotiated solution to the conflict
in Afghanistan are the best path forward for
establishing long-term stability and elimi-
nating the threat posed by extremist groups
in Afghanistan;
(5) the United States supports inter-
national diplomatic efforts to facilitate
peaceful, negotiated resolution to the ongo-
ing conflict in Afghanistan on terms that re-
spect the rights of innocent civilians and
deny safe havens to terrorists; and
(6) as part of such diplomatic efforts, and
as a condition to be met prior to withdrawal,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00137 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6824 November 16, 2020
the United States should seek to secure the
release of any United States citizens being
held against their will in Afghanistan.
(b) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than September
1, 2020, the Secretary of Defense shall submit
to the Committees on Armed Services of the
Senate and the House of Representative a re-
port that includes—
(A) an assessment of—
(i) the external threat posed by extremist
groups operating in Afghanistan to the
United States homeland and the homelands
of United States allies;
(ii) the impact of cessation of United
States counterterrorism activities on the
size, strength, and external aims of such
groups; and
(iii) the international financial support the
Afghan National Defense and Security
Forces requires in order to maintain current
operational capabilities, including force co-
hesion and combat effectiveness;
(B) a plan for the orderly transition of all
security-related tasks currently undertaken
by the Armed Forces of the United States in
support of the Afghan National Defense and
Security Forces to Afghanistan, including—
(i) precision targeting of Afghanistan-
based terrorists;
(ii) combat-enabler support, such as artil-
lery and aviation assets; and
(iii) noncombat-enabler support, such as
intelligence, surveillance and reconnais-
sance, medical evacuation, and contractor
logistic support; and
(C) an update on the status of any United
States citizens detained in Afghanistan, and
an overview of Administration efforts to se-
cure their release.
(2) FORM.—The report required by para-
graph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified
form but may contain a classified annex.
Subtitle C—Matters Relating to Syria, Iraq,
and Iran
SEC. 1221. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY AND LIMI-
TATION ON USE OF FUNDS TO PRO-
VIDE ASSISTANCE TO COUNTER THE
ISLAMIC STATE OF IRAQ AND SYRIA.
(a) EXTENSION.—Subsection (a) of section
1236 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ‘‘Buck’’
McKeon National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113–291; 128
Stat. 3558), as most recently amended by sec-
tion 1233(a) of the John S. McCain National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2019 (Public Law 115–232; 132 Stat. 2039), is
further amended, in the matter preceding
paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘December 31,
2020’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 2021’’.
(b) FUNDING.—Subsection (g) of such sec-
tion 1236, as most recently amended by sec-
tion 1221 of the National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal year 2020 (Public Law 116–
92), is amended to read as follows:
‘‘(g) FUNDING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Of the amounts author-
ized to be appropriated for the Department
of Defense for Overseas Contingency Oper-
ations for fiscal year 2021, not more than
$322,500,000 may be used to carry out this sec-
tion.
‘‘(2) LIMITATION AND REPORT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Of the funds authorized
to be appropriated under paragraph (1), not
more than 25 percent may be obligated or ex-
pended until the date on which the Secretary
of Defense submits to the appropriate con-
gressional committees a report that includes
the following:
‘‘(i) An explanation of the manner in which
such support aligns with the objectives con-
tained in the national defense strategy.
‘‘(ii) A description of the manner in which
such support is synchronized with larger
whole-of-government funding efforts to
strengthen the bilateral relationship be-
tween the United States and Iraq.
‘‘(iii) A description of—
‘‘(I) actions taken by the Government of
Iraq to assert control over popular mobiliza-
tion forces; and
‘‘(II) the role of popular mobilization
forces in the national security apparatus of
Iraq.
‘‘(iv) A plan to fully transition security as-
sistance for the Iraqi Security Forces from
the Counter-Islamic State of Iraq and Syria
Train and Equip Fund to standing security
assistance authorities managed by the De-
fense Security Cooperation Agency and the
Department of State by not later than Sep-
tember 30, 2022.
‘‘(B) FORM.—The report under subpara-
graph (A) shall be submitted in unclassified
form but may include a classified annex.’’.
SEC. 1222. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF
AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE ASSIST-
ANCE TO VETTED SYRIAN GROUPS
AND INDIVIDUALS.
Section 1209 of the Carl Levin and Howard
P. ‘‘Buck’’ McKeon National Defense Author-
ization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law
113–291; 127 Stat. 3541), as most recently
amended by section 1222(a) of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2020 (Public Law 116–92), is further amend-
ed—
(1) in the section heading, by striking ‘‘THE
VETTED SYRIAN OPPOSITION’’ and inserting
‘‘VETTED SYRIAN GROUPS AND INDIVIDUALS’’;
(2) in subsection (a), in the matter pre-
ceding paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘December
31, 2020’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 2021’’;
(3) by striking subsections (b) and (c);
(4) by redesignating subsections (d)
through (m) as subsections (b) through (k),
respectively; and
(5) in paragraph (2) of subsection (b), as so
redesignated—
(A) in subparagraph (J)(iii), by redesig-
nating subclause (I) as subparagraph (M) and
moving the subparagraph four ems to the
left;
(B) by redesignating subparagraphs (A)
through (F) and (G) through (J) as subpara-
graphs (B) through (G) and (I) through (L),
respectively;
(C) by inserting before subparagraph (B), as
so redesignated, the following new subpara-
graph (A):
‘‘(A) An accounting of the obligation and
expenditure of authorized funding for the
current and preceding fiscal year.’’;
(D) by inserting after subparagraph (G), as
so redesignated, the following new subpara-
graph (H):
‘‘(H) The mechanisms and procedures that
will be used to monitor and report to the ap-
propriate congressional committees and
leadership of the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives any unauthorized end-use of
provided training and equipment or other
violations of relevant law by appropriately
vetted recipients.’’; and
(E) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(N) Any other matter the Secretary con-
siders appropriate.’’.
SEC. 1223. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF
AUTHORITY TO SUPPORT OPER-
ATIONS AND ACTIVITIES OF THE OF-
FICE OF SECURITY COOPERATION IN
IRAQ.
(a) LIMITATION ON AMOUNT.—Subsection (c)
of section 1215 of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (10
U.S.C. 113 note) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘fiscal year 2020’’ and in-
serting ‘‘fiscal year 2021’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘$30,000,000’’ and inserting
‘‘$15,000,000’’.
(b) SOURCE OF FUNDS.—Subsection (d) of
such section is amended by striking ‘‘fiscal
year 2020’’ and inserting ‘‘fiscal year 2021’’.
(c) ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY.—Subsection (f)
of such section is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), in the matter pre-
ceding subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘fiscal
year 2019’’ and inserting ‘‘fiscal year 2021’’;
and
(2) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2020’’ and inserting ‘‘the National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2021’’.
(d) REPORT.—Subsection (g)(1) of such sec-
tion is amended by striking ‘‘September 30,
2020’’ and inserting ‘‘March 1, 2021’’.
(e) LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF
FUNDS.—Subsection (h) of such section is
amended—
(1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1)—
(A) by striking ‘‘fiscal year 2020’’ and in-
serting ‘‘fiscal year 2021’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘$20,000,000’’ and inserting
‘‘$10,000,000’’;
(2) by striking paragraph (1);
(3) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3)
as paragraphs (1) and (2), respectively;
(4) in paragraph (1), as so redesignated, by
striking ‘‘The development of a staffing
plan’’ and inserting ‘‘A progress report with
respect to the development of a staffing
plan’’; and
(5) in paragraph (2), as so redesignated, by
striking ‘‘The initiation’’ and inserting ‘‘A
progress report with respect to the initi-
ation’’.
Subtitle D—Matters Relating to Europe and
the Russian Federation
SEC. 1231. EXTENSION OF LIMITATION ON MILI-
TARY COOPERATION BETWEEN THE
UNITED STATES AND THE RUSSIAN
FEDERATION.
Section 1232(a) of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public
Law 114–328; 130 Stat. 2488), as most recently
amended by section 1231 of the National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020
(Public Law 116–92), is further amended in
the matter preceding paragraph (1), by strik-
ing ‘‘, 2019, or 2020’’ and inserting ‘‘2019, 2020,
or 2021’’.
SEC. 1232. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF
FUNDS RELATING TO SOVEREIGNTY
OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION OVER
CRIMEA.
(a) PROHIBITION.—None of the funds author-
ized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal
year 2021 for the Department of Defense may
be obligated or expended to, and the Depart-
ment may not, implement any activity that
recognizes the sovereignty of the Russian
Federation over Crimea.
(b) WAIVER.—The Secretary of Defense,
with the concurrence of the Secretary of
State, may waive the prohibition under sub-
section (a) if the Secretary of Defense—
(1) determines that a waiver is in the na-
tional security interest of the United States;
and
(2) on the date on which the waiver is in-
voked, submits a notification of the waiver
and a justification of the reason for seeking
the waiver to—
(A) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the
Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the
House of Representatives.
SEC. 1233. MODIFICATION AND EXTENSION OF
UKRAINE SECURITY ASSISTANCE
INITIATIVE.
Section 1250 of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public
Law 114–92; 129 Stat. 1068), as most recently
amended by section 1244 of the National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020
(Public Law 116–92), is further amended—
(1) in subsection (c)—
(A) in paragraph (2)(B)—
(i) in clause (iv), by striking ‘‘; and’’ and
inserting a semicolon;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00138 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6825
November 16, 2020
(ii) in clause (v), by striking the period at
the end and inserting a semicolon; and
(iii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(vi) transformation of command and con-
trol structures and roles in line with North
Atlantic Treaty Organization principles; and
‘‘(vii) improvement of human resources
management, including to support career
management reforms, enhanced social sup-
port to military personnel and their fami-
lies, and professional military education sys-
tems.’’; and
(B) by amending paragraph (5) to read as
follows:
‘‘(5) LETHAL ASSISTANCE.—Of the funds
available for fiscal year 2021 pursuant to sub-
section (f)(6), $125,000,000 shall be available
only for lethal assistance described in para-
graphs (2), (3), (11), (12), (13), and (14) of sub-
section (b).’’;
(2) in subsection (f), by adding at the end
the following new paragraph:
‘‘(6) For fiscal year 2021, $250,000,000.’’; and
(3) in subsection (h), by striking ‘‘Decem-
ber 31, 2022’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31,
2024’’.
SEC. 1234. REPORT ON CAPABILITY AND CAPAC-
ITY REQUIREMENTS OF MILITARY
FORCES OF UKRAINE AND RE-
SOURCE PLAN FOR SECURITY AS-
SISTANCE.
(a) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of
State shall jointly submit to the appropriate
committees of Congress a report on the capa-
bility and capacity requirements of the mili-
tary forces of Ukraine, which shall include
the following:
(1) An analysis of the capability gaps and
capacity shortfalls of the military forces of
Ukraine that includes—
(A) an assessment of the requirements of
the navy of Ukraine to accomplish its as-
signed missions; and
(B) an assessment of the requirements of
the air force of Ukraine to accomplish its as-
signed missions.
(2) An assessment of the relative priority
assigned by the Government of Ukraine to
addressing such capability gaps and capacity
shortfalls.
(3) An assessment of the capability gaps
and capacity shortfalls that—
(A) could be addressed in a sufficient and
timely manner by unilateral efforts of the
Government of Ukraine; and
(B) are unlikely to be addressed in a suffi-
cient and timely manner solely through uni-
lateral efforts.
(4) An assessment of the capability gaps
and capacity shortfalls described in para-
graph (3)(B) that could be addressed in a suf-
ficient and timely manner by—
(A) the Ukraine Security Assistance Initia-
tive of the Department of Defense;
(B) Department of Defense security assist-
ance authorized by section 333 of title 10,
United States Code;
(C) the Foreign Military Financing and
Foreign Military Sales programs of the De-
partment of State; or
(D) the provision of excess defense articles.
(5) An assessment of the human resources
requirements of the Office of Defense Co-
operation at the United States Embassy in
Kyiv and any gaps in the capacity of such Of-
fice of Defense Cooperation to provide secu-
rity assistance to Ukraine.
(6) Any recommendations the Secretary of
Defense and the Secretary of State consider
appropriate concerning the coordination of
security assistance efforts of the Department
of Defense and the Department of State with
respect to Ukraine.
(b) RESOURCE PLAN.—Not later than Feb-
ruary 15, 2022, the Secretary of Defense and
the Secretary of State shall jointly submit
to the appropriate committees of Congress a
resource plan for United States security as-
sistance with respect to Ukraine, which shall
include the following:
(1) A plan to resource the following initia-
tives and programs with respect to Ukraine
in fiscal year 2023 and the four succeeding
fiscal years to meet the most critical capa-
bility gaps and capacity shortfalls of the
military forces of Ukraine:
(A) The Ukraine Security Assistance Ini-
tiative of the Department of Defense.
(B) Department of Defense security assist-
ance authorized by section 333 of title 10,
United States Code.
(C) The Foreign Military Financing and
Foreign Military Sales programs of the De-
partment of State.
(D) The provision of excess defense arti-
cles.
(2) With respect to the navy of Ukraine,
the following:
(A) A capability development plan, with
milestones, detailing the manner in which
the United States will assist the Government
of Ukraine in meeting the requirements re-
ferred to in subsection (a)(1)(A).
(B) A plan for United States cooperation
with third countries and international orga-
nizations that have the resources and ability
to provide immediate assistance to the navy
of Ukraine while maintaining interoper-
ability with United States platforms to the
extent feasible.
(C) A plan to prioritize the provision of ex-
cess defense articles for the navy of Ukraine
to the extent practicable during fiscal year
2023 and the four succeeding fiscal years.
(D) An assessment of the manner in which
United States security assistance to the
navy of Ukraine is in the national security
interests of the United States.
(3) With respect to the air force of Ukraine,
the following:
(A) A capability development plan, with
milestones, detailing the manner in which
the United States will assist the Government
of Ukraine in meeting the requirements re-
ferred to in subsection (a)(1)(B).
(B) A plan for United States cooperation
with third countries and international orga-
nizations that have the resources and ability
to provide immediate assistance to the air
force of Ukraine while maintaining inter-
operability with United States platforms to
the extent feasible.
(C) A plan to prioritize the provision of ex-
cess defense articles for the air force of
Ukraine to the extent practicable during fis-
cal year 2023 and the four succeeding fiscal
years.
(D) An assessment of the manner in which
United States security assistance to the air
force of Ukraine is in the national security
interests of the United States.
(4) An assessment of progress on defense
institutional reforms in Ukraine, including
with respect to the navy and air force of
Ukraine, during fiscal year 2023 and the four
succeeding fiscal years that will be essential
for—
(A) enabling effective use and sustainment
of capabilities developed under security as-
sistance authorities described in this sec-
tion;
(B) enhancing the defense of the sov-
ereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine;
(C) achieving the stated goal of the Gov-
ernment of Ukraine of meeting North Atlan-
tic Treaty Organization standards; and
(D) allowing Ukraine to achieve its full po-
tential as a strategic partner of the United
States.
(c) FORM.—The report required by sub-
section (a) and the resource plan required by
subsection (b) shall each be submitted in a
classified form with an unclassified sum-
mary.
(d) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS
DEFINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘appro-
priate committees of Congress’’ means—
(1) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Foreign Relations, and the
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;
and
(2) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Com-
mittee on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives.
SEC. 1235. SENSE OF SENATE ON NORTH ATLAN-
TIC TREATY ORGANIZATION EN-
HANCED OPPORTUNITIES PARTNER
STATUS FOR UKRAINE.
It is the sense of the Senate that—
(1) the United States should support the
designation of Ukraine as an enhanced op-
portunities partner as part of the Partner-
ship Interoperability Initiative of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization;
(2) the participation of Ukraine in the en-
hanced opportunities partner program is in
the shared security interests of Ukraine, the
United States, and the North Atlantic Trea-
ty Organization alliance;
(3) the unique experience, capabilities, and
technical expertise of Ukraine, especially
with respect to hybrid warfare, cybersecu-
rity, and foreign disinformation, would en-
able Ukraine to make a positive contribu-
tion to the North Atlantic Treaty Organiza-
tion alliance through participation in the en-
hanced opportunities partner program;
(4) while not a replacement for North At-
lantic Treaty Organization membership, par-
ticipation in the enhanced opportunities
partner program would have significant ben-
efits for the security of Ukraine, including—
(A) more regular consultations on security
matters;
(B) enhanced access to interoperability
programs and exercises;
(C) expanded information sharing; and
(D) improved coordination of crisis pre-
paredness and response; and
(5) progress on defense institutional re-
forms in Ukraine, including defense institu-
tional reforms intended to align the military
forces of Ukraine with North Atlantic Trea-
ty Organization standards, remains essential
for—
(A) a more effective defense of the sov-
ereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine;
(B) allowing Ukraine to achieve its full po-
tential as a strategic partner of the United
States; and
(C) increased cooperation between Ukraine
and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
SEC. 1236. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR
TRAINING FOR EASTERN EUROPEAN
NATIONAL SECURITY FORCES IN
THE COURSE OF MULTILATERAL EX-
ERCISES.
Subsection (h) of section 1251 of the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2016 (10 U.S.C. 333 note), as most re-
cently amended by section 1247 of the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92) is further
amended—
(1) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘De-
cember 31, 2021’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31,
2023’’; and
(2) in the second sentence, by striking ‘‘the
period beginning on October 1, 2015, and end-
ing on December 31, 2021’’ and inserting ‘‘the
period beginning on October 1, 2015, and end-
ing on December 31, 2023’’.
SEC. 1237. SENSE OF SENATE ON KOSOVO AND
THE ROLE OF THE KOSOVO FORCE
OF THE NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY
ORGANIZATION.
It is the sense of the Senate that—
(1) normalization of relations between
Kosovo and Serbia is in the interest of both
countries and would enhance security and
stability in the Western Balkans;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00139 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6826 November 16, 2020
(2) the United States should continue to
support the diplomatic efforts of Kosovo and
Serbia to reach a historic agreement to nor-
malize relations between the two countries;
(3) mutual recognition should be a central
element of normalization of relations be-
tween Kosovo and Serbia;
(4) both Kosovo and Serbia should refrain
from actions that would make an agreement
more difficult to achieve;
(5) the Kosovo Force of the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization continues to play an in-
dispensable role in maintaining security and
stability, which are the essential predicates
for the success of the diplomatic efforts of
Kosovo and Serbia to achieve normalization
of relations;
(6) the participation of the United States
Armed Forces in the Kosovo Force is
foundational to the credibility and success of
mission of the Kosovo Force;
(7) with the North Atlantic Treaty Organi-
zation allies and other European partners
contributing over 80 percent of the troops for
the mission, the Kosovo Force represents a
positive example of burden sharing;
(8) together with the allies and partners of
the United States, the United States
should—
(A) maintain its commitment to the
Kosovo Force; and
(B) take all appropriate steps to ensure
that the Kosovo Force has the necessary per-
sonnel, capabilities, and resources to per-
form its critical mission; and
(9) the United States should continue to
support the gradual transition of the Kosovo
Security Force to a multi-ethnic army for
the Republic of Kosovo that is interoperable
with North Atlantic Treaty Organization
members through an inclusive and trans-
parent process that—
(A) respects the rights and concerns of all
citizens of Kosovo;
(B) promotes regional security and sta-
bility; and
(C) supports the aspirations of Kosovo for
eventual full membership in the North At-
lantic Treaty Organization.
SEC. 1238. SENSE OF SENATE ON STRATEGIC
COMPETITION WITH THE RUSSIAN
FEDERATION AND RELATED ACTIVI-
TIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DE-
FENSE.
It is the sense of the Senate that—
(1) the 2018 National Defense Strategy af-
firms the re-emergence of long-term stra-
tegic competition with the Russian Federa-
tion as a principal priority for the Depart-
ment of Defense that requires sustained in-
vestment due to the magnitude of the threat
posed to United States security, prosperity,
and alliances and partnerships;
(2) given the continued military mod-
ernization of the Russian Federation, includ-
ing the development of long-range strike
systems and other advanced capabilities, the
United States should prioritize efforts within
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to
implement timely measures to ensure that
the deterrence and defense posture of the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization remains
credible and effective;
(3) the United States should reaffirm sup-
port for the open-door policy of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization;
(4) to enhance deterrence against aggres-
sion by the Russian Federation, the Depart-
ment of Defense should—
(A) continue—
(i) to prioritize funding for the European
Deterrence Initiative to address capability
gaps, capacity shortfalls, and infrastructure
requirements of the Joint Force in Europe;
(ii) to increase pre-positioned stocks of
equipment in Europe; and
(iii) rotational deployments of United
States forces to Romania and Bulgaria while
pursuing training opportunities at military
locations such as Camp Mihail Kogalniceanu
in Romania and Novo Selo Training Area in
Bulgaria;
(B) increase—
(i) focus and resources to address the
changing military balance in the Black Sea
region;
(ii) the frequency, scale, and scope of North
Atlantic Treaty Organization and other mul-
tilateral exercises in the Black Sea region,
including with the participation of Ukraine
and Georgia; and
(iii) presence and activities in the Arctic,
including special operations training and
naval operations and training;
(C) maintain robust naval presence at
Souda Bay, Greece, and pursue opportunities
for increased United States presence at other
locations in Greece;
(D) enhance military-to-military engage-
ment among Western Balkan countries to
promote interoperability with the North At-
lantic Treaty Organization and regional se-
curity cooperation; and
(E) expand information sharing, improve
planning coordination, and increase the fre-
quency, scale, and scope of exercises with
Sweden and Finland to deepen interoper-
ability; and
(5) to counter Russian Federation activi-
ties short of armed conflict, the Department
of Defense should—
(A) integrate with United States inter-
agency efforts to employ all elements of na-
tional power to counter Russian Federation
hybrid warfare; and
(B) bolster the capabilities of allies and
partners to counteract Russian Federation
coercion, including through expanded cyber
cooperation and enhanced resilience against
disinformation and malign influence.
SEC. 1239. REPORT ON RUSSIAN FEDERATION
SUPPORT OF RACIALLY AND ETH-
NICALLY MOTIVATED VIOLENT EX-
TREMISTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense, in consultation
with the head of any other relevant Federal
department or agency, shall submit to the
appropriate committees of Congress a report
on Russian Federation support of racially
and ethnically motivated violent extremist
groups and networks in Europe and the
United States, including such support pro-
vided by agents and entities of the Russian
Federation acting at the direction or for the
benefit of the Government of the Russian
Federation.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall include the following:
(1) A list of each racially or ethnically mo-
tivated violent extremist group or network
in Europe or the United States known to
meet, or suspected of meeting, the following
criteria:
(A) The group or network has been tar-
geted or recruited by the security services of
the Russian Federation.
(B) The group or network has received sup-
port (including training, disinformation or
amplification on social media platforms, fi-
nancial support, and any other support) from
the Russian Federation or an agent or entity
of the Russian Federation acting at the di-
rection or for the benefit of the Government
of the Russian Federation.
(C) The group—
(i) has leadership or a base of operations
located within the Russian Federation; and
(ii) operates or maintains a chapter or net-
work of the group in Europe or the United
States.
(2) An assessment of the manner in which
Russian Federation support of such groups or
networks aligns with the strategic interests
of the Russian Federation with respect to
Europe and the United States.
(3) An assessment of the role of such
groups or networks in—
(A) assisting Russian Federation-backed
separatist forces in the Donbas region of
Ukraine; or
(B) destabilizing security on the Crimean
peninsula of Ukraine.
(4) An assessment of the manner in which
Russian Federation support of such groups or
networks has—
(A) contributed to the destabilization of se-
curity in the Balkans; and
(B) threatened the support for the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization in South-
eastern Europe.
(5) A description of any relationship or af-
filiation between such groups or networks
and ultranationalist or extremist political
parties in Europe and the United States, and
an assessment of the manner in which the
Russian Federation may use such a relation-
ship or affiliation to advance the strategic
interests of the Russian Federation.
(6) A description of the use by the Russian
Federation of social media platforms to sup-
port or amplify the presence or messaging of
such groups or networks, and an assessment
of any effort in Europe or the United States
to counter such support or amplification.
(7) A description of the legal and political
implications of the designation of the Rus-
sian Imperial Movement, and members of the
leadership of the Russian Imperial Move-
ment, as specially designated global terror-
ists pursuant to Executive Order 13224 (50
U.S.C. 1701 note; relating to blocking prop-
erty and prohibiting transactions with per-
sons who commit, threaten to commit, or
support terrorism) and the response of the
Government of the Russian Federation to
such designation.
(8) Recommendations of the Secretary of
Defense, consistent with a whole-of-govern-
ment approach to countering Russian Fed-
eration information warfare and malign in-
fluence operations—
(A) to mitigate the security threat posed
by such groups or networks; and
(B) to reduce or counter Russian Federa-
tion support for such groups or networks.
(c) FORM.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall be submitted in unclassified
form but may include a classified annex.
(d) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS
DEFINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘appro-
priate committees of Congress’’ means—
(1) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Se-
lect Committee on Intelligence of the Sen-
ate; and
(2) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Per-
manent Select Committee on Intelligence of
the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1240. PARTICIPATION IN EUROPEAN PRO-
GRAM ON MULTILATERAL EX-
CHANGE OF SURFACE TRANSPOR-
TATION SERVICES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter II of chapter
138 of title 10, United States Code, is amend-
ed by inserting after subsection (l) the fol-
lowing new section 2350m:
‘‘§ 2350m. Participation in European program
on multilateral exchange of surface trans-
portation services
‘‘(a) PARTICIPATION AUTHORIZED.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of De-
fense, with the concurrence of the Secretary
of State, may authorize the participation of
the Department of Defense in the Surface
Exchange of Services program (in this sec-
tion referred to as the ‘SEOS program’) of
the Movement Coordination Centre Europe.
‘‘(2) SCOPE OF PARTICIPATION.—Participa-
tion of the Department of Defense in the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00140 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6827
November 16, 2020
SEOS program under paragraph (1) may in-
clude—
‘‘(A) the reciprocal exchange or transfer of
surface transportation on a reimbursable
basis or by replacement-in-kind; and
‘‘(B) the exchange of surface transpor-
tation services of an equal value.
‘‘(b) WRITTEN ARRANGEMENT OR AGREE-
MENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Participation of the De-
partment of Defense in the SEOS program
shall be in accordance with a written ar-
rangement or agreement entered into by the
Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence
of the Secretary of State, and the Movement
Coordination Centre Europe.
‘‘(2) NOTIFICATION.—The Secretary of De-
fense shall provide to the congressional de-
fense committees notification of any ar-
rangement or agreement entered into under
paragraph (1).
‘‘(3) FUNDING ARRANGEMENTS.—If Depart-
ment of Defense facilities, equipment, or
funds are used to support the SEOS program,
the written arrangement or agreement under
paragraph (1) shall specify the details of any
equitable cost-sharing or other funding ar-
rangement.
‘‘(4) OTHER ELEMENTS.—Any written ar-
rangement or agreement entered into under
paragraph (1) shall require that any accrued
credits or liability resulting from an unequal
exchange or transfer of surface transpor-
tation services shall be liquidated through
the SEOS program not less than once every
five years.
‘‘(c) IMPLEMENTATION.—In carrying out any
arrangement or agreement entered into
under subsection (b), the Secretary of De-
fense may—
‘‘(1) pay the equitable share of the Depart-
ment of Defense for the operating expenses
of the Movement Coordination Centre Eu-
rope and the SEOS program from funds
available to the Department of Defense for
operation and maintenance; and
‘‘(2) assign members of the armed forces or
Department of Defense civilian personnel,
within billets authorized for the United
States European Command, to duty at the
Movement Coordination Centre Europe as
necessary to fulfill Department of Defense
obligations under that arrangement or
agreement.
‘‘(d) CREDITING OF RECEIPTS.—Any amount
received by the Department of Defense as
part of the SEOS program shall be credited,
at the option of the Secretary of Defense,
to—
‘‘(1) the appropriation, fund, or account
used in incurring the obligation for which
such amount is received; or
‘‘(2) an appropriate appropriation, fund, or
account currently available for the purposes
for which the expenditures were made.
‘‘(e) ANNUAL REPORT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the end of each fiscal year in which the
authority under this section is in effect, the
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the con-
gressional defense committees a report on
Department of Defense participation in the
SEOS program during such fiscal year.
‘‘(2) ELEMENTS.—Each report required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
‘‘(A) A description of the equitable share of
the costs and activities of the SEOS program
paid by the Department of Defense.
‘‘(B) A description of any amount received
by the Department of Defense as part of such
program, including the country from which
the amount was received.
‘‘(f) LIMITATION ON STATUTORY CONSTRUC-
TION.—Nothing in this section may be con-
strued to authorize the use of foreign sealift
in violation of section 2631.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of such subchapter
is amended by inserting after the item relat-
ing to section 2350l the following new item:
‘‘2350m. Participation in European program
on multilateral exchange of
surface transportation serv-
ices.’’.
SEC. 1241. PARTICIPATION IN PROGRAMS RELAT-
ING TO COORDINATION OR EX-
CHANGE OF AIR REFUELING AND
AIR TRANSPORTATION SERVICES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter II of chapter
138 of title 10, United States Code, as amend-
ed by section 1240(a), is further amended by
adding at the end the following new section:
‘‘§ 2350o. Participation in programs relating
to coordination or exchange of air refuel-
ing and air transportation services
‘‘(a) PARTICIPATION AUTHORIZED.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of De-
fense, with the concurrence of the Secretary
of State, may authorize the participation of
the Department of Defense in programs re-
lating to the coordination or exchange of air
refueling and air transportation services, in-
cluding in the arrangement known as the Air
Transport and Air-to-Air Refueling and
other Exchanges of Services program (in this
section referred to as the ‘ATARES pro-
gram’).
‘‘(2) SCOPE OF PARTICIPATION.—Participa-
tion of the Department of Defense in pro-
grams referred to in paragraph (1) may in-
clude—
‘‘(A) the reciprocal exchange or transfer of
air refueling and air transportation services
on a reimbursable basis or by replacement-
in-kind; and
‘‘(B) the exchange of air refueling and air
transportation services of an equal value.
‘‘(3) LIMITATIONS WITH RESPECT TO PARTICI-
PATION IN ATARES PROGRAM.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Department of De-
fense balance of executed flight hours in par-
ticipation in the ATARES program under
paragraph (1), whether as credits or debits,
may not exceed a total of 500 hours.
‘‘(B) AIR REFUELING.—The Department of
Defense balance of executed flight hours for
air refueling in participation in the ATARES
program under paragraph (1) may not exceed
200 hours.
‘‘(b) WRITTEN ARRANGEMENT OR AGREE-
MENT.—Participation of the Department of
Defense in a program referred to in sub-
section (a)(1) shall be in accordance with a
written arrangement or agreement entered
into by the Secretary of Defense, with the
concurrence of the Secretary of State.
‘‘(c) IMPLEMENTATION.—In carrying out any
arrangement or agreement entered into
under subsection (b), the Secretary of De-
fense may—
‘‘(1) pay the equitable share of the Depart-
ment of Defense for the recurring and non-
recurring costs of the applicable program re-
ferred to in subsection (a)(1) from funds
available to the Department for operation
and maintenance; and
‘‘(2) assign members of the armed forces or
Department of Defense civilian personnel to
fulfill Department obligations under that ar-
rangement or agreement.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of such subchapter,
as amended by section 1240(b), is further
amended by adding at the end the following
new item:
‘‘2350o. Participation in programs relating to
coordination or exchange of air
refueling and air transportation
services.’’.
(c) REPEAL.—Section 1276 of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2013 (10 U.S.C. 2350c note) is repealed.
SEC. 1242. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON SUPPORT
FOR COORDINATED ACTION TO EN-
SURE THE SECURITY OF BALTIC AL-
LIES.
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1) the continued security of the Baltic
states of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania is
critical to achieving United States national
security interests and defense objectives
against the acute and formidable threat
posed by Russia;
(2) the United States and the Baltic states
are leaders in the mission of defending inde-
pendence and democracy from aggression
and in promoting stability and security
within the North Atlantic Treaty Organiza-
tion (NATO), with non-NATO partners, and
with other international organizations such
as the European Union;
(3) the Baltic states are model NATO allies
in terms of burden sharing and capital in-
vestment in materiel critical to United
States and allied security, investment of
over 2 percent of their gross domestic prod-
uct on defense expenditure, allocating over
20 percent of their defense budgets on capital
modernization, matching security assistance
from the United States, frequently deploying
their forces around the world in support of
allied and United States objectives, and
sharing diplomatic, technical, military, and
analytical expertise on defense and security
matters;
(4) the United States should continue to
strengthen bilateral and multilateral defense
by, with, and through allied nations, particu-
larly those that possess expertise and dex-
terity but do not enjoy the benefits of na-
tional economies of scale;
(5) the United States should pursue a dedi-
cated initiative focused on defense and secu-
rity assistance, coordination, and planning
designed to ensure the continued security of
the Baltic states and on deterring current
and future challenges to the national sov-
ereignty of United States allies and partners
in the Baltic region; and
(6) such an initiative should include an in-
novative and comprehensive conflict deter-
rence strategy for the Baltic region encom-
passing the unique geography of the Baltic
states, modern and diffuse threats to their
land, sea, and air spaces, and necessary im-
provements to their defense posture, includ-
ing command-and-control infrastructure, in-
telligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance
capabilities, communications equipment and
networks, and special forces.
Subtitle E—Matters Relating to the Indo-
Pacific Region
SEC. 1251. PACIFIC DETERRENCE INITIATIVE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense
shall carry out an initiative to ensure the ef-
fective implementation of the National De-
fense Strategy with respect to the Indo-Pa-
cific region, to be known as the ‘‘Pacific De-
terrence Initiative’’ (in this section referred
to as the ‘‘Initiative’’).
(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the Initiative
is to carry out only the following activities:
(1) Activities to increase the lethality of
the joint force in the Indo-Pacific region, in-
cluding, but not limited to—
(A) by improving active and passive de-
fenses against theater cruise, ballistic, and
hypersonic missiles for bases, operating loca-
tions, and other critical infrastructure at lo-
cations west of the International Date Line;
and
(B) procurement and fielding of—
(i) long-range precision strike systems to
be stationed or pre-positioned west of the
International Date Line;
(ii) critical munitions to be pre-positioned
at locations west of the International Date
Line; and
(iii) command, control, communications,
computers and intelligence, surveillance,
and reconnaissance systems intended for sta-
tioning or operational use in the Indo-Pa-
cific region.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00141 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6828 November 16, 2020
(2) Activities to enhance the design and
posture of the joint force in the Indo-Pacific
region, including, but not limited to, by—
(A) transitioning from large, centralized,
and unhardened infrastructure to smaller,
dispersed, resilient, and adaptive basing at
locations west of the International Date
Line;
(B) increasing the number and capabilities
of expeditionary airfields and ports in the
Indo-Pacific region available for operational
use at locations west of the International
Date Line;
(C) enhancing pre-positioned forward
stocks of fuel, munitions, equipment, and
materiel at locations west of the Inter-
national Date Line;
(D) increasing the availability of strategic
mobility assets in the Indo-Pacific region;
(E) improving distributed logistics and
maintenance capabilities in the Indo-Pacific
region to ensure logistics sustainment while
under persistent multidomain attack; and
(F) increasing the presence of the Armed
Forces at locations west of the International
Date Line.
(3) Activities to strengthen alliances and
partnerships, including, but not limited to,
by—
(A) building capacity of allies and part-
ners; and
(B) improving—
(i) interoperability and information shar-
ing with allies and partners; and
(ii) information operations capabilities in
the Indo-Pacific region, with a focus on rein-
forcing United States commitment to allies
and partners and countering malign influ-
ence.
(4) Activities to carry out a program of ex-
ercises, experimentation, and innovation for
the joint force in the Indo-Pacific region.
(c) PLAN REQUIRED.—Not later than Feb-
ruary 15, 2021, the Secretary, in consultation
with the Commander of the United States
Indo-Pacific Command, shall submit to the
congressional defense committees a plan to
expend not less than the amounts authorized
to be appropriated under subsection (e)(2).
(d) BUDGET DISPLAY INFORMATION.—The
Secretary shall include in the materials of
the Department of Defense in support of the
budget of the President (submitted to Con-
gress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31,
United States Code) for fiscal year 2022 and
each fiscal year thereafter a detailed budget
display for the Initiative that includes the
following information:
(1) A future-years plan with respect to ac-
tivities and resources for the Initiative for
the applicable fiscal year and not fewer than
the four following fiscal years.
(2) With respect to procurement accounts—
(A) amounts displayed by account, budget
activity, line number, line item, and line
item title; and
(B) a description of the requirements for
such amounts specific to the Initiative.
(3) With respect to research, development,
test, and evaluation accounts—
(A) amounts displayed by account, budget
activity, line number, program element, and
program element title; and
(B) a description of the requirements for
such amounts specific to the Initiative.
(4) With respect to operation and mainte-
nance accounts—
(A) amounts displayed by account title,
budget activity title, line number, and sub-
activity group title; and
(B) a description of the specific manner in
which such amounts will be used.
(5) With respect to military personnel ac-
counts—
(A) amounts displayed by account, budget
activity, budget subactivity, and budget sub-
activity title; and
(B) a description of the requirements for
such amounts specific to the Initiative.
(6) With respect to each project under mili-
tary construction accounts (including with
respect to unspecified minor military con-
struction and amounts for planning and de-
sign), the country, location, project title,
and project amount by fiscal year.
(7) With respect to the activities described
in subsection (b)—
(A) amounts displayed by account title,
budget activity title, line number, and sub-
activity group title; and
(B) a description of the specific manner in
which such amounts will be used.
(8) With respect to each military service—
(A) amounts displayed by account title,
budget activity title, line number, and sub-
activity group title; and
(B) a description of the specific manner in
which such amounts will be used.
(9) With respect to the amounts described
in each of paragraphs (2)(A), (3)(A), (4)(A),
(5)(A), (6), (7)(A), and (8)(A), a comparison be-
tween—
(A) the amount in the budget of the Presi-
dent for the following fiscal year; and
(B) the amount projected in the previous
budget of the President for the following fis-
cal year.
(e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to
the Secretary to carry out the activities of
the Initiative described in subsection (b) the
following:
(1) For fiscal year 2021, $1,406,417,000, as
specified in the funding table in section 4502.
(2) For fiscal year 2022, $5,500,000,000.
(f) REPEAL.—Section 1251 of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2018 (Public Law 115–91; 131 Stat. 1676), as
most recently amended by section 1253 of the
John S. McCain National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law
115–232; 132 Stat. 2054), is repealed.
SEC. 1252. SENSE OF SENATE ON THE UNITED
STATES-VIETNAM DEFENSE RELA-
TIONSHIP.
In commemoration of the 25th anniversary
of the normalization of diplomatic relations
between the United States and Vietnam, the
Senate—
(1) welcomes the historic progress and
achievements in United States-Vietnam re-
lations over the last 25 years;
(2) congratulates Vietnam on its chairman-
ship of the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations and its election as a nonpermanent
member of the United Nations Security
Council, both of which symbolize the posi-
tive leadership role of Vietnam in regional
and global affairs;
(3) commends the commitment of Vietnam
to resolve international disputes through
peaceful means on the basis of international
law;
(4) affirms the commitment of the United
States—
(A) to respect the independence and sov-
ereignty of Vietnam; and
(B) to establish and promote friendly rela-
tions and work together on an equal footing
for mutual benefit with Vietnam;
(5) encourages the United States and Viet-
nam to elevate their comprehensive partner-
ship to a strategic partnership based on mu-
tual understanding, shared interests, and a
common desire to promote peace, coopera-
tion, prosperity, and security in the Indo-Pa-
cific region;
(6) affirms the commitment of the United
States to continue to address war legacy
issues, including through dioxin remedi-
ation, unexploded ordnance removal, ac-
counting for prisoners of war and soldiers
missing in action, and other activities; and
(7) supports deepening defense cooperation
between the United States and Vietnam, in-
cluding with respect to maritime security,
cybersecurity, counterterrorism, informa-
tion sharing, humanitarian assistance and
disaster relief, military medicine, peace-
keeping operations, defense trade, and other
areas.
SEC. 1253. AUTHORITY TO TRANSFER FUNDS FOR
BIEN HOA DIOXIN CLEANUP.
(a) TRANSFER AUTHORITY.—Notwith-
standing section 2215 of title 10, United
States Code, the Secretary of Defense may
transfer to the Secretary of State, for use by
the United States Agency for International
Development, amounts to be used for the
Bien Hoa dioxin cleanup in Vietnam.
(b) LIMITATION ON AMOUNT.—Not more than
$15,000,000 may be transferred in fiscal year
2021 under the transfer authority in sub-
section (a).
(c) ADDITIONAL TRANSFER AUTHORITY.—The
transfer authority in subsection (a) is in ad-
dition to any other transfer authority avail-
able to the Department of Defense.
(d) NOTICE ON EXERCISE OF AUTHORITY.—If
the Secretary of Defense determines to use
the transfer authority in subsection (a), the
Secretary shall notify the congressional de-
fense committee of that determination not
later than 30 days before the Secretary uses
the transfer authority.
SEC. 1254. COOPERATIVE PROGRAM WITH VIET-
NAM TO ACCOUNT FOR VIETNAMESE
PERSONNEL MISSING IN ACTION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense,
in cooperation with other appropriate Fed-
eral departments and agencies, is authorized
to carry out a cooperative program with the
Ministry of Defense of Vietnam to assist in
accounting for Vietnamese personnel miss-
ing in action.
(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the coopera-
tive program under subsection (a) is to carry
out the following activities:
(1) Collection, digitization, and sharing of
archival information.
(2) Building the capacity of Vietnam to
conduct archival research, investigations,
and excavations.
(3) Improving DNA analysis capacity.
(4) Increasing veteran-to-veteran ex-
changes.
(5) Other support activities the Secretary
considers necessary and appropriate.
SEC. 1255. PROVISION OF GOODS AND SERVICES
AT KWAJALEIN ATOLL, REPUBLIC OF
THE MARSHALL ISLANDS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 767 of title 10,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following new section:
‘‘§ 7596. Provision of goods and services at
Kwajalein Atoll
‘‘(a) AUTHORITY.—(1) Except as provided in
paragraph (2), the Secretary of the Army,
with the concurrence of the Secretary of
State, may provide goods and services, in-
cluding interatoll transportation, to the
Government of the Republic of the Marshall
Islands and other eligible patrons, as deter-
mined by the Secretary of the Army, at
Kwajalein Atoll.
‘‘(2) The Secretary of the Army may not
provide goods or services under this section
if doing so would be inconsistent, as deter-
mined by the Secretary of State, with the
Compact of Free Association between the
Government of the United States and the
Government of the Republic of the Marshall
Islands or any subsidiary agreement or im-
plementing arrangement.
‘‘(b) REIMBURSEMENT.—(1) The Secretary of
the Army may collect reimbursement from
the Government of the Republic of the Mar-
shall Islands and eligible patrons for the pro-
vision of goods or services under subsection
(a).
‘‘(2) The amount collected for goods or
services under this subsection may not be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00142 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6829
November 16, 2020
greater than the total amount of actual
costs to the United States for providing the
goods or services.
‘‘(c) NECESSARY EXPENSES.—Amounts ap-
propriated to the Department of the Army
may be used for necessary expenses associ-
ated with providing goods and services under
this section.
‘‘(d) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary of the
Army shall issue regulations to carry out
this section.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of such chapter is
amended by adding at the end the following
new item:
‘‘7596. Provision of goods and services at
Kwajalein Atoll.’’.
(c) BRIEFING.—Not later than December 31,
2021, the Secretary of the Army shall provide
to the congressional defense committees a
briefing on the use of the authority under
section 7596(a) of title 10, United States
Code, as added by subsection (a), in fiscal
year 2021, including a written summary de-
scribing the goods and services provided on a
reimbursable basis and the goods and serv-
ices provided on a nonreimbursable basis.
SEC. 1256. AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH A MOVE-
MENT COORDINATION CENTER PA-
CIFIC IN THE INDO-PACIFIC REGION
AND PARTICIPATE IN AN AIR TRANS-
PORT AND AIR-TO-AIR REFUELING
AND OTHER EXCHANGES OF SERV-
ICES PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense,
with the concurrence of the Secretary of
State, may authorize—
(1) the establishment of a Movement Co-
ordination Center Pacific (in this section re-
ferred to as the ‘‘Center’’); and
(2) participation of the Department of De-
fense in an Air Transport and Air-to-Air Re-
fueling and other Exchanges of Services pro-
gram (in this section referred to as the
‘‘ATARES program’’) of the Center.
(b) SCOPE OF PARTICIPATION.—Participation
of the Department in the ATARES program
shall be limited to—
(1) the reciprocal exchange or transfer of
air transportation and air refueling services
on a reimbursable basis or by replacement-
in-kind; and
(2) the exchange of air transportation or
air refueling services of equal value.
(c) LIMITATIONS.—
(1) TRANSPORTATION HOURS.—The Depart-
ment balance of executed transportation
hours in the ATARES program, whether as
credits or debits, may not exceed 500 hours.
(2) FLIGHT HOURS.—The Department bal-
ance of executed flight hours for air refuel-
ing in the ATARES program may not exceed
200 hours.
(d) WRITTEN ARRANGEMENT OR AGREE-
MENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Participation of the De-
partment in the ATARES program shall be
in accordance with a written arrangement or
agreement entered into by the Secretary of
Defense, with the concurrence of the Sec-
retary of State.
(2) FUNDING ARRANGEMENTS.—If Depart-
ment facilities, equipment, or funds are used
to support the ATARES program, the writ-
ten arrangement or agreement under para-
graph (1) shall specify the details of any eq-
uitable cost-sharing or other funding ar-
rangement.
(3) OTHER ELEMENTS.—Any written ar-
rangement or agreement entered into under
paragraph (1) shall require any accrued cred-
it or liability resulting from an unequal ex-
change or transfer of air transportation or
air refueling services to be liquidated
through the ATARES program not less fre-
quently than once every five years.
(e) IMPLEMENTATION.—In carrying out any
written arrangement or agreement entered
into under subsection (d), the Secretary of
Defense may—
(1) pay the equitable share of the Depart-
ment for the operating expenses of the Cen-
ter and the ATARES program from funds
available to the Department for operation
and maintenance; and
(2) assign members of the Armed Forces or
Department civilian personnel, within billets
authorized for the United States Indo-Pacific
Command, to duty at the Center as nec-
essary to fulfill Department obligations
under that arrangement or agreement.
SEC. 1257. TRAINING OF ALLY AND PARTNER AIR
FORCES IN GUAM.
(a) SENSE OF SENATE.—It is the sense of the
Senate that—
(1) the memorandum of understanding
agreed to by the United States and the Re-
public of Singapore on December 6, 2019, to
establish a fighter jet training detachment
in Guam should be commended;
(2) such agreement is a manifestation of
the strong, enduring, and forward-looking
partnership of the United States and the Re-
public of Singapore; and
(3) the permanent establishment of a fight-
er detachment in Guam will further enhance
the interoperability of the air forces of the
United States and the Republic of Singapore
and provide training opportunities needed to
maximize their readiness.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than one year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the con-
gressional defense committees a report as-
sessing the merit and feasibility of entering
into agreements similar to the memorandum
of understanding referred to in subsection
(a)(1) with other United States allies and
partners in the Indo-Pacific region, includ-
ing Japan, Australia, and India.
SEC. 1258. STATEMENT OF POLICY AND SENSE OF
SENATE ON THE TAIWAN RELATIONS
ACT.
(a) STATEMENT OF POLICY.—It is the policy
of the United States—
(1) that the Taiwan Relations Act (Public
Law 96–8; 22 U.S.C. 3301 et seq.) and the ‘‘Six
Assurances’’ provided by the United States
to Taiwan in July 1982 are the foundation for
United States-Taiwan relations;
(2) that nothing in the Taiwan Relations
Act (Public Law 96–8; 22 U.S.C. 3301 et seq.)
constrains deepening, to the extent possible,
the extensive, close, and friendly relations of
the United States and Taiwan, including de-
fense relations;
(3) that the Taiwan Relations Act (Public
Law 96–8; 22 U.S.C. 3301 et seq.) shall be im-
plemented and executed in a manner con-
sistent with evolving political, security, and
economic dynamics and circumstances;
(4) that, as set forth in the Taiwan Rela-
tions Act (Public Law 96–8; 22 U.S.C. 3301 et
seq.), the United States expects the ‘‘future
of Taiwan will be determined by peaceful
means,’’ and that ‘‘any effort to determine
the future of Taiwan by other than peaceful
means’’ is ‘‘a threat to the peace and secu-
rity of the Western Pacific area and of grave
concern to the United States’’;
(5) that the increasingly coercive and ag-
gressive behavior of the People’s Republic of
China towards Taiwan, including growing
military maneuvers targeting Taiwan, is
contrary to the expectation of the peaceful
resolution of the future of Taiwan;
(6) that, as set forth in the Taiwan Rela-
tions Act (Public Law 96–8; 22 U.S.C. 3301 et
seq.), the United States will support the de-
velopment of capable, ready, and modern de-
fense forces necessary for Taiwan to main-
tain a sufficient self-defense capability, in-
cluding by—
(A) supporting acquisition by Taiwan of de-
fense articles and services through foreign
military sales, direct commercial sales, and
industrial cooperation, with an emphasis on
capabilities that support the asymmetric de-
fense strategy of Taiwan, including antiship,
coastal defense, antiarmor, air defense, un-
dersea warfare, advanced command, control,
communications, computers, intelligence,
surveillance, and reconnaissance, and resil-
ient command and control capabilities;
(B) ensuring timely review of and response
to requests of Taiwan for defense articles
and services;
(C) conducting practical training and mili-
tary exercises with Taiwan, including, as ap-
propriate, the Rim of the Pacific exercise,
combined training at the National Training
Center at Fort Erwin, and bilateral naval ex-
ercises and training;
(D) examining the potential for expanding
professional military education and tech-
nical training opportunities in the United
States for military personnel of Taiwan;
(E) pursuing a strategy of military engage-
ment with Taiwan that fully integrates ex-
changes at the strategic, policy, and func-
tional levels;
(F) increasing exchanges between senior
defense officials and general officers of the
United States and Taiwan consistent with
the Taiwan Travel Act (Public Law 115–135;
132 Stat. 341), especially for the purpose of
enhancing cooperation on defense planning
and improving the interoperability of the
military forces of the United States and Tai-
wan;
(G) conducting military exchanges with
Taiwan specifically focused on improving the
reserve force of Taiwan; and
(H) expanding cooperation in military
medicine and humanitarian assistance and
disaster relief, including through the partici-
pation of medical vessels of Taiwan in appro-
priate exercises with the United States; and
(7) that, as set forth in the Taiwan Rela-
tions Act (Public Law 96–8; 22 U.S.C. 3301 et
seq.), the United States will maintain the ca-
pacity ‘‘to resist any resort to force or other
forms of coercion that would jeopardize the
security, or the social or economic system,
of the people on Taiwan’’, including the ca-
pacity of the United States Armed Forces to
deny a ‘‘fait accompli’’ operation by the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China to rapidly seize con-
trol of Taiwan.
(b) SENSE OF SENATE.—It is the sense of the
Senate that the Secretary of Defense
should—
(1) ensure that policy guidance to the De-
partment of Defense related to United
States-Taiwan defense relations is fully con-
sistent with the statement of policy set forth
in subsection (a); and
(2) issue new policy guidance required to
carry out such policy.
SEC. 1259. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON PORT CALLS
IN TAIWAN WITH THE USNS COM-
FORT AND THE USNS MERCY .
It is the sense of Congress that the Depart-
ment of Defense should conduct port calls in
Taiwan with the USNS Comfort and the
USNS Mercy —
(1) to continue the collaboration between
the United States and Taiwan on COVID–19
responses, which has included—
(A) research and development of tests, vac-
cines, and medicines; and
(B) donations of face masks;
(2) to further improve the cooperation be-
tween the United States and Taiwan on mili-
tary medicine and humanitarian assistance
and disaster relief;
(3) to allow United States personnel to ben-
efit from the expertise of Taiwanese per-
sonnel, in light of the successful response of
Taiwan to COVID–19; and
(4) to continue the mission of the USNS
Comfort and the USNS Mercy, which have
demonstrated the value of the Department
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00143 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6830 November 16, 2020
capacity to deploy maritime medical capa-
bilities worldwide and provide contingency
capacity in the United States during signifi-
cant crises.
SEC. 1260. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS TO RE-
DUCE TOTAL NUMBER OF MEMBERS
OF THE ARMED FORCES SERVING
ON ACTIVE DUTY WHO ARE DE-
PLOYED TO THE REPUBLIC OF
KOREA.
None of the funds authorized to be appro-
priated by this Act may be obligated or ex-
pended to reduce the total number of mem-
bers of the Armed Forces serving on active
duty and deployed to the Republic of Korea
to fewer than 28,500 such members of the
Armed Forces until 90 days after the date on
which the Secretary of Defense certifies to
the congressional defense committees that—
(1) such a reduction—
(A) is in the national security interest of
the United States; and
(B) will not significantly undermine the se-
curity of United States allies in the region;
and
(2) the Secretary has appropriately con-
sulted with allies of the United States, in-
cluding the Republic of Korea and Japan, re-
garding such a reduction.
SEC. 1261. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON CO-DEVELOP-
MENT WITH JAPAN OF A LONG-
RANGE GROUND-BASED ANTI-SHIP
CRUISE MISSILE SYSTEM.
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1) the Department of Defense should
prioritize consultations with the Ministry of
Defense of Japan to determine whether a
ground-based, long-range anti-ship cruise
missile system would meet shared defense
requirements of the United States and
Japan; and
(2) if it is determined that a ground-based,
long-range anti-ship cruise missile system
would meet shared defense requirements, the
United States and Japan should consider co-
development of such a system.
SEC. 1262. STATEMENT OF POLICY ON COOPERA-
TION IN THE INDO-PACIFIC REGION.
It is the policy of the United States—
(1) to strengthen alliances and partner-
ships in the Indo-Pacific region and Europe
and with like-minded countries around the
globe to effectively compete with the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China; and
(2) to work in collaboration with such al-
lies and partners—
(A) to address significant diplomatic, eco-
nomic, and military challenges posed by the
People’s Republic of China;
(B) to deter the People’s Republic of China
from pursuing military aggression;
(C) to promote the peaceful resolution of
territorial disputes in accordance with inter-
national law;
(D) to promote private sector-led long-
term economic development while coun-
tering efforts by the Government of the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China to leverage predatory
economic practices as a means of political
and economic coercion in the Indo-Pacific
region and beyond;
(E) to promote the values of democracy
and human rights, including through efforts
to end the repression by the Chinese Com-
munist Party of political dissidents and
Uyghurs and other ethnic Muslim minori-
ties, Tibetan Buddhists, Christians, and
other minorities;
(F) to respond to the crackdown by the
Chinese Communist Party, in contravention
of the commitments made under the Sino-
British Joint Declaration of 1984 and the
Basic Law of Hong Kong, on the legitimate
aspirations of the people of Hong Kong; and
(G) to counter the Chinese Communist Par-
ty’s efforts to spread disinformation in the
People’s Republic of China and beyond with
respect to the response of the Chinese Com-
munist Party to COVID–19.
SEC. 1263. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON COM-
MERCIAL EXPORT OF CERTAIN MU-
NITIONS TO THE HONG KONG PO-
LICE FORCE.
Section 3 of the Act entitled ‘‘An Act to
prohibit the commercial export of covered
munitions items to the Hong Kong Police
Force’’, approved November 27, 2019 (Public
Law 116–77; 133 Stat. 1174), is amended by
striking ‘‘one year after the date of the en-
actment of this Act’’ and inserting ‘‘on No-
vember 27, 2021’’.
SEC. 1264. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ASIA REAS-
SURANCE INITIATIVE ACT WITH RE-
GARD TO TAIWAN ARMS SALES.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress makes the fol-
lowing findings:
(1) The Department of Defense Indo-Pacific
Strategy Report, released on June 1, 2019,
states: ‘‘[T]he Asia Reassurance Initiative
Act, a major bipartisan legislation, was
signed into law by President Trump on De-
cember 31, 2018. This legislation enshrines a
generational whole-of-government policy
framework that demonstrates U.S. commit-
ment to a free and open Indo-Pacific region
and includes initiatives that promote sov-
ereignty, rule of law, democracy, economic
engagement, and regional security.’’.
(2) The Indo-Pacific Strategy Report fur-
ther states: ‘‘The United States has a vital
interest in upholding the rules-based inter-
national order, which includes a strong,
prosperous, and democratic Taiwan. . .The
Department [of Defense] is committed to
providing Taiwan with defense articles and
services in such quantity as may be nec-
essary to enable Taiwan to maintain a suffi-
cient self-defense capability.’’.
(3) Section 209(b) of the Asia Reassurance
Initiative Act of 2018 (22 U.S.C. 3301 note),
signed into law on December 31, 2018—
(A) builds on longstanding commitments
enshrined in the Taiwan Relations Act (22
U.S.C. 3301 et seq.) to provide Taiwan with
defense articles; and
(B) states: ‘‘The President should conduct
regular transfers of defense articles to Tai-
wan that are tailored to meet the existing
and likely future threats from the People’s
Republic of China, including supporting the
efforts of Taiwan to develop and integrate
asymmetric capabilities, as appropriate, in-
cluding mobile, survivable, and cost-effective
capabilities, into its military forces.’’.
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1) the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act of
2018 (Public Law 115–409; 132 Stat. 5387) has
recommitted the United States to support
the close, economic, political, and security
relationship between the United States and
Taiwan; and
(2) the United States should fully imple-
ment the provisions of that Act with regard
to regular defensive arms sales to Taiwan.
(c) BRIEFING.—Not later than 30 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of State and the Secretary of De-
fense, or their designees, shall brief the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations of the Senate
and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the
House of Representatives on the efforts to
implement section 209(b) of the Asia Reas-
surance Initiative Act of 2018 (22 U.S.C. 3301
note).
Subtitle F—Reports
SEC. 1271. REVIEW OF AND REPORT ON OVERDUE
ACQUISITION AND CROSS-SERV-
ICING AGREEMENT TRANSACTIONS.
(a) REVIEW.—The Secretary of Defense, act-
ing through the official designated to pro-
vide oversight of acquisition and cross-serv-
icing agreements under section 2342(f) of
title 10, United States Code, shall conduct a
review of acquisition and cross-servicing
transactions for which reimbursement to the
United States is overdue under section 2345
of that title.
(b) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than March 1,
2021, the designated official described in sub-
section (a) shall submit to the congressional
defense committees a report on the results of
the review.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The report required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) For each acquisition and cross-serv-
icing transaction valued at $1,000,000 or more
for which reimbursement to the United
States was overdue as of October 1, 2019—
(i) the total amount of the transaction;
(ii) the unreimbursed balance of the trans-
action;
(iii) the date on which the original trans-
action was made;
(iv) the date on which the most recent re-
quest for payment was sent to the relevant
foreign partner; and
(v) a plan for securing reimbursement from
the foreign partner.
(B) A description of the steps taken to im-
plement the recommendations made in the
report of the Government Accountability Of-
fice entitled ‘‘Defense Logistics Agreements:
DOD Should Improve Oversight and Seek
Payment from Foreign Partners for Thou-
sands of Orders It Identifies as Overdue’’
issued in March 2020, including efforts to
validate data reported under this subsection
and in the system of record for acquisition
and cross-servicing agreements of the De-
partment of Defense.
(C) The amount of reimbursement received
from foreign partners for each order—
(i) for which the reimbursement is recorded
as overdue in the system of record for acqui-
sition and cross-servicing agreements of the
Department of Defense; and
(ii) that was authorized during the period
beginning in October 2013 and ending in Sep-
tember 2020.
(D) A plan for improving recordkeeping of
acquisition and cross-servicing transactions
and ensuring timely reimbursement by for-
eign partners.
(E) Any other matter considered relevant
by the designated official described in sub-
section (a).
SEC. 1272. REPORT ON BURDEN SHARING CON-
TRIBUTIONS BY DESIGNATED COUN-
TRIES.
Section 2350j of title 10, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end the
following new subsection:
‘‘(f) REPORT ON CONTRIBUTIONS RECEIVED
FROM DESIGNATED COUNTRIES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than January
15 each year, the Secretary of Defense shall
submit to the appropriate committees of
Congress a report on the burden sharing con-
tributions received under this section from
designated countries.
‘‘(2) ELEMENTS.—Each report required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following for
the preceding fiscal year:
‘‘(A) A list of all designated countries from
which burden sharing contributions were re-
ceived.
‘‘(B) An explanation of the purpose for
which each such burden sharing contribution
was provided.
‘‘(C) In the case of a written agreement en-
tered into with a designated country under
this section—
‘‘(i) the date on which the agreement was
signed; and
‘‘(ii) the names of the individuals who
signed the agreement.
‘‘(D) For each designated country—
‘‘(i) the amount provided by the designated
country; and
‘‘(ii) the amount of any remaining unobli-
gated balance.
‘‘(E) The amount of such burden sharing
contributions expended, by eligible category,
including compensation for local national
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00144 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6831
November 16, 2020
employees, military construction projects,
and supplies and services of the Department
of Defense.
‘‘(F) An explanation of any other burden
sharing or in-kind contribution provided by
a designated country under an agreement or
authority other than the authority provided
by this section.
‘‘(G) Any other matter the Secretary of
Defenses considers relevant.
‘‘(3) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS
DEFINED.—In this subsection, the term ‘ap-
propriate committees of Congress’ means—
‘‘(A) the Committee on Armed Services,
the Committee on Foreign Relations, and
the Committee on Appropriations of the Sen-
ate; and
‘‘(B) the Committee on Armed Services,
the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the
Committee on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives.’’.
SEC. 1273. REPORT ON RISK TO PERSONNEL,
EQUIPMENT, AND OPERATIONS DUE
TO HUAWEI 5G ARCHITECTURE IN
HOST COUNTRIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the
congressional defense committees a report
that contains an assessment of—
(1) the risk to personnel, equipment, and
operations of the Department of Defense in
host countries posed by the current or in-
tended use by such countries of 5G tele-
communications architecture provided by
Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.; and
(2) measures required to mitigate the risk
described in paragraph (1), including the
merit and feasibility of the relocation of cer-
tain personnel or equipment of the Depart-
ment to another location without the pres-
ence of 5G telecommunications architecture
provided by Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.
(b) FORM.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall be submitted in classified
form with an unclassified summary.
SEC. 1274. ALLIED BURDEN SHARING REPORT.
(a) FINDING; SENSE OF CONGRESS.—
(1) FINDING.—Congress finds that section
1003 of the Department of Defense Authoriza-
tion Act, 1985 (Public Law 98–525; 63 Stat.
2241)—
(A) expresses the sense of Congress that,
due to threats that are ever-changing, Con-
gress must be informed with respect to allied
contributions to the common defense to
properly assess the readiness of the United
States and the countries described in sub-
section (b)(2) for threats; and
(B) requires the Secretary of Defense to
submit to Congress an annual report on the
contributions of allies to the common de-
fense.
(2) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that—
(A) the threats facing the United States—
(i) extend beyond the global war on terror;
and
(ii) include near-peer threats; and
(B) the President should seek from each
country described in subsection (b)(2) accept-
ance of international security responsibil-
ities and agreements to make contributions
to the common defense in accordance with
the collective defense agreements or treaties
to which such country is a party.
(b) REPORTS ON ALLIED CONTRIBUTIONS TO
THE COMMON DEFENSE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than March 1
each year, the Secretary of Defense, in co-
ordination with the heads of other Federal
agencies, as the Secretary determines to be
necessary, shall submit to the appropriate
committees of Congress a report containing
a description of—
(A) the annual defense spending by each
country described in paragraph (2), including
available data on nominal budget figures and
defense spending as a percentage of the gross
domestic products of each such country for
the fiscal year immediately preceding the
fiscal year in which the report is submitted;
(B) the activities of each such country to
contribute to military or stability oper-
ations in which the Armed Forces of the
United States are a participant or may be
called upon in accordance with a cooperative
defense agreement to which the United
States is a party;
(C) any limitations placed by any such
country on the use of such contributions;
and
(D) any actions undertaken by the United
States or by other countries to minimize
such limitations.
(2) COUNTRIES DESCRIBED.—The countries
described in this paragraph are the fol-
lowing:
(A) Each member state of the North Atlan-
tic Treaty Organization.
(B) Each member state of the Gulf Co-
operation Council.
(C) Each country party to the Inter-Amer-
ican Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance (Rio
Treaty), done at Rio de Janeiro September 2,
1947, and entered into force December 3, 1948
(TIAS 1838).
(D) Australia.
(E) Japan.
(F) New Zealand.
(G) The Philippines.
(H) South Korea.
(I) Thailand.
(3) FORM.—Each report under paragraph (1)
shall be submitted in unclassified form, but
may contain a classified annex.
(4) AVAILABILITY.—A report submitted
under paragraph (1) shall be made available
on request to any Member of Congress.
(c) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS
DEFINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘appro-
priate committees of Congress’’ means—
(1) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Foreign Relations, and the
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;
and
(2) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Com-
mittee on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives.
Subtitle G—Other Matters
SEC. 1281. RECIPROCAL PATIENT MOVEMENT
AGREEMENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter II of chapter
138 of title 10, United States Code, as amend-
ed by section 1241(a), is further amended by
adding at the end the following new section:
‘‘§ 2350p. Reciprocal patient movement agree-
ments
‘‘(a) AUTHORITY.—Subject to the avail-
ability of appropriations, the Secretary of
Defense, with the concurrence of the Sec-
retary of State, may enter into a bilateral or
multilateral memorandum of understanding
or other formal agreement with one or more
governments of partner countries that pro-
vides for—
‘‘(1) the interchangeable, nonreimbursable
use of patient movement personnel, either
individually or as members of a patient
movement crew or team, and equipment, be-
longing to one partner country to perform
patient movement services aboard the air-
craft, vessels, or vehicles of another partner
country;
‘‘(2) the reciprocal recognition and accept-
ance of —
‘‘(A) national professional credentials, cer-
tifications, and licenses of patient movement
personnel; and
‘‘(B) national certifications, approvals, and
licenses of equipment used in the provision
of patient movement services; and
‘‘(3) the acceptance of agreed-upon stand-
ards for the provision of patient movement
services by aircraft, vessel, or vehicle, in-
cluding, as determined to be beneficial and
otherwise permitted by law, the harmoni-
zation of patient treatment standards and
procedures.
‘‘(b) CERTIFICATION.—(1) Before entering
into a memorandum of understanding or
other formal agreement with the govern-
ment of a partner country under this sec-
tion, the Secretary of Defense shall certify
in writing that the professional credentials,
certifications, licenses, and approvals for pa-
tient movement personnel and patient move-
ment equipment of the partner country—
‘‘(A) meet or exceed the equivalent stand-
ards of the United States for similar per-
sonnel and equipment; and
‘‘(B) will provide for a level of care com-
parable to, or better than, the level of care
provided by the Department of Defense.
‘‘(2) A certification under paragraph (1)
shall be—
‘‘(A) submitted to the appropriate commit-
tees of Congress not later than 15 days after
the date on which the Secretary of Defense
makes the certification; and
‘‘(B) reviewed and recertified by the Sec-
retary of Defense not less frequently than
annually.
‘‘(c) SUSPENSION.—If the Secretary of De-
fense is unable to recertify a partner country
as required by subsection (b)(2)(B), use of the
personnel or equipment of the partner coun-
try by the Department of Defense under a
memorandum of understanding or other for-
mal agreement concluded pursuant to sub-
section (a) shall be suspended until the date
on which the Secretary of Defense is able to
recertify the partner country.
‘‘(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CON-
GRESS.—The term ‘appropriate committees
of Congress’ means—
‘‘(A) the congressional defense committees;
and
‘‘(B) the Committee on Foreign Relations
of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign
Affairs of the House of Representatives.
‘‘(2) PARTNER COUNTRY.—The term ‘partner
country’ means any of the following:
‘‘(A) A member country of the North At-
lantic Treaty Organization.
‘‘(B) Australia.
‘‘(C) Japan.
‘‘(D) New Zealand.
‘‘(E) The Republic of Korea.
‘‘(F) Any other country designated as a
partner country by the Secretary of Defense,
with the concurrence of the Secretary of
State, for purposes of this section.
‘‘(3) PATIENT MOVEMENT.—The term ‘pa-
tient movement’ means the act or process of
moving wounded, ill, injured, or other per-
sons (including contaminated, contagious,
and potentially exposed patients) to obtain
medical, surgical, mental health, or dental
care or treatment.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of such subchapter,
as amended by section 1241(b), is further
amended by adding at the end the following
new item:
‘‘2350p. Reciprocal patient movement agree-
ments.’’.
SEC. 1282. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION OF
NON-CONVENTIONAL ASSISTED RE-
COVERY CAPABILITIES.
Subsection (g) of section 943 of the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2009 (Public Law 110–417; 122 Stat. 4578),
as most recently amended by section 1282(a)
of the National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114–328; 130
Stat. 2542) and as redesignated by section
1051(n)(1) of the National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law
115–91; 131 Stat. 1564), is further amended by
striking ‘‘2021’’ and inserting ‘‘2024’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00145 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6832 November 16, 2020
SEC. 1283. EXTENSION OF DEPARTMENT OF DE-
FENSE SUPPORT FOR STABILIZA-
TION ACTIVITIES IN NATIONAL SE-
CURITY INTEREST OF THE UNITED
STATES.
Section 1210A(h) of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Pub-
lic Law 116–92) is amended by striking ‘‘De-
cember 31, 2020’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31,
2021’’.
SEC. 1284. NOTIFICATION WITH RESPECT TO
WITHDRAWAL OF MEMBERS OF THE
ARMED FORCES PARTICIPATING IN
THE MULTINATIONAL FORCE AND
OBSERVERS IN EGYPT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days be-
fore a reduction in the total number of mem-
bers of the Armed Forces deployed to the
Multinational Force and Observers in Egypt
to fewer than 430 such members of the Armed
Forces, the Secretary of Defense shall sub-
mit to the appropriate committees of Con-
gress a notification that includes the fol-
lowing:
(1) A detailed accounting of the number of
members of the Armed Forces to be with-
drawn from the Multinational Force and Ob-
servers in Egypt and the capabilities that
such members of the Armed Forces provide
in support of the mission.
(2) An explanation of national security in-
terests of the United States served by such a
reduction and an assessment of the effect, if
any, such a reduction is expected to have on
the security of United States partners in the
region.
(3) A description of consultations by the
Secretary with the other countries that con-
tribute military forces to the Multinational
Force and Observers, including Australia,
Canada, Colombia, the Czech Republic, Fiji,
France, Italy, Japan, New Zealand, Norway,
the United Kingdom, and Uruguay, with re-
spect to the planned force reduction and the
results of such consultations.
(4) An assessment of whether other coun-
tries, including the countries that contribute
military forces to the Multinational Force
and Observers, will increase their contribu-
tions of military forces to compensate for
the capabilities withdrawn by the United
States.
(5) An explanation of—
(A) any anticipated negative impact of
such a reduction on the ability of the Multi-
national Force and Observers in Egypt to
fulfill its mission of supervising the imple-
mentation of the security provisions of the
1979 Treaty of Peace between Egypt and
Israel and employing best efforts to prevent
any violation of the terms of such treaty;
and
(B) the manner in which any such negative
impact will be mitigated.
(6) Any other matter the Secretary con-
siders appropriate.
(b) FORM.—The notification required by
subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassi-
fied form, but may include a classified
annex.
(c) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS
DEFINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘appro-
priate committees of Congress’’ means—
(1) the congressional defense committees;
and
(2) the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate and the Committee on Foreign
Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1285. MODIFICATION TO INITIATIVE TO SUP-
PORT PROTECTION OF NATIONAL
SECURITY ACADEMIC RESEARCHERS
FROM UNDUE INFLUENCE AND
OTHER SECURITY THREATS.
Section 1286 of the John S. McCain Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2019 (10 U.S.C. 2358 note) is amended—
(1) in subsection (c)(2)—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘;
and’’ and inserting a semicolon;
(B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(C) includes requirements for appropriate
senior officials of institutions of higher edu-
cation to receive from appropriate Govern-
ment agencies updated and periodic briefings
that describe the espionage risks posed by
technical intelligence gathering activities of
near-peer strategic competitors.’’; and
(2) in subsection (e)(2)(D), by striking ‘‘im-
prove’’ and inserting ‘‘improved’’.
SEC. 1286. ESTABLISHMENT OF UNITED STATES-
ISRAEL OPERATIONS-TECHNOLOGY
WORKING GROUP.
(a) SENSE OF SENATE.—It is the sense of the
Senate that—
(1) the United States Government has a re-
sponsibility to undertake all reasonable
measures to ensure that members of the
Armed Forces never confront a more techno-
logically advanced foe;
(2) the United States and Israel have sev-
eral cooperative technology programs to de-
velop and field capabilities in missile de-
fense, countertunneling, and counter-
unmanned aerial systems; and
(3) building on positive ongoing efforts, the
United States and Israel should further insti-
tutionalize and strengthen their defense in-
novation partnership by establishing a
United States-Israel Operations-Technology
Working Group to identify and expeditiously
field capabilities that the military forces of
both countries need to deter and defeat re-
spective adversaries.
(b) UNITED STATES-ISRAEL OPERATIONS-
TECHNOLOGY WORKING GROUP.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense, in consultation
with the Minister of Defense of Israel, shall
establish a United States-Israel Operations-
Technology Working Group (in this sub-
section referred to as the ‘‘Working Group’’)
for the following purposes:
(A) To provide a standing forum for the
United States and Israel to systematically
share intelligence-informed military capa-
bility requirements.
(B) To identify military capability require-
ments common to both the Department of
Defense and the Ministry of Defense of
Israel.
(C) To assist defense suppliers in the
United States and Israel, by incorporating
recommendations from such defense sup-
pliers, with respect to conducting joint
science, technology, research, development,
test, evaluation, and production efforts.
(D) To develop, as feasible and advisable,
combined United States-Israel plans to re-
search, develop, procure, and field weapons
systems and military capabilities as quickly
and economically as possible to meet com-
mon capability requirements of the Depart-
ment of Defense and the Ministry of Defense
of Israel.
(2) WORKING GROUP LEADERSHIP.—
(A) UNITED STATES LEADERSHIP.—With re-
spect to the United States, the Working
Group shall be headed by—
(i) the Secretary, or a designee; and
(ii) the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, or a designee.
(B) ISRAEL LEADERSHIP.—The Secretary
shall invite the Government of Israel to des-
ignate the head of the appropriate office or
offices to head the Working Group with re-
spect to Israel.
(3) WORKING GROUP MEMBERSHIP.—
(A) UNITED STATES MEMBERSHIP.—The Sec-
retary, in consultation with other Cabinet
members, shall designate one or more indi-
viduals to serve as members of the Working
Group.
(i) MANDATORY UNITED STATES MEMBERS.—
The membership of the Working Group shall
consist of, at a minimum, representatives
from—
(I) the Office of the Secretary of Defense;
(II) the Joint Staff;
(III) each of the military departments (in-
cluding, as appropriate, subordinate entities
such as Army Futures Command and re-
search laboratories);
(IV) the defense agencies (including the
Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency,
the Defense Intelligence Agency, and the De-
fense Security Cooperation Agency);
(V) United States Central Command; and
(VI) United States European Command.
(ii) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this subparagraph shall be construed as lim-
iting the ability of the Secretary to add
members to the Working Group, as consid-
ered appropriate.
(B) ISRAEL MEMBERSHIP.—The Secretary
shall invite such representatives of the Gov-
ernment of Israel to designate individuals
from the Government of Israel to serve as
members of the Working Group, as the Sec-
retary considers appropriate.
(4) EXISTING EFFORTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall de-
termine the most efficient and effective
means to integrate the Working Group into
existing United States science and tech-
nology efforts and research, development,
test, and evaluation efforts with Israel.
(B) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this subsection shall be construed as requir-
ing the termination of any existing United
States defense activity, group, program, or
partnership with Israel.
(5) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall, with
the concurrence of the Minister of Defense of
Israel, establish a memorandum of under-
standing between the United States and
Israel establishing the United States-Israel
Operations Technology Working Group.
(B) MATTERS TO BE INCLUDED.—The memo-
randum of understanding under subpara-
graph (A) shall set forth—
(i) the purposes of the Working Group, con-
sistent with paragraph (1);
(ii) the membership of the Working Group,
consistent with paragraph (3); and
(iii) any other matter considered appro-
priate.
(6) REPORTS.—
(A) INITIAL REPORT.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the establishment of the Working
Group, the Secretary shall submit to the ap-
propriate committees of Congress an initial
report on the Working Group.
(ii) ELEMENTS.—The report required by
clause (i) shall include the following:
(I) The finalized memorandum of under-
standing under paragraph (5).
(II) The name of each individual of the
Government of the United States and of the
Government of Israel designated to lead the
Working Group.
(III) The name of each member of the
Working Group designated under subpara-
graph (A) or (B) of paragraph (3).
(IV) A description of the manner in which
the Working Group is anticipated to com-
plement and augment existing science and
technology efforts and research, develop-
ment, test, and evaluation efforts with
Israel.
(V) A schedule for Working Group meet-
ings.
(VI) A description of key metrics and mile-
stones for the Working Group.
(VII) A description of any authority or au-
thorization of appropriations required for
the Working Group to carry out the purposes
described in paragraph (1).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00146 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6833
November 16, 2020
(iii) FORM.—The report required by clause
(i) shall be submitted in unclassified form,
but may include a classified annex.
(B) ANNUAL REPORT.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Not later than March 15 of
each year following the submittal of the ini-
tial report required by subparagraph (A), the
Secretary shall submit to the appropriate
committees of Congress a report on the ac-
tivities of the Working Group during the pre-
ceding calendar year.
(ii) ELEMENTS.—The report required by
clause (i) shall include the following:
(I) A summary of the performance of the
Working Group—
(aa) with respect to the first annual report
under this subparagraph, the metrics and
milestones described in the initial report in
accordance with subparagraph (A)(ii)(VI); or
(bb) with respect to each subsequent an-
nual report under this subparagraph, the
metrics and milestones described in the pre-
ceding annual report under subclause (VIII).
(II) A description of military capabilities
needed by both the United States and Israel.
(III) A description of any United States, or
any United States-Israel, science and tech-
nology efforts, or research, development,
test, and evaluation efforts, associated with
the military capabilities described under
subclause (II) carried out during the report-
ing period.
(IV) A description of any obstacle or chal-
lenge associated with an effort described in
subclause (III) and the plan of the Working
Group to address such obstacle or challenge.
(V) A description of any request to the
Working Group made by a United States or
Israel defense supplier for combined science
and technology efforts or combined research,
development, test, and evaluation efforts, in-
cluding—
(aa) the date on which the request was re-
ceived;
(bb) the efforts made by the Working
Group to expeditiously address the request;
and
(cc) the status of any decision associated
with the request.
(VI) A description of the efforts of the
Working Group to prevent the People’s Re-
public of China or the Russian Federation
from obtaining intellectual property or mili-
tary technology associated with combined
United States and Israel science and tech-
nology efforts and research, development,
test, and evaluation efforts.
(VII) A description of any science and tech-
nology effort, or research, development, test,
or evaluation effort, facilitated by the Work-
ing Group, including efforts that result in a
United States or Israel program of record.
(VIII) A description of metrics and mile-
stones for the Working Group for the fol-
lowing calendar year.
(iii) FORM.—Each report required by clause
(i) shall be submitted in unclassified form
and shall include a classified annex in which
the elements required under subclauses (II)
and (VI) of clause (ii) shall be addressed.
(C) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS
DEFINED.—In this paragraph, the term ‘‘ap-
propriate committees of Congress’’ means—
(i) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Se-
lect Committee on Intelligence of the Sen-
ate; and
(ii) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Per-
manent Select Committee on Intelligence of
the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1287. IMPROVED COORDINATION OF UNITED
STATES SANCTIONS POLICY.
(a) OFFICE OF SANCTIONS COORDINATION OF
THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1 of the State De-
partment Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22
U.S.C. 2651a) is amended—
(A) by redesignating subsection (g) as sub-
section (h); and
(B) by inserting after subsection (f) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(g) OFFICE OF SANCTIONS COORDINATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—There is established,
within the Department of State, an Office of
Sanctions Coordination (in this subsection
referred to as the ‘Office’).
‘‘(2) HEAD.—The head of the Office shall—
‘‘(A) have the rank and status of ambas-
sador;
‘‘(B) be appointed by the President, by and
with the advice and consent of the Senate;
and
‘‘(C) report directly to the Secretary.
‘‘(3) DUTIES.—The head of the Office shall—
‘‘(A) exercise sanctions authorities dele-
gated to the Secretary;
‘‘(B) serve as the principal advisor to the
senior management of the Department and
the Secretary regarding the development and
implementation of sanctions policy;
‘‘(C) serve as the lead representative of the
United States in diplomatic engagement on
sanctions matters;
‘‘(D) consult and closely coordinate with
allies and partners of the United States, in-
cluding the United Kingdom, the European
Union and member countries of the Euro-
pean Union, Canada, Australia, New Zealand,
Japan, and South Korea, to ensure the max-
imum effectiveness of sanctions imposed by
the United States and such allies and part-
ners;
‘‘(E) serve as the coordinator for the devel-
opment and implementation of sanctions
policy with respect to all activities, policies,
and programs of all bureaus and offices of
the Department relating to the development
and implementation of sanctions policy; and
‘‘(F) serve as the lead representative of the
Department in interagency discussions with
respect to the development and implementa-
tion of sanctions policy.
‘‘(4) DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY.—The head of
the Office may appoint, without regard to
the provisions of sections 3309 through 3318 of
title 5, United States Code, candidates di-
rectly to positions in the competitive serv-
ice, as defined in section 2102 of that title, in
the Office.’’.
(2) BRIEFING REQUIRED.—Not later than 60
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, and every 90 days thereafter until the
date that is 2 years after such date of enact-
ment, the Secretary of State shall brief the
appropriate congressional committees on the
efforts of the Department of State to estab-
lish the Office of Sanctions Coordination
pursuant to section 1(g) of the State Depart-
ment Basic Authorities Act of 1956, as
amended by paragraph (1), including a de-
scription of—
(A) measures taken to implement the re-
quirements of that section and to establish
the Office;
(B) actions taken by the Office to carry out
the duties listed in paragraph (3) of that sec-
tion;
(C) the resources devoted to the Office, in-
cluding the number of employees working in
the Office; and
(D) plans for the use of the direct hire au-
thority provided under paragraph (4) of that
section.
(b) COORDINATION WITH ALLIES AND PART-
NERS OF THE UNITED STATES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of State
shall develop and implement mechanisms
and programs, as appropriate, through the
head of the Office of Sanctions Coordination
established pursuant to section 1(g) of the
State Department Basic Authorities Act of
1956, as amended by subsection (a)(1), to co-
ordinate the development and implementa-
tion of United States sanctions policies with
allies and partners of the United States, in-
cluding the United Kingdom, the European
Union and member countries of the Euro-
pean Union, Canada, Australia, New Zealand,
Japan, and South Korea.
(2) INFORMATION SHARING.—The Secretary
should pursue the development and imple-
mentation of mechanisms and programs
under paragraph (1), as appropriate, that in-
volve the sharing of information with re-
spect to policy development and sanctions
implementation.
(3) CAPACITY BUILDING.—The Secretary
should pursue efforts, in coordination with
the Secretary of the Treasury and the head
of any other agency the Secretary considers
appropriate, to assist allies and partners of
the United States, including the countries
specified in paragraph (1), as appropriate, in
the development of their legal and technical
capacities to develop and implement sanc-
tions authorities.
(4) EXCHANGE PROGRAMS.—In furtherance of
the efforts described in paragraph (3), the
Secretary, in coordination with the Sec-
retary of the Treasury and the head of any
other agency the Secretary considers appro-
priate, may enter into agreements with
counterpart agencies in foreign governments
establishing exchange programs for the tem-
porary detail of government employees to
share information and expertise with respect
to the development and implementation of
sanctions authorities.
(5) BRIEFING REQUIRED.—Not later than 90
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, and every 180 days thereafter until the
date that is 5 years after such date of enact-
ment, the Secretary of State shall brief the
appropriate congressional committees on the
efforts of the Department of State to imple-
ment this section, including a description
of—
(A) measures taken to implement para-
graph (1);
(B) actions taken pursuant to paragraphs
(2) through (4);
(C) the extent of coordination between the
United States and allies and partners of the
United States, including the countries speci-
fied in paragraph (1), with respect to the de-
velopment and implementation of sanctions
policy; and
(D) obstacles preventing closer coordina-
tion between the United States and such al-
lies and partners with respect to the develop-
ment and implementation of sanctions pol-
icy.
(c) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
the Congress that the President should ap-
point a coordinator for sanctions and na-
tional economic security issues within the
framework of the National Security Council.
(d) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means—
(1) the Committee on Foreign Relations,
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs, and the Committee on Fi-
nance of the Senate; and
(2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the
Committee on Financial Services, and the
Committee on Way and Means of the House
of Representatives.
Subtitle H—Robert Levinson Hostage Recov-
ery and Hostage-Taking Accountability Act
SEC. 1291. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Robert
Levinson Hostage Recovery and Hostage-
Taking Accountability Act’’.
SEC. 1292. ASSISTANCE FOR UNITED STATES NA-
TIONALS UNLAWFULLY OR WRONG-
FULLY DETAINED ABROAD.
(a) REVIEW.—The Secretary of State shall
review the cases of United States nationals
detained abroad to determine if there is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00147 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6834 November 16, 2020
credible information that they are being de-
tained unlawfully or wrongfully, based on
criteria which may include whether—
(1) United States officials receive or pos-
sess credible information indicating inno-
cence of the detained individual;
(2) the individual is being detained solely
or substantially because he or she is a
United States national;
(3) the individual is being detained solely
or substantially to influence United States
Government policy or to secure economic or
political concessions from the United States
Government;
(4) the detention appears to be because the
individual sought to obtain, exercise, defend,
or promote freedom of the press, freedom of
religion, or the right to peacefully assemble;
(5) the individual is being detained in vio-
lation of the laws of the detaining country;
(6) independent nongovernmental organiza-
tions or journalists have raised legitimate
questions about the innocence of the de-
tained individual;
(7) the United States mission in the coun-
try where the individual is being detained
has received credible reports that the deten-
tion is a pretext for an illegitimate purpose;
(8) the individual is detained in a country
where the Department of State has deter-
mined in its annual human rights reports
that the judicial system is not independent
or impartial, is susceptible to corruption, or
is incapable of rendering just verdicts;
(9) the individual is being detained in inhu-
mane conditions;
(10) due process of law has been sufficiently
impaired so as to render the detention arbi-
trary; and
(11) United States diplomatic engagement
is likely necessary to secure the release of
the detained individual.
(b) REFERRALS TO THE SPECIAL ENVOY.—
Upon a determination by the Secretary of
State, based on the totality of the cir-
cumstances, that there is credible informa-
tion that the detention of a United States
national abroad is unlawful or wrongful, and
regardless of whether the detention is by a
foreign government or a nongovernmental
actor, the Secretary shall transfer responsi-
bility for such case from the Bureau of Con-
sular Affairs of the Department of State to
the Special Envoy for Hostage Affairs cre-
ated pursuant to section 1293.
(c) REPORT.—
(1) ANNUAL REPORT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of State
shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees an annual report with re-
spect to United States nationals for whom
the Secretary determines there is credible
information of unlawful or wrongful deten-
tion abroad.
(B) FORM.—The report required under this
paragraph shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may include a classified annex if
necessary.
(2) COMPOSITION.—The report required
under paragraph (1) shall include current es-
timates of the number of individuals so de-
tained, as well as relevant information about
particular cases, such as—
(A) the name of the individual, unless the
provision of such information is inconsistent
with section 552a of title 5, United States
Code (commonly known as the ‘‘Privacy Act
of 1974’’);
(B) basic facts about the case;
(C) a summary of the information that
such individual may be detained unlawfully
or wrongfully;
(D) a description of specific efforts, legal
and diplomatic, taken on behalf of the indi-
vidual since the last reporting period, includ-
ing a description of accomplishments and
setbacks; and
(E) a description of intended next steps.
(d) RESOURCE GUIDANCE.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act and after consulting with relevant orga-
nizations that advocate on behalf of United
States nationals detained abroad and the
Family Engagement Coordinator established
pursuant to section 1294(c)(2), the Secretary
of State shall provide resource guidance in
writing for government officials and families
of unjustly or wrongfully detained individ-
uals.
(2) CONTENT.—The resource guidance re-
quired under paragraph (1) should include—
(A) information to help families under-
stand United States policy concerning the
release of United States nationals unlawfully
or wrongfully held abroad;
(B) contact information for officials in the
Department of State or other government
agencies suited to answer family questions;
(C) relevant information about options
available to help families obtain the release
of unjustly or wrongfully detained individ-
uals, such as guidance on how families may
engage with United States diplomatic and
consular channels to ensure prompt and reg-
ular access for the detained individual to
legal counsel, family members, humane
treatment, and other services;
(D) guidance on submitting public or pri-
vate letters from members of Congress or
other individuals who may be influential in
securing the release of an individual; and
(E) appropriate points of contacts, such as
legal resources and counseling services, who
have a record of assisting victims’ families.
SEC. 1293. SPECIAL ENVOY FOR HOSTAGE AF-
FAIRS.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There shall be a Spe-
cial Presidential Envoy for Hostage Affairs,
appointed by the President, who shall report
to the Secretary of State.
(b) RANK.—The Special Envoy shall have
the rank and status of ambassador.
(c) RESPONSIBILITIES.—The Special Presi-
dential Envoy for Hostage Affairs shall—
(1) lead diplomatic engagement on United
States hostage policy;
(2) coordinate all diplomatic engagements
and strategy in support of hostage recovery
efforts, in coordination with the Hostage Re-
covery Fusion Cell and consistent with pol-
icy guidance communicated through the
Hostage Response Group;
(3) in coordination with the Hostage Re-
covery Fusion Cell as appropriate, coordi-
nate diplomatic engagements regarding
cases in which a foreign government has de-
tained a United States national and the
United States Government regards such de-
tention as unlawful or wrongful;
(4) provide senior representation from the
Special Envoy’s office to the Hostage Recov-
ery Fusion Cell established under section
1294 and the Hostage Response Group estab-
lished under section 1295; and
(5) ensure that families of United States
nationals unlawfully or wrongly detained
abroad receive updated information about
developments in cases and government pol-
icy.
SEC. 1294. HOSTAGE RECOVERY FUSION CELL.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—The President shall
establish an interagency Hostage Recovery
Fusion Cell.
(b) PARTICIPATION.—The President shall di-
rect the heads of each of the following execu-
tive departments, agencies, and offices to
make available personnel to participate in
the Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell:
(1) The Department of State.
(2) The Department of the Treasury.
(3) The Department of Defense.
(4) The Department of Justice.
(5) The Office of the Director of National
Intelligence.
(6) The Federal Bureau of Investigation.
(7) The Central Intelligence Agency.
(8) Other agencies as the President, from
time to time, may designate.
(c) PERSONNEL.—The Hostage Recovery Fu-
sion Cell shall include—
(1) a Director, who shall be a full-time sen-
ior officer or employee of the United States
Government;
(2) a Family Engagement Coordinator who
shall—
(A) work to ensure that all interactions by
executive branch officials with a hostage’s
family occur in a coordinated fashion and
that the family receives consistent and accu-
rate information from the United States
Government; and
(B) if directed, perform the same function
as set out in subparagraph (A) with regard to
the family of a United States national who is
unlawfully or wrongfully detained abroad;
and
(3) other officers and employees as deemed
appropriate by the President.
(d) DUTIES.—The Hostage Recovery Fusion
Cell shall—
(1) coordinate efforts by participating
agencies to ensure that all relevant informa-
tion, expertise, and resources are brought to
bear to secure the safe recovery of United
States nationals held hostage abroad;
(2) if directed, coordinate the United
States Government’s response to other hos-
tage-takings occurring abroad in which the
United States has a national interest;
(3) if directed, coordinate or assist the
United States Government’s response to help
secure the release of United States nationals
unlawfully or wrongfully detained abroad;
and
(4) pursuant to policy guidance coordinated
through the National Security Council—
(A) identify and recommend hostage recov-
ery options and strategies to the President
through the National Security Council or
the Deputies Committee of the National Se-
curity Council;
(B) coordinate efforts by participating
agencies to ensure that information regard-
ing hostage events, including potential re-
covery options and engagements with fami-
lies and external actors (including foreign
governments), is appropriately shared within
the United States Government to facilitate a
coordinated response to a hostage-taking;
(C) assess and track all hostage-takings of
United States nationals abroad and provide
regular reports to the President and Con-
gress on the status of such cases and any
measures being taken toward the hostages’
safe recovery;
(D) provide a forum for intelligence shar-
ing and, with the support of the Director of
National Intelligence, coordinate the declas-
sification of relevant information;
(E) coordinate efforts by participating
agencies to provide appropriate support and
assistance to hostages and their families in a
coordinated and consistent manner and to
provide families with timely information re-
garding significant events in their cases;
(F) make recommendations to agencies in
order to reduce the likelihood of United
States nationals’ being taken hostage abroad
and enhance United States Government
preparation to maximize the probability of a
favorable outcome following a hostage-tak-
ing; and
(G) coordinate with agencies regarding
congressional, media, and other public in-
quiries pertaining to hostage events.
(e) ADMINISTRATION.—The Hostage Recov-
ery Fusion Cell shall be located within the
Federal Bureau of Investigation for adminis-
trative purposes.
SEC. 1295. HOSTAGE RESPONSE GROUP.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—The President shall
establish a Hostage Response Group, chaired
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00148 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6835
November 16, 2020
by a designated member of the National Se-
curity Council or the Deputies Committee of
the National Security Council, to be con-
vened on a regular basis, to further the safe
recovery of United States nationals held hos-
tage abroad or unlawfully or wrongfully de-
tained abroad, and to be tasked with coordi-
nating the United States Government re-
sponse to other hostage-takings occurring
abroad in which the United States has a na-
tional interest.
(b) MEMBERSHIP.—The regular members of
the Hostage Response Group shall include
the Director of the Hostage Recovery Fusion
Cell, the Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell’s
Family Engagement Coordinator, the Spe-
cial Envoy appointed pursuant to section
1293, and representatives from the Depart-
ment of the Treasury, the Department of De-
fense, the Department of Justice, the Fed-
eral Bureau of Investigation, the Office of
the Director of National Intelligence, the
Central Intelligence Agency, and other agen-
cies as the President, from time to time,
may designate.
(c) DUTIES.—The Hostage Recovery Group
shall—
(1) identify and recommend hostage recov-
ery options and strategies to the President
through the National Security Council;
(2) coordinate the development and imple-
mentation of United States hostage recovery
policies, strategies, and procedures;
(3) receive regular updates from the Hos-
tage Recovery Fusion Cell and the Special
Envoy for Hostage Affairs on the status of
United States nationals being held hostage
or unlawfully or wrongfully detained abroad
and measures being taken to effect safe re-
coveries;
(4) coordinate the provision of policy guid-
ance to the Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell,
including reviewing recovery options pro-
posed by the Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell
and working to resolve disputes within the
Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell;
(5) as appropriate, direct the use of re-
sources at the Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell
to coordinate or assist in the safe recovery of
United States nationals unlawfully or
wrongfully detained abroad; and
(6) as appropriate, direct the use of re-
sources at the Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell
to coordinate the United States Government
response to other hostage-takings occurring
abroad in which the United States has a na-
tional interest.
(d) MEETINGS.—The Hostage Response
Group shall meet regularly.
(e) REPORTING.—The Hostage Response
Group shall regularly provide recommenda-
tions on hostage recovery options and strate-
gies to the National Security Council.
SEC. 1296. AUTHORIZATION OF IMPOSITION OF
SANCTIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The President may im-
pose the sanctions described in subsection (b)
with respect to any foreign person the Presi-
dent determines, based on credible evi-
dence—
(1) is responsible for or is complicit in, or
responsible for ordering, controlling, or oth-
erwise directing, the hostage-taking of a
United States national abroad or the unlaw-
ful or wrongful detention of a United States
national abroad; or
(2) knowingly provides financial, material,
or technological support for, or goods or
services in support of, an activity described
in paragraph (1).
(b) SANCTIONS DESCRIBED.—The sanctions
described in this subsection are the fol-
lowing:
(1) INELIGIBILITY FOR VISAS, ADMISSION, OR
PAROLE.—
(A) VISAS, ADMISSION, OR PAROLE.—An alien
described in subsection (a) may be—
(i) inadmissible to the United States;
(ii) ineligible to receive a visa or other doc-
umentation to enter the United States; and
(iii) otherwise ineligible to be admitted or
paroled into the United States or to receive
any other benefit under the Immigration and
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).
(B) CURRENT VISAS REVOKED.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—An alien described in sub-
section (a) may be subject to revocation of
any visa or other entry documentation re-
gardless of when the visa or other entry doc-
umentation is or was issued.
(ii) IMMEDIATE EFFECT.—A revocation
under clause (i) may—
(I) take effect immediately; and
(II) cancel any other valid visa or entry
documentation that is in the alien’s posses-
sion.
(2) BLOCKING OF PROPERTY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The President may exer-
cise all of the powers granted to the Presi-
dent under the International Emergency
Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.),
to the extent necessary to block and prohibit
all transactions in property and interests in
property of a foreign person described in sub-
section (a) if such property and interests in
property are in the United States, come
within the United States, or are or come
within the possession or control of a United
States person.
(B) INAPPLICABILITY OF NATIONAL EMER-
GENCY REQUIREMENT.—The requirements of
section 202 of the International Emergency
Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701) shall
not apply for purposes of this section.
(c) EXCEPTIONS.—
(1) EXCEPTION FOR INTELLIGENCE ACTIVI-
TIES.—Sanctions under this section shall not
apply to any activity subject to the report-
ing requirements under title V of the Na-
tional Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3091 et
seq.) or any authorized intelligence activi-
ties of the United States.
(2) EXCEPTION TO COMPLY WITH INTER-
NATIONAL OBLIGATIONS AND FOR LAW ENFORCE-
MENT ACTIVITIES.—Sanctions under sub-
section (b)(1) shall not apply with respect to
an alien if admitting or paroling the alien
into the United States is necessary—
(A) to permit the United States to comply
with the Agreement regarding the Head-
quarters of the United Nations, signed at
Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered into
force November 21, 1947, between the United
Nations and the United States, or other ap-
plicable international obligations; or
(B) to carry out or assist law enforcement
activity in the United States.
(d) PENALTIES.—A person that violates, at-
tempts to violate, conspires to violate, or
causes a violation of subsection (b)(2) or any
regulation, license, or order issued to carry
out that subsection shall be subject to the
penalties set forth in subsections (b) and (c)
of section 206 of the International Emer-
gency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705)
to the same extent as a person that commits
an unlawful act described in subsection (a) of
that section.
(e) TERMINATION OF SANCTIONS.—The Presi-
dent may terminate the application of sanc-
tions under this section with respect to a
person if the President determines that—
(1) information exists that the person did
not engage in the activity for which sanc-
tions were imposed;
(2) the person has been prosecuted appro-
priately for the activity for which sanctions
were imposed;
(3) the person has credibly demonstrated a
significant change in behavior, has paid an
appropriate consequence for the activity for
which sanctions were imposed, and has
credibly committed to not engage in an ac-
tivity described in subsection (a) in the fu-
ture; or
(4) the termination of the sanctions is in
the national security interests of the United
States.
(f) REPORTING REQUIREMENT.—If the Presi-
dent terminates sanctions pursuant to sub-
section (d), the President shall report to the
appropriate congressional committees a
written justification for such termination
within 15 days.
(g) IMPLEMENTATION OF REGULATORY AU-
THORITY.—The President may exercise all au-
thorities provided under sections 203 and 205
of the International Emergency Economic
Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 and 1704) to carry
out this section.
(h) EXCEPTION RELATING TO IMPORTATION OF
GOODS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The authorities and re-
quirements to impose sanctions authorized
under this subtitle shall not include the au-
thority or a requirement to impose sanctions
on the importation of goods.
(2) GOOD DEFINED.—In this paragraph, the
term ‘‘good’’ means any article, natural or
manmade substance, material, supply or
manufactured product, including inspection
and test equipment, and excluding technical
data.
(i) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) FOREIGN PERSON.—The term ‘‘foreign
person’’ means—
(A) any citizen or national of a foreign
country (including any such individual who
is also a citizen or national of the United
States); or
(B) any entity not organized solely under
the laws of the United States or existing
solely in the United States.
(2) UNITED STATES PERSON.—The term
‘‘United States person’’ means—
(A) an individual who is a United States
citizen or an alien lawfully admitted for per-
manent residence to the United States;
(B) an entity organized under the laws of
the United States or any jurisdiction within
the United States, including a foreign branch
of such an entity; or
(C) any person in the United States.
SEC. 1297. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Foreign Relations,
the Committee on Appropriations, the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs, the Committee on the Judiciary, the
Committee on Armed Services, and the Se-
lect Committee on Intelligence of the United
States Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the
Committee on Appropriations, the Com-
mittee on Financial Services, the Committee
on the Judiciary, the Committee on Armed
Services, and the Permanent Select Com-
mittee on Intelligence of the House of Rep-
resentatives.
(2) UNITED STATES NATIONAL.—The term
‘‘United States national’’ means—
(A) a United States national as defined in
section 101(a)(22) or section 308 of the Immi-
gration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1101(a)(22), 8 U.S.C. 1408); and
(B) a lawful permanent resident alien with
significant ties to the United States.
SEC. 1298. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
Nothing in this subtitle shall be construed
to authorize a private right of action.
TITLE XIII—COOPERATIVE THREAT
REDUCTION
SEC. 1301. FUNDING ALLOCATIONS FOR DEPART-
MENT OF DEFENSE COOPERATIVE
THREAT REDUCTION PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Of the $288,490,000 author-
ized to be appropriated to the Department of
Defense for fiscal year 2021 in section 301 and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00149 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6836 November 16, 2020
made available by the funding table in divi-
sion D for the Department of Defense Coop-
erative Threat Reduction Program estab-
lished under section 1321 of the Department
of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Act
(50 U.S.C. 3711), the following amounts may
be obligated for the purposes specified:
(1) For strategic offensive arms elimi-
nation, $2,924,000.
(2) For chemical security and elimination,
$11,806,000.
(3) For global nuclear security, $20,152,000.
(4) For biological threat reduction,
$177,396,000.
(5) For proliferation prevention, $52,064,000.
(6) For activities designated as Other As-
sessments/Administrative Costs, $24,148,000.
(b) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.—Funds appro-
priated pursuant to the authorization of ap-
propriations in section 301 and made avail-
able by the funding table in division D for
the Department of Defense Cooperative
Threat Reduction Program shall be available
for obligation for fiscal years 2021, 2022, and
2023.
TITLE XIV—OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS
Subtitle A—Military Programs
SEC. 1401. WORKING CAPITAL FUNDS.
Funds are hereby authorized to be appro-
priated for fiscal year 2021 for the use of the
Armed Forces and other activities and agen-
cies of the Department of Defense for pro-
viding capital for working capital and re-
volving funds, as specified in the funding
table in section 4501.
SEC. 1402. CHEMICAL AGENTS AND MUNITIONS
DESTRUCTION, DEFENSE.
(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
Funds are hereby authorized to be appro-
priated for the Department of Defense for fis-
cal year 2021 for expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, for Chemical Agents and Muni-
tions Destruction, Defense, as specified in
the funding table in section 4501.
(b) USE.—Amounts authorized to be appro-
priated under subsection (a) are authorized
for—
(1) the destruction of lethal chemical
agents and munitions in accordance with
section 1412 of the Department of Defense
Authorization Act, 1986 (50 U.S.C. 1521); and
(2) the destruction of chemical warfare ma-
teriel of the United States that is not cov-
ered by section 1412 of such Act.
SEC. 1403. DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-
DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEFENSE-WIDE.
Funds are hereby authorized to be appro-
priated for the Department of Defense for fis-
cal year 2021 for expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, for Drug Interdiction and Counter-
Drug Activities, Defense-wide, as specified in
the funding table in section 4501.
SEC. 1404. DEFENSE INSPECTOR GENERAL.
Funds are hereby authorized to be appro-
priated for the Department of Defense for fis-
cal year 2021 for expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, for the Office of the Inspector Gen-
eral of the Department of Defense, as speci-
fied in the funding table in section 4501.
SEC. 1405. DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM.
Funds are hereby authorized to be appro-
priated for fiscal year 2021 for the Defense
Health Program, as specified in the funding
table in section 4501, for use of the Armed
Forces and other activities and agencies of
the Department of Defense in providing for
the health of eligible beneficiaries.
Subtitle B—Armed Forces Retirement Home
SEC. 1411. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
FOR ARMED FORCES RETIREMENT
HOME.
There is hereby authorized to be appro-
priated for fiscal year 2021 from the Armed
Forces Retirement Home Trust Fund the
sum of $64,300,000 for the operation of the
Armed Forces Retirement Home.
SEC. 1412. PERIODIC INSPECTIONS OF ARMED
FORCES RETIREMENT HOME FACILI-
TIES BY NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED
ACCREDITING ORGANIZATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1518 of the Armed
Forces Retirement Home Act of 1991 (24
U.S.C. 418) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 1518. PERIODIC INSPECTION OF RETIRE-
MENT HOME FACILITIES.
‘‘(a) INSPECTIONS.—The Chief Operating Of-
ficer shall request the inspection of each fa-
cility of the Retirement Home by a nation-
ally recognized civilian accrediting organiza-
tion in accordance with section 1511(g) on a
frequency consistent with the standards of
such organization.
‘‘(b) AVAILABILITY OF STAFF AND
RECORDS.—The Chief Operating Officer and
the Administrator of a facility being in-
spected under this section shall make all
staff, other personnel, and records of the fa-
cility available to the civilian accrediting
organization in a timely manner for purposes
of inspections under this section.
‘‘(c) REPORTS.—Not later than 60 days after
receiving a report on an inspection from the
civilian accrediting organization under this
section, the Chief Operating Officer shall
submit to the Secretary of Defense, the Sen-
ior Medical Advisor, and the Advisory Coun-
cil a report containing—
‘‘(1) the results of the inspection; and
‘‘(2) a plan to address any recommenda-
tions and other matters set forth in the re-
port.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—The Armed
Forces Retirement Home Act of 1991 (24
U.S.C. 401 et seq.) is further amended as fol-
lows:
(1) In section 1513A(c)(2) (24 U.S.C.
413a(c)(2)), by striking ‘‘(including require-
ments identified in applicable reports of the
Inspector General of the Department of De-
fense)’’.
(2) In section 1516(b)(3) (24 U.S.C.
416(b)(3))—
(A) by striking ‘‘shall—’’ and all that fol-
lows through ‘‘provide for’’ and inserting
‘‘shall provide for’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘; and’’ and inserting a pe-
riod; and
(C) by striking subparagraph (B).
(3) In section 1517(e)(2) (24 U.S.C. 417(e)(2)),
by striking ‘‘the Inspector General of the De-
partment of Defense,’’.
SEC. 1413. EXPANSION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR RESI-
DENCE AT THE ARMED FORCES RE-
TIREMENT HOME.
(a) EXPANSION OF ELIGIBILITY.—Section
1512(a) of the Armed Forces Retirement
Home Act of 1991 (24 U.S.C. 412(a)) is amend-
ed—
(1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘active’’ in the first sentence;
(2) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘are 60
years of age or over and’’; and
(3) by adding the following new paragraph:
‘‘(5) Persons who are eligible for retired
pay under chapter 1223 of title 10, United
States Code, and—
‘‘(A) are eligible for care under section 1710
of title 38, United States Code;
‘‘(B) are enrolled in coverage under chapter
55 of title 10, United States Code; or
‘‘(C) are enrolled in a qualified health plan
acceptable to the Chief Operating Officer.’’.
(b) PARITY OF FEES AND DEDUCTIONS.—Sec-
tion 1514(c) of such Act (24 U.S.C. 414(c)) is
amended—
(1) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting
the following new paragraph (2)
‘‘(2)(A) The fee shall be fixed as a percent-
age of the monthly income and monthly pay-
ments (including Federal payments) received
by a resident. The percentage shall be the
same for each facility of the Retirement
Home. The Secretary of Defense may make
any adjustment in a percentage that the Sec-
retary determines appropriate.
‘‘(B) The calculation of monthly income
and monthly payments under subparagraph
(A) for a resident eligible under section
1512(a)(5) shall not be less than the retire-
ment pay for equivalent active duty service
as determined by the Chief Operating Offi-
cer, except as the Chief Operating Officer
may provide because of compelling personal
circumstances.’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(4) The Administrator of each facility of
the Retirement Home may collect a fee upon
admission from a resident accepted under
section 1512(a)(5) equal to the deductions
then in effect under section 1007(i)(1) of title
37, United States Code, for each year of non-
regular service, and shall deposit such fee in
the Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust
Fund.’’.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
1007(i)(3) of title 37, United States Code, is
amended by striking ‘‘Armed Forces Retire-
ment Home Board’’ and inserting ‘‘Chief Op-
erating Officer of the Armed Forces Retire-
ment Home’’.
Subtitle C—Other Matters
SEC. 1421. AUTHORITY FOR TRANSFER OF FUNDS
TO JOINT DEPARTMENT OF DE-
FENSE-DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS
AFFAIRS MEDICAL FACILITY DEM-
ONSTRATION FUND FOR CAPTAIN
JAMES A. LOVELL HEALTH CARE
CENTER, ILLINOIS.
(a) AUTHORITY FOR TRANSFER OF FUNDS.—
Of the funds authorized to be appropriated
by section 1405 and available for the Defense
Health Program for operation and mainte-
nance, $130,400,000 may be transferred by the
Secretary of Defense to the Joint Depart-
ment of Defense–Department of Veterans Af-
fairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund
established by subsection (a)(1) of section
1704 of the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111–84;
123 Stat. 2571).
(b) TREATMENT OF TRANSFERRED FUNDS.—
For purposes of subsection (a)(2) of such sec-
tion 1704, any funds transferred under sub-
section (a) shall be treated as amounts au-
thorized and appropriated specifically for the
purpose of such a transfer.
(c) USE OF TRANSFERRED FUNDS.—For pur-
poses of subsection (b) of such section 1704,
facility operations for which funds trans-
ferred under subsection (a) may be used are
operations of the Captain James A. Lovell
Federal Health Care Center, consisting of the
North Chicago Veterans Affairs Medical Cen-
ter, the Navy Ambulatory Care Center, and
supporting facilities designated as a com-
bined Federal medical facility under an oper-
ational agreement covered by section 706 of
the Duncan Hunter National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public
Law 110–417; 122 Stat. 4500).
TITLE XV—AUTHORIZATION OF ADDI-
TIONAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR OVER-
SEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
Subtitle A—Authorization of Appropriations
SEC. 1501. PURPOSE.
The purpose of this subtitle is to authorize
appropriations for the Department of De-
fense for fiscal year 2021 to provide addi-
tional funds for overseas contingency oper-
ations being carried out by the Armed
Forces.
SEC. 1502. OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPER-
ATIONS.
Funds are hereby authorized to be appro-
priated for fiscal year 2021 for the Depart-
ment of Defense for overseas contingency op-
erations in such amounts as may be des-
ignated as provided in section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C.
901(b)(2)(A)(ii)).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00150 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6837
November 16, 2020
SEC. 1503. PROCUREMENT.
Funds are hereby authorized to be appro-
priated for fiscal year 2021 for procurement
accounts for the Army, the Navy and the Ma-
rine Corps, the Air Force, and Defense-wide
activities, as specified in the funding table in
section 4102.
SEC. 1504. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND
EVALUATION.
Funds are hereby authorized to be appro-
priated for fiscal year 2021 for the use of the
Department of Defense for research, develop-
ment, test, and evaluation, as specified in
the funding table in section 4202.
SEC. 1505. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
Funds are hereby authorized to be appro-
priated for fiscal year 2021 for the use of the
Armed Forces and other activities and agen-
cies of the Department of Defense for ex-
penses, not otherwise provided for, for oper-
ation and maintenance, as specified in the
funding table in section 4302.
SEC. 1506. MILITARY PERSONNEL.
Funds are hereby authorized to be appro-
priated for fiscal year 2021 for the use of the
Armed Forces and other activities and agen-
cies of the Department of Defense for ex-
penses, not otherwise provided for, for mili-
tary personnel, as specified in the funding
table in section 4402.
SEC. 1507. WORKING CAPITAL FUNDS.
Funds are hereby authorized to be appro-
priated for fiscal year 2021 for the use of the
Armed Forces and other activities and agen-
cies of the Department of Defense for pro-
viding capital for working capital and re-
volving funds, as specified in the funding
table in section 4502.
SEC. 1508. DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-
DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEFENSE-WIDE.
Funds are hereby authorized to be appro-
priated for the Department of Defense for fis-
cal year 2021 for expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, for Drug Interdiction and Counter-
Drug Activities, Defense-wide, as specified in
the funding table in section 4502.
SEC. 1509. DEFENSE INSPECTOR GENERAL.
Funds are hereby authorized to be appro-
priated for the Department of Defense for fis-
cal year 2021 for expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, for the Office of the Inspector Gen-
eral of the Department of Defense, as speci-
fied in the funding table in section 4502.
SEC. 1510. DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM.
Funds are hereby authorized to be appro-
priated for the Department of Defense for fis-
cal year 2021 for expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, for the Defense Health Program, as
specified in the funding table in section 4502.
Subtitle B—Financial Matters
SEC. 1521. TREATMENT AS ADDITIONAL AUTHOR-
IZATIONS.
The amounts authorized to be appropriated
by this title are in addition to amounts oth-
erwise authorized to be appropriated by this
Act.
SEC. 1522. SPECIAL TRANSFER AUTHORITY.
(a) AUTHORITY TO TRANSFER AUTHORIZA-
TIONS.—
(1) AUTHORITY.—Upon determination by
the Secretary of Defense that such action is
necessary in the national interest, the Sec-
retary may transfer amounts of authoriza-
tions made available to the Department of
Defense in this title for fiscal year 2021 be-
tween any such authorizations for that fiscal
year (or any subdivisions thereof). Amounts
of authorizations so transferred shall be
merged with and be available for the same
purposes as the authorization to which
transferred.
(2) LIMITATION.—The total amount of au-
thorizations that the Secretary may transfer
under the authority of this subsection may
not exceed $2,000,000,000.
(b) TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—Transfers
under this section shall be subject to the
same terms and conditions as transfers
under section 1001.
(c) ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY.—The transfer
authority provided by this section is in addi-
tion to the transfer authority provided under
section 1001.
Subtitle C—Other Matters
SEC. 1531. AFGHANISTAN SECURITY FORCES
FUND.
(a) EXTENSION OF AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS
FOR SECURITY OF AFGHAN WOMEN.—Sub-
section (c)(1) of section 1520 of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2020 (Public Law 116–92) is amended, in the
matter preceding subparagraph (A), by strik-
ing ‘‘fiscal year 2020’’ and inserting ‘‘fiscal
year 2021’’.
(b) ASSESSMENT OF AFGHANISTAN PROGRESS
ON OBJECTIVES.—Subsection (d) of such sec-
tion is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)—
(A) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by striking ‘‘June 1, 2020’’ and inserting
‘‘March 1, 2021’’;
(B) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘;
and’’ and inserting ‘‘, including specific mile-
stones achieved since the date on which the
2020 progress report was submitted;’’;
(C) in subparagraph (B), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(D) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(C) the efforts of the Government of the
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan to fulfill the
commitments of the Government of the Is-
lamic Republic of Afghanistan under the
Joint Declaration between the Islamic Re-
public of Afghanistan and the United States
of America for Bringing Peace to Afghani-
stan, issued on February 29, 2020.’’;
(2) by amending paragraph (2) to read as
follows:
‘‘(2) MATTERS TO BE INCLUDED.—In con-
ducting the assessment required by para-
graph (1), the Secretary of Defense shall in-
clude each of the following:
‘‘(A) The progress made by the Govern-
ment of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
toward increased accountability and the re-
duction of corruption within the Ministry of
Defense and the Ministry of Interior of the
Government of the Islamic Republic of Af-
ghanistan.
‘‘(B) The extent to which the Government
of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan has
designated the appropriate staff, prioritized
the development of relevant processes, and
provided or requested the allocation of re-
sources necessary to support a peace and rec-
onciliation process in Afghanistan.
‘‘(C) The extent to which the capability
and capacity of the Afghan National Defense
and Security Forces have improved as a re-
sult of Afghanistan Security Forces Fund in-
vestment, including through training, and an
articulation of the metrics used to assess
such improvements.
‘‘(D) The extent to which the Afghan Na-
tional Defense and Security Forces have
been successful in—
‘‘(i) defending territory, re-taking terri-
tory, and disrupting attacks;
‘‘(ii) reducing the use of Afghan National
Defense and Security Forces checkpoints;
and
‘‘(iii) curtailing the use of Afghan Special
Security Forces for missions that are better
suited to general purpose forces.
‘‘(E) The distribution practices of the Af-
ghan National Defense and Security Forces
and whether the Government of the Islamic
Republic of Afghanistan is ensuring that
supplies, equipment, and weaponry supplied
by the United States are appropriately dis-
tributed to, and employed by, security
forces.
‘‘(F) The progress made with respect to the
recruitment, integration, retention, train-
ing, and treatment of women in the Afghan
National Defense and Security Forces.
‘‘(G) The extent to which the Government
of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan is ad-
hering to conditions for receiving assistance
established in annual financial commitment
letters or any other bilateral agreement with
the United States.
‘‘(H) Such other factors as the Secretaries
consider appropriate.’’; and
(3) by amending paragraph (4) to read as
follows:
‘‘(4) WITHHOLDING OF FUNDS FOR INSUFFI-
CIENT PROGRESS.—
‘‘(A) CERTIFICATION.—Not later than De-
cember 31, 2020, the Secretary of Defense, in
coordination with the Secretary of State and
pursuant to the assessment under paragraph
(1), shall submit to the congressional defense
committees a certification indicating wheth-
er the Government of the Islamic Republic of
Afghanistan has made sufficient progress in
the areas described in paragraph (2).
‘‘(B) WITHHOLDING OF FUNDS.—If the Sec-
retary of Defense is unable under subpara-
graph (A) to certify that the Government of
the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan is mak-
ing sufficient progress in the areas described
in paragraph (2), the Secretary of Defense
shall—
‘‘(i) withhold from expenditure and obliga-
tion an amount that is not less than 5 per-
cent and not more than 15 percent of the
amounts made available for assistance for
the Afghan National Defense and Security
Forces for fiscal year 2021 until the date on
which the Secretary is able to so certify; and
‘‘(ii) notify the congressional defense com-
mittees not later than 30 days before with-
holding such funds and indicate the specific
areas of insufficient progress.
‘‘(C) WAIVER.—If the Secretary of Defense
determines that withholding such funds
would impede the national security objec-
tives of the United States by prohibiting, re-
stricting, delaying, or otherwise limiting the
provision of assistance to the Afghan Na-
tional Defense and Security Forces for fiscal
year 2021, the Secretary may waive the with-
holding requirement under subparagraph (B)
if the Secretary, in coordination with the
Secretary of State, certifies such determina-
tion to the congressional defense committees
not later than 30 days before the effective
date of the waiver.’’.
(c) ADDITIONAL REPORTING REQUIRE-
MENTS.—Subsection (e) of such section is
amended—
(1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘fiscal year 2021’’ and inserting
‘‘fiscal year 2022’’;
(2) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘fiscal
year 2019’’ and inserting ‘‘fiscal year 2020’’;
(3) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘fiscal
year 2020’’ and inserting ‘‘fiscal year 2021’’;
and
(4) by amending paragraph (3) to read as
follows:
‘‘(3) If the amounts described in paragraph
(2) exceed the amount described in paragraph
(1)—
‘‘(A) an explanation as to why such
amounts are greater; and
‘‘(B) a detailed description of the specific
entities and purposes that were supported by
such increase.’’.
(d) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Such section
is further amended by striking ‘‘Government
of Afghanistan’’ each place it appears and in-
serting ‘‘Government of the Islamic Republic
of Afghanistan’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00151 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6838 November 16, 2020
SEC. 1532. TRANSITION AND ENHANCEMENT OF
INSPECTOR GENERAL AUTHORITIES
FOR AFGHANISTAN RECONSTRUC-
TION.
(a) SENSE OF SENATE.—It is the sense of the
Senate to commend the Special Inspector
General for Afghanistan Reconstruction, and
the Office of the Special Inspector General
for Afghanistan Reconstruction, for—
(1) dedicated and faithful service to the
United States since their establishment in
the 2008; and
(2) promoting substantial efficiency and ef-
fectiveness in the administration of pro-
grams and operations funded with amounts
for the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
(b) PURPOSES.—Subsection (a) of section
1229 of the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (5 U.S.C. app. 8G
note) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (3), by inserting after ‘‘To
provide for’’ the following: ‘‘the transition to
the lead Inspector General for Operation
Freedom’s Sentinel designated pursuant to
section 8L(d) of the Inspector General Act of
1978 (50 U.S.C. app. 8L(d)) of all duties, re-
sponsibilities, and authorities for serving’’;
and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(4) To maximize coordination between the
Inspector General under this section and the
lead Inspector General for Operation Free-
dom’s Sentinel, including through trans-
parency and timely sharing of data and in-
formation collected in relation to the exer-
cise of their respective duties, responsibil-
ities, and authorities, with emphasis on mat-
ters of significant overlap between the De-
partment of State, the United States Agency
for International Development, and the De-
partment of Defense.’’.
(c) ASSISTANT INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR AU-
DITING.—Subsection (d)(1) of such section is
amended by striking ‘‘supported by’’ and in-
serting ‘‘funded with’’.
(d) SUPERVISION.—Subsection (e)(2) of such
section is amended by inserting ‘‘authorized
by this section’’ after ‘‘any audit or inves-
tigation’’.
(e) DUTIES.—Subsection (f) of such section
is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)—
(A) in subparagraph (E), by adding ‘‘and’’
at the end;
(B) by striking subparagraph (F);
(C) by redesignating subparagraph (G) as
subparagraph (F); and
(D) in subparagraph (F), as redesignated by
subparagraph (C) of this paragraph—
(i) by inserting ‘‘with such funds’’ after
‘‘overpayments,’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘regarding such funds,’’
after ‘‘or affiliated entities’’;
(2) in paragraph (2)—
(A) by striking ‘‘The Inspector General’’
and inserting ‘‘As specified in this section,
the Inspector General’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘as the Inspector General
considers appropriate’’ and inserting ‘‘as
necessary’’; and
(3) by striking paragraph (4) and inserting
the following new paragraph (4):
‘‘(4) SCOPE OF DUTIES AND RESPONSIBIL-
ITIES.—
‘‘(A) NO EXTENSION TO PARTICULAR MAT-
TERS.—The duties and responsibilities of the
Inspector General under paragraphs (1)
through (3) shall not extend to the following:
‘‘(i) Military operations or activities (in-
cluding security assistance or cooperation),
unless such operations or activities are fund-
ed using a Fund or account specified in sub-
section (n)(1).
‘‘(ii) Contracts for personal security.
‘‘(B) ASSIGNMENT OF DUTIES AND RESPON-
SIBILITIES FOR SUCH MATTERS.—Duties and re-
sponsibilities of inspectors general with re-
spect to operations and activities and con-
tracts specified in subparagraph (A) shall be
discharged by the lead Inspector General for
Operation Freedom’s Sentinel designated
pursuant to section 8L(d) of the Inspector
General Act of 1978.’’.
(f) RESPONSIBILITY FOR COORDINATION OF
EFFORTS VESTED IN LEAD IG FOR OPERATION
FREEDOM’S SENTINEL.—Such section is fur-
ther amended—
(1) by redesignating subsections (g)
through (o) as subsections (h) through (p),
respectively; and
(2) by inserting after subsection (f) the fol-
lowing new subsection (g):
‘‘(g) COORDINATION AND DECONFLICTION OF
EFFORTS.—
‘‘(1) COORDINATION AND DECONFLICTION
THROUGH LEAD IG FOR OPERATION FREEDOM’S
SENTINEL.—The lead Inspector General for
Operation Freedom’s Sentinel designated
pursuant to section 8L(d) of the Inspector
General Act of 1978 shall exercise all duties,
responsibilities, and authorities for the co-
ordination and deconfliction of inspector
general activities in or in regard to Afghani-
stan.
‘‘(2) COORDINATION IN DISCHARGE.—In car-
rying out duties, responsibilities, and au-
thorities under paragraph (1), the lead In-
spector General referred to in that paragraph
shall coordinate with, receive the coopera-
tion of, and be responsible for deconfliction
among, the following:
‘‘(A) Each Inspector General specified in
section 8L(c) of the Inspector General Act of
1978 who is not the lead Inspector General for
Operation Freedom’s Sentinel.
‘‘(B) The Inspector General under this sec-
tion.’’.
(g) ASSISTANCE FROM FEDERAL AGENCIES.—
Subsection (i) of such section, as redesig-
nated by subsection (f)(1) of this section, is
amended—
(1) in paragraph (5)(A), by inserting ‘‘per-
taining to the exercise by the Inspector Gen-
eral of duties, responsibilities, or authorities
specified in subsection (f)’’ after ‘‘informa-
tion and assistance’’; and
(2) by striking paragraph (6).
(h) REPORTS.—Subsection (j) of such sec-
tion, as redesignated by subsection (f)(1) of
this section, is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)—
(A) by striking the matter preceding sub-
paragraph (A) and inserting the following
new matter:
‘‘(1) SEMI-ANNUAL REPORTS.—Not later than
30 days after the end of the second quarter of
each fiscal year, and not later than 30 days
after the end of the fourth quarter of each
fiscal year, the Inspector General shall sub-
mit to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees a report setting forth a summary,
for the two fiscal year quarters ending before
the date on which such report is required to
be submitted, of the activities of the Inspec-
tor General and the activities under pro-
grams and operations funded with amounts
appropriated or otherwise made available for
the reconstruction of Afghanistan. Each re-
port shall include, for the period covered by
such report, the following:’’;
(B) by striking subparagraph (A) and in-
serting the following new subparagraph (A):
‘‘(A) A detailed statement of all obliga-
tions and expenditures of amounts appro-
priated or otherwise made available for the
reconstruction of Afghanistan.’’;
(C) in subparagraph (B), by inserting
‘‘projects and programs funded by amounts
appropriated or otherwise made available’’
after ‘‘costs incurred to date for’’; and
(D) in subparagraphs (C) and (D), by strik-
ing ‘‘funded by any department or agency of
the United States Government’’ each place it
appears and inserting ‘‘funded by amounts
appropriated or otherwise made available for
the reconstruction of Afghanistan’’; and
(2) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘that in-
volves the use’’ and all that follows and in-
serting ‘‘that is funded by amounts appro-
priated or otherwise made available for the
reconstruction of Afghanistan.’’.
(i) REPORT COORDINATION.—Subsection (k)
of such section, as redesignated by sub-
section (f)(1) of this section, is amended—
(1) in the subsection heading, by inserting
‘‘BY INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR OPERATION
FREEDOM’S SENTINEL’’ after ‘‘REPORT COORDI-
NATION’’;
(2) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘and the
Secretary of Defense’’ and inserting ‘‘, the
Secretary of Defense, and the lead Inspector
General for Operation Freedom’s Sentinel
designated pursuant to section 8L(d) of the
Inspector General Act of 1978’’; and
(3) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘or the
Secretary of Defense’’ each place it appears
and inserting ‘‘, the Secretary of Defense, or
the lead Inspector General referred to in
paragraph (1)’’.
(j) FUNDS SUBJECT TO OVERSIGHT RESPONSI-
BILITY.—Paragraph (1) of subsection (n) of
such section, as redesignated by subsection
(f)(1) of this section, is amended to read as
follows:
‘‘(1) AMOUNTS APPROPRIATED OR OTHERWISE
MADE AVAILABLE FOR THE RECONSTRUCTION OF
AFGHANISTAN.—The term ‘amounts appro-
priated or otherwise made available for the
reconstruction of Afghanistan’ means
amounts appropriated or otherwise made
available for any fiscal year for the recon-
struction of Afghanistan under either of the
following:
‘‘(A) The Economic Support Fund.
‘‘(B) The International Narcotics Control
and Law Enforcement account.
‘‘(C) The Commanders Emergency Re-
sponse Program Fund.
‘‘(D) The NATO Afghanistan National
Army Trust Fund.
‘‘(E) The Drug Interdiction and Counter
Drug Activities Fund.
‘‘(F) The Afghanistan Security Forces
Fund.’’.
(k) TERMINATION.—Subsection (p) of such
section, as redesignated by subsection (f)(1)
of this section, is amended—
(1) by striking paragraph (2); and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
paragraphs.
‘‘(2) ASSUMPTION OF DUTIES, RESPONSIBIL-
ITIES, AND AUTHORITIES IN TERMINATION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Effective as of the date
provided for in subparagraph (B), the duties,
responsibilities, and authorities of the In-
spector General under this section shall be
discharged by the lead Inspector General for
Operation Freedom’s Sentinel designated
pursuant to subsection (d) of section 8L of
the Inspector General Act of 1978.
‘‘(B) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The effective date
provided for in this subparagraph shall be
such date after the date of the termination
of the Office of the Special Inspector General
for Afghanistan Reconstruction pursuant to
paragraph (1) as the Chair of the Council of
Inspectors General on Integrity and Effi-
ciency under subsection (a) of section 8L of
the Inspector General Act of 1978 shall speci-
fy, which date may not be more than 180
days after the date of such termination.
‘‘(3) FINAL REPORT.—The final report of the
Inspector General under this section shall
consist of the semi-annual report required by
subsection (j)(1) for the last two fiscal year
quarters ending before the date of the termi-
nation of the Office of the Special Inspector
General for Afghanistan Reconstruction pur-
suant to paragraph (1).’’.
(l) CONFORMING AND TECHNICAL AMEND-
MENTS.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00152 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6839
November 16, 2020
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
such section is further amended as follows:
(A) In subsection (a)(2)(A), by inserting a
comma after ‘‘economy’’.
(B) Subsection (a)(3) is amended to read as
such subsection read as of the day before the
date of the enactment of this Act.
(C) Paragraph (4) of subsection (a) is re-
pealed.
(D) In subsection (f)(1)(E), by striking
‘‘fund’’ and inserting ‘‘funds’’.
(E) In subsections (l) and (m), as redesig-
nated by subsection (f)(1) of this section—
(i) by striking ‘‘subsection (i)’’ each place
it appears and inserting ‘‘subsection (j)’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘subsection (j)(2)’’ each
place it appears and inserting ‘‘subsection
(k)(2)’’.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATES.—The amendments
made by subparagraphs (A), (D) and (E) of
paragraph (1) shall take effect on the date of
the enactment of this Act. The amendment
made by subparagraphs (B) and (C) of that
paragraph shall take effect on the effective
date provided for in section 1229(p)(2)(B) of
the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2008, as redesignated by sub-
section (f)(1) and amended by subsection (k).
(m) CONFORMING AMENDMENT TO OTHER
LAW.—Section 842(c) of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Pub-
lic Law 110–181; 122 Stat. 234; 10 U.S.C. 2302
note) is amended—
(1) by inserting ‘‘(1)’’ before ‘‘The Special
Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction’’;
and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(2) Upon the assumption by the lead In-
spector General for Operation Freedom’s
Sentinel designated pursuant to section
8L(d) of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5
U.S.C. app. 8L(d)) of duties, responsibilities,
and authorities under section 1229 of this
Act, as provided for in subsection (p)(2) of
such section 1229, the requirement in para-
graph (1) to perform audits as required by
subsection (a) with respect to Afghanistan
shall be discharged by such lead Inspector
General.’’.
TITLE XVI—STRATEGIC PROGRAMS,
CYBER, AND INTELLIGENCE MATTERS
Subtitle A—Space Activities
SEC. 1601. RESILIENT AND SURVIVABLE POSI-
TIONING, NAVIGATION, AND TIMING
CAPABILITIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than two years
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
consistent with the timescale applicable to
joint urgent operational needs statements,
the Secretary of Defense shall—
(1) prioritize and rank order the mission
elements, platforms, and weapons systems
most critical for the operational plans of the
combatant commands;
(2) mature, test, and produce for such
prioritized mission elements sufficient
equipment—
(A) to generate resilient and survivable al-
ternative positioning, navigation, and tim-
ing signals; and
(B) to process resilient survivable data pro-
vided by signals of opportunity and on-board
sensor systems; and
(3) integrate and deploy such equipment
into the prioritized operational systems,
platforms, and weapons systems.
(b) PLAN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary shall submit to the congres-
sional defense committees a plan to com-
mence carrying out subsection (a) in fiscal
year 2021.
(2) REPROGRAMMING AND BUDGET PRO-
POSALS.—The plan submitted under para-
graph (1) may include any reprogramming or
supplemental budget request the Secretary
considers necessary to carry out subsection
(a).
(c) COORDINATION.—In carrying out this
section, the Secretary shall consult with the
National Security Council, the Secretary of
Homeland Security, the Secretary of Trans-
portation, and the head of any other relevant
Federal department or agency to enable ci-
vilian and commercial adoption of tech-
nologies and capabilities for resilient and
survivable alternative positioning, naviga-
tion, and timing capabilities to complement
the global positioning system.
SEC. 1602. DEVELOPMENT EFFORTS FOR NA-
TIONAL SECURITY SPACE LAUNCH
PROVIDERS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the Air
Force shall establish a program to develop
technologies and systems to enhance phase
three National Security Space Launch re-
quirements and enable further advances in
launch capability associated with the inser-
tion of national security payloads into rel-
evant classes of orbits.
(b) DURATION.—The duration of a project to
develop technologies and systems selected
under the program shall be not more than
three years.
(c) PROGRAM EXPENSE CEILING.—The total
amount expended under the program shall
not exceed $250,000,000.
(d) SUNSET.—The program established
under this section shall terminate on Octo-
ber 1, 2027.
SEC. 1603. TIMELINE FOR NONRECURRING DE-
SIGN VALIDATION FOR RESPONSIVE
SPACE LAUNCH.
Not later than 540 days after the date on
which the Secretary of the Air Force selects
two National Security Space Launch pro-
viders in accordance with the phase two ac-
quisition strategy for the National Security
Space Launch program, the Secretary of De-
fense shall complete the nonrecurring design
validation of previously flown launch hard-
ware for National Security Space Launch
providers that offer such hardware for use in
the phase two acquisition strategy or other
national security space missions.
SEC. 1604. TACTICALLY RESPONSIVE SPACE
LAUNCH OPERATIONS.
The Secretary of the Air Force shall imple-
ment a tactically responsive space launch
program—
(1) to provide long-term continuity for
tactically responsive space launch oper-
ations across the future-years defense pro-
gram submitted to Congress under section
221 of title 10, United States Code;
(2) to accelerate the development of—
(A) responsive launch concepts of oper-
ations;
(B) tactics;
(C) training; and
(D) procedures;
(3) to develop appropriate processes for
tactically responsive space launch, includ-
ing—
(A) mission assurance processes; and
(B) command and control, tracking, telem-
etry, and communications; and
(4) to identify basing capabilities necessary
to enable tactically responsive space launch,
including mobile launch range infrastruc-
ture.
SEC. 1605. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS RELAT-
ING TO REESTABLISHMENT OF
SPACE COMMAND.
(a) CERTIFICATIONS REGARDING INTEGRATED
TACTICAL WARNING AND ATTACK ASSESSMENT
MISSION OF THE AIR FORCE.—Section 1666(a)
of National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114–328; 113
Stat. 2617) is amended by striking ‘‘Strategic
Command’’ and inserting ‘‘Space Command’’.
(b) COUNCIL ON OVERSIGHT OF THE DEPART-
MENT OF DEFENSE POSITIONING, NAVIGATION,
AND TIMING ENTERPRISE.—Section 2279b of
title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (b)—
(A) by redesignating paragraphs (7), (8), (9),
and (10) as paragraphs (8), (9), (10), and (11),
respectively; and
(B) by inserting after paragraph (6) the fol-
lowing new paragraph (7):
‘‘(7) The Commander of the United States
Space Command.’’; and
(2) in subsection (f), by striking ‘‘Strategic
Command’’ each place it appears and insert-
ing ‘‘Space Command’’.
(c) JOINT INTERAGENCY COMBINED SPACE OP-
ERATIONS CENTER.—Section 605(e) of the In-
telligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2017 (Public Law 115–31; 131 Stat. 832) is
amended—
(1) in the subsection heading, by striking
‘‘JOINT INTERAGENCY COMBINED SPACE OPER-
ATIONS CENTER’’ and inserting ‘‘NATIONAL
SPACE DEFENSE CENTER’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘Strategic Command’’ each
place it appears and inserting ‘‘Space Com-
mand’’; and
(3) by striking ‘‘Joint Interagency Com-
bined Space Operations Center’’ each place it
appears and inserting ‘‘National Space De-
fense Center’’.
(d) NATIONAL SECURITY SPACE SATELLITE
REPORTING POLICY.—Section 2278(a) of title
10, United States Code, is amended by strik-
ing ‘‘Strategic Command’’ and inserting
‘‘Space Command’’.
(e) SPACE-BASED INFRARED SYSTEM AND AD-
VANCED EXTREMELY HIGH FREQUENCY PRO-
GRAM.—Section 1612(a)(1) of the National De-
fense Authorization Act for 2017 (Public Law
114–328; 130 Stat. 2590) is amended by striking
‘‘Strategic Command’’ and inserting ‘‘Space
Command’’.
SEC. 1606. SPACE DEVELOPMENT AGENCY DEVEL-
OPMENT REQUIREMENTS AND
TRANSFER TO SPACE FORCE.
(a) DEVELOPMENT.—The Director of the
Space Development Agency shall lead—
(1) the development and demonstration of a
resilient military space-based sensing, track-
ing, and data transport architecture that
primarily uses a proliferated low-Earth
orbit; and
(2) the integration of next-generation space
capabilities, and sensor and tracking compo-
nents (including a hypersonic and ballistic
missile-tracking space sensor payload), into
such architecture to address the require-
ments and needs of the Armed Forces and
combatant commands for such capabilities.
(b) ORGANIZATION.—On October 1, 2022, or
earlier if directed by the Secretary of De-
fense, the Space Development Agency shall
be transferred from the Office of the Sec-
retary of Defense to the United States Space
Force and shall maintain the same organiza-
tional reporting requirements and acquisi-
tion authorities as the Space Rapid Capa-
bility Office.
SEC. 1607. SPACE LAUNCH RATE ASSESSMENT.
Not later than 90 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, and biennially there-
after for the following five-year period, the
Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to
the congressional defense committees an as-
sessment that includes—
(1) the total number of space launches for
all national security and Federal civil agen-
cy entities conducted in the United States
during the preceding two-year period; and
(2) the number of space launches by the
same sponsors projected to occur during the
following three-year period, including—
(A) the number of launches, disaggregated
by class of launch vehicle; and
(B) the number of payloads, disaggregated
by orbital destination.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00153 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6840 November 16, 2020
SEC. 1608. REPORT ON IMPACT OF ACQUISITION
STRATEGY FOR THE NATIONAL SE-
CURITY SPACE LAUNCH PROGRAM
ON EMERGING FOREIGN SPACE
LAUNCH PROVIDERS.
Not later than 90 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the
Air Force shall submit to Congress a report
on the impact of the acquisition strategy for
the National Security Space Launch pro-
gram on the potential for foreign countries,
including the People’s Republic of China, to
enter the global commercial space launch
market.
SEC. 1609. LEVERAGING COMMERCIAL SAT-
ELLITE REMOTE SENSING.
(a) IN GENERAL.—In acquiring geospatial-
intelligence, the Secretary of Defense, in co-
ordination with the Director of the National
Reconnaissance Office and the Director of
the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency,
shall leverage, to the maximum extent prac-
ticable, the capabilities of United States in-
dustry, including through the use of com-
mercial geospatial-intelligence services and
acquisition of commercial satellite imagery.
(b) OBTAINING FUTURE GEOSPATIAL-INTEL-
LIGENCE DATA.—The Director of the National
Reconnaissance Office, as part of an analysis
of alternatives for the future acquisition of
space systems for geospatial-intelligence,
shall—
(1) consider whether there is a suitable,
cost-effective, commercial capability avail-
able that can meet any or all of the
geospatial-intelligence requirements of the
Department and the intelligence commu-
nity;
(2) if a suitable, cost-effective, commercial
capability is available as described in para-
graph (1), determine whether it is in the na-
tional interest to develop a governmental
space system for geospatial intelligence; and
(3) include, as part of the established ac-
quisition reporting requirements to the ap-
propriate committees of Congress, any deter-
mination made under paragraphs (1) and (2).
(c) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) The term ‘‘appropriate committees of
Congress’’ means—
(A) the congressional defense committees;
(B) the Select Committee on Intelligence
of the Senate; and
(C) the Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
(2) The term ‘‘intelligence community’’
has the meaning given such term in section
3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50
U.S.C. 3003).
Subtitle B—Cyberspace-Related Matters
SEC. 1611. MODIFICATION OF POSITION OF PRIN-
CIPAL CYBER ADVISOR.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (c) of section
932 of the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113–66;
10 U.S.C. 2224 note) is amended to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘(c) PRINCIPAL CYBER ADVISOR.—
‘‘(1) DESIGNATION.—The Secretary shall
designate a Principal Cyber Advisor from
among those civilian officials of the Depart-
ment of Defense who have been appointed to
the positions in which they serve by the
President, by and with the advice and con-
sent of the Senate.
‘‘(2) RESPONSIBILITIES.—The Principal
Cyber Advisor shall be responsible for the
following:
‘‘(A) Acting as the principal advisor to the
Secretary on military cyber forces and ac-
tivities.
‘‘(B) Overall integration of Cyber Oper-
ations Forces activities relating to cyber-
space operations, including associated policy
and operational considerations, resources,
personnel, technology development and tran-
sition, and acquisition.
‘‘(C) Assessing and overseeing the imple-
mentation of the cyber strategy of the De-
partment and execution of the cyber posture
review of the Department on behalf of the
Secretary.
‘‘(D) Coordinating activities pursuant to
subparagraphs (A) and (B) of subsection (c)(3)
with the Principal Information Operations
Advisor, the Chief Information Officer of the
Department, and other officials as deter-
mined by the Secretary of Defense, to ensure
the integration of activities in support of
cyber, information, and electromagnetic
spectrum operations.
‘‘(E) Such other matters relating to the of-
fensive military cyber forces of the Depart-
ment as the Secretary shall specify for the
purposes of this subsection.
‘‘(3) CROSS-FUNCTIONAL TEAM.—Consistent
with section 911 of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public
Law 114–328; 10 U.S.C. 111 note), the Principal
Cyber Advisor shall—
‘‘(A) integrate the cyber expertise and per-
spectives of appropriate organizations within
the Office of the Secretary of Defense, Joint
Staff, military departments, the Defense
Agencies and Field Activities, and combat-
ant commands, by establishing and main-
taining a full-time cross-functional team of
subject matter experts from those organiza-
tions; and
‘‘(B) select team members, and designate a
team leader, from among those personnel
nominated by the heads of such organiza-
tions.’’.
(b) DESIGNATION OF DEPUTY PRINCIPAL
CYBER ADVISOR.—Section 905(a)(1) of the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92) is amended by
striking ‘‘Under Secretary of Defense for
Policy’’ and inserting ‘‘Secretary of De-
fense’’.
SEC. 1612. FRAMEWORK FOR CYBER HUNT FOR-
WARD OPERATIONS.
(a) FRAMEWORK REQUIRED.—Not later than
February 1, 2021, the Secretary of Defense
shall develop a standard, comprehensive
framework to enhance the consistency, exe-
cution, and effectiveness of cyber hunt for-
ward operations.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The framework developed
pursuant to subsection (a) shall include the
following:
(1) Identification of the selection criteria
for proposed hunt forward operations, includ-
ing specification of necessary thresholds for
the justification of operations and thresholds
for partner cooperation.
(2) The roles and responsibilities of the fol-
lowing organizations in the support of the
planning and execution of hunt forward oper-
ations:
(A) United States Cyber Command.
(B) Service cyber components.
(C) The Office of the Under Secretary of
Defense for Policy.
(D) Geographic combatant commands.
(E) Cyber Operations-Integrated Planning
Elements and Joint Cyber Centers.
(F) Embassies and consulates of the United
States.
(3) Pre-deployment planning guidelines to
maximize the operational success of each
unique operation, including guidance that
takes into account the highly variable na-
ture of the following aspects at the tactical
level:
(A) Team composition, including necessary
skillsets, recommended training, and guide-
lines on team size and structure.
(B) Relevant factors to determine mission
duration in a country of interest.
(C) Agreements with partner countries re-
quired pre-deployment.
(D) Criteria for potential follow-on oper-
ations.
(E) Equipment and infrastructure required
to support the missions.
(4) Metrics to measure the effectiveness of
each operation, including means to evaluate
the value of discovered malware and infra-
structure, the effect on the adversary, and
the potential for future engagements with
the partner country.
(5) Roles and responsibilities for United
States Cyber Command and the National Se-
curity Agency in the analysis of relevant
mission data.
(6) Such other matters as the Secretary de-
termines relevant.
(c) BRIEFING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than March 1,
2021, the Secretary of Defense shall provide
to the Committee on Armed Services of the
Senate and the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices of the House of Representatives a brief-
ing on the framework developed pursuant to
subsection (a).
(2) CONTENTS.—The briefing required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) An overview of the framework devel-
oped in subsection (a).
(B) An explanation of the tradeoffs associ-
ated with the use of Department of Defense
resources for hunt forward missions in the
context of competing priorities.
(C) Such recommendations as the Sec-
retary may have for legislative action to im-
prove the effectiveness of hunt forward mis-
sions.
SEC. 1613. MODIFICATION OF SCOPE OF NOTIFI-
CATION REQUIREMENTS FOR SEN-
SITIVE MILITARY CYBER OPER-
ATIONS.
Subsection (c) of section 395 of title 10,
United States Code, is amended to read as
follows:
‘‘(c) SENSITIVE MILITARY CYBER OPERATION
DEFINED.—(1) In this section, the term ‘sen-
sitive military cyber operation’ means an ac-
tion described in paragraph (2) that—
‘‘(A) is carried out by the armed forces of
the United States;
‘‘(B) is intended to achieve a cyber effect
against a foreign terrorist organization or a
country, including its armed forces and the
proxy forces of that country located else-
where —
‘‘(i) with which the armed forces of the
United States are not involved in hostilities
(as that term is used in section 4 of the War
Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1543)); or
‘‘(ii) with respect to which the involvement
of the armed forces of the United States in
hostilities has not been acknowledged pub-
licly by the United States; and
‘‘(C)(i) is determined to—
‘‘(I) have a medium or high collateral ef-
fects estimate;
‘‘(II) have a medium or high intelligence
gain or loss;
‘‘(III) have a medium or high probability of
political retaliation, as determined by the
political military assessment contained
within the associated concept of operations;
‘‘(IV) have a medium or high probability of
detection when detection is not intended; or
‘‘(V) result in medium or high collateral
effects; or
‘‘(ii) is a matter the Secretary determines
to be appropriate.
‘‘(2) The actions described in this para-
graph are the following:
‘‘(A) An offensive cyber operation.
‘‘(B) A defensive cyber operation.’’.
SEC. 1614. MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS
FOR QUARTERLY DEPARTMENT OF
DEFENSE CYBER OPERATIONS
BRIEFINGS FOR CONGRESS.
Section 484 of title 10, United States Code,
is amended by striking subsections (a) and
(b) and inserting the following new sub-
sections:
‘‘(a) BRIEFINGS REQUIRED.—The Under Sec-
retary of Defense for Policy, the Commander
of United States Cyber Command, and the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00154 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6841
November 16, 2020
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, or des-
ignees from each of their offices, shall pro-
vide to the congressional defense committees
quarterly briefings on all offensive and sig-
nificant defensive military operations in
cyberspace, including clandestine cyber ac-
tivities, carried out by the Department of
Defense during the immediately preceding
quarter.
‘‘(b) ELEMENTS.—Each briefing under sub-
section (a) shall include, with respect to the
military operations in cyberspace described
in such subsection, the following:
‘‘(1) An update, set forth separately for
each applicable geographic and functional
command, that describes the operations car-
ried out in the area of operations of that
command or by that command.
‘‘(2) An update, set forth for each applica-
ble geographic and functional command,
that describes defensive cyber operations ex-
ecuted to protect or defend forces, networks,
and equipment in the area of operations of
that command.
‘‘(3) An update on relevant authorities and
legal issues applicable to operations, includ-
ing any presidential directives and delega-
tions of authority received since the last
quarterly update.
‘‘(4) An overview of critical operational
challenges posed by major adversaries or en-
countered in operational activities con-
ducted since the last quarterly update.
‘‘(5) An overview of the readiness of the
Cyber Mission Forces to perform assigned
missions that—
‘‘(A) addresses all of the abilities of such
Forces to conduct cyberspace operations
based on capability and capacity of per-
sonnel, equipment, training, and equipment
condition—
‘‘(i) using both quantitative and quali-
tative metrics; and
‘‘(ii) in a way that is common to all mili-
tary departments; and
‘‘(B) is consistent with readiness reporting
pursuant to section 482 of this title.
‘‘(6) Any other matters that the briefers
determine to be appropriate.
‘‘(c) DOCUMENTS.—Each briefing under sub-
section (a) shall include a classified
placemat, summarizing the elements speci-
fied in paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (5) of sub-
section (b), and an unclassified memo-
randum, summarizing the briefing’s con-
tents.’’.
SEC. 1615. RATIONALIZATION AND INTEGRATION
OF PARALLEL CYBERSECURITY AR-
CHITECTURES AND OPERATIONS.
(a) REVIEW REQUIRED.—The Commander of
United States Cyber Command, with support
from the Chief Information Officer of the De-
partment of Defense, the Chief Data Officer
of the Department, the Principal Cyber Advi-
sor, the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, and the Director of Cost Analysis and
Program Evaluation, shall conduct a review
of the Cybersecurity Service Provider and
Cyber Mission Force enterprises.
(b) ASSESSMENT AND IDENTIFICATION OF
REDUNDANCIES AND GAPS.—The review re-
quired by subsection (a) shall assess and
identify—
(1) the optimal way to integrate the Joint
Cyber Warfighting Architecture and the Cy-
bersecurity Service Provider architectures,
associated tools and capabilities, and associ-
ated concepts of operations;
(2) redundancies and gaps in network sen-
sor deployment and data collection and anal-
ysis for the—
(A) Big Data Platform;
(B) Joint Regional Security Stacks; and
(C) Security Information and Event Man-
agement capabilities;
(3) where integration, collaboration, and
interoperability are not occurring that
would improve outcomes;
(4) baseline training, capabilities, com-
petencies, operational responsibilities, and
joint concepts of operations for the Joint
Force Headquarters for the Department of
Defense Information Network, Cybersecurity
Service Providers, and Cyber Protection
Teams;
(5) the roles and responsibilities of the
Principal Cyber Advisor, Chief Information
Officer, and the Commander of United States
Cyber Command in establishing and over-
seeing the baselines assessed and identified
under paragraph (4);
(6) the optimal command structure for the
military services’ and combatant commands’
cybersecurity service providers and cyber
protection teams;
(7) the responsibilities of network owners
and cybersecurity service providers in map-
ping, configuring, instrumenting, and de-
ploying sensors on networks to best support
response of cyber protection teams when as-
signed to defend unfamiliar networks; and
(8) operational concepts and engineering
changes to enhance remote access and oper-
ations of cyber protection teams on net-
works through tools and capabilities of the
Cybersecurity Service Providers.
(c) RECOMMENDATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR
2023 BUDGET.—The Chief Information Officer,
the Chief Data Officer, the Commander of
United States Cyber Command, and the Prin-
cipal Cyber Advisor shall jointly develop rec-
ommendations for the Secretary of Defense
in preparation of the budget justification
materials to be submitted to Congress in
support of the budget for the Department of
Defense for fiscal year 2023 (as submitted
with the budget of the President for such fis-
cal year under section 1105(a) of title 31,
United States Code).
(d) PROGRESS BRIEFING.—Not later than
March 31, 2021, the Chief Information Officer,
the Chief Data Officer, the Commander of
United States Cyber Command, and the Prin-
cipal Cyber Advisor shall jointly provide a
briefing to the congressional defense com-
mittees on the progress made in carrying out
this section.
SEC. 1616. MODIFICATION OF ACQUISITION AU-
THORITY OF COMMANDER OF
UNITED STATES CYBER COMMAND.
Section 807 of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public
Law 114–92; 10 U.S.C. 2224 note) is amended—
(1) by striking subsections (e) and (i); and
(2) by redesignating subsections (f) through
(h) as subsections (e) through (g), respec-
tively.
SEC. 1617. ASSESSMENT OF CYBER OPERATIONAL
PLANNING AND DECONFLICTION
POLICIES AND PROCESSES.
(a) ASSESSMENT.—Not later than November
1, 2021, the Principal Cyber Advisor of the
Department of Defense and the Commander
of United States Cyber Command shall joint-
ly, in coordination with the Under Secretary
of Defense for Policy, the Under Secretary of
Defense for Intelligence and Security, and
the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
conduct and complete an assessment on the
operational planning and deconfliction poli-
cies and processes that govern cyber oper-
ations of the Department of Defense.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The assessment required
by subsection (a) shall include evaluations as
to whether—
(1) the joint targeting cycle and relevant
operational and targeting databases are suit-
able for the conduct of timely and well-co-
ordinated cyber operations;
(2) each of the policies and processes in ef-
fect to facilitate technical, operational, and
capability deconfliction are appropriate for
the conduct of timely and effective cyber op-
erations;
(3) intelligence gain-loss decisions made by
Cyber Command are sufficiently well-in-
formed and made in timely fashion;
(4) relevant intelligence data and products
are consistently available and distributed to
relevant planning and operational elements
in Cyber Command;
(5) collection operations and priorities
meet the operational requirements of Cyber
Command; and
(6) authorities relevant to intelligence,
surveillance, and reconnaissance and oper-
ational preparation of the environment are
delegated to the appropriate level.
(c) BRIEFING.—Not later than February 1,
2022, the Principal Cyber Advisor and the
Commander of United States Cyber Com-
mand shall provide to the Committee on
Armed Services of the Senate and the Com-
mittee on Armed Services of the House of
Representatives a briefing on the findings of
the assessment completed under subsection
(a), including discussion of planned policy
and process changes, if any, relevant to
cyber operations.
SEC. 1618. PILOT PROGRAM ON CYBERSECURITY
CAPABILITY METRICS.
(a) PILOT PROGRAM REQUIRED.—The Sec-
retary of Defense, acting through the Chief
Information Officer of the Department of De-
fense and the Commander of United States
Cyber Command, shall conduct a pilot pro-
gram to assess the feasibility and advis-
ability of developing and using speed-based
metrics to measure the performance and ef-
fectiveness of security operations centers
and cyber security service providers in the
Department of Defense.
(b) REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) DEVELOPMENT OF METRICS.—(A) Not
later than July 1, 2021, the Chief Information
Officer and the Commander shall jointly de-
velop metrics described in subsection (a) to
carry out the pilot program under such sub-
section.
(B) The Chief Information Officer and the
Commander shall ensure that the metrics de-
veloped under subparagraph (A) are commen-
surate with the representative timelines of
nation-state and non-nation-state actors
when gaining access to, and compromising,
Department networks.
(2) USE OF METRICS.—(A) Not later than De-
cember 1, 2021, the Secretary shall, in car-
rying out the pilot program required by sub-
section (a), begin using the metrics devel-
oped under paragraph (1) of this subsection
to assess select security operations centers
and cyber security service providers, which
the Secretary shall select specifically for
purposes of the pilot program, for a period of
not less than four months.
(B) In carrying out the pilot program
under subsection (a), the Secretary shall
evaluate the effectiveness of operators, capa-
bilities available to operators, and operators’
tactics, techniques, and procedures.
(c) AUTHORITIES.—In carrying out the pilot
program under subsection (a), the Secretary
may—
(1) assess select security operations centers
and cyber security service providers—
(A) over the course of their mission per-
formance; or
(B) in the testing and accreditation of cy-
bersecurity products and services on test
networks designated pursuant to section 1658
of the National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92); and
(2) assess select elements’ use of security
orchestration and response technologies,
modern endpoint security technologies, Big
Data Platform instantiations, and tech-
nologies relevant to zero trust architectures.
(d) BRIEFING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than March 1,
2022, the Secretary shall brief the Committee
on Armed Services of the Senate and the
Committee on Armed Services of the House
of Representatives on the findings of the
Secretary with respect to the pilot program
required by subsection (a).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00155 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6842 November 16, 2020
(2) ELEMENTS.—The briefing provided under
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) The pilot metrics developed under sub-
section (b)(1).
(B) The findings of the Secretary with re-
spect to the assessments carried out under
subsection (b)(2).
(C) An analysis of the utility of speed-
based metrics in assessing security oper-
ations centers and cyber security service
providers.
(D) An analysis of the utility of the exten-
sion of the pilot metrics to or speed-based as-
sessment of the Cyber Mission Forces.
(E) An assessment of the technical and pro-
cedural measures that would be necessary to
meet the speed-based metrics developed and
applied in the pilot program.
SEC. 1619. ASSESSMENT OF EFFECT OF INCON-
SISTENT TIMING AND USE OF NET-
WORK ADDRESS TRANSLATION IN
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE NET-
WORKS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than March 1,
2021, the Chief Information Officer of the De-
partment of Defense shall conduct com-
prehensive assessments as follows:
(1) TIMING VARIABILITY IN DEPARTMENT NET-
WORKS.—The Chief Information Officer shall
characterize—
(A) timing variability across Department
information technology and operational
technology networks, appliances, devices,
applications, and sensors that generate time-
stamped data and metadata used for cyberse-
curity purposes;
(B) how timing variability affects current,
planned, and potential capabilities for de-
tecting network intrusions that rely on cor-
relating events and the sequence of events;
and
(C) how to harmonize standard of timing
across Department networks.
(2) USE OF NETWORK ADDRESS TRANS-
LATION.—The Chief Information Officer shall
characterize—
(A) why and how the Department is using
Network Address Translation (NAT) and
multiple layers and nesting of Network Ad-
dress Translation;
(B) how using Network Address Trans-
lation affects the ability to link malicious
communications detected at various net-
work tiers to specific endpoints or hosts to
enable prompt additional investigations,
quarantine decisions, and remediation ac-
tivities; and
(C) what steps and associated cost and
schedule are necessary to eliminate the use
of Network Address Translation or to other-
wise provide transparency to network de-
fenders, including options to accelerate the
transition from Internet Protocol version 4
to Internet Protocol version 6.
(b) RECOMMENDATION.—The Chief Informa-
tion Officer and the Principal Cyber Advisor
shall submit to the Secretary of Defense a
recommendation to address the assessments
conducted under subsection (a), including
whether and how to revise the cyber strategy
of the Department.
(c) BRIEFING.—Not later than April 1, 2021,
the Chief Information Officer shall brief the
congressional defense committees on the
findings of the Chief Information Officer
with respect to the assessments conducted
under subsection (a) and the recommenda-
tion submitted under subsection (b).
SEC. 1620. MATTERS CONCERNING THE COLLEGE
OF INFORMATION AND CYBERSPACE
AT NATIONAL DEFENSE UNIVERSITY.
(a) PROHIBITION.—The Secretary of Defense
may not eliminate, divest, downsize, or reor-
ganize the College of Information and Cyber-
space of the National Defense University, or
seek to reduce the number of students edu-
cated at the College, until 30 days after the
date on which the congressional defense
committees receive the report required by
subsection (c).
(b) ASSESSMENT, DETERMINATION, AND RE-
VIEW.—The Under Secretary of Defense for
Policy, in consultation with the Under Sec-
retary of Defense for Personnel and Readi-
ness, the Principal Cyber Advisor, the Prin-
cipal Information Operations Advisor of the
Department of Defense, the Chief Informa-
tion Officer of the Department, the Chief Fi-
nancial Officer of the Department, the Chair-
man of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the
Commander of United States Cyber Com-
mand, shall—
(1) assess requirements for joint profes-
sional military education and civilian leader
education in the information environment
and cyberspace domain to support the De-
partment and other national security insti-
tutions of the Federal Government;
(2) determine whether the importance,
challenges, and complexity of the modern in-
formation environment and cyberspace do-
main warrant—
(A) a college at the National Defense Uni-
versity, or a college independent of the Na-
tional Defense University whose leadership
is responsible to the Office of the Secretary
of Defense; and
(B) the provision of resources, services, and
capacity at levels that are the same as, or
decreased or enhanced in comparison to,
those resources, services, and capacity in
place at the College of Information and
Cyberspace on January 1, 2019;
(3) review the plan proposed by the Na-
tional Defense University for eliminating
the College of Information and Cyberspace
and reducing and restructuring the informa-
tion and cyberspace faculty, course offerings,
joint professional military education and de-
gree and certificate programs, and other
services provided by the College; and
(4) assess the changes made to the College
of Information and Cyberspace since January
1, 2019, and the actions necessary to reverse
those changes, including relocating the Col-
lege and its associated budget, faculty, staff,
students, and facilities outside of the Na-
tional Defense University.
(c) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than Feb-
ruary 1, 2021, the Secretary shall submit to
the congressional defense committees a re-
port on—
(1) the findings of the Secretary with re-
spect to the assessments, determination, and
review conducted under subsection (b); and
(2) such recommendations as the Secretary
may have for higher education in the infor-
mation environment and cyberspace domain.
SEC. 1621. MODIFICATION OF MISSION OF CYBER
COMMAND AND ASSIGNMENT OF
CYBER OPERATIONS FORCES.
Section 167b of title 10, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in the first sentence, by inserting ‘‘(1)’’
before ‘‘With the advice’’;
(B) in paragraph (1), as designated by sub-
paragraph (A), by striking the second sen-
tence; and
(C) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(2) The principal mission of the cyber
command is to direct, synchronize, and co-
ordinate cyber planning and operations to
defend and advance national interests in col-
laboration with domestic and international
partners.’’; and
(2) by amending subsection (b) to read as
follows:
‘‘(b) ASSIGNMENT OF FORCES.—(1) Active
and reserve cyber forces of the armed forces
shall be assigned to the cyber command
through the Global Force Management Proc-
ess, as approved by the Secretary of Defense.
‘‘(2) Cyber forces not assigned to cyber
command remain assigned to combatant
commands or service-retained.’’.
SEC. 1622. INTEGRATION OF DEPARTMENT OF DE-
FENSE USER ACTIVITY MONITORING
AND CYBERSECURITY.
(a) INTEGRATION OF PLANS, CAPABILITIES,
AND SYSTEMS.—The Secretary of Defense
shall integrate the plans, capabilities, and
systems for user activity monitoring, and
the plans, capabilities, and systems for end-
point cybersecurity and the collection of
metadata on network activity for cybersecu-
rity to enable mutual support and informa-
tion sharing.
(b) REQUIREMENTS.—In carrying out sub-
section (a), the Secretary shall—
(1) consider using the Big Data Platform
instances that host cybersecurity metadata
for storage and analysis of all user activity
monitoring data collected across the Depart-
ment of Defense Information Network at all
security classification levels;
(2) develop policies and procedures gov-
erning access to user activity monitoring
data or data derived from user activity mon-
itoring by cybersecurity operators; and
(3) develop processes and capabilities for
using metadata on host and network activity
for user activity monitoring in support of
the insider threat mission.
(c) CONGRESSIONAL BRIEFING.—Not later
than October 1, 2021, the Secretary shall pro-
vide a briefing to the congressional defense
committees on actions taken to carry out
this section.
SEC. 1623. DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE CYBERSE-
CURITY SENSOR ARCHITECTURE
PLAN.
(a) PLAN REQUIRED.—Not later than Feb-
ruary 1, 2021, the Principal Cyber Advisor of
the Department of Defense, in consultation
with the Chief Information Officer of the De-
partment, the Under Secretary of Defense for
Acquisition and Sustainment, the Under Sec-
retary of Defense for Intelligence and Secu-
rity, and the Commander of United States
Cyber Command, shall develop a comprehen-
sive plan for the deployment of commercial-
off-the-shelf solutions on supplier networks
to monitor the public-facing Internet attack
surface in the defense industrial base.
(b) CONTENTS.—The plan required by sub-
section (a) shall include the following:
(1) Definition of an architecture, concept
of operations, and governance structure
that—
(A) will allow for the instrumentation and
collection of cybersecurity data on the pub-
lic-facing Internet attack surfaces of defense
industrial base contractors in a manner that
is compatible with the Department’s existing
or future capabilities for analysis, and in-
strumentation and collection, as appro-
priate, of cybersecurity data within the De-
partment of Defense Information Network;
(B) includes the expected scale, schedule,
and guiding principles of deployment;
(C) is consistent with the defense indus-
trial base cybersecurity policies and pro-
grams of the Under Secretary of Defense for
Acquisition and Sustainment and the Chief
Information Officer; and
(D) includes an acquisition strategy for
sensor capabilities that optimizes required
capability, scalability, cost, and intelligence
and cybersecurity requirements.
(2) Roles and responsibilities of the persons
referred to in subsection (a) in implementing
and executing the plan.
(c) CONSULTATION.—In developing the plan
required by subsection (a), the Principal
Cyber Advisor shall ensure that extensive
consultation with representative companies
of the defense industrial base occurs so as to
ensure that prospective participants in the
defense industrial base understand and agree
that emerging solutions are acceptable,
practical, and effective.
(d) BRIEFING.—Not later than March 1, 2021,
the Principal Cyber Advisor shall provide a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00156 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6843
November 16, 2020
briefing to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices of the Senate and the Committee on
Armed Services of the House of Representa-
tives on the plan developed pursuant to sub-
section (a).
SEC. 1624. EXTENSION OF CYBERSPACE SOLAR-
IUM COMMISSION TO TRACK AND AS-
SESS IMPLEMENTATION.
Section 1652 of the John S. McCain Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232), as amended
by section 1639 of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public
Law 116–92), is further amended—
(1) in subsection (b)(1)(B)—
(A) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘under clauses
(iv) through (vii) of subparagraph (A)’’ and
inserting ‘‘under clauses (v) through (viii) of
subparagraph (A)’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following new
clause:
‘‘(iv) Effective on the date of the enact-
ment of the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2021, the composition of
the Commission shall not include clauses (i)
through (iv) of subparagraph (A).’’;
(2) in subsection (d)(2), by striking ‘‘Seven
members shall’’ and inserting ‘‘Seven mem-
bers, during the period beginning on the date
of the establishment of the Commission and
ending on the day before the date of the en-
actment of the National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2021, and six mem-
bers, during the period beginning on the date
of the enactment of such Act and ending on
the date of the termination of the Commis-
sion, shall’’;
(3) in subsection (i)(1)(B)—
(A) by striking ‘‘Members of the Commis-
sion who’’ inserting ‘‘(i) During the period
beginning on the date of the establishment
of the Commission and ending on the day be-
fore the date of the enactment of the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2021, members of the Commission who’’;
and
(B) by adding at the end the following new
clause:
‘‘(ii) During the period beginning on the
date of the enactment of such Act and end-
ing on the date of the termination of the
Commission, members of the Commission
who are Members of Congress shall receive
no additional pay by reason of their service
on the Commission.’’; and
(4) in subsection (k)(2)—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘120
day period’’ and inserting ‘‘16 month period
with no further extensions permitted’’;
(B) by amending subparagraph (B) to read
as follows:
‘‘(B) The Commission may use the 16
month period referred to in subparagraph (A)
for the purposes of—
‘‘(i) collecting and assessing comments and
feedback from the Federal departments and
agencies, as well as published reviews, on the
analysis and recommendations contained in
the final report under paragraph (1);
‘‘(ii) collecting and assessing any develop-
ments in cybersecurity that may affect the
recommendations in such report;
‘‘(iii) reviewing the implementation of the
recommendations contained in such report;
and
‘‘(iv) revising or amending recommenda-
tions based on the assessments and reviews
conducted under clauses (i) through (iii);
‘‘(C) During the 16 month period referred to
in subparagraph (A), the Commission shall—
‘‘(i) provide, in such manner and format as
the Commission considers appropriate, an
annual update on such report and any revi-
sions or amendments reached by the Com-
mission under subparagraph (B)(iv) to—
‘‘(I) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Select Committee on Intelligence, and the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs of the Senate;
‘‘(II) the Committee on Armed Services,
the Permanent Select Committee on Intel-
ligence, and the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity of the House of Representatives;
‘‘(III) the Director of National Intelligence;
‘‘(IV) the Secretary of Defense; and
‘‘(V) the Secretary of Homeland Security;
and
‘‘(ii) conclude its activities, including pro-
viding testimony to Congress concerning the
final report under paragraph (1) and dissemi-
nating such report.’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(D) In the event that the Commission is
extended, and the effective date of the exten-
sion comes after the time set for the Com-
mission’s termination, the Commission shall
be deemed reconstituted with the same
members and powers that existed at the time
of termination of the Commission, except
that—
‘‘(i) a member of the Commission shall
only serve if the member’s position con-
tinues to be authorized under subsection (b);
‘‘(ii) no compensation or entitlements re-
lating to a person’s status with the Commis-
sion shall be due for the period between the
termination and reconstitution of the Com-
mission;
‘‘(iii) nothing in this paragraph shall be
deemed as requiring the extension or reem-
ployment of any staff member or contractor
working for the Commission;
‘‘(iv) the staff of the commission—
‘‘(I) shall be selected by the co-chairs of
the Commission in accordance with sub-
section (h)(1);
‘‘(II) shall be comprised of not more than
four individuals, including a staff director;
‘‘(III) shall be resourced in accordance with
subsection (g)(4)(A); and
‘‘(IV) with the approval of the co-chairs,
may be provided by contract with a non-
governmental organization;
‘‘(v) any unexpended funds made available
for the use of the Commission shall continue
to be available for use for the life of the
Commission, as well as any additional funds
appropriated to the Department of Defense
that are made available to the Commission,
provided that the total such funds does not
exceed $1,000,000 from the reconstitution of
the Commission to the completion of the
Commission; and
‘‘(vi) the requirement for an annual assess-
ment of the final report in subsection (l)
shall be in effect until the termination of the
Commission.’’.
SEC. 1625. REVIEW OF REGULATIONS AND PRO-
MULGATION OF GUIDANCE RELAT-
ING TO NATIONAL GUARD RE-
SPONSES TO CYBER ATTACKS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than December
31, 2021, the Secretary of Defense, in coordi-
nation with the Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity, shall—
(1) review and, if the Secretary determines
necessary, update regulations promulgated
under section 903 of title 32, United States
Code, to clarify when and under what condi-
tions the participation of the National Guard
in a response to a cyber attack qualifies as a
homeland defense activity that would be
compensated for by the Secretary of Defense
under section 902 of such title; and
(2) promulgate guidance on how units of
the National Guard shall collaborate with
the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Secu-
rity Agency and the Federal Bureau of Inves-
tigation through multi-agency task forces,
information-sharing groups, incident re-
sponse planning and exercises, State fusion
centers, and other relevant forums and ac-
tivities.
(b) ANNEX OF NATIONAL CYBER INCIDENT RE-
SPONSE PLAN.—Not later than December 31,
2021, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in
coordination with the Secretary of Defense,
shall develop an annex to the National Cyber
Incident Response Plan that details those
regulations and guidance reviewed, updated,
and promulgated under paragraphs (1) and (2)
of subsection (a).
SEC. 1626. IMPROVEMENTS RELATING TO THE
QUADRENNIAL CYBER POSTURE RE-
VIEW.
Section 1644(c) of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public
Law 115–91), as amended by section 1635 of
the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92), is fur-
ther amended—
(1) by amending paragraph (1) to read as
follows:
‘‘(1) The assessment and definition of the
role of cyber forces in the national defense
and military strategies of the United
States.’’;
(2) by amending paragraph (2) to read as
follows:
‘‘(2) Review of the following:
‘‘(A) The role of cyber operations in com-
batant commander warfighting plans.
‘‘(B) The ability of combatant commanders
to respond to adversary cyber attacks.
‘‘(C) The cyber capacity-building programs
of the Department.’’;
(3) by amending paragraph (3) to read as
follows:
‘‘(3) A review of the law, policies, and au-
thorities relating to, and necessary for, the
United States to maintain a safe, reliable,
and credible cyber posture for defending
against and responding to cyber attacks and
for deterrence in cyberspace, including the
following:
‘‘(A) An assessment of the need for further
delegation of cyber-related authorities, in-
cluding those germane to information war-
fare, to the Commander of United States
Cyber Command.
‘‘(B) An evaluation of the adequacy of mis-
sion authorities for all cyber-related mili-
tary components, defense agencies, direc-
torates, centers, and commands.’’;
(4) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘A declara-
tory’’ and inserting ‘‘A review of the need for
or for updates to a declaratory’’;
(5) in paragraph (5), by striking ‘‘Pro-
posed’’ and inserting ‘‘A review of’’;
(6) by amending paragraph (6) to read as
follows:
‘‘(6) A review of a strategy to deter, de-
grade, or defeat malicious cyber activity tar-
geting the United States (which may include
activities, capability development, and oper-
ations other than cyber activities, cyber ca-
pability development, and cyber operations),
including—
‘‘(A) a review and assessment of various
approaches to competition and deterrence in
cyberspace, determined in consultation with
experts from Government, academia, and in-
dustry;
‘‘(B) a comparison of the strengths and
weaknesses of the approaches identified pur-
suant to subparagraph (A) relative to the
threat of each other; and
‘‘(C) an assessment as to how the cyber
strategy will inform country-specific cam-
paign plans focused on key leadership of Rus-
sia, China, Iran, North Korea, and any other
country the Secretary considers appro-
priate.’’;
(7) by striking paragraph (8) and inserting
the following new paragraph (8):
‘‘(8) A comprehensive force structure as-
sessment of the Cyber Operations Forces of
the Department for the posture review pe-
riod, including the following:
‘‘(A) A determination of the appropriate
size and composition of the Cyber Mission
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00157 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6844 November 16, 2020
Forces to accomplish the mission require-
ments of the Department.
‘‘(B) An assessment of the Cyber Mission
Forces’ personnel, capabilities, equipment,
funding, operational concepts, and ability to
execute cyber operations in a timely fashion.
‘‘(C) An assessment of the personnel, capa-
bilities, equipment, funding, and operational
concepts of Cybersecurity Service Providers
and other elements of the Cyber Operations
Forces.’’;
(8) by redesignating paragraphs (9) through
(11) as subsections (12) through (15), respec-
tively; and
(9) by inserting after paragraph (8), the fol-
lowing new paragraphs:
‘‘(9) An assessment of whether the Cyber
Mission Force has the appropriate level of
interoperability, integration, and inter-
dependence with special operations and con-
ventional forces.
‘‘(10) An evaluation of the adequacy of mis-
sion authorities for the Joint Force Provider
and Joint Force Trainer responsibilities of
United States Cyber Command, including the
adequacy of the units designated as Cyber
Operations Forces to support such respon-
sibilities.
‘‘(11) An assessment of the missions and
resourcing of the combat support agencies in
support of cyber missions of the Depart-
ment.’’.
SEC. 1627. REPORT ON ENABLING UNITED
STATES CYBER COMMAND RE-
SOURCE ALLOCATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than January
15, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall sub-
mit to the congressional defense committees
a report detailing the actions the Secretary
will undertake to implement clauses (ii) and
(iii) of section 167b(d)(2) of title 10, United
States Code, including actions to ensure that
the Commander of United States Cyber Com-
mand has enhanced authority, direction, and
control of the Cyber Operations Forces and
the equipment budget that enables Cyber Op-
erations Forces’ operations and readiness,
beginning with the budget to be submitted to
Congress by the President under section
1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, for fis-
cal year 2024, and the budget justification
materials for the Department of Defense to
be submitted to Congress in support of such
budget.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall address the following items:
(1) The procedures by which the Principal
Cyber Advisor (PCA) will exercise authority,
direction, and oversight over the Commander
of United States Cyber Command, with re-
spect to Cyber Operations Forces-peculiar
equipment and resources.
(2) The procedures by which the Com-
mander of United States Cyber Command
will—
(A) prepare and submit to the Secretary
program recommendations and budget pro-
posals for Cyber Operations Forces and for
other forces assigned to the Cyber Command;
and
(B) exercise authority, direction, and con-
trol over the expenditure of funds for—
(i) forces assigned to United States Cyber
Command; and
(ii) Cyber Operations Forces assigned to
other unified combatant commands.
(3) Recommendations for actions to enable
the Commander of United States Cyber Com-
mand to execute the budget and acquisition
responsibilities of the Commander in excess
of currently imposed limits on the Cyber Op-
erations Procurement Fund, including poten-
tial increases in personnel to support the
Commander.
(4) The procedures by which the Secretary
will categorize and track funding obligated
or expended for Cyber Operations Forces-pe-
culiar equipment and capabilities.
(5) The methodology and criteria by which
the Secretary will characterize equipment as
being Cyber Operations Forces-peculiar.
SEC. 1628. EVALUATION OF OPTIONS FOR ESTAB-
LISHING A CYBER RESERVE FORCE.
(a) EVALUATION REQUIRED.—Not later than
December 31, 2021, the Secretary of Defense
shall conduct an evaluation of options for es-
tablishing a cyber reserve force.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The evaluation conducted
under subsection (a) shall include assessment
of the following:
(1) The capabilities and deficiencies in
military and civilian personnel with needed
cybersecurity expertise, and the quantity of
personnel with such expertise, within the De-
partment.
(2) The potential for a uniformed, civilian,
or mixed cyber reserve force to remedy
shortfalls in expertise and capacity.
(3) The ability of the Department to at-
tract the personnel with the desired exper-
tise to either a uniformed or civilian cyber
reserve force.
(4) The number of personnel, the level of
funding, and the composition of a cyber re-
serve force that would be required to meet
the needs of the Department.
(5) Alternative models for establishing a
cyber reserve force, including the following:
(A) A traditional uniformed military re-
serve component.
(B) A nontraditional uniformed military
reserve component, with respect to drilling
and other requirements such as grooming
and physical fitness.
(C) Nontraditional civilian cyber reserve
options.
(6) The impact a uniformed military cyber
reserve would have on active duty and exist-
ing reserve forces, including the following:
(A) Recruiting.
(B) Promotion.
(C) Retention.
(7) The effect a civilian cyber reserve
would have on active duty and existing re-
serve forces, and the private sector.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than February 1,
2022, the Secretary shall submit to the con-
gressional defense committees a report on
the evaluation conducted under subsection
(a).
SEC. 1629. ENSURING CYBER RESILIENCY OF NU-
CLEAR COMMAND AND CONTROL
SYSTEM.
(a) PLAN FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF FINDINGS
AND RECOMMENDATIONS FROM FIRST ANNUAL
ASSESSMENT OF CYBER RESILIENCY OF NU-
CLEAR COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEM.—Not
later than October 1, 2021, the Secretary of
Defense shall submit to the congressional de-
fense committees a comprehensive plan, in-
cluding a schedule and resourcing plan, for
the implementation of the findings and rec-
ommendations included in the first report
submitted under section 499(c)(3) of title 10,
United States Code.
(b) CONCEPT OF OPERATIONS AND OVERSIGHT
MECHANISM FOR CYBER DEFENSE OF NUCLEAR
COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEM.—Not later
than October 1, 2021, the Secretary shall de-
velop and establish—
(1) a concept of operations for defending
the nuclear command and control system
against cyber attacks, including specifica-
tion of the—
(A) roles and responsibilities of relevant
entities within the Office of the Secretary,
the military services, combatant commands,
the Defense Agencies, and the Department of
Defense Field Activities; and
(B) cybersecurity capabilities to be ac-
quired and employed and operational tactics,
techniques, and procedures, including cyber
protection team and sensor deployment
strategies, to be used to monitor, defend, and
mitigate vulnerabilities in nuclear command
and control systems; and
(2) an oversight mechanism or governance
model for overseeing the implementation of
the concept of operations developed and es-
tablished under paragraph (1), related devel-
opment, systems engineering, and acquisi-
tion activities and programs, and the plan
required by subsection (a), including speci-
fication of the—
(A) roles and responsibilities of relevant
entities within the Office of the Secretary,
the military services, combatant commands,
the Defense Agencies, and the Department of
Defense Field Activities in overseeing the
defense of the nuclear command and control
system against cyber attacks;
(B) responsibilities and authorities of the
Strategic Cybersecurity Program in over-
seeing and, as appropriate, executing—
(i) vulnerability assessments; and
(ii) development, systems engineering, and
acquisition activities; and
(C) processes for coordination of activities,
policies, and programs relating to the cyber-
security and defense of the nuclear command
and control system.
SEC. 1630. MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS
RELATING TO THE STRATEGIC CY-
BERSECURITY PROGRAM AND THE
EVALUATION OF CYBER
VULNERABILITIES OF MAJOR WEAP-
ON SYSTEMS OF THE DEPARTMENT
OF DEFENSE.
(a) EVALUATION OF CYBER VULNERABILITIES
OF MAJOR WEAPON SYSTEMS OF THE DEPART-
MENT OF DEFENSE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1647 of the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2016 (Public Law 114–92), as amended by
section 1633 of the National Defense Author-
ization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law
116–92), is further amended by adding at the
end the following new subsection:
‘‘(i) ESTABLISHING REQUIREMENTS FOR PERI-
ODICITY OF VULNERABILITY REVIEWS.—The
Secretary of Defense shall establish policies
and requirements for each major weapon sys-
tem, and the priority critical infrastructure
essential to the proper functioning of major
weapon systems in broader mission areas, to
be re-assessed for cyber vulnerabilities, tak-
ing into account upgrades or other modifica-
tions to systems and changes in the threat.
‘‘(j) IDENTIFICATION OF SENIOR OFFICIAL.—
Each secretary of a military department
shall identify a senior official who shall be
responsible for ensuring that cyber vulner-
ability assessments and mitigations for
weapon systems and critical infrastructure
are planned, funded, and carried out.’’.
(2) TECHNICAL CORRECTION.—Such section
1647 of the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2016 is further amended—
(A) by redesignating subsection (g) as sub-
section (h); and
(B) by redesignating the second subsection
(f), as added by section 1633 of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2020, as subsection (g).
(b) STRATEGIC CYBERSECURITY PROGRAM.—
Section 1640 of the National Defense Author-
ization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law
115–91; 10 U.S.C. 2224 note), is amended by
striking subsections (a) through (e) and in-
serting the following new subsections:
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than August 1,
2021, the Secretary of Defense shall, acting
through the Director of the National Secu-
rity Agency and in coordination with the
Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
establish a program to be known as the
‘Strategic Cybersecurity Program’ (in this
section referred to as the ‘Program’).
‘‘(b) ELEMENTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Program shall be
comprised of personnel assigned to the Pro-
gram by the Secretary from among per-
sonnel, including regular and reserve mem-
bers of the Armed Forces, civilian employees
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00158 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6845
November 16, 2020
of the Department of Defense (including the
Defense intelligence agencies), and personnel
of the research laboratories of the Depart-
ment of Defense and the Department of En-
ergy, who have particular expertise in the
areas of responsibility described in sub-
section (c).
‘‘(2) DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY PERSONNEL.—
Any personnel assigned to the Program from
among personnel of the Department of En-
ergy shall be so assigned with the concur-
rence of the Secretary of Energy.
‘‘(3) PROGRAM MANAGER.—The Secretary of
Defense shall designate a manager for the
Program (in this section referred to as the
‘Program manager’).
‘‘(c) RESPONSIBILITIES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Program manager
and the personnel assigned to the Program
shall improve the end-to-end cybersecurity
of all of the systems, critical infrastructure,
kill chains, and processes that make up the
following military missions of the Depart-
ment of Defense:
‘‘(A) Nuclear deterrence and strike.
‘‘(B) Select long-range conventional strike
missions germane to the warfighting plans of
United States European Command and
United States Indo-Pacific Command.
‘‘(C) Offensive cyber operations.
‘‘(D) Homeland missile defense.
‘‘(2) ASSESSING AND REMEDIATING
VULNERABILITIES IN MISSION EXECUTION.—In
carrying out the activities described in para-
graph (1), the Program manager shall con-
duct end-to-end vulnerability assessments
and undertake or oversee remediation of
identified vulnerabilities in the systems and
processes on which the successful execution
of the missions delineated in paragraph (1)
depend.
‘‘(3) ACQUISITION AND SYSTEMS ENGINEERING
REVIEW.—In carrying out paragraph (1), the
Program manager shall conduct appropriate
reviews of acquisition and systems engineer-
ing plans for proposed systems and infra-
structure. The review of an acquisition plan
for any proposed system or infrastructure
shall be carried out before Milestone B ap-
proval for such system or infrastructure.
‘‘(d) INTEGRATION WITH OTHER EFFORTS.—
The Secretary shall ensure that the Program
builds upon, and does not duplicate, other ef-
forts of the Department of Defense relating
to cybersecurity, including the following:
‘‘(1) The evaluation of cyber vulnerabilities
of major weapon systems of the Department
of Defense required under section 1647 of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2016 (Public Law 114–92).
‘‘(2) The evaluation of cyber vulnerabilities
of Department of Defense critical infrastruc-
ture required under section 1650 of the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
year 2017 (Public Law 114–328; 10 U.S.C. 2224
note).
‘‘(3) The activities of the cyber protection
teams of the Department of Defense.
‘‘(e) MISSION DEFINITION.—The Vice Chair-
man of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall coordi-
nate with the Director of the National Secu-
rity Agency and the commanders of the uni-
fied combatant commands to define the ele-
ments of the missions that will be included
in the Program, and shall be responsible for
updating those definitions as necessary.
‘‘(f) BRIEFING.—Not later than December 1,
2021, the Secretary of Defense shall provide a
briefing to the congressional defense com-
mittees on the establishment of the Pro-
gram, and the plans, funding, and staffing of
the Program.’’.
SEC. 1631. DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE PARTICI-
PATION IN A CYBERSECURITY
THREAT INTELLIGENCE SHARING
PROGRAM.
(a) DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE THREAT IN-
TELLIGENCE PROGRAM.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense
shall establish a threat intelligence sharing
program to share threat intelligence with,
and obtain threat intelligence from, the de-
fense industrial base.
(2) PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS.—At a min-
imum, the Secretary shall ensure that the
program established pursuant to paragraph
(1) includes the following:
(A) Cybersecurity incident reporting re-
quirements applicable to the defense indus-
trial base that—
(i) extend beyond mandatory incident re-
porting requirements in effect on the day be-
fore the date of the enactment of this Act;
(ii) set specific timeframes for all cat-
egories of incident reporting;
(iii) establishes a single clearinghouse for
all mandatory incident reporting to the De-
partment of Defense, including incidents in-
volving covered unclassified information,
and classified information; and
(iv) provide that, unless authorized or re-
quired by another provision of law or the ele-
ment of the defense industrial base making
the report consents, nonpublic information
of which the Department becomes aware
only because of a report provided pursuant
to the program shall be disseminated and
used only for a cybersecurity purpose, as de-
fined in section 102 of the Cybersecurity In-
formation Sharing Act of 2015 (6 U.S.C. 1501).
(B) A mechanism for developing a shared
and real-time picture of the threat environ-
ment.
(C) Joint, collaborative, and co-located
analytics.
(D) Investments in technology and capa-
bilities to support automated detection and
analysis across the defense industrial base.
(E) Coordinated intelligence tipping, shar-
ing, and deconfliction, as necessary, with rel-
evant government agencies with similar in-
telligence sharing programs.
(b) THREAT INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM PAR-
TICIPATION.—
(1) PROCUREMENT.—The Secretary either
may require or shall encourage and provide
incentive for companies to participate in the
threat intelligence sharing program required
by subsection (a).
(2) IMPLEMENTATION.—In implementing
paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
(A) create tiers of requirements for partici-
pation within the program based on—
(i) the role of and relative threats related
to entities within the defense industrial
base; and
(ii) Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certifi-
cation level; and
(B) prioritize available funding and tech-
nical support to assist affected businesses,
institutions, and organizations as is reason-
ably necessary for those affected entities to
commence participation in the threat intel-
ligence sharing program and to meet any ap-
plicable program requirements.
(c) EXISTING INFORMATION SHARING PRO-
GRAMS.—The Secretary may utilize an exist-
ing Department information sharing pro-
gram to satisfy the requirement in sub-
section (a) if—
(1) the existing program includes, or is
modified to include, two-way sharing of
threat information that is specifically rel-
evant to the defense industrial base; and
(2) such a program is coordinated with
other government agencies with existing in-
telligence sharing programs where overlap
occurs.
(d) REGULATIONS.—
(1) RULEMAKING AUTHORITY.—Not later
than December 15, 2021, the Secretary shall
promulgate such rules and regulations as are
necessary to carry out this section.
(2) CYBERSECURITY MATURITY MODEL CER-
TIFICATION PROGRAM HARMONIZATION.—The
Secretary shall ensure that any intelligence
sharing requirements set forth in the rules
and regulations promulgated pursuant to
paragraph (1) consider an entity’s maturity
and role within the defense industrial base,
consistent with the maturity certification
levels established in the Cybersecurity Ma-
turity Model Certification program of the
Department.
(e) COMMUNITY CONSENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As part of the program es-
tablished pursuant to subsection (a), the Sec-
retary either may require through contrac-
tual mechanisms or shall encourage entities
in the defense industrial base to consent to
queries of foreign intelligence collection
databases related to the entities, provided
that intelligence information provided to
companies is handled in a manner that pro-
tects sources and methods.
(2) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this
subsection shall be construed to require that
the elements of the intelligence community
conduct queries on defense industrial base
companies to detect cybersecurity threats to
such companies or to require that informa-
tion resulting from such queries be provided
to such companies.
(f) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than
March 1, 2022, the Secretary shall submit to
the congressional defense committees a re-
port that includes a description of—
(1) mandatory requirements levied on de-
fense industrial base entities regarding cyber
incidents;
(2) Department procedures for ensuring the
confidentiality and security of data provided
by such entities to the Department on either
a voluntary or mandatory basis; and
(3) any other matters regarding the pro-
gram established under subsection (a) the
Secretary considers significant.
(g) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) The term ‘‘defense industrial base’’
means the Department of Defense, Federal
Government, and private sector worldwide
industrial complex with capabilities to per-
form research and development, design,
produce, and maintain military weapon sys-
tems, subsystems, components, or parts to
satisfy military requirements.
(2) The term ‘‘intelligence community’’
has the meaning given such term in section
3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50
U.S.C. 3003).
(3) The term ‘‘threat intelligence’’ means
cybersecurity information collected and
shared amongst the defense industrial base.
SEC. 1632. ASSESSMENT ON DEFENSE INDUS-
TRIAL BASE CYBERSECURITY
THREAT HUNTING.
(a) ASSESSMENT REQUIRED.—Not later than
December 1, 2021, the Secretary of Defense
shall complete an assessment of—
(1) the adequacy of the threat hunting ele-
ments of the compliance-based Cybersecu-
rity Maturity Model Certification program
of the Department of Defense; and
(2) the need for continuous threat hunting
operations on defense industrial base net-
works conducted by the Department of De-
fense, prime contractors, or third-party cy-
bersecurity vendors.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The assessment completed
under section (a) shall include evaluation of
the following:
(1) The adequacy of the requirements at
each level of the Cybersecurity Maturity
Model Certification, including requirements
germane to continuous monitoring, dis-
covery, and investigation of anomalous ac-
tivity indicative of a cybersecurity incident.
(2) The need for the establishment of a con-
tinuous threat-hunting operational model, as
a supplement to the cyber hygiene require-
ments of the Cybersecurity Maturity Model
Certification, in which network activity is
comprehensively and continuously mon-
itored for signs of compromise.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00159 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6846 November 16, 2020
(3) Whether the continuous threat-hunting
operations described in paragraph (2) should
be conducted by—
(A) United States Cyber Command;
(B) a component of the Department of De-
fense other than United States Cyber Com-
mand;
(C) qualified prime contractors or sub-
contractors;
(D) accredited third-party cybersecurity
vendors; or
(E) a combination of the entities specified
in subparagraphs (A) through (D).
(4) Criteria for the prime contractors and
subcontractors that should be subject to con-
tinuous threat-hunting operations as de-
scribed in paragraph (2).
(c) BRIEFING.—Not later than February 1,
2022, the Secretary of Defense shall provide a
briefing to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices of the Senate and the Committee on
Armed Services of the House of Representa-
tives on—
(1) the findings of the Secretary with re-
spect to the assessment completed under
subsection (a); and
(2) such implementation plans as the Sec-
retary may have arising out of the findings
described in paragraph (1).
SEC. 1633. ASSESSING RISK TO NATIONAL SECU-
RITY OF QUANTUM COMPUTING.
(a) COMPREHENSIVE ASSESSMENT AND REC-
OMMENDATIONS REQUIRED.—Not later than
December 31, 2022, the Secretary of Defense
shall—
(1) complete a comprehensive assessment
of the current and potential threats and
risks posed by quantum computing tech-
nologies to critical national security sys-
tems, including—
(A) identification and prioritization of
critical national security systems at risk;
(B) assessment of the standards of the Na-
tional Institute of Standards and Technology
for quantum resistant cryptography and
their applicability to cryptographic require-
ments of the Department of Defense;
(C) feasibility of alternative quantum re-
sistant algorithms and features; and
(D) funding shortfalls in public and private
developmental efforts relating to quantum
resistant cryptography; and
(2) develop recommendations for research,
development, and acquisition activities, in-
cluding resourcing schedules, for securing
the national security systems identified in
paragraph (1)(A) against quantum computing
code-breaking capabilities.
(b) BRIEFING.—Not later than February 1,
2023, the Secretary shall brief the congres-
sional defense committees on the assessment
completed under paragraph (1) of subsection
(a) and the recommendations developed
under paragraph (2) of such subsection.
SEC. 1634. APPLICABILITY OF REORIENTATION
OF BIG DATA PLATFORM PROGRAM
TO DEPARTMENT OF NAVY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1651 of the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92) is amended by
adding at the end the following new sub-
section:
‘‘(e) APPLICABILITY.—The requirements of
this section shall apply in full to the Depart-
ment of the Navy, including the Sharkcage
and associated programs.’’.
(b) BRIEFING.—Not later than January 1,
2021, the Secretary of the Navy, the program
manager of the Unified Platform program,
the Chief Information Officer, and the Prin-
cipal Cyber Advisor shall jointly brief the
congressional defense committees on the
compliance of the Department of the Navy
with the requirements of such section, as
amended by paragraph (1).
SEC. 1635. EXPANSION OF AUTHORITY FOR AC-
CESS AND INFORMATION RELATING
TO CYBER ATTACKS ON OPERATION-
ALLY CRITICAL CONTRACTORS OF
THE ARMED FORCES.
Section 391(c) of title 10, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) by amending paragraph (3) to read as
follows:
‘‘(3) ARMED FORCES ASSISTANCE AND ACCESS
TO EQUIPMENT AND INFORMATION BY MEMBERS
OF THE ARMED FORCES.—The procedures es-
tablished pursuant to subsection (a) shall—
‘‘(A) include mechanisms for a member of
the armed forces—
‘‘(i) if requested by an operationally crit-
ical contractor, to assist the contractor in
detecting and mitigating penetrations; or
‘‘(ii) at the request of the Secretary of De-
fense or the Commandant of the Coast
Guard, to obtain access to equipment or in-
formation of an operationally critical con-
tractor necessary to conduct a forensic anal-
ysis, in addition to any analysis conducted
by the contractor; and
‘‘(B) provide that an operationally critical
contractor is only required to provide access
to equipment or information as described in
subparagraph (A) to determine whether—
‘‘(i) information created by or for the
armed forces in connection with any pro-
gram of the armed forces was successfully
exfiltrated from or compromised on a net-
work or information system of such con-
tractor and, if so, what information was
exfiltrated or compromised; or
‘‘(ii) the ability of the contractor to pro-
vide operationally critical support has been
affected and, if so, how and to what extent it
has been affected.’’;
(2) in paragraph (4), by inserting ‘‘, so as to
minimize delays in or any curtailing of the
cyber response or defensive actions of the
Department or the Coast Guard’’ after ‘‘spe-
cific person’’; and
(3) in paragraph (5)(C), by inserting ‘‘or
counterintelligence activities’’ after ‘‘inves-
tigations’’.
SEC. 1636. REQUIREMENTS FOR REVIEW OF AND
LIMITATIONS ON THE JOINT RE-
GIONAL SECURITY STACKS ACTIV-
ITY.
(a) BASELINE REVIEW.—Not later than Oc-
tober 1, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall
undertake a baseline review of the Joint Re-
gional Security Stacks (JRSS) to determine
whether the activity—
(1) should proceed as a program of record,
with modifications as specified in section (b),
for exclusively the Non-Classified Internet
Protocol Network (NIPRNET) or for such
network and the Secret Internet Protocol
Network (SIPRNET); or
(2) should be phased out across the Depart-
ment of Defense with each of the Joint Re-
gional Security Stacks replaced through the
institution of cost-effective and capable net-
working and cybersecurity technologies, ar-
chitectures, and operational concepts within
five years of the date of the enactment of
this Act.
(b) PLAN TO TRANSITION TO PROGRAM OF
RECORD.—If the Secretary determines under
subsection (a) that the Joint Regional Secu-
rity Stacks activity should proceed, not
later than October 1, 2021, the Secretary
shall develop a plan to transition such activ-
ity to a program of record, governed by
standard Department of Defense acquisition
program requirements and practices, includ-
ing the following:
(1) Baseline operational requirements doc-
umentation.
(2) An acquisition strategy and baseline.
(3) A program office and responsible pro-
gram manager, under the oversight of the
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition
and Sustainment and the Chief Information
Officer of the Department of Defense, respon-
sible for pertinent doctrine, organization,
training, materiel, leadership and education,
personnel, facilities and policy matters, and
the development of effective tactics, tech-
niques, and procedures;
(4) manning and training requirements
documentation; and
(5) operational test planning.
(c) LIMITATIONS.—
(1) LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS.—None of
the funds authorized to be appropriated by
this Act may be used to field Joint Regional
Security Stacks on the Secret Internet Pro-
tocol Network in fiscal year 2021.
(2) LIMITATION ON OPERATIONAL DEPLOY-
MENT.—The Secretary may not conduct an
operational deployment of Joint Regional
Security Stacks to the Secret Internet Pro-
tocol Network in fiscal year 2021.
(d) SUBMITTAL TO CONGRESS.—Not later
than December 1, 2021, the Secretary shall
submit to the congressional defense commit-
tees—
(1) the findings of the Secretary with re-
spect to the baseline review conducted under
subsection (a);
(2) the plan developed under subsection (b),
if any; and
(3) a proposal for the replacement of Joint
Regional Security Stacks, if the Secretary
determines under subsection (a) that it
should be replaced.
SEC. 1637. INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT OF ES-
TABLISHMENT OF A NATIONAL
CYBER DIRECTOR.
(a) ASSESSMENT.—Not later than December
1, 2020, the Secretary of Defense, in coordina-
tion with the Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity, shall seek to enter into an agreement
with an independent organization with rel-
evant expertise in cyber policy and govern-
mental organization to conduct and com-
plete an assessment of the feasibility and ad-
visability of establishing a National Cyber
Director.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The assessment required
under subsection (a) shall include a review of
and development of recommendations ger-
mane to the following, including the devel-
opment of proposed legislative text for the
establishment of a National Cyber Director:
(1) The authorities necessary to bring ca-
pabilities and capacities together across the
interagency, all levels of government, and
the private sector.
(2) A definition of the roles of the National
Cyber Director in planning, preparing, and
directing integrated cyber operations in re-
sponse to a major cyber attack on the United
States, including intelligence operations,
law enforcement actions, cyber effects oper-
ations, defensive operations, and incident re-
sponse operations.
(3) The authorities necessary to align re-
sources to cyber priorities.
(4) The structure of the office of the Na-
tional Cyber Director and position within
government.
(c) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than March 1,
2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit
to the appropriate committees of Congress a
report on—
(A) the findings of the independent organi-
zation with respect to the assessment carried
out under subsection (a); and
(B) the recommendations developed as part
of such assessment under subsection (b).
(2) FORM.—The report submitted under
paragraph (1) shall be submitted in a pub-
licly releasable and unclassified format, but
may include a classified annex.
(d) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS
DEFINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘appro-
priate committees of Congress’’ means—
(1) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00160 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6847
November 16, 2020
(2) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Homeland Security of the
House of Representatives.
SEC. 1638. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO USE
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
FUNDS FOR CYBER OPERATIONS-PE-
CULIAR CAPABILITY DEVELOPMENT
PROJECTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1640 of the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92) is amended—
(1) by redsignating subsections (b) and (c)
as subsections (c) and (d), respectively;
(2) in subsection (a)—
(A) by striking ‘‘The Secretary of Defense’’
and inserting ‘‘Subject to subsection (b), the
Commander of the United States Cyber Com-
mand’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘per service’’ and inserting
‘‘per use’’; and
(C) by striking ‘‘through 2022’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘through 2025’’; and
(3) by inserting after subsection (a) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(b) LIMITATION.—(1) Each fiscal year, the
Secretaries of the military departments con-
cerned may each obligate and expend under
subsection (a) not more than $20,000,000.
‘‘(2) Each fiscal year, the Commander of
the United States Cyber Command may obli-
gate and expend under subsection (a) not
more than $6,000,000.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Subsection
(c) of such section is amended by striking
‘‘through 2022’’ and inserting ‘‘through 2025’’.
SEC. 1639. PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT AUTHOR-
ITY FOR COMMANDER OF UNITED
STATES CYBER COMMAND AND DE-
VELOPMENT PROGRAM FOR OFFEN-
SIVE CYBER OPERATIONS.
(a) PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY
FOR COMMANDER OF UNITED STATES CYBER
COMMAND TO ATTRACT EXPERTS IN SCIENCE
AND ENGINEERING.—Section 1599h of title 10,
United States Code, as amended by section
212 of National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92)), is
further amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(7) UNITED STATES CYBER COMMAND.—The
Commander of United States Cyber Com-
mand may carry out a program of personnel
management authority provided in sub-
section (b) in order to facilitate the recruit-
ment of eminent experts in computer
science, data science, engineering, mathe-
matics, and computer network exploitation
within the headquarters of United States
Cyber Command and the Cyber National Mis-
sion Force.’’; and
(2) in subsection (b)(1)—
(A) in subparagraph (E), by striking ‘‘;
and’’ and inserting a semicolon;
(B) in subparagraph (F), by striking the
semicolon and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(G) in the case of United States Cyber
Command, appoint computer scientists, data
scientists, engineers, mathematicians, and
computer network exploitation specialists to
a total of not more than 10 scientific and en-
gineering positions in the Command;’’.
(b) PROGRAM TO DEVELOP ACCESSES, DIS-
COVER VULNERABILITIES, AND ENGINEER
CYBER TOOLS AND DEVELOP TACTICS, TECH-
NIQUES, AND PROCEDURES FOR OFFENSIVE
CYBER OPERATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Pursuant to the authority
provided under section 1599h(a)(7) of such
title, as added by subsection (a), the Com-
mander of United States Cyber Command
shall establish a program or augment an ex-
isting program within the Command to de-
velop accesses, discover vulnerabilities, and
engineer cyber tools and develop tactics,
techniques, and procedures for the use of
these assets and capabilities in offensive
cyber operations.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The program or augmented
program required by paragraph (1) shall—
(A) develop accesses, tools, vulnerabilities,
and tactics, techniques, and procedures fit
for Department of Defense military oper-
ations in cyberspace, such as reliability,
meeting short development and operational
timelines, low cost, and expendability;
(B) aim to decrease the reliance of Cyber
Command on accesses, tools, and expertise
provided by the intelligence community;
(C) be designed to provide technical and
operational expertise on par with that of
programs of the intelligence community;
(D) enable the Commander to attract and
retain expertise resident in the private sec-
tor and other technologically elite govern-
ment organizations; and
(E) coordinate development activities
with, and, as appropriate, facilitate transi-
tion of capabilities from, the Defense Ad-
vanced Research Projects Agency, the Stra-
tegic Capabilities Office, and components
within the intelligence community.
(3) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY DEFINED.—In
this subsection, the term ‘‘intelligence com-
munity’’ has the meaning given such term in
section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947
(50 U.S.C. 3003).
SEC. 1640. IMPLEMENTATION OF INFORMATION
OPERATIONS MATTERS.
Of the amounts authorized to be appro-
priated for fiscal year 2021 by section 301 for
operation and maintenance and available for
the Office of the Secretary of Defense for the
travel of persons as specified in the table in
section 4301—
(1) not more than 25 percent shall be avail-
able until the date on which the report re-
quired by subsection (h)(1) of section 1631 of
the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92) is sub-
mitted to the Committee on Armed Services
of the Senate and the Committee on Armed
Services House of Representatives; and
(2) not more than 75 percent shall be avail-
able until the date on which the strategy and
posture review required by subsection (g) of
such section is submitted to such commit-
tees.
SEC. 1641. REPORT ON CYBER INSTITUTES PRO-
GRAM.
Section 1640 of the John S. McCain Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232; 132 Stat. 2310;
10 U.S.C. 2200 note) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(g) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than
September 30, 2021, the Secretary of Defense
shall submit to the Committees on Armed
Services of the Senate and the House of Rep-
resentatives a report on the effectiveness of
the Cyber Institutes and on opportunities to
expand the Cyber Institutes to additional se-
lect institutions of higher learning that have
a Reserve Officers’ Training Corps pro-
gram.’’.
SEC. 1642. ASSISTANCE FOR SMALL MANUFAC-
TURERS IN THE DEFENSE INDUS-
TRIAL SUPPLY CHAIN ON MATTERS
RELATING TO CYBERSECURITY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the avail-
ability of appropriations, the Secretary of
Defense, in consultation with the Director of
the National Institute of Standards and
Technology, may award financial assistance
to a Center for the purpose of providing cy-
bersecurity services to small manufacturers.
(b) CRITERIA.—The Secretary, in consulta-
tion with the Director, shall establish and
publish on the grants.gov website, or suc-
cessor website, criteria for selecting recipi-
ents for financial assistance under this sec-
tion.
(c) USE OF FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE.—Finan-
cial assistance under this section—
(1) shall be used by a Center to provide
small manufacturers with cybersecurity
services relating to—
(A) compliance with the cybersecurity re-
quirements of the Department of Defense
Supplement to the Federal Acquisition Reg-
ulation, including awareness, assessment,
evaluation, preparation, and implementation
of cybersecurity services; and
(B) achieving compliance with the Cyberse-
curity Maturity Model Certification frame-
work of the Department of Defense; and
(2) may be used by a Center to employ
trained personnel to deliver cybersecurity
services to small manufacturers.
(d) BIENNIAL REPORTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not less frequently than
once every two years, the Secretary shall
submit to the congressional defense commit-
tees, the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation of the Senate, and the
Committee on Science, Space, and Tech-
nology of the House of Representatives a bi-
ennial report on financial assistance awarded
under this section.
(2) CONTENTS.—To the extent practicable,
each report submitted under paragraph (1)
shall include the following with respect to
the years covered by the report:
(A) The number of small manufacturing
companies assisted.
(B) A description of the cybersecurity serv-
ices provided.
(C) A description of the cybersecurity mat-
ters addressed.
(D) An analysis of the operational effec-
tiveness and cost-effectiveness of the cyber-
security services provided.
(e) TERMINATION.—The authority of the
Secretary to award of financial assistance
under this section shall terminate on the
date that is five years after the date of the
enactment of this Act.
(f) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) The term ‘‘Center’’ has the meaning
given such term in section 25(a) of the Na-
tional Institute of Standards and Technology
Act (15 U.S.C. 278k(a)).
(2) The term ‘‘small manufacturer’’ has the
meaning given that term in section 1644(g) of
the John S. McCain National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public
Law 115–232; 10 U.S.C. 2224 note).
SEC. 1643. STUDY ON CYBEREXPLOITATION OF
MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES
AND THEIR FAMILIES.
(a) STUDY REQUIRED.—Not later than 150
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall complete
a study on the cyberexploitation of the per-
sonal information and accounts of members
of the Armed Forces and their families.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The study required by sub-
section (a) shall include the following:
(1) An intelligence assessment of the
threat currently posed by foreign govern-
ment and non-state actor cyberexploitation
of members of the Armed Forces and their
families, including generalized assessments
as to whether cyberexploitation of members
of the Armed Forces and their families is a
substantial threat as compared to other
means of information warfare and as to
whether cyberexploitation of members of the
Armed Forces and their families is an in-
creasing threat.
(2) Case-study analysis of three known oc-
currences of attempted cyberexploitation
against members of the Armed Forces and
their families, including assessments of the
vulnerability and the ultimate consequences
of the attempted cyberexploitation.
(3) A description of the actions taken by
the Department of Defense to educate mem-
bers of the Armed Forces and their families,
including particularly vulnerable subpopula-
tions, about any actions that can be taken to
reduce these threats.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00161 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6848 November 16, 2020
(4) An intelligence assessment of the
threat posed by foreign government and non-
state actor creation and use of deep fakes
featuring members of the Armed Forces or
their families, including generalized assess-
ments of the maturity of the technology
used in the creation of deep fakes and as to
how deep fakes have been used or might be
used to conduct information warfare.
(5) Development of recommendations for
policy changes to reduce the vulnerability of
members of the Armed Forces and their fam-
ilies to cyberexploitation, including rec-
ommendations for legislative or administra-
tive action.
(c) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall sub-
mit to the congressional defense committees
a report on the findings of the Secretary
with respect to the study required by sub-
section (a).
(2) FORM.—The report required by para-
graph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may include a classified annex.
(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) The term ‘‘cyberexploitation’’ means
the use of digital means to knowingly access,
or conspire to access, without authorization,
an individual’s personal information to be
employed (or to be used) with malicious in-
tent.
(2) The term ‘‘deep fake’’ means the digital
insertion of a person’s likeness into or dig-
ital alteration of a person’s likeness in vis-
ual media, such as photographs and videos,
without the person’s permission and with
malicious intent.
Subtitle C—Nuclear Forces
SEC. 1651. MODIFICATION TO RESPONSIBILITIES
OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS COUNCIL.
Section 179(d) of title 10, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (9) through
(12) as paragraphs (10) through (13), respec-
tively; and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (8) the fol-
lowing new paragraph (9):
‘‘(9) Reviewing proposed capabilities, and
establishing and validating performance re-
quirements (as defined in section 181(h) of
this title), for nuclear warhead programs.’’.
SEC. 1652. RESPONSIBILITY OF NUCLEAR WEAP-
ONS COUNCIL IN PREPARATION OF
NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY AD-
MINISTRATION BUDGET.
Paragraph (11) of section 179(d) of title 10,
United States Code, as redesignated by sec-
tion 1651, is further amended to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘(11) As part of the planning, program-
ming, budgeting, and execution process of
the National Nuclear Security Administra-
tion—
‘‘(A) providing guidance with respect to
the development of the annual budget pro-
posals of the Administration under section
3255 of the National Nuclear Security Admin-
istration Act;
‘‘(B) reviewing the adequacy of such pro-
posals under section 4717 of the Atomic En-
ergy Defense Act; and
‘‘(C) preparing, coordinating, and approv-
ing such proposals, including before such
proposals are submitted to—
‘‘(i) the Secretary of Energy;
‘‘(ii) the Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget;
‘‘(iii) the President; or
‘‘(iv) Congress (as submitted with the
budget of the President under section 1105(a)
of title 31).’’.
SEC. 1653. MODIFICATION OF GOVERNMENT AC-
COUNTABILITY OFFICE REVIEW OF
ANNUAL REPORTS ON NUCLEAR
WEAPONS ENTERPRISE.
Section 492a(c) of title 10, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘review
each report’’ and inserting ‘‘periodically re-
view reports submitted’’; and
(2) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘not later’’
and all that follows through ‘‘submitted,’’.
SEC. 1654. PROHIBITION ON REDUCTION OF THE
INTERCONTINENTAL BALLISTIC MIS-
SILES OF THE UNITED STATES.
(a) PROHIBITION.—Except as provided in
subsection (b), none of the funds authorized
to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year
2021 for the Department of Defense may be
obligated or expended for the following, and
the Department may not otherwise take any
action to do the following:
(1) Reduce, or prepare to reduce, the re-
sponsiveness or alert level of the interconti-
nental ballistic missiles of the United
States.
(2) Reduce, or prepare to reduce, the quan-
tity of deployed intercontinental ballistic
missiles of the United States to a number
less than 400.
(b) EXCEPTION.—The prohibition in sub-
section (a) shall not apply to any of the fol-
lowing activities:
(1) The maintenance or sustainment of
intercontinental ballistic missiles.
(2) Ensuring the safety, security, or reli-
ability of intercontinental ballistic missiles.
SEC. 1655. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON NUCLEAR
COOPERATION BETWEEN THE
UNITED STATES AND THE UNITED
KINGDOM.
It is the sense of the Senate that—
(1) the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
(NATO) continues to play an essential role in
the national security of the United States
and the independent nuclear deterrents of
other NATO members, such as the United
Kingdom, have helped underwrite peace and
security;
(2) the nuclear programs of the United
States and the United Kingdom have enjoyed
significant collaborative benefits as a result
of the cooperative relationship formalized in
the Agreement for Cooperation on the Uses
of Atomic Energy for Mutual Defense Pur-
poses, signed at Washington July 3, 1958, and
entered into force August 4, 1958 (9 UST 1028),
between the United States and the United
Kingdom (commonly referred to as the ‘‘Mu-
tual Defense Agreement’’);
(3) the unique partnership between the
United States and the United Kingdom has
enhanced sovereign military and scientific
capabilities, strengthened bilateral ties, and
shared costs, particularly on such programs
as the Trident II D–5 weapons system and the
common missile compartment for the future
Dreadnought and Columbia classes of sub-
marines;
(4) additionally, the extension of the nu-
clear deterrence commitments of the United
Kingdom to members of the NATO alliance
strengthens collective security while reduc-
ing the burden placed on United States nu-
clear forces to deter potential adversaries
and assure allies of the United States and
the United Kingdom;
(5) as the international security environ-
ment deteriorates and potential adversaries
expand and enhance their nuclear forces, the
extended deterrence commitments of the
United Kingdom play an increasingly impor-
tant role in supporting the security interests
of the United States and allies of the United
States and the United Kingdom;
(6) it is in the national security interest of
the United States to support the United
Kingdom with respect to the decision of the
Government of the United Kingdom to main-
tain its nuclear deterrent until global secu-
rity conditions warrant its elimination;
(7) as the United States must modernize its
aging nuclear forces to ensure its ability to
continue to field a nuclear deterrent that is
safe, secure, and effective, the United King-
dom faces a similar challenge;
(8) bilateral cooperation on the parallel de-
velopment of the W93/Mk7 warhead of the
United States and the replacement warhead
of the United Kingdom, as well as associated
components, will allow the United States
and the United Kingdom to responsibly ad-
dress challenges within their legacy nuclear
forces in a cost-effective manner that—
(A) preserves independent, sovereign con-
trol;
(B) is consistent with each country’s obli-
gations under the Treaty on the Non-Pro-
liferation of Nuclear Weapons, done at Wash-
ington, London, and Moscow July 1, 1968 (21
UST 483) (commonly referred to as the ‘‘Nu-
clear Non-Proliferation Treaty’’); and
(C) supports nonproliferation objectives;
and
(9) continued cooperation between the nu-
clear programs of United States and the
United Kingdom, including through the W93/
Mk7 program, is essential to ensuring that
the NATO alliance continues to be supported
by credible nuclear forces capable of pre-
serving peace, preventing coercion, and de-
terring aggression.
Subtitle D—Missile Defense Programs
SEC. 1661. IRON DOME SHORT-RANGE ROCKET
DEFENSE SYSTEM AND ISRAELI CO-
OPERATIVE MISSILE DEFENSE PRO-
GRAM CO-DEVELOPMENT AND CO-
PRODUCTION.
(a) IRON DOME SHORT-RANGE ROCKET DE-
FENSE SYSTEM.—
(1) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.—Of the funds
authorized to be appropriated by this Act for
fiscal year 2021 for procurement, Defense-
wide, and available for the Missile Defense
Agency, not more than $73,000,000 may be
provided to the Government of Israel to pro-
cure components for the Iron Dome short-
range rocket defense system through co-pro-
duction of such components in the United
States by industry of the United States.
(2) CONDITIONS.—
(A) AGREEMENT.—Funds described in para-
graph (1) for the Iron Dome short-range
rocket defense program shall be available
subject to the terms and conditions in the
Agreement Between the Department of De-
fense of the United States of America and
the Ministry of Defense of the State of Israel
Concerning Iron Dome Defense System Pro-
curement, signed on March 5, 2014, as amend-
ed to include co-production for Tamir inter-
ceptors.
(B) CERTIFICATION.—Not later than 30 days
prior to the initial obligation of funds de-
scribed in paragraph (1), the Under Secretary
of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment
shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees—
(i) a certification that the amended bilat-
eral international agreement specified in
subparagraph (A) is being implemented as
provided in such agreement;
(ii) an assessment detailing any risks re-
lating to the implementation of such agree-
ment; and
(iii) for system improvements resulting in
modified Iron Dome components and Tamir
interceptor sub-components, a certification
that the Government of Israel has dem-
onstrated successful completion of Produc-
tion Readiness Reviews, including the vali-
dation of production lines, the verification of
component conformance, and the
verification of performance to specification
as defined in the Iron Dome Defense System
Procurement Agreement, as further amend-
ed.
(b) ISRAELI COOPERATIVE MISSILE DEFENSE
PROGRAM, DAVID’S SLING WEAPON SYSTEM CO-
PRODUCTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (3),
of the funds authorized to be appropriated
for fiscal year 2021 for procurement, Defense-
wide, and available for the Missile Defense
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00162 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6849
November 16, 2020
Agency not more than $50,000,000 may be pro-
vided to the Government of Israel to procure
the David’s Sling Weapon System, including
for co-production of parts and components in
the United States by United States industry.
(2) AGREEMENT.—Provision of funds speci-
fied in paragraph (1) shall be subject to the
terms and conditions in the bilateral co-pro-
duction agreement, including—
(A) a one-for-one cash match is made by
Israel or in another matching amount that
otherwise meets best efforts (as mutually
agreed to by the United States and Israel);
and
(B) co-production of parts, components,
and all-up rounds (if appropriate) in the
United States by United States industry for
the David’s Sling Weapon System is not less
than 50 percent.
(3) CERTIFICATION AND ASSESSMENT.—The
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition
and Sustainment shall submit to the appro-
priate congressional committees—
(A) a certification that the Government of
Israel has demonstrated the successful com-
pletion of the knowledge points, technical
milestones, and production readiness reviews
required by the research, development, and
technology agreement and the bilateral co-
production agreement for the David’s Sling
Weapon System; and
(B) an assessment detailing any risks re-
lating to the implementation of such agree-
ment.
(c) ISRAELI COOPERATIVE MISSILE DEFENSE
PROGRAM, ARROW 3 UPPER TIER INTERCEPTOR
PROGRAM CO-PRODUCTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
of the funds authorized to be appropriated
for fiscal year 2021 for procurement, Defense-
wide, and available for the Missile Defense
Agency not more than $77,000,000 may be pro-
vided to the Government of Israel for the
Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor Program, in-
cluding for co-production of parts and com-
ponents in the United States by United
States industry.
(2) CERTIFICATION.—The Under Secretary of
Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment
shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees a certification that—
(A) the Government of Israel has dem-
onstrated the successful completion of the
knowledge points, technical milestones, and
production readiness reviews required by the
research, development, and technology
agreement for the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Inter-
ceptor Program;
(B) funds specified in paragraph (1) will be
provided on the basis of a one-for-one cash
match made by Israel or in another match-
ing amount that otherwise meets best efforts
(as mutually agreed to by the United States
and Israel);
(C) the United States has entered into a bi-
lateral international agreement with Israel
that establishes, with respect to the use of
such funds—
(i) in accordance with subparagraph (D),
the terms of co-production of parts and com-
ponents on the basis of the greatest prac-
ticable co-production of parts, components,
and all-up rounds (if appropriate) by United
States industry and minimizes nonrecurring
engineering and facilitization expenses to
the costs needed for co-production;
(ii) complete transparency on the require-
ment of Israel for the number of interceptors
and batteries that will be procured, includ-
ing with respect to the procurement plans,
acquisition strategy, and funding profiles of
Israel;
(iii) technical milestones for co-production
of parts and components and procurement;
(iv) a joint affordability working group to
consider cost reduction initiatives; and
(v) joint approval processes for third-party
sales; and
(D) the level of co-production described in
subparagraph (C)(i) for the Arrow 3 Upper
Tier Interceptor Program is not less than 50
percent.
(d) NUMBER.—In carrying out paragraph (2)
of subsection (b) and paragraph (2) of sub-
section (c), the Under Secretary may sub-
mit—
(1) one certification covering both the Da-
vid’s Sling Weapon System and the Arrow 3
Upper Tier Interceptor Program; or
(2) separate certifications for each respec-
tive system.
(e) TIMING.—The Under Secretary shall
submit to the congressional defense commit-
tees the certification and assessment under
subsection (b)(3) and the certification under
subsection (c)(2) no later than 30 days before
the funds specified in paragraph (1) of sub-
sections (b) and (c) for the respective system
covered by the certification are provided to
the Government of Israel.
(f) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means the following:
(1) The congressional defense committees.
(2) The Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate and the Committee on Foreign
Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1662. ACCELERATION OF THE DEPLOYMENT
OF HYPERSONIC AND BALLISTIC
TRACKING SPACE SENSOR PAYLOAD.
(a) PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITY FOR DEVELOP-
MENT AND DEPLOYMENT OF HYPERSONIC AND
BALLISTIC TRACKING SPACE SENSOR PAY-
LOAD.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 15 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary shall—
(A) assign the Director of the Missile De-
fense Agency with the principal responsi-
bility for the development and deployment
of a hypersonic and ballistic tracking space
sensor payload through the end of fiscal year
2022; and
(B) submit to the congressional defense
committees certification of such assignment.
(2) TRANSITION.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary shall submit to the congres-
sional defense committees—
(A) a determination regarding whether re-
sponsibility for a hypersonic and ballistic
tracking space sensor payload should be
transitioned to the United States Space
Force at the end of fiscal year 2022 or later;
and
(B) if the Secretary so determines, a plan
for transition of primary responsibility that
minimizes disruption to the program and
provides for sufficient funding as described
in subsection (b)(1).
(b) CERTIFICATION REGARDING FUNDING OF
HYPERSONIC AND BALLISTIC TRACKING SPACE
SENSOR PROGRAM.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—At the same time that the
President submits to Congress pursuant to
section 1105 of title 31, United States Code,
the annual budget request of the President
for fiscal year 2022, the Under Secretary of
Defense Comptroller and the Director for
Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation
shall jointly submit to the congressional de-
fense committees a certification as to
whether the hypersonic and ballistic track-
ing space sensor program is sufficiently
funded in the future-years defense program.
(2) FUNDING LIMITATION.—Of the funds au-
thorized to be appropriated by this Act for
fiscal year 2021 under the Operations and
Maintenance, Defense-Wide, account for the
Office of Secretary of Defense travel of per-
sons assigned to the Office of the Under Sec-
retary of Defense for Research and Engineer-
ing, not more than 50 percent of such funds
may be obligated or expended until the cer-
tification required by paragraph (1) is sub-
mitted under such paragraph.
(c) DEPLOYMENT DEADLINE.—Section 1683(a)
of the National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115–91; 10
U.S.C. 2431 note) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—’’ and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(a) DEVELOPMENT, TESTING, AND DEPLOY-
MENT.—
‘‘(1) DEVELOPMENT.—’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
paragraphs:
‘‘(2) TESTING AND DEPLOYMENT.—The Direc-
tor shall begin on-orbit testing of a
hypersonic and ballistic tracking space sen-
sor no later than December 31, 2022, with full
operational deployment as soon as tech-
nically feasible thereafter.
‘‘(3) WAIVER.—The Secretary of Defense
may waive the deadline for testing specified
in paragraph (2) if the Secretary submits to
the congressional defense committees a re-
port containing—
‘‘(A) the explanation why the Secretary
cannot meet such deadline;
‘‘(B) the technical risks and estimated cost
of accelerating the program to attempt to
meet such deadline;
‘‘(C) an assessment of threat systems that
could not be detected or tracked persistently
due to waiving such deadline; and
‘‘(D) a plan, including a timeline, for be-
ginning the required testing.’’.
(d) ASSESSMENT AND REPORT.—Not later
than 120 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Chair of the Joint Require-
ments Oversight Council established under
section 181 of title 10, United States Code,
shall—
(1) complete an assessment on whether all
efforts being made by the Missile Defense
Agency, the Defense Advanced Research
Projects Agency, the Air Force, and the
Space Development Agency relating to
space-based sensing and tracking capabili-
ties for missile defense are aligned with the
requirements of United States Strategic
Command, United States Northern Com-
mand, United States European Command,
and United States Indo-Pacific Command for
missile tracking and missile warning that
have been validated by the Joint Require-
ments Oversight Council; and
(2) submit to the congressional defense
committees a report on the findings of the
Chair with respect to the assessment con-
ducted under paragraph (1).
SEC. 1663. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION RELAT-
ING TO MISSILE DEFENSE INFORMA-
TION AND SYSTEMS.
Section 130h(e) of title 10, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘January 1,
2021’’ and inserting ‘‘January 1, 2026’’.
SEC. 1664. REPORT ON AND LIMITATION ON EX-
PENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR LAY-
ERED HOMELAND MISSILE DEFENSE
SYSTEM.
(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than March 1,
2021, the Director of the Missile Defense
Agency shall submit to the congressional de-
fense committees a report on the proposal
for a layered homeland missile defense sys-
tem included in the budget justification ma-
terials submitted to Congress in support of
the budget for the Department of Defense for
fiscal year 2021 (as submitted with the budg-
et of the President for such year under sec-
tion 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code).
(2) ELEMENTS REQUIRED.—The report re-
quired by paragraph (1) shall include the fol-
lowing:
(A) A description of the approved require-
ments for a layered homeland missile de-
fense system, based on an assessment by the
intelligence community of threats to be ad-
dressed at the time of deployment of such a
system.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00163 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6850 November 16, 2020
(B) An assessment of how such require-
ments addressed by a layered homeland mis-
sile defense system relate to those addressed
by the existing ground-based midcourse de-
fense system, including deployed ground-
based interceptors and planned upgrades to
such ground-based interceptors.
(C) An analysis of interceptor solutions to
meet such requirements, to include land-
based Standard Missile 3 (SM–3) Block IIA
interceptor systems and the Terminal High
Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) system,
with the number of locations required for de-
ployment and the production numbers of
interceptors and related sensors.
(D) A site-specific fielding plan that in-
cludes possible locations, the number and
type of interceptors and radars in each loca-
tion, and any associated environmental or
permitting considerations, including an as-
sessment of the locations evaluated pursuant
to section 227(b) of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (126 Stat.
1679; Public Law 112–239) for inclusion in the
layered homeland missile defense system.
(E) Relevant policy considerations for de-
ployment of such systems for defense against
intercontinental ballistic missiles in the
continental United States.
(F) A cost estimate and schedule for op-
tions involving a land-based Standard Mis-
sile 3 Block IIA interceptor system and the
Terminal High Altitude Area Defense sys-
tem, including required environmental as-
sessments.
(G) A feasibility assessment of the nec-
essary modifications to the Terminal High
Altitude Area Defense system to address
such requirements.
(H) An assessment of the industrial base
capacity to support additional production of
either a land-based Standard Missile 3 Block
IIA interceptor system or the Terminal High
Altitude Area Defense system.
(3) CONSULTATION.—In preparing the report
required by paragraph (1), the Director shall
consult with the following:
(A) The Under Secretary of Defense for
Policy.
(B) The Under Secretary of Defense for Ac-
quisition and Sustainment.
(C) The Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, in Vice Chairman’s capacity as the
Chair of the Joint Requirements Oversight
Council.
(D) The Commander, United States Stra-
tegic Command.
(E) The Commander, United States North-
ern Command.
(b) LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS.—Not
more than 50 percent of the amounts author-
ized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal
year 2021 for the Missile Defense Agency for
the purposes of a layered homeland missile
defense system may be obligated or expended
until the Director submits to the congres-
sional defense committees the report re-
quired by subsection (a).
(c) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY DEFINED.—In
this section, the term ‘‘intelligence commu-
nity’’ has the meaning given such term in
section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947
(50 U.S.C. 3003).
SEC. 1665. EXTENSION OF REQUIREMENT FOR
COMPTROLLER GENERAL REVIEW
AND ASSESSMENT OF MISSILE DE-
FENSE ACQUISITION PROGRAMS.
Section 232(a) of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public
Law 112–81) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘through
2020’’ and inserting ‘‘through 2025’’;
(2) in paragraph (2)—
(A) by striking ‘‘through 2021’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘through 2026’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘year. Each’’ and all that
follows through ‘‘appropriate.’’ and insert
the following: ‘‘, which shall include such
findings and recommendations as the Comp-
troller General considers appropriate.’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(3) REVIEW OF EMERGING ISSUES.—In car-
rying out this subsection, as the Comptroller
General determines is warranted, the Comp-
troller General shall review emerging issues
and, in consultation with the congressional
defense committees, brief such committees
or submit to such committees a report on
the findings of the Comptroller General with
respect to such review.’’.
SEC. 1666. REPEAL OF REQUIREMENT FOR RE-
PORTING STRUCTURE OF MISSILE
DEFENSE AGENCY.
Section 205 of title 10, United States Code,
is amended to read as follows:
‘‘§ 205. Missile Defense Agency
‘‘The Director of the Missile Defense Agen-
cy shall be appointed for a six-year term.’’.
SEC. 1667. GROUND-BASED MIDCOURSE DEFENSE
INTERIM CAPABILITY.
(a) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1) the nuclear and ballistic missile threats
from rogue nations are increasing; and
(2) the Department of Defense should fully
assess development of an interim ground-
based missile defense capability while also
pursuing the development of a next genera-
tion interceptor capability.
(b) INTERIM GROUND-BASED INTERCEPTOR.—
(1) DEVELOPMENT.—Not later than 30 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense, acting through the
Director of the Missile Defense Agency and
in coordination with the Under Secretary of
Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment,
the Commander of the United States North-
ern Command, and the Commander of the
United States Strategic Command, shall
commence carrying out a program to de-
velop an interim ground-based interceptor
capability that will—
(A) use sound acquisition practices;
(B) address the majority of current and
near- to mid-term projected ballistic missile
threats to the United States homeland from
rogue nations;
(C) at minimum, meet the proposed capa-
bilities of the Redesigned Kill Vehicle pro-
gram;
(D) leverage existing kill vehicle and
booster technology; and
(E) appropriately balance interceptor per-
formance with schedule of delivery.
(2) DEPLOYMENT.—The Secretary of De-
fense, acting through the Director of the
Missile Defense Agency and in coordination
with the Under Secretary of Defense for Ac-
quisition and Sustainment, the Commander
of the United States Northern Command,
and the Commander of the United States
Strategic Command, shall—
(A) conduct rigorous flight testing of the
interim ground-based interceptor; and
(B) deliver 20 new ground-based intercep-
tors by 2026.
(3) WAIVER AUTHORITY.—(A) The Secretary
of Defense may waive the requirements
under paragraphs (1) and (2) if the Secretary
certifies to the congressional defense com-
mittees that—
(i) the technology development is not tech-
nically feasible;
(ii) the interim capability development is
not in the national security interest of the
United States; or
(iii) the next generation interceptor for the
ground-based midcourse defense system can
deliver capability before the program other-
wise required by this subsection.
(B) If the Secretary chooses to waive the
requirements under paragraphs (1) and (2),
the Secretary shall submit to the congres-
sional defense committees along with the
certification required by subparagraph (A) of
this paragraph—
(i) an explanation of the rationale for the
decision;
(ii) an estimate of projected rogue nation
threats to the United States homeland that
will not be defended against until the field-
ing of the next generation interceptor for the
ground-based midcourse defense system; and
(iii) an updated schedule for development
and deployment of the next generation inter-
ceptor.
(C) The Secretary may not delegate the
certification described in subparagraphs (A)
and (B) unless the Secretary is recused, in
which case the Secretary may delegate such
certification to the Deputy Secretary of De-
fense.
(c) CAPABILITIES AND CRITERIA.—The Direc-
tor shall ensure that the interim ground-
based interceptor developed under subsection
(c)(1) meets, at a minimum, the following ca-
pabilities and criteria:
(1) Vehicle-to-vehicle communications, as
applicable.
(2) Vehicle-to-ground communications.
(3) Kill assessment capability.
(4) The ability to counter advanced counter
measures, decoys, and penetration aids.
(5) Producibility and manufacturability.
(6) Use of technology involving high tech-
nology readiness levels.
(7) Options to integrate the new kill vehi-
cle onto other missile defense interceptor ve-
hicles other than the ground-based intercep-
tors of the ground-based midcourse defense
system.
(8) Sound acquisition processes.
(d) REPORT ON FUNDING PROFILE.—The Di-
rector shall include with the budget jus-
tification materials submitted to Congress
in support of the budget of the Department
of Defense for fiscal year 2022 (as submitted
with the budget of the President under sec-
tion 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code) a
report on the funding profile necessary for
the interim ground-based interceptor pro-
gram to meet the objectives under sub-
section (c).
TITLE XVII—HONG KONG AUTONOMY ACT
SEC. 1701. SHORT TITLE.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Hong Kong
Autonomy Act’’.
SEC. 1702. DEFINITIONS.
In this title:
(1) ALIEN; NATIONAL; NATIONAL OF THE
UNITED STATES.—The terms ‘‘alien’’, ‘‘na-
tional’’, and ‘‘national of the United States’’
have the meanings given those terms in sec-
tion 101 of the Immigration and Nationality
Act (8 U.S.C. 1101).
(2) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES AND LEADERSHIP.—The term ‘‘appro-
priate congressional committees and leader-
ship’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions, the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs, the Committee on
the Judiciary, the Select Committee on In-
telligence, and the majority leader and the
minority leader of the Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Financial Services, the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on
Homeland Security, the Committee on the
Judiciary, the Permanent Select Committee
on Intelligence, and the Speaker and the mi-
nority leader of the House of Representa-
tives.
(3) BASIC LAW.—The term ‘‘Basic Law’’
means the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Spe-
cial Administrative Region of the People’s
Republic of China.
(4) CHINA.—The term ‘‘China’’ means the
People’s Republic of China.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00164 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6851
November 16, 2020
(5) ENTITY.—The term ‘‘entity’’ means a
partnership, joint venture, association, cor-
poration, organization, network, group, or
subgroup, or any other form of business col-
laboration.
(6) FINANCIAL INSTITUTION.—The term ‘‘fi-
nancial institution’’ means a financial insti-
tution specified in section 5312(a)(2) of title
31, United States Code.
(7) HONG KONG.—The term ‘‘Hong Kong’’
means the Hong Kong Special Administra-
tive Region of the People’s Republic of
China.
(8) JOINT DECLARATION.—The term ‘‘Joint
Declaration’’ means the Joint Declaration of
the Government of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the
Government of the People’s Republic of
China on the Question of Hong Kong, done at
Beijing on December 19, 1984.
(9) KNOWINGLY.—The term ‘‘knowingly’’,
with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a
result, means that a person has actual
knowledge of the conduct, the circumstance,
or the result.
(10) PERSON.—The term ‘‘person’’ means an
individual or entity.
(11) UNITED STATES PERSON.—The term
‘‘United States person’’ means—
(A) any citizen or national of the United
States;
(B) any alien lawfully admitted for perma-
nent residence in the United States;
(C) any entity organized under the laws of
the United States or any jurisdiction within
the United States (including a foreign
branch of such an entity); or
(D) any person located in the United
States.
SEC. 1703. FINDINGS.
Congress makes the following findings:
(1) The Joint Declaration and the Basic
Law clarify certain obligations and promises
that the Government of China has made with
respect to the future of Hong Kong.
(2) The obligations of the Government of
China under the Joint Declaration were codi-
fied in a legally-binding treaty, signed by the
Government of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland and registered
with the United Nations.
(3) The obligations of the Government of
China under the Basic Law originate from
the Joint Declaration, were passed into the
domestic law of China by the National Peo-
ple’s Congress, and are widely considered by
citizens of Hong Kong as part of the de facto
legal constitution of Hong Kong.
(4) Foremost among the obligations of the
Government of China to Hong Kong is the
promise that, pursuant to Paragraph 3b of
the Joint Declaration, ‘‘the Hong Kong Spe-
cial Administrative Region will enjoy a high
degree of autonomy, except in foreign and
defence affairs which are the responsibilities
of the Central People’s Government’’.
(5) The obligation specified in Paragraph
3b of the Joint Declaration is referenced, re-
inforced, and extrapolated on in several por-
tions of the Basic Law, including Articles 2,
12, 13, 14, and 22.
(6) Article 22 of the Basic Law establishes
that ‘‘No department of the Central People’s
Government and no province, autonomous
region, or municipality directly under the
Central Government may interfere in the af-
fairs which the Hong Kong Special Adminis-
trative Region administers on its own in ac-
cordance with this Law.’’.
(7) The Joint Declaration and the Basic
Law make clear that additional obligations
shall be undertaken by China to ensure the
‘‘high degree of autonomy’’ of Hong Kong.
(8) Paragraph 3c of the Joint Declaration
states, as reinforced by Articles 2, 16, 17, 18,
19, and 22 of the Basic Law, that Hong Kong
‘‘will be vested with executive, legislative
and independent judicial power, including
that of final adjudication’’.
(9) On multiple occasions, the Government
of China has undertaken actions that have
contravened the letter or intent of the obli-
gation described in paragraph (8) of this sec-
tion, including the following:
(A) In 1999, the Standing Committee of the
National People’s Congress overruled a deci-
sion by the Hong Kong Court of Final Appeal
on the right of abode.
(B) On multiple occasions, the Government
of Hong Kong, at the advice of the Govern-
ment of China, is suspected to have not al-
lowed persons entry into Hong Kong alleg-
edly because of their support for democracy
and human rights in Hong Kong and China.
(C) The Liaison Office of China in Hong
Kong has, despite restrictions on inter-
ference in the affairs of Hong Kong as de-
tailed in Article 22 of the Basic Law—
(i) openly expressed support for candidates
in Hong Kong for Chief Executive and Legis-
lative Council;
(ii) expressed views on various policies for
the Government of Hong Kong and other in-
ternal matters relating to Hong Kong; and
(iii) on April 17, 2020, asserted that both
the Liaison Office of China in Hong Kong and
the Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office of
the State Council ‘‘have the right to exercise
supervision . . . on affairs regarding Hong
Kong and the mainland, in order to ensure
correct implementation of the Basic Law’’.
(D) The National People’s Congress has
passed laws requiring Hong Kong to pass
laws banning disrespectful treatment of the
national flag and national anthem of China.
(E) The State Council of China released a
white paper on June 10, 2014, that stressed
the ‘‘comprehensive jurisdiction’’ of the Gov-
ernment of China over Hong Kong and indi-
cated that Hong Kong must be governed by
‘‘patriots’’.
(F) The Government of China has directed
operatives to kidnap and bring to the main-
land, or is otherwise responsible for the kid-
napping of, residents of Hong Kong, includ-
ing businessman Xiao Jianhua and book-
seller Gui Minhai.
(G) The Government of Hong Kong, acting
with the support of the Government of
China, introduced an extradition bill that
would have permitted the Government of
China to request and enforce extradition re-
quests for any individual present in Hong
Kong, regardless of the legality of the re-
quest or the degree to which it compromised
the judicial independence of Hong Kong.
(H) The spokesman for the Standing Com-
mittee of the National People’s Congress
said, ‘‘Whether Hong Kong’s laws are con-
sistent with the Basic Law can only be
judged and decided by the National People’s
Congress Standing Committee. No other au-
thority has the right to make judgments and
decisions.’’.
(10) Paragraph 3e of the Joint Declaration
states, as reinforced by Article 5 of the Basic
Law, that the ‘‘current social and economic
systems in Hong Kong will remain un-
changed, as so will the life-style.’’.
(11) On multiple occasions, the Govern-
ment of China has undertaken actions that
have contravened the letter or intent of the
obligation described in paragraph (10) of this
section, including the following:
(A) In 2002, the Government of China pres-
sured the Government of Hong Kong to in-
troduce ‘‘patriotic’’ curriculum in primary
and secondary schools.
(B) The governments of China and Hong
Kong proposed the prohibition of discussion
of Hong Kong independence and self-deter-
mination in primary and secondary schools,
which infringes on freedom of speech.
(C) The Government of Hong Kong man-
dated that Mandarin, and not the native lan-
guage of Cantonese, be the language of in-
struction in Hong Kong schools.
(D) The governments of China and Hong
Kong agreed to a daily quota of mainland
immigrants to Hong Kong, which is widely
believed by citizens of Hong Kong to be part
of an effort to ‘‘mainlandize’’ Hong Kong.
(12) Paragraph 3e of the Joint Declaration
states, as reinforced by Articles 4, 26, 27, 28,
29, 30, 31, 32 33, 34, and 39 of the Basic Law,
that the ‘‘rights and freedoms, including
those of person, of speech, of the press, of as-
sembly, of association, of travel, of move-
ment, of correspondence, of strike, of choice
of occupation, of academic research and of
religious belief will be ensured by law’’ in
Hong Kong.
(13) On multiple occasions, the Govern-
ment of China has undertaken actions that
have contravened the letter or intent of the
obligation described in paragraph (12) of this
section, including the following:
(A) On February 26, 2003, the Government
of Hong Kong introduced a national security
bill that would have placed restrictions on
freedom of speech and other protected rights.
(B) The Liaison Office of China in Hong
Kong has pressured businesses in Hong Kong
not to advertise in newspapers and maga-
zines critical of the governments of China
and Hong Kong.
(C) The Hong Kong Police Force selec-
tively blocked demonstrations and protests
expressing opposition to the governments of
China and Hong Kong or the policies of those
governments.
(D) The Government of Hong Kong refused
to renew work visa for a foreign journalist,
allegedly for hosting a speaker from the
banned Hong Kong National Party.
(E) The Justice Department of Hong Kong
selectively prosecuted cases against leaders
of the Umbrella Movement, while failing to
prosecute police officers accused of using ex-
cessive force during the protests in 2014.
(F) On April 18, 2020, the Hong Kong Police
Force arrested 14 high-profile democracy ac-
tivists and campaigners for their role in or-
ganizing a protest march that took place on
August 18, 2019, in which almost 2,000,000 peo-
ple rallied against a proposed extradition
bill.
(14) Articles 45 and 68 of the Basic Law as-
sert that the selection of Chief Executive
and all members of the Legislative Council
of Hong Kong should be by ‘‘universal suf-
frage.’’.
(15) On multiple occasions, the Govern-
ment of China has undertaken actions that
have contravened the letter or intent of the
obligation described in paragraph (14) of this
section, including the following:
(A) In 2004, the National People’s Congress
created new, antidemocratic procedures re-
stricting the adoption of universal suffrage
for the election of the Chief Executive of
Hong Kong.
(B) The decision by the National People’s
Congress on December 29, 2007, which ruled
out universal suffrage in 2012 elections and
set restrictions on when and if universal suf-
frage will be implemented.
(C) The decision by the National People’s
Congress on August 31, 2014, which placed
limits on the nomination process for the
Chief Executive of Hong Kong as a condition
for adoption of universal suffrage.
(D) On November 7, 2016, the National Peo-
ple’s Congress interpreted Article 104 of the
Basic Law in such a way to disqualify 6
elected members of the Legislative Council.
(E) In 2018, the Government of Hong Kong
banned the Hong Kong National Party and
blocked the candidacy of pro-democracy can-
didates.
(16) The ways in which the Government of
China, at times with the support of a subser-
vient Government of Hong Kong, has acted
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00165 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6852 November 16, 2020
in contravention of its obligations under the
Joint Declaration and the Basic Law, as set
forth in this section, are deeply concerning
to the people of Hong Kong, the United
States, and members of the international
community who support the autonomy of
Hong Kong.
SEC. 1704. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING
HONG KONG.
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1) the United States continues to uphold
the principles and policy established in the
United States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992
(22 U.S.C. 5701 et seq.) and the Hong Kong
Human Rights and Democracy Act of 2019
(Public Law 116–76; 22 U.S.C. 5701 note),
which remain consistent with China’s obliga-
tions under the Joint Declaration and cer-
tain promulgated objectives under the Basic
Law, including that—
(A) as set forth in section 101(1) of the
United States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992
(22 U.S.C. 5711(1)), ‘‘The United States should
play an active role, before, on, and after July
1, 1997, in maintaining Hong Kong’s con-
fidence and prosperity, Hong Kong’s role as
an international financial center, and the
mutually beneficial ties between the people
of the United States and the people of Hong
Kong.’’; and
(B) as set forth in section 2(5) of the United
States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992 (22
U.S.C. 5701(5)), ‘‘Support for democratization
is a fundamental principle of United States
foreign policy. As such, it naturally applies
to United States policy toward Hong Kong.
This will remain equally true after June 30,
1997.’’;
(2) although the United States recognizes
that, under the Joint Declaration, the Gov-
ernment of China ‘‘resumed the exercise of
sovereignty over Hong Kong with effect on 1
July 1997’’, the United States supports the
autonomy of Hong Kong in furtherance of
the United States-Hong Kong Policy Act of
1992 and the Hong Kong Human Rights and
Democracy Act of 2019 and advances the de-
sire of the people of Hong Kong to continue
the ‘‘one country, two systems’’ regime, in
addition to other obligations promulgated by
China under the Joint Declaration and the
Basic Law;
(3) in order to support the benefits and pro-
tections that Hong Kong has been afforded
by the Government of China under the Joint
Declaration and the Basic Law, the United
States should establish a clear and unambig-
uous set of penalties with respect to foreign
persons determined by the Secretary of
State, in consultation with the Secretary of
the Treasury, to be involved in the con-
travention of the obligations of China under
the Joint Declaration and the Basic Law and
the financial institutions transacting with
those foreign persons;
(4) the Secretary of State should provide
an unclassified assessment of the reason for
imposition of certain economic penalties on
entities, so as to permit a clear path for the
removal of economic penalties if the sanc-
tioned behavior is reversed and verified by
the Secretary of State;
(5) relevant Federal agencies should estab-
lish a multilateral sanctions regime with re-
spect to foreign persons involved in the con-
travention of the obligations of China under
the Joint Declaration and the Basic Law;
and
(6) in addition to the penalties on foreign
persons, and financial institutions
transacting with those foreign persons, for
the contravention of the obligations of China
under the Joint Declaration and the Basic
Law, the United States should take steps, in
a time of crisis, to assist permanent resi-
dents of Hong Kong who are persecuted or
fear persecution as a result of the contraven-
tion by China of its obligations under the
Joint Declaration and the Basic Law to be-
come eligible to obtain lawful entry into the
United States.
SEC. 1705. IDENTIFICATION OF FOREIGN PER-
SONS INVOLVED IN THE EROSION OF
THE OBLIGATIONS OF CHINA UNDER
THE JOINT DECLARATION OR THE
BASIC LAW AND FOREIGN FINAN-
CIAL INSTITUTIONS THAT CONDUCT
SIGNIFICANT TRANSACTIONS WITH
THOSE PERSONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
if the Secretary of State, in consultation
with the Secretary of the Treasury, deter-
mines that a foreign person is materially
contributing to, has materially contributed
to, or attempts to materially contribute to
the failure of the Government of China to
meet its obligations under the Joint Declara-
tion or the Basic Law, the Secretary of State
shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees and leadership a report
that includes—
(1) an identification of the foreign person;
and
(2) a clear explanation for why the foreign
person was identified and a description of the
activity that resulted in the identification.
(b) IDENTIFYING FOREIGN FINANCIAL INSTI-
TUTIONS.—Not earlier than 30 days and not
later than 60 days after the Secretary of
State submits to the appropriate congres-
sional committees and leadership the report
under subsection (a), the Secretary of the
Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary
of State, shall submit to the appropriate
congressional committees and leadership a
report that identifies any foreign financial
institution that knowingly conducts a sig-
nificant transaction with a foreign person
identified in the report under subsection (a).
(c) EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN INFORMATION.—
(1) INTELLIGENCE.—The Secretary of State
shall not disclose the identity of a person in
a report submitted under subsection (a) or
(b), or an update under subsection (e), if the
Director of National Intelligence determines
that such disclosure could compromise an in-
telligence operation, activity, source, or
method of the United States.
(2) LAW ENFORCEMENT.—The Secretary of
State shall not disclose the identity of a per-
son in a report submitted under subsection
(a) or (b), or an update under subsection (e),
if the Attorney General, in coordination, as
appropriate, with the Director of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, the head of any
other appropriate Federal law enforcement
agency, and the Secretary of the Treasury,
determines that such disclosure could rea-
sonably be expected—
(A) to compromise the identity of a con-
fidential source, including a State, local, or
foreign agency or authority or any private
institution that furnished information on a
confidential basis;
(B) to jeopardize the integrity or success of
an ongoing criminal investigation or pros-
ecution;
(C) to endanger the life or physical safety
of any person; or
(D) to cause substantial harm to physical
property.
(3) NOTIFICATION REQUIRED.—If the Director
of National Intelligence makes a determina-
tion under paragraph (1) or the Attorney
General makes a determination under para-
graph (2), the Director or the Attorney Gen-
eral, as the case may be, shall notify the ap-
propriate congressional committees and
leadership of the determination and the rea-
sons for the determination.
(d) EXCLUSION OR REMOVAL OF FOREIGN
PERSONS AND FOREIGN FINANCIAL INSTITU-
TIONS.—
(1) FOREIGN PERSONS.—The President may
exclude a foreign person from the report
under subsection (a), or an update under sub-
section (e), or remove a foreign person from
the report or update prior to the imposition
of sanctions under section 1706(a) if the ma-
terial contribution (as described in sub-
section (g)) that merited inclusion in that re-
port or update—
(A) does not have a significant and lasting
negative effect that contravenes the obliga-
tions of China under the Joint Declaration
and the Basic Law;
(B) is not likely to be repeated in the fu-
ture; and
(C) has been reversed or otherwise miti-
gated through positive countermeasures
taken by that foreign person.
(2) FOREIGN FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS.—The
President may exclude a foreign financial in-
stitution from the report under subsection
(b), or an update under subsection (e), or re-
move a foreign financial institution from the
report or update prior to the imposition of
sanctions under section 1707(a) if the signifi-
cant transaction or significant transactions
of the foreign financial institution that mer-
ited inclusion in that report or update—
(A) does not have a significant and lasting
negative effect that contravenes the obliga-
tions of China under the Joint Declaration
and the Basic Law;
(B) is not likely to be repeated in the fu-
ture; and
(C) has been reversed or otherwise miti-
gated through positive countermeasures
taken by that foreign financial institution.
(3) NOTIFICATION REQUIRED.—If the Presi-
dent makes a determination under paragraph
(1) or (2) to exclude or remove a foreign per-
son or foreign financial institution from a
report under subsection (a) or (b), as the case
may be, the President shall notify the appro-
priate congressional committees and leader-
ship of the determination and the reasons for
the determination.
(e) UPDATE OF REPORTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each report submitted
under subsections (a) and (b) shall be up-
dated in an ongoing manner and, to the ex-
tent practicable, updated reports shall be re-
submitted with the annual report under sec-
tion 301 of the United States-Hong Kong Pol-
icy Act of 1992 (22 U.S.C. 5731).
(2) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this
subsection shall be construed to terminate
the requirement to update the reports under
subsections (a) and (b) upon the termination
of the requirement to submit the annual re-
port under section 301 of the United States-
Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992 (22 U.S.C. 5731).
(f) FORM OF REPORTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each report under sub-
section (a) or (b) (including updates under
subsection (e)) shall be submitted in unclas-
sified form and made available to the public.
(2) CLASSIFIED ANNEX.—The explanations
and descriptions included in the report under
subsection (a)(2) (including updates under
subsection (e)) may be expanded on in a clas-
sified annex.
(g) MATERIAL CONTRIBUTIONS RELATED TO
OBLIGATIONS OF CHINA DESCRIBED.—For pur-
poses of this section, a foreign person mate-
rially contributes to the failure of the Gov-
ernment of China to meet its obligations
under the Joint Declaration or the Basic
Law if the person—
(1) took action that resulted in the inabil-
ity of the people of Hong Kong—
(A) to enjoy freedom of assembly, speech,
press, or independent rule of law; or
(B) to participate in democratic outcomes;
or
(2) otherwise took action that reduces the
high degree of autonomy of Hong Kong.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00166 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6853
November 16, 2020
SEC. 1706. SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO FOR-
EIGN PERSONS THAT CONTRAVENE
THE OBLIGATIONS OF CHINA UNDER
THE JOINT DECLARATION OR THE
BASIC LAW.
(a) IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—On and after the date on
which a foreign person is included in the re-
port under section 1705(a) or an update to
that report under section 1705(e), the Presi-
dent may impose sanctions described in sub-
section (b) with respect to that foreign per-
son.
(2) MANDATORY SANCTIONS.—Not later than
one year after the date on which a foreign
person is included in the report under sec-
tion 1705(a) or an update to that report under
section 1705(e), the President shall impose
sanctions described in subsection (b) with re-
spect to that foreign person.
(b) SANCTIONS DESCRIBED.—The sanctions
described in this subsection with respect to a
foreign person are the following:
(1) PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS.—The Presi-
dent may, pursuant to such regulations as
the President may prescribe, prohibit any
person from—
(A) acquiring, holding, withholding, using,
transferring, withdrawing, transporting, or
exporting any property that is subject to the
jurisdiction of the United States and with re-
spect to which the foreign person has any in-
terest;
(B) dealing in or exercising any right,
power, or privilege with respect to such prop-
erty; or
(C) conducting any transaction involving
such property.
(2) EXCLUSION FROM THE UNITED STATES AND
REVOCATION OF VISA OR OTHER DOCUMENTA-
TION.—In the case of a foreign person who is
an individual, the President may direct the
Secretary of State to deny a visa to, and the
Secretary of Homeland Security to exclude
from the United States, the foreign person,
subject to regulatory exceptions to permit
the United States to comply with the Agree-
ment regarding the Headquarters of the
United Nations, signed at Lake Success June
26, 1947, and entered into force November 21,
1947, between the United Nations and the
United States, or other applicable inter-
national obligations.
SEC. 1707. SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO FOR-
EIGN FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
THAT CONDUCT SIGNIFICANT
TRANSACTIONS WITH FOREIGN PER-
SONS THAT CONTRAVENE THE OBLI-
GATIONS OF CHINA UNDER THE
JOINT DECLARATION OR THE BASIC
LAW.
(a) IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS.—
(1) INITIAL SANCTIONS.—Not later than one
year after the date on which a foreign finan-
cial institution is included in the report
under section 1705(b) or an update to that re-
port under section 1705(e), the President
shall impose not fewer than 5 of the sanc-
tions described in subsection (b) with respect
to that foreign financial institution.
(2) EXPANDED SANCTIONS.—Not later than
two years after the date on which a foreign
financial institution is included in the report
under section 1705(b) or an update to that re-
port under section 1705(e), the President
shall impose each of the sanctions described
in subsection (b).
(b) SANCTIONS DESCRIBED.—The sanctions
described in this subsection with respect to a
foreign financial institution are the fol-
lowing:
(1) LOANS FROM UNITED STATES FINANCIAL
INSTITUTIONS.—The United States Govern-
ment may prohibit any United States finan-
cial institution from making loans or pro-
viding credits to the foreign financial insti-
tution.
(2) PROHIBITION ON DESIGNATION AS PRIMARY
DEALER.—Neither the Board of Governors of
the Federal Reserve System nor the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York may designate, or
permit the continuation of any prior des-
ignation of, the foreign financial institution
as a primary dealer in United States Govern-
ment debt instruments.
(3) PROHIBITION ON SERVICE AS A REPOSITORY
OF GOVERNMENT FUNDS.—The foreign finan-
cial institution may not serve as agent of
the United States Government or serve as re-
pository for United States Government
funds.
(4) FOREIGN EXCHANGE.—The President
may, pursuant to such regulations as the
President may prescribe, prohibit any trans-
actions in foreign exchange that are subject
to the jurisdiction of the United States and
involve the foreign financial institution.
(5) BANKING TRANSACTIONS.—The President
may, pursuant to such regulations as the
President may prescribe, prohibit any trans-
fers of credit or payments between financial
institutions or by, through, or to any finan-
cial institution, to the extent that such
transfers or payments are subject to the ju-
risdiction of the United States and involve
the foreign financial institution.
(6) PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS.—The Presi-
dent may, pursuant to such regulations as
the President may prescribe, prohibit any
person from—
(A) acquiring, holding, withholding, using,
transferring, withdrawing, transporting, or
exporting any property that is subject to the
jurisdiction of the United States and with re-
spect to which the foreign financial institu-
tion has any interest;
(B) dealing in or exercising any right,
power, or privilege with respect to such prop-
erty; or
(C) conducting any transaction involving
such property.
(7) RESTRICTION ON EXPORTS, REEXPORTS,
AND TRANSFERS.—The President, in consulta-
tion with the Secretary of Commerce, may
restrict or prohibit exports, reexports, and
transfers (in-country) of commodities, soft-
ware, and technology subject to the jurisdic-
tion of the United States directly or indi-
rectly to the foreign financial institution.
(8) BAN ON INVESTMENT IN EQUITY OR DEBT.—
The President may, pursuant to such regula-
tions or guidelines as the President may pre-
scribe, prohibit any United States person
from investing in or purchasing significant
amounts of equity or debt instruments of the
foreign financial institution.
(9) EXCLUSION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS.—
The President may direct the Secretary of
State, in consultation with the Secretary of
the Treasury and the Secretary of Homeland
Security, to exclude from the United States
any alien that is determined to be a cor-
porate officer or principal of, or a share-
holder with a controlling interest in, the for-
eign financial institution, subject to regu-
latory exceptions to permit the United
States to comply with the Agreement re-
garding the Headquarters of the United Na-
tions, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947,
and entered into force November 21, 1947, be-
tween the United Nations and the United
States, or other applicable international ob-
ligations.
(10) SANCTIONS ON PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OF-
FICERS.—The President may impose on the
principal executive officer or officers of the
foreign financial institution, or on individ-
uals performing similar functions and with
similar authorities as such officer or offi-
cers, any of the sanctions described in para-
graphs (1) through (8) that are applicable.
(c) TIMING OF SANCTIONS.—The President
may impose sanctions required under sub-
section (a) with respect to a financial insti-
tution included in the report under section
1705(b) or an update to that report under sec-
tion 1705(e) beginning on the day on which
the financial institution is included in that
report or update.
SEC. 1708. WAIVER, TERMINATION, EXCEPTIONS,
AND CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW
PROCESS.
(a) NATIONAL SECURITY WAIVER.—Unless a
disapproval resolution is enacted under sub-
section (d), the President may waive the ap-
plication of sanctions under section 1706 or
1707 with respect to a foreign person or for-
eign financial institution if the President—
(1) determines that the waiver is in the na-
tional security interest of the United States;
and
(2) submits to the appropriate congres-
sional committees and leadership a report on
the determination and the reasons for the
determination.
(b) TERMINATION OF SANCTIONS AND RE-
MOVAL FROM REPORT.—Unless a disapproval
resolution is enacted under subsection (d),
the President may terminate the application
of sanctions under section 1706 or 1707 with
respect to a foreign person or foreign finan-
cial institution and remove the foreign per-
son from the report required under section
1705(a) or the foreign financial institution
from the report required under section
1705(b), as the case may be, if the Secretary
of State, in consultation with the Secretary
of the Treasury, determines that the actions
taken by the foreign person or foreign finan-
cial institution that led to the imposition of
sanctions—
(1) do not have a significant and lasting
negative effect that contravenes the obliga-
tions of China under the Joint Declaration
and the Basic Law;
(2) are not likely to be repeated in the fu-
ture; and
(3) have been reversed or otherwise miti-
gated through positive countermeasures
taken by that foreign person or foreign fi-
nancial institution.
(c) TERMINATION OF ACT.—
(1) REPORT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than July 1,
2046, the President, in consultation with the
Secretary of State, the Secretary of the
Treasury, and the heads of such other Fed-
eral agencies as the President considers ap-
propriate, shall submit to Congress a report
evaluating the implementation of this title
and sanctions imposed pursuant to this title.
(B) ELEMENTS.—The President shall in-
clude in the report submitted under subpara-
graph (A) an assessment of whether this title
and the sanctions imposed pursuant to this
title should be terminated.
(2) TERMINATION.—This title and the sanc-
tions imposed pursuant to this title shall re-
main in effect unless a termination resolu-
tion is enacted under subsection (e) after
July 1, 2047.
(d) CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW.—
(1) RESOLUTIONS.—
(A) DISAPPROVAL RESOLUTION.—In this sec-
tion, the term ‘‘disapproval resolution’’
means only a joint resolution of either House
of Congress—
(i) the title of which is as follows: ‘‘A joint
resolution disapproving the waiver or termi-
nation of sanctions with respect to a foreign
person that contravenes the obligations of
China with respect to Hong Kong or a foreign
financial institution that conducts a signifi-
cant transaction with that person.’’; and
(ii) the sole matter after the resolving
clause of which is the following: ‘‘Congress
disapproves of the action under section 1708
of the Hong Kong Autonomy Act relating to
the application of sanctions imposed with re-
spect to a foreign person that contravenes
the obligations of China with respect to
Hong Kong, or a foreign financial institution
that conducts a significant transaction with
that person, on lllllll relating to
llllllll.’’, with the first blank space
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00167 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6854 November 16, 2020
being filled with the appropriate date and
the second blank space being filled with a
short description of the proposed action.
(B) TERMINATION RESOLUTION.—In this sec-
tion, the term ‘‘termination resolution’’
means only a joint resolution of either House
of Congress—
(i) the title of which is as follows: ‘‘A joint
resolution terminating sanctions with re-
spect to foreign persons that contravene the
obligations of China with respect to Hong
Kong and foreign financial institutions that
conduct significant transactions with those
persons.’’; and
(ii) the sole matter after the resolving
clause of which is the following: ‘‘The Hong
Kong Autonomy Act and any sanctions im-
posed pursuant to that Act shall terminate
on llll.’’, with the blank space being
filled with the termination date.
(C) COVERED RESOLUTION.—In this sub-
section, the term ‘‘covered resolution’’
means a disapproval resolution or a termi-
nation resolution.
(2) INTRODUCTION.—A covered resolution
may be introduced—
(A) in the House of Representatives, by the
majority leader or the minority leader; and
(B) in the Senate, by the majority leader
(or the majority leader’s designee) or the mi-
nority leader (or the minority leader’s des-
ignee).
(3) FLOOR CONSIDERATION IN HOUSE OF REP-
RESENTATIVES.—If a committee of the House
of Representatives to which a covered resolu-
tion has been referred has not reported the
resolution within 10 calendar days after the
date of referral, that committee shall be dis-
charged from further consideration of the
resolution.
(4) CONSIDERATION IN THE SENATE.—
(A) COMMITTEE REFERRAL.—
(i) DISAPPROVAL RESOLUTION.—A dis-
approval resolution introduced in the Senate
shall be—
(I) referred to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs if the resolution
relates to an action that is not intended to
significantly alter United States foreign pol-
icy with regard to China; and
(II) referred to the Committee on Foreign
Relations if the resolution relates to an ac-
tion that is intended to significantly alter
United States foreign policy with regard to
China.
(ii) TERMINATION RESOLUTION.—A termi-
nation resolution introduced in the Senate
shall be referred to the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs and the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
(B) REPORTING AND DISCHARGE.—If a com-
mittee to which a covered resolution was re-
ferred has not reported the resolution within
10 calendar days after the date of referral of
the resolution, that committee shall be dis-
charged from further consideration of the
resolution and the resolution shall be placed
on the appropriate calendar.
(C) PROCEEDING TO CONSIDERATION.—Not-
withstanding Rule XXII of the Standing
Rules of the Senate, it is in order at any
time after the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs or the Committee on
Foreign Relations, as the case may be, re-
ports a covered resolution to the Senate or
has been discharged from consideration of
such a resolution (even though a previous
motion to the same effect has been disagreed
to) to move to proceed to the consideration
of the resolution, and all points of order
against the resolution (and against consider-
ation of the resolution) are waived. The mo-
tion to proceed is not debatable. The motion
is not subject to a motion to postpone. A mo-
tion to reconsider the vote by which the mo-
tion is agreed to or disagreed to shall not be
in order.
(D) RULINGS OF THE CHAIR ON PROCEDURE.—
Appeals from the decisions of the Chair re-
lating to the application of the rules of the
Senate, as the case may be, to the procedure
relating to a covered resolution shall be de-
cided without debate.
(E) CONSIDERATION OF VETO MESSAGES.—De-
bate in the Senate of any veto message with
respect to a covered resolution, including all
debatable motions and appeals in connection
with the resolution, shall be limited to 10
hours, to be equally divided between, and
controlled by, the majority leader and the
minority leader or their designees.
(5) RULES RELATING TO SENATE AND HOUSE
OF REPRESENTATIVES.—
(A) TREATMENT OF SENATE RESOLUTION IN
HOUSE.—In the House of Representatives, the
following procedures shall apply to a covered
resolution received from the Senate (unless
the House has already passed a resolution re-
lating to the same proposed action):
(i) The resolution shall be referred to the
appropriate committees.
(ii) If a committee to which a resolution
has been referred has not reported the reso-
lution within 2 calendar days after the date
of referral, that committee shall be dis-
charged from further consideration of the
resolution.
(iii) Beginning on the third legislative day
after each committee to which a resolution
has been referred reports the resolution to
the House or has been discharged from fur-
ther consideration thereof, it shall be in
order to move to proceed to consider the res-
olution in the House. All points of order
against the motion are waived. Such a mo-
tion shall not be in order after the House has
disposed of a motion to proceed on the reso-
lution. The previous question shall be con-
sidered as ordered on the motion to its adop-
tion without intervening motion. The mo-
tion shall not be debatable. A motion to re-
consider the vote by which the motion is dis-
posed of shall not be in order.
(iv) The resolution shall be considered as
read. All points of order against the resolu-
tion and against its consideration are
waived. The previous question shall be con-
sidered as ordered on the resolution to final
passage without intervening motion except 2
hours of debate equally divided and con-
trolled by the sponsor of the resolution (or a
designee) and an opponent. A motion to re-
consider the vote on passage of the resolu-
tion shall not be in order.
(B) TREATMENT OF HOUSE RESOLUTION IN
SENATE.—
(i) RECEIVED BEFORE PASSAGE OF SENATE
RESOLUTION.—If, before the passage by the
Senate of a covered resolution, the Senate
receives an identical resolution from the
House of Representatives, the following pro-
cedures shall apply:
(I) That resolution shall not be referred to
a committee.
(II) With respect to that resolution—
(aa) the procedure in the Senate shall be
the same as if no resolution had been re-
ceived from the House of Representatives;
but
(bb) the vote on passage shall be on the
resolution from the House of Representa-
tives.
(ii) RECEIVED AFTER PASSAGE OF SENATE
RESOLUTION.—If, following passage of a cov-
ered resolution in the Senate, the Senate re-
ceives an identical resolution from the
House of Representatives, that resolution
shall be placed on the appropriate Senate
calendar.
(iii) NO SENATE COMPANION.—If a covered
resolution is received from the House of Rep-
resentatives, and no companion resolution
has been introduced in the Senate, the Sen-
ate procedures under this subsection shall
apply to the resolution from the House of
Representatives.
(C) APPLICATION TO REVENUE MEASURES.—
The provisions of this paragraph shall not
apply in the House of Representatives to a
covered resolution that is a revenue meas-
ure.
(6) RULES OF HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
AND SENATE.—This subsection is enacted by
Congress—
(A) as an exercise of the rulemaking power
of the Senate and the House of Representa-
tives, respectively, and as such is deemed a
part of the rules of each House, respectively,
and supersedes other rules only to the extent
that it is inconsistent with such rules; and
(B) with full recognition of the constitu-
tional right of either House to change the
rules (so far as relating to the procedure of
that House) at any time, in the same man-
ner, and to the same extent as in the case of
any other rule of that House.
SEC. 1709. IMPLEMENTATION; PENALTIES.
(a) IMPLEMENTATION.—The President may
exercise all authorities provided under sec-
tions 203 and 205 of the International Emer-
gency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702
and 1704) to the extent necessary to carry
out this title.
(b) PENALTIES.—A person that violates, at-
tempts to violate, conspires to violate, or
causes a violation of section 1706 or 1707 or
any regulation, license, or order issued to
carry out that section shall be subject to the
penalties set forth in subsections (b) and (c)
of section 206 of the International Emer-
gency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705)
to the same extent as a person that commits
an unlawful act described in subsection (a) of
that section.
SEC. 1710. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
Nothing in this title shall be construed as
an authorization of military force against
China.
SEC. 1711. EXCEPTION RELATING TO IMPORTA-
TION OF GOODS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The authorities and re-
quirements to impose sanctions under this
title shall not include the authority or re-
quirement to impose sanctions on the impor-
tation of goods.
(b) GOOD DEFINED.—In this section, the
term ‘‘good’’ means any article, natural or
manmade substance, material, supply, or
manufactured product, including inspection
and test equipment, and excluding technical
data.
DIVISION B—MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
AUTHORIZATIONS
SEC. 2001. SHORT TITLE.
This division may be cited as the ‘‘Military
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2021’’.
SEC. 2002. EXPIRATION OF AUTHORIZATIONS AND
AMOUNTS REQUIRED TO BE SPECI-
FIED BY LAW.
(a) EXPIRATION OF AUTHORIZATIONS AFTER
FIVE YEARS.—Except as provided in sub-
section (b), all authorizations contained in
titles XXI through XXVII for military con-
struction projects, land acquisition, family
housing projects and facilities, and contribu-
tions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organiza-
tion Security Investment Program (and au-
thorizations of appropriations therefor) shall
expire on the later of—
(1) October 1, 2025; or
(2) the date of the enactment of an Act au-
thorizing funds for military construction for
fiscal year 2026.
(b) EXCEPTION.—Subsection (a) shall not
apply to authorizations for military con-
struction projects, land acquisition, family
housing projects and facilities, and contribu-
tions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organiza-
tion Security Investment Program (and au-
thorizations of appropriations therefor), for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00168 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6855
November 16, 2020
which appropriated funds have been obli-
gated before the later of—
(1) October 1, 2025; or
(2) the date of the enactment of an Act au-
thorizing funds for fiscal year 2026 for mili-
tary construction projects, land acquisition,
family housing projects and facilities, or
contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization Security Investment Program.
SEC. 2003. EFFECTIVE DATE.
Titles XXI through XXVII and title XXIX
shall take effect on the later of—
(1) October 1, 2020; or
(2) the date of the enactment of this Act.
TITLE XXI—ARMY MILITARY
CONSTRUCTION
SEC. 2101. AUTHORIZED ARMY CONSTRUCTION
AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
(a) INSIDE THE UNITED STATES.—Using
amounts appropriated pursuant to the au-
thorization of appropriations in section
2103(a) and available for military construc-
tion projects inside the United States as
specified in the funding table in section 4601,
the Secretary of the Army may acquire real
property and carry out military construction
projects for the installations or locations in-
side the United States, and in the amounts,
set forth in the following table:
ARMY: INSIDE THE UNITED STATES
State Installation or Location Amount
Alaska ................................................ Fort Wainwright ......................................................................................................... $114,000,000
Arizona ............................................... Yuma Proving Ground ................................................................................................ $14,000,000
California ............................................ Military Ocean Terminal Concord .............................................................................. $46,000,000
Colorado ............................................. Fort Carson ................................................................................................................. $28,000,000
Georgia ............................................... Fort Gillem ................................................................................................................. $71,000,000
Fort Gordon ................................................................................................................ $80,000,000
Hawaii ................................................ Aliamanu Military Reservation .................................................................................. $71,000,000
Schofield Barracks ...................................................................................................... $39,000,000
Wheeler Army Airfield ................................................................................................ $89,000,000
Louisiana ............................................ Fort Polk .................................................................................................................... $25,000,000
Oklahoma ........................................... McAlester AAP ........................................................................................................... $35,000,000
South Carolina ................................... Fort Jackson ............................................................................................................... $7,000,000
Virginia .............................................. Humphreys Engineer Center ....................................................................................... $51,000,000
(b) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES.—Using
amounts appropriated pursuant to the au-
thorization of appropriations in section
2103(a) and available for military construc-
tion projects outside the United States as
specified in the funding table in section 4601,
the Secretary of the Army may acquire real
property and carry out military construction
projects for the installation outside the
United States, and in the amount, set forth
in the following table:
ARMY: OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES
State Installation Amount
Italy .................................................... Casmera Renato Dal Din ............................................................................................. $10,200,000
SEC. 2102. FAMILY HOUSING.
(a) CONSTRUCTION AND ACQUISITION.—Using
amounts appropriated pursuant to the au-
thorization of appropriations in section
2103(a) and available for military family
housing functions as specified in the funding
table in section 4601, the Secretary of the
Army may construct or acquire family hous-
ing units (including land acquisition and
supporting facilities) at the installations or
locations, in the number of units, and in the
amounts set forth in the following table:
ARMY: FAMILY HOUSING
Country Installation or Location Units Amount
Italy .................................................. Vicenza ..................................................................... Family Housing New Con-
struction ............................. $84,100,000
Kwajalein .......................................... Kwajalein Atoll ........................................................ Family Housing Replacement
Construction ....................... $32,000,000
(b) PLANNING AND DESIGN.—Using amounts
appropriated pursuant to the authorization
of appropriations in section 2103(a) and avail-
able for military family housing functions as
specified in the funding table in section 4601,
the Secretary of the Army may carry out ar-
chitectural and engineering services and
construction design activities with respect
to the construction or improvement of fam-
ily housing units in an amount not to exceed
$3,300,000.
SEC. 2103. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS,
ARMY.
(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
Funds are hereby authorized to be appro-
priated for fiscal years beginning after Sep-
tember 30, 2020, for military construction,
land acquisition, and military family hous-
ing functions of the Department of the Army
as specified in the funding table in section
4601.
(b) LIMITATION ON TOTAL COST OF CON-
STRUCTION PROJECTS.—Notwithstanding the
cost variations authorized by section 2853 of
title 10, United States Code, and any other
cost variation authorized by law, the total
cost of all projects carried out under section
2101 of this Act may not exceed the total
amount authorized to be appropriated under
subsection (a), as specified in the funding
table in section 4601.
SEC. 2104. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO
CARRY OUT FISCAL YEAR 2017
PROJECT AT CAMP WALKER, KOREA.
In the case of the authorization contained
in the table in section 2102(a) of the Military
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2017 (division B of Public Law 114–92; 129
Stat. 1146) for Camp Walker, Korea, the Sec-
retary of the Army may construct an ele-
vated walkway between two existing parking
garages to connect children’s playgrounds
using amounts available for Family Housing
New Construction, as specified in the funding
table in section 4601 of such Act (129 Stat.
1290).
TITLE XXII—NAVY MILITARY
CONSTRUCTION
SEC. 2201. AUTHORIZED NAVY CONSTRUCTION
AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
(a) INSIDE THE UNITED STATES.—Using
amounts appropriated pursuant to the au-
thorization of appropriations in section
2204(a) and available for military construc-
tion projects inside the United States as
specified in the funding table in section 4601,
the Secretary of the Navy may acquire real
property and carry out military construction
projects for the installations or locations in-
side the United States, and in the amounts,
set forth in the following table:
NAVY: INSIDE THE UNITED STATES
State Installation or Location Amount
California ............................................ Camp Pendleton .......................................................................................................... $115,530,000
Lemoore ...................................................................................................................... $187,220,000
Point Mugu ................................................................................................................. $26,700,000
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00169 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6856 November 16, 2020
NAVY: INSIDE THE UNITED STATES—Continued
State Installation or Location Amount
Port Hueneme ............................................................................................................. $43,500,000
San Diego .................................................................................................................... $128,500,000
Seal Beach .................................................................................................................. $46,800,000
Twentynine Palms ...................................................................................................... $76,500,000
Hawaii ................................................. Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam ................................................................................ $114,900,000
Maine .................................................. Kittery ........................................................................................................................ $715,000,000
NCTAMS LANT Detachment Cutler ........................................................................... $26,100,000
Nevada ................................................ Fallon ......................................................................................................................... $29,040,000
North Carolina .................................... Cherry Point ............................................................................................................... $51,900,000
Virginia .............................................. Norfolk ....................................................................................................................... $39,800,000
(b) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES.—Using
amounts appropriated pursuant to the au-
thorization of appropriations in section
2204(a) and available for military construc-
tion projects outside the United States as
specified in the funding table in section 4601,
the Secretary of the Navy may acquire real
property and carry out military construction
projects for the installations or locations
outside the United States, and in the
amounts, set forth in the following table:
NAVY: OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES
Country Installation or Location Amount
Bahrain Island ......................................... SW Asia ................................................................................................................... $68,340,000
El Salvador ............................................. Comalapa ................................................................................................................. $28,000,000
Greece ..................................................... Souda Bay ................................................................................................................ $50,180,000
Guam ....................................................... Andersen Air Force Base ......................................................................................... $21,280,000
Joint Region Marianas ............................................................................................ $546,550,000
Spain ....................................................... Rota ......................................................................................................................... $60,110,000
SEC. 2202. FAMILY HOUSING.
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to
the authorization of appropriations in sec-
tion 2204(a) and available for military family
housing functions as specified in the funding
table in section 4601, the Secretary of the
Navy may carry out architectural and engi-
neering services and construction design ac-
tivities with respect to the construction or
improvement of family housing units in an
amount not to exceed $5,854,000.
SEC. 2203. IMPROVEMENTS TO MILITARY FAMILY
HOUSING UNITS.
Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United
States Code, and using amounts appropriated
pursuant to the authorization of appropria-
tions in section 2204(a) and available for
military family housing functions as speci-
fied in the funding table in section 4601, the
Secretary of the Navy may improve existing
military family housing units in an amount
not to exceed $37,043,000.
SEC. 2204. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS,
NAVY.
(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
Funds are hereby authorized to be appro-
priated for fiscal years beginning after Sep-
tember 30, 2020, for military construction,
land acquisition, and military family hous-
ing functions of the Department of the Navy,
as specified in the funding table in section
4601.
(b) LIMITATION ON TOTAL COST OF CON-
STRUCTION PROJECTS.—Notwithstanding the
cost variations authorized by section 2853 of
title 10, United States Code, and any other
cost variation authorized by law, the total
cost of all projects carried out under section
2201 of this Act may not exceed the total
amount authorized to be appropriated under
subsection (a), as specified in the funding
table in section 4601.
TITLE XXIII—AIR FORCE MILITARY
CONSTRUCTION
SEC. 2301. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE CONSTRUC-
TION AND LAND ACQUISITION
PROJECTS.
(a) INSIDE THE UNITED STATES.—Using
amounts appropriated pursuant to the au-
thorization of appropriations in section
2304(a) and available for military construc-
tion projects inside the United States as
specified in the funding table in section 4601,
the Secretary of the Air Force may acquire
real property and carry out military con-
struction projects for the installations or lo-
cations inside the United States, and in the
amounts, set forth in the following table:
AIR FORCE: INSIDE THE UNITED STATES
State Installation or Location Amount
Colorado ...................................................................... United States Air Force Academy .................................................. $49,000,000
New Jersey .................................................................. Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst ................................................ $22,000,000
South Dakota .............................................................. Ellsworth Air Force Base ................................................................ $96,000,000
Texas ........................................................................... Joint Base San Antonio .................................................................. $19,500,000
Utah ............................................................................. Hill Air Force Base ......................................................................... $132,000,000
Virginia ....................................................................... Joint Base Langley-Eustis .............................................................. $19,500,000
(b) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES.—Using
amounts appropriated pursuant to the au-
thorization of appropriations in section
2304(a) and available for military construc-
tion projects outside the United States as
specified in the funding table in section 4601,
the Secretary of the Air Force may acquire
real property and carry out military con-
struction projects for the installations or lo-
cations outside the United States, and in the
amounts, set forth in the following table:
AIR FORCE: OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES
Country Installation or Location Amount
Guam ........................................................................... Andersen Air Force Base ................................................................ $56,000,000
Qatar ........................................................................... Al Udeid .......................................................................................... $26,000,000
SEC. 2302. FAMILY HOUSING.
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to
the authorization of appropriations in sec-
tion 2304(a) and available for military family
housing functions as specified in the funding
table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air
Force may carry out architectural and engi-
neering services and construction design ac-
tivities with respect to the construction or
improvement of family housing units in an
amount not to exceed $2,969,000.
SEC. 2303. IMPROVEMENTS TO MILITARY FAMILY
HOUSING UNITS.
Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United
States Code, and using amounts appropriated
pursuant to the authorization of appropria-
tions in section 2304(a) and available for
military family housing functions as speci-
fied in the funding table in section 4601, the
Secretary of the Air Force may improve ex-
isting military family housing units in an
amount not to exceed $94,245,000.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00170 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6857
November 16, 2020
SEC. 2304. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS,
AIR FORCE.
(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
Funds are hereby authorized to be appro-
priated for fiscal years beginning after Sep-
tember 30, 2020, for military construction,
land acquisition, and military family hous-
ing functions of the Department of the Air
Force, as specified in the funding table in
section 4601.
(b) LIMITATION ON TOTAL COST OF CON-
STRUCTION PROJECTS.—Notwithstanding the
cost variations authorized by section 2853 of
title 10, United States Code, and any other
cost variation authorized by law, the total
cost of all projects carried out under section
2301 of this Act may not exceed the total
amount authorized to be appropriated under
subsection (a), as specified in the funding
table in section 4601.
SEC. 2305. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO
CARRY OUT FISCAL YEAR 2018
PROJECT AT ROYAL AIR FORCE
LAKENHEATH.
(a) IN GENERAL.—In the case of the author-
ization contained in the table in section
2301(b) of the Military Construction Author-
ization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (division B of
Public Law 115–91; 131 Stat. 1826) for Royal
Air Force Lakenheath, United Kingdom, the
Secretary of the Air Force may construct a
2,700 square meter consolidated corrosion
control and wash rack facility at such loca-
tion.
(b) INCREASE OF AMOUNT.—The table in sec-
tion 4601 of such Act is amended in the item
relating to a Consolidated Corrosion Control
Facility at Royal Air Force Lakenheath,
United Kingdom, by striking ‘‘20,000,000’’ and
inserting ‘‘55,300,000’’.
SEC. 2306. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO
CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR
2019 PROJECTS.
(a) EIELSON AIR FORCE BASE, ALASKA.—In
the case of the authorization contained in
the table in section 2301(a) of the Military
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2019 (division B of Public Law 115–232;
132 Stat. 2246) for Eielson Air Force Base,
Alaska, the Secretary of the Air Force may
construct a 426 square meter non-contained
(outdoor) range with covered and heated fir-
ing line for construction of an F–35 CATM
Range, as specified in the funding table in
section 4601 of such Act (132 Stat. 2404).
(b) BARKSDALE AIR FORCE BASE, LOU-
ISIANA.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In the case of the author-
ization contained in the table in section
2301(a) of the Military Construction Author-
ization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (division B of
Public Law 115–232; 132 Stat. 2246) for
Barksdale Air Force Base, Louisiana, the
Secretary of the Air Force may construct an
entrance road and gate complex consistent
with the Unified Facilities Criteria relating
to entry control facilities and the construc-
tion guidelines for the Air Force, in the
amount of $48,000,000.
(2) DETAILS OF CONSTRUCTION.—In con-
structing the entrance road and gate com-
plex under paragraph (1), the Secretary of
the Air Force may construct a 190 square
meter visitor control center, a 44 square
meter gate house, a 124 square meter pri-
vately owned vehicle inspection facility, a
338 square meter truck inspection facility,
and a 45 square meter gatehouse.
(3) CONSTRUCTION IN FLOOD PLAIN.—Con-
struction under paragraph (1) may be con-
ducted in a flood plain and appropriate miti-
gation measures shall be included in the
project.
(c) ROYAL AIR FORCE LAKENHEATH, UNITED
KINGDOM.—In the case of the authorization
contained in the table in section 2301(b) of
the Military Construction Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2019 (division B of Public Law
115–232; 132 Stat. 2247) for Royal Air Force
Lakenheath, United Kingdom, the Secretary
of the Air Force may construct a 1,206 square
meter maintenance facility for construction
of an F–35A ADAL Conventional Munitions
MX, as specified in the funding table in sec-
tion 4601 of such Act (132 Stat. 2400).
(d) FORCE PROTECTION AND SAFETY.—The
table in section 4601 of the Military Con-
struction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2019 (division B of Public Law 115–232; 132
Stat. 2406) is amended in the item relating to
Force Protection and Safety, Air Force, Un-
specified Worldwide Locations, by striking
‘‘35,000’’ and inserting ‘‘50,000’’.
SEC. 2307. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO
CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR
2020 FAMILY HOUSING PROJECTS.
(a) CONSTRUCTION AND ACQUISITION.—Sec-
tion 2302 of the Military Construction Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public
Law 116–92) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘Using amounts’’ and in-
serting ‘‘(a) PLANNING AND DESIGN.—Using
amounts’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(b) CONSTRUCTION AND ACQUISITION.—
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the
authorization of appropriations in section
2304(a), the Secretary of the Air Force may
construct or acquire family housing units
(including land, acquisition, and supporting
facilities) at the installation, in the number
of units, and in the amounts set forth in the
following table:
‘‘AIR FORCE: FAMILY HOUSING
Country Installation or Location Purpose Amount
Germany ................................ Spangdahlem Air Base ............................................ 76 Units ............................................ $53,584,000’’.
(b) FUNDING.—Section 2303 of the Military
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92) is amended by
striking ‘‘$53,584,000’’ and inserting
‘‘$46,638,000’’.
SEC. 2308. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO
CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR
2020 PROJECTS.
(a) TYNDALL AIR FORCE BASE, FLORIDA.—In
the case of the authorization contained in
the table in section 2912(a) of the Military
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2020 (division B of Public Law 116–92)
for Tyndall Air Force Base, Florida, the Sec-
retary of the Air Force may construct—
(1) not more than 4,770 square meters of
aircraft support equipment storage for con-
struction of an Auxiliary Ground Equipment
Facility, as specified in the funding table in
section 4603 of such Act;
(2) not more than 18,770 square meters of
visiting quarters for construction of Dorm
Complex Phase 1, as specified in such funding
table;
(3) 2,127 square meters of squadron oper-
ations and 2,875 square meters of aircraft
maintenance unit for construction of Ops/
Aircraft Maintenance Unit/Hangar #2, as
specified in such funding table;
(4) 2,127 square meters of squadron oper-
ations and 2,875 square meters of aircraft
maintenance unit for construction of Ops/
Aircraft Maintenance Unit/Hangar #3, as
specified in such funding table;
(5) not more than 3,420 square meters of
headquarters for construction of an Oper-
ations Group/Maintenance Group HQ, as
specified in such funding table;
(6) not more than 930 square meters of
equipment storage for construction of a Se-
curity Forces Mobility Storage Facility, as
specified in such funding table;
(7) not more than 7,000 meters of storm
water piping, box culverts, underground de-
tention, and grading for surface detention
for construction of Site Development, Utili-
ties & Demo Phase 2, as specified in such
funding table; and
(8) not more than 12,471 meters of visiting
quarters for construction of Lodging Facili-
ties Phase 1, as specified in such funding
table.
(b) OFFUTT AIR FORCE BASE, NEBRASKA.—In
the case of the authorization contained in
the table in section 2912(a) of the Military
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2020 (division B of Public Law 116–92)
for Offutt Air Force Base, Nebraska, the Sec-
retary of the Air Force may construct—
(1) seven 2.5-megawatt diesel engine gen-
erators, seven diesel exhaust fluid systems,
15-kilovolt switchgear, two import/export
inter-ties, five import-only inter-ties, and
800 square meters of switchgear facility for
construction of an Emergency Power
Microgrid, as specified in the funding table
in section 4603 of such Act;
(2) 2,536 square meters of warehouse for
construction of a Logistics Readiness Squad-
ron Campus, as specified in such funding
table;
(3) 4,218 square meters of operations center
and 1,343 square meters of military working
dog kennel for construction of a Security
Campus, as specified in such funding table;
(4) 445 square meters of petroleum oper-
ations center, 268 square meters of de-icing
liquid storage, and 173 square meters of
warehouse for construction of a Flightline
Hangars Campus, as specified in such funding
table; and
(5) 240 square meters of recreation complex
and 270 square meters of storage for con-
struction of a Lake Campus, as specified in
such funding table.
(c) JOINT BASE LANGLEY-EUSTIS, VIR-
GINIA.—In the case of the authorization con-
tained in the table in section 2912(a) of the
Military Construction Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2020 (division B of Public Law
116–92) for Joint Base Langley-Eustis, Vir-
ginia, the Secretary of the Air Force may
construct up to 6,720 square meters of dor-
mitory for construction of a Dormitory, as
specified in the funding table in section 4603
of such Act.
TITLE XXIV—DEFENSE AGENCIES
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
SEC. 2401. AUTHORIZED DEFENSE AGENCIES
CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISI-
TION PROJECTS.
(a) INSIDE THE UNITED STATES.—Using
amounts appropriated pursuant to the au-
thorization of appropriations in section
2403(a) and available for military construc-
tion projects inside the United States as
specified in the funding table in section 4601,
the Secretary of Defense may acquire real
property and carry out military construction
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00171 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6858 November 16, 2020
projects for the installations or locations in- side the United States, and in the amounts,
set forth in the following table:
DEFENSE AGENCIES: INSIDE THE UNITED STATES
State Installation or Location Amount
Alabama ............................................... Anniston Army Depot ................................................................................................ $18,000,000
Alaska .................................................. Fort Greely ................................................................................................................ $48,000,000
Arizona ................................................. Fort Huachuca ........................................................................................................... $33,728,000
Yuma .......................................................................................................................... $49,500,000
California .............................................. Beale Air Force Base .................................................................................................. $22,800,000
Colorado ............................................... Fort Carson ................................................................................................................ $15,600,000
CONUS Unspecified .............................. CONUS Unspecified .................................................................................................... $14,400,000
Florida .................................................. Hurlburt Field ............................................................................................................ $83,120,000
Kentucky .............................................. Fort Knox ................................................................................................................... $69,310,000
New Mexico .......................................... Kirtland Air Force Base ............................................................................................. $46,600,000
North Carolina ...................................... Fort Bragg .................................................................................................................. $113,800,000
Ohio ...................................................... Wright-Patterson Air Force Base ............................................................................... $23,500,000
Texas .................................................... Fort Hood ................................................................................................................... $32,700,000
Virginia ................................................ Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek-Fort Story .................................................... $112,500,000
Washington ........................................... Joint Base Lewis-McChord ......................................................................................... $21,800,000
Manchester ................................................................................................................. $82,000,000
(b) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES.—Using
amounts appropriated pursuant to the au-
thorization of appropriations in section
2403(a) and available for military construc-
tion projects outside the United States as
specified in the funding table in section 4601,
the Secretary of Defense may acquire real
property and carry out military construction
projects for the installation or location out-
side the United States, and in the amount,
set forth in the following table:
DEFENSE AGENCIES: OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES
Country Installation or Location Amount
Japan ............................................. Def Fuel Support Point Tsurumi .................................................................................. $49,500,000
SEC. 2402. AUTHORIZED ENERGY RESILIENCE
AND CONSERVATION INVESTMENT
PROGRAM PROJECTS.
(a) INSIDE THE UNITED STATES.—Using
amounts appropriated pursuant to the au-
thorization of appropriations in section
2403(a) and available for energy conservation
projects as specified in the funding table in
section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may
carry out energy conservation projects under
chapter 173 of title 10, United States Code,
for the installations or locations inside the
United States, and in the amounts, set forth
in the following table:
ERCIP PROJECTS: INSIDE THE UNITED STATES
State Installation or Location Amount
Alabama ............................................... Fort Rucker ............................................................................................................... $24,000,000
Arkansas ............................................... Fort Smith Air National Guard Base ......................................................................... $2,600,000
District of Columbia ............................. Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling ..................................................................................... $35,933,000
Georgia ................................................. Fort Benning .............................................................................................................. $17,000,000
Mississippi ............................................ MTA Camp Shelby ...................................................................................................... $30,000,000
North Carolina ...................................... Fort Bragg .................................................................................................................. $6,100,000
Ohio ...................................................... Wright-Patterson Air Force Base ............................................................................... $35,000,000
Tennessee ............................................. Memphis International Airport .................................................................................. $4,780,000
(b) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES.—Using
amounts appropriated pursuant to the au-
thorization of appropriations in section
2403(a) and available for energy conservation
projects as specified in the funding table in
section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may
carry out energy conservation projects under
chapter 173 of title 10, United States Code,
for the installations or locations outside the
United States, and in the amounts, set forth
in the following table:
ERCIP PROJECTS: OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES
Country Installation or Location Amount
Unspecified Worldwide .................. Unspecified Worldwide Locations ................................................................................. $142,500,000
SEC. 2403. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS,
DEFENSE AGENCIES.
(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
Funds are hereby authorized to be appro-
priated for fiscal years beginning after Sep-
tember 30, 2020, for military construction,
land acquisition, and military family hous-
ing functions of the Department of Defense
(other than the military departments), as
specified in the funding table in section 4601.
(b) LIMITATION ON TOTAL COST OF CON-
STRUCTION PROJECTS.—Notwithstanding the
cost variations authorized by section 2853 of
title 10, United States Code, and any other
cost variation authorized by law, the total
cost of all projects carried out under section
2401 of this Act may not exceed the total
amount authorized to be appropriated under
subsection (a), as specified in the funding
table in section 4601.
TITLE XXV—INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS
Subtitle A—North Atlantic Treaty
Organization Security Investment Program
SEC. 2501. AUTHORIZED NATO CONSTRUCTION
AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
The Secretary of Defense may make con-
tributions for the North Atlantic Treaty Or-
ganization Security Investment Program as
provided in section 2806 of title 10, United
States Code, in an amount not to exceed the
sum of the amount authorized to be appro-
priated for this purpose in section 2502 and
the amount collected from the North Atlan-
tic Treaty Organization as a result of con-
struction previously financed by the United
States.
SEC. 2502. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS,
NATO.
(a) AUTHORIZATION.—Funds are hereby au-
thorized to be appropriated for fiscal years
beginning after September 30, 2020, for con-
tributions by the Secretary of Defense under
section 2806 of title 10, United States Code,
for the share of the United States of the cost
of projects for the North Atlantic Treaty Or-
ganization Security Investment Program au-
thorized by section 2501 as specified in the
funding table in section 4601.
(b) AUTHORITY TO RECOGNIZE NATO AU-
THORIZATION AMOUNTS AS BUDGETARY RE-
SOURCES FOR PROJECT EXECUTION.—When the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00172 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6859
November 16, 2020
United States is designated as the Host Na-
tion for the purposes of executing a project
under the NATO Security Investment Pro-
gram (NSIP), the Department of Defense
construction agent may recognize the NATO
project authorization amounts as budgetary
resources to incur obligations for the pur-
poses of executing the NSIP project.
SEC. 2503. EXECUTION OF PROJECTS UNDER THE
NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANI-
ZATION SECURITY INVESTMENT
PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter II of chapter
138 of title 10, United States Code, is amend-
ed by striking section 2350m and inserting
the following new section 2350m:
‘‘§ 2350m. Execution of projects under the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization Secu-
rity Investment Program
‘‘(a) AUTHORITY TO EXECUTE PROJECTS.—
When the United States is designated as the
Host Nation for purposes of executing a
project under the North Atlantic Treaty Or-
ganization Security Investment Program (in
this section referred to as the ‘Program’),
the Secretary of Defense may accept such
designation and carry out such project con-
sistent with the requirements of this section.
‘‘(b) PROJECT FUNDING.—The Secretary of
Defense may fund authorized expenditures of
projects accepted under subsection (a) with—
‘‘(1) contributions under subsection (c);
‘‘(2) appropriations of the Department of
Defense for the Program when directed by
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to
apply amounts of such appropriations as part
of the share of contributions of the United
States for the Program; or
‘‘(3) any combination of amounts described
in paragraphs (1) and (2).
‘‘(c) AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT CONTRIBU-
TIONS.—(1) The Secretary of Defense may ac-
cept contributions from the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization and member nations of
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization for
the purpose of carrying out a project under
subsection (a).
‘‘(2) Contributions accepted under para-
graph (1) shall be placed in an account estab-
lished for the purpose of carrying out the
project for which the funds were provided
and shall remain available until expended.
‘‘(3)(A) If contributions are made under
paragraph (1) as reimbursement for a project
or portion of a project previously completed
by the Department of Defense, such con-
tributions shall be credited to—
‘‘(i) the appropriations used for the project
or portion thereof, if such appropriations
have not yet expired; or
‘‘(ii) the appropriations for the Program, if
the appropriations described in clause (i)
have expired.
‘‘(B) Funding credited under subparagraph
(A) shall merge with and remain available
for the same purposes and duration as the
appropriations to which credited.
‘‘(d) OBLIGATION AUTHORITY.—The con-
struction agent of the Department of De-
fense designated by the Secretary of Defense
to execute a project under subsection (a)
may recognize the North Atlantic Treaty Or-
ganization project authorization amounts as
budgetary resources to incur obligations
against for the purposes of executing the
project.
‘‘(e) INSUFFICIENT CONTRIBUTIONS.—(1) In
the event that the North Atlantic Treaty Or-
ganization does not agree to contribute fund-
ing for all costs necessary for the Depart-
ment of Defense to carry out a project under
subsection (a), including necessary personnel
costs of the construction agent designated
by the Department of Defense, contract
claims, and any conjunctive funding require-
ments that exceed the project authorization
or standards of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization, the Secretary of Defense, upon
determination that completion of the project
is in the national interest of the United
States, may fund such costs using any funds
available in appropriations for the Program.
‘‘(2) The use of funds under paragraph (1)
from appropriations for the Program may be
in addition to or in place of any other fund-
ing sources otherwise available for the pur-
poses for which those funds are used.
‘‘(f) AUTHORIZED EXPENDITURES DEFINED.—
In this section, the term ‘authorized expendi-
tures’ means project expenses for which the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization has
agreed to contribute funding.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of subchapter II of
chapter 138 of such title is amended by strik-
ing the item relating to section 2350m and
inserting the following new item:
‘‘2350m. Execution of projects under the
North Atlantic Treaty Organi-
zation Security Investment
Program.’’.
(c) CONFORMING REPEALS.—
(1) 2019.—Section 2502 of the John S.
McCain National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232; 132
Stat. 2252) is amended—
(A) in subsection (a)—
(i) by striking ‘‘(a) AUTHORIZATION.—
Funds’’ and inserting ‘‘Funds’’; and
(ii) by striking the second sentence; and
(B) by striking subsection (b).
(2) 2020.—Section 2502 of the National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020
(Public Law 116–92) is amended—
(A) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘(a) AU-
THORIZATION.—Funds’’ and inserting
‘‘Funds’’; and
(B) by striking subsection (b).
Subtitle B—Host Country In-Kind
Contributions
SEC. 2511. REPUBLIC OF KOREA FUNDED CON-
STRUCTION PROJECTS.
Pursuant to agreement with the Republic
of Korea for required in-kind contributions,
the Secretary of Defense may accept mili-
tary construction projects for the installa-
tions or locations in the Republic of Korea,
and in the amounts, set forth in the fol-
lowing table:
REPUBLIC OF KOREA FUNDED CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
Component Installation or Location Project Amount
Army .............................. Camp Carroll .......................... Site Development ........................................... $49,000,000
Army .............................. Camp Humphreys ................... Attack Reconnaissance Battalion Hangar ..... $99,000,000
Army .............................. Camp Humphreys ................... Hot Refuel Point ............................................ $35,000,000
Navy ............................... COMROKFLT Naval Base,
Busan .................................. Maritime Operations Center ........................... $26,000,000
Air Force ........................ Daegu Air Base ....................... AGE Facility and Parking Apron ................... $14,000,000
Air Force ........................ Kunsan Air Base ..................... Backup Generator Plant ................................. $19,000,000
Air Force ........................ Osan Air Base ......................... Aircraft Corrosion Control Facility (Phase 3) $12,000,000
Air Force ........................ Osan Air Base ......................... Child Development Center .............................. $20,000,000
Air Force ........................ Osan Air Base ......................... Relocate Munitions Storage Area Delta
(Phase 1) ...................................................... $84,000,000
Defense-Wide .................. Camp Humphreys ................... Elementary School ......................................... $58,000,000
SEC. 2512. QATAR FUNDED CONSTRUCTION
PROJECTS.
Pursuant to agreement with the State of
Qatar for required in-kind contributions, the
Secretary of Defense may accept military
construction projects for the installation in
the State of Qatar, and in the amounts, set
forth in the following table:
STATE OF QATAR FUNDED CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
Component Installation or Location Project Amount
Air Force ........................ Al Udeid ................................. Billet (A12) ..................................................... $63,000,000
Air Force ........................ Al Udeid ................................. Billet (B12) ...................................................... $63,000,000
Air Force ........................ Al Udeid ................................. Billet (D10) ..................................................... $77,000,000
Air Force ........................ Al Udeid ................................. Billet (009) ...................................................... $77,000,000
Air Force ........................ Al Udeid ................................. Billet (007) ...................................................... $77,000,000
Air Force ........................ Al Udeid ................................. Armory/Mount ................................................ $7,200,000
Air Force ........................ Al Udeid ................................. Billet (A06) ..................................................... $77,000,000
Air Force ........................ Al Udeid ................................. Dining Facility ............................................... $14,600,000
Air Force ........................ Al Udeid ................................. Billet (BOS) .................................................... $77,000,000
Air Force ........................ Al Udeid ................................. Billet (B04) ...................................................... $77,000,000
Air Force ........................ Al Udeid ................................. Billet (A04) ..................................................... $77,000,000
Air Force ........................ Al Udeid ................................. Billet (AOS) .................................................... $77,000,000
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00173 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6860 November 16, 2020
STATE OF QATAR FUNDED CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS—Continued
Component Installation or Location Project Amount
Air Force ........................ Al Udeid ................................. Dining Facility ............................................... $14,600,000
Air Force ........................ Al Udeid ................................. MSG (Base Operations Support Facility) ....... $9,300,000
Air Force ........................ Al Udeid ................................. ITN (Communications Facility) ..................... $3,500,000
TITLE XXVI—GUARD AND RESERVE
FORCES FACILITIES
SEC. 2601. AUTHORIZED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD
CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISI-
TION PROJECTS.
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to
the authorization of appropriations in sec-
tion 2606 and available for the National
Guard and Reserve as specified in the fund-
ing table in section 4601, the Secretary of the
Army may acquire real property and carry
out military construction projects for the
Army National Guard installations or loca-
tions inside the United States, and in the
amounts, set forth in the following table:
ARMY NATIONAL GUARD
State Installation or Location Amount
Arizona ............................................... Tucson ........................................................................................................................ $18,100,000
Arkansas ............................................. Fort Chaffee ................................................................................................................ $15,000,000
California ............................................ Bakersfield .................................................................................................................. $9,300,000
Colorado ............................................. Peterson Air Force Base ............................................................................................. $15,000,000
Indiana ............................................... Shelbyville .................................................................................................................. $12,000,000
Kentucky ............................................ Frankfort .................................................................................................................... $15,000,000
Mississippi .......................................... Brandon ...................................................................................................................... $10,400,000
Nebraska ............................................. North Platte ............................................................................................................... $9,300,000
New Jersey ......................................... Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst ............................................................................ $15,000,000
Ohio .................................................... Columbus .................................................................................................................... $15,000,000
Oklahoma ........................................... Ardmore ...................................................................................................................... $9,800,000
Oregon ................................................ Hermiston ................................................................................................................... $25,035,000
Puerto Rico ........................................ Fort Allen ................................................................................................................... $37,000,000
South Carolina ................................... Joint Base Charleston ................................................................................................. $15,000,000
Tennessee ........................................... McMinnville ................................................................................................................ $11,200,000
Texas .................................................. Fort Worth .................................................................................................................. $13,800,000
Utah .................................................... Nephi ........................................................................................................................... $12,000,000
Virgin Islands ..................................... St. Croix ...................................................................................................................... $39,400,000
Wisconsin ............................................ Appleton ..................................................................................................................... $11,600,000
SEC. 2602. AUTHORIZED ARMY RESERVE CON-
STRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION
PROJECTS.
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to
the authorization of appropriations in sec-
tion 2606 and available for the National
Guard and Reserve as specified in the fund-
ing table in section 4601, the Secretary of the
Army may acquire real property and carry
out military construction projects for the
Army Reserve installations or locations in-
side the United States, and in the amounts,
set forth in the following table:
ARMY RESERVE
State Installation or Location Amount
Florida ................................................................ Gainesville .................................................................................................. $36,000,000
Massachusetts ..................................................... Devens Reserve Forces Training Area ........................................................ $8,700,000
North Carolina .................................................... Asheville ..................................................................................................... $24,000,000
Wisconsin ............................................................ Fort McCoy ................................................................................................. $17,100,000
SEC. 2603. AUTHORIZED NAVY RESERVE AND MA-
RINE CORPS RESERVE CONSTRUC-
TION AND LAND ACQUISITION
PROJECTS.
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to
the authorization of appropriations in sec-
tion 2606 and available for the National
Guard and Reserve as specified in the fund-
ing table in section 4601, the Secretary of the
Navy may acquire real property and carry
out military construction projects for the
Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve in-
stallations or locations inside the United
States, and in the amounts, set forth in the
following table:
NAVY RESERVE AND MARINE CORPS RESERVE
State Installation or Location Amount
Maryland ............................................................ Reisterstown ............................................................................................... $39,500,000
Minnesota ........................................................... Naval Operational Support Center Minneapolis ......................................... $12,800,000
Utah .................................................................... Hill Air Force Base ..................................................................................... $25,010,000
SEC. 2604. AUTHORIZED AIR NATIONAL GUARD
CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISI-
TION PROJECTS.
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to
the authorization of appropriations in sec-
tion 2606 and available for the National
Guard and Reserve as specified in the fund-
ing table in section 4601, the Secretary of the
Air Force may acquire real property and
carry out military construction projects for
the Air National Guard installations or loca-
tions inside the United States, and in the
amounts, set forth in the following table:
AIR NATIONAL GUARD
State Installation or Location Amount
Alabama .............................................................. Montgomery Regional Airport ................................................................... $23,600,000
Guam .................................................................. Joint Region Marianas ............................................................................... $20,000,000
Maryland ............................................................ Joint Base Andrews .................................................................................... $9,400,000
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00174 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6861
November 16, 2020
AIR NATIONAL GUARD—Continued
State Installation or Location Amount
North Dakota ...................................................... Hector International Airport ...................................................................... $17,500,000
Texas .................................................................. Joint Base San Antonio .............................................................................. $10,800,000
SEC. 2605. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE RESERVE
CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISI-
TION PROJECTS.
Using amounts appropriated pursuant to
the authorization of appropriations in sec-
tion 2606 and available for the National
Guard and Reserve as specified in the fund-
ing table in section 4601, the Secretary of the
Air Force may acquire real property and
carry out military construction projects for
the installation inside the United States,
and in the amount, set forth in the following
table:
AIR FORCE RESERVE
State Installation Amount
Texas .................................................................. Joint Reserve Base Fort Worth .................................................................. $39,200,000
SEC. 2606. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS,
NATIONAL GUARD AND RESERVE.
Funds are hereby authorized to be appro-
priated for fiscal years beginning after Sep-
tember 30, 2020, for the costs of acquisition,
architectural and engineering services, and
construction of facilities for the Guard and
Reserve Forces, and for contributions there-
for, under chapter 1803 of title 10, United
States Code (including the cost of acquisi-
tion of land for those facilities), as specified
in the funding table in section 4601.
SEC. 2607. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO
CARRY OUT FISCAL YEAR 2020
PROJECT IN ALABAMA.
In the case of the authorization contained
in the table in section 2601 of the Military
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2020 (division B of Public Law 116–92)
for Anniston Army Depot, Alabama, for con-
struction of an Enlisted Transient Barracks
as specified in the funding table in section
4601 of such Act, the Secretary of the Army
may construct a training barracks at Fort
McClellan, Alabama.
TITLE XXVII—BASE REALIGNMENT AND
CLOSURE ACTIVITIES
SEC. 2701. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
FOR BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLO-
SURE ACTIVITIES FUNDED
THROUGH DEPARTMENT OF DE-
FENSE BASE CLOSURE ACCOUNT.
Funds are hereby authorized to be appro-
priated for fiscal years beginning after Sep-
tember 30, 2020, for base realignment and clo-
sure activities, including real property ac-
quisition and military construction projects,
as authorized by the Defense Base Closure
and Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title
XXIX of Public Law 101–510; 10 U.S.C. 2687
note) and funded through the Department of
Defense Base Closure Account established by
section 2906 of such Act (as amended by sec-
tion 2711 of the Military Construction Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (division
B of Public Law 112–239; 126 Stat. 2140)), as
specified in the funding table in section 4601.
SEC. 2702. PROHIBITION ON CONDUCTING ADDI-
TIONAL BASE REALIGNMENT AND
CLOSURE (BRAC) ROUND.
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to
authorize an additional Base Realignment
and Closure (BRAC) round.
SEC. 2703. PLAN TO FINISH REMEDIATION AC-
TIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE SEC-
RETARY OF THE ARMY IN UMATILLA,
OREGON.
Not later than 90 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the
Army shall submit to Congress a plan to fin-
ish remediation activities conducted by the
Secretary in Umatilla, Oregon, by not later
than three years after such date of enact-
ment.
TITLE XXVIII—MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
Subtitle A—Military Construction Program
SEC. 2801. RESPONSIBILITY OF NAVY FOR MILI-
TARY CONSTRUCTION REQUIRE-
MENTS FOR CERTAIN FLEET READI-
NESS CENTERS.
In the case in which a Fleet Readiness Cen-
ter is a tenant command aboard an installa-
tion of the Marine Corps, the Navy shall be
responsible for programming, requesting,
and executing any military construction re-
quirements for the Fleet Readiness Center.
SEC. 2802. CONSTRUCTION OF GROUND-BASED
STRATEGIC DETERRENT LAUNCH
FACILITIES AND LAUNCH CENTERS
FOR AIR FORCE.
(a) AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT PROJECTS.—
Subject to subsections (b) and (d) and within
the amount appropriated for such purpose,
the Secretary of the Air Force may carry out
military construction projects to convert
Minuteman III launch facilities and launch
centers to ground-based strategic deterrent
configurations.
(b) MASTER PLAN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Prior to the authority
under subsection (a) being available for use,
the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit
to the congressional defense committees a
master plan, broken out by year and loca-
tion, for the planned launch facilities and
launch centers to be converted to ground-
based strategic deterrent configurations pur-
suant to a project under this section.
(2) SPENDING PLAN.—The master plan sub-
mitted under paragraph (1) shall include a
spending plan with estimated amounts to be
requested with respect to each planned loca-
tion for conversion to ground-based strategic
deterrent configurations.
(c) MANAGEMENT OF DESIGN AND CONSTRUC-
TION.—The Secretary of the Air Force may
select a single, prime contractor to manage
the design and construction phases of
projects carried out under subsection (a).
(d) CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION.—
(1) REPORT.—When a decision is made to
carry out a project under subsection (a) and
before carrying out such project, the Sec-
retary of the Air Force shall submit to the
congressional defense committees a report
on that decision.
(2) ELEMENTS.—Subject to paragraph (3),
the report submitted under paragraph (1)
with respect to a project under subsection (a)
shall include a justification for carrying out
the project and a complete Department of
Defense Form 1391 for the project.
(3) SINGLE SUBMISSION.—The Secretary of
the Air Force may group multiple locations
at which a project is to be carried out under
subsection (a) into a single submission on a
Department of Defense Form 1391 to allow
all included locations to be considered as a
single project.
(e) FUNDING.—In fiscal year 2021, the Sec-
retary of the Air Force may expend amounts
available to the Secretary for research, de-
velopment, test, and evaluation for the pur-
poses of planning and design to support the
projects described in subsection (a).
(f) EXISTING AUTHORITIES.—The Secretary
of the Air Force shall use existing authori-
ties, as applicable, to carry out this section,
including sections 2304 and 2853 of title 10,
United States Code.
Subtitle B—Military Family Housing
SEC. 2821. PROHIBITION ON SUBSTANDARD FAM-
ILY HOUSING UNITS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter II of chapter
169 of title 10, United States Code, is amend-
ed by striking section 2830 and inserting the
following new section:
‘‘§ 2830. Prohibition on substandard family
housing units
‘‘The Secretary concerned may not lease a
substandard family housing unit to a mem-
ber of a uniformed service for occupancy by
such member.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of subchapter II of
such chapter is amended by striking the
item relating to section 2830 and inserting
the following new item:
‘‘2830. Prohibition on substandard family
housing units.’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall take effect on Oc-
tober 1, 2021.
SEC. 2822. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO
PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING
PROGRAM.
(a) CHIEF HOUSING OFFICER.—Section 2890a
of title 10, United States Code—
(1) is amended—
(A) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ‘‘hous-
ing units’’ and inserting ‘‘all military hous-
ing’’; and
(B) in subsection (b)(1), in the matter pre-
ceding subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘under
subchapter IV and this subchapter’’ and in-
serting ‘‘by the Department of Defense under
this chapter’’;
(2) is transferred so as to appear at the end
of subchapter III of chapter 169 of such title;
and
(3) is redesignated as section 2870a.
(b) PRIVATIZED HOUSING REFORM.—Sub-
chapter V of chapter 169 of such title is
amended—
(1) in section 2890—
(A) in subsection (b)(15), by striking ‘‘and
held in escrow’’;
(B) in subsection (e)(2), in the matter pre-
ceding subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘a’’
before ‘‘landlord’’; and
(C) in subsection (f)(2)—
(i) by striking ‘‘executed as’’ and inserting
‘‘executed—
‘‘(A) as’’;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00175 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6862 November 16, 2020
(ii) in subparagraph (A), as designated by
clause (i), by striking the period at the end
and inserting ‘‘; or’’; and
(iii) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(B) to avoid litigation if the tenant has
retained legal counsel or has sought military
legal assistance under section 1044 of this
title.’’;
(2) in section 2891—
(A) in subsection (e)—
(i) in paragraph (1)—
(I) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by inserting ‘‘unit’’ after ‘‘different
housing’’;
(II) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ‘‘the’’
before ‘‘tenant’’; and
(ii) in paragraph (2)(B), by inserting ‘‘the’’
before ‘‘tenant’’;
(3) in section 2891a—
(A) in subsection (b)(2), by adding a period
at the end;
(B) in subsection (d)(11)—
(i) by striking ‘‘A landlord’’ and inserting
‘‘Upon request by a prospective tenant, a
landlord’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘prospective tenants to
housing units’’ and inserting ‘‘the prospec-
tive tenant to a housing unit’’; and
(C) in subsection (e)(2)(B) by striking ‘‘the
any’’ and inserting ‘‘any’’;
(4) in section 2892a—
(A) by striking ‘‘The Secretary concerned’’
and inserting ‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Sec-
retary concerned’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘years. In this section’’ and
inserting ‘‘years.
‘‘(b) MAINTENANCE DEFINED.—In this sec-
tion’’;
(C) in subsection (a), as designated by sub-
paragraph (A), by striking ‘‘housing unit, be-
fore the prospective tenant’’ and all that fol-
lows through the period at the end and in-
serting ‘‘housing unit—
‘‘(1) not later than five business days be-
fore the prospective tenant is asked to sign
the lease, a summary of maintenance con-
ducted with respect to that housing unit for
the previous seven years; and
‘‘(2) not later than two business days after
requested by the prospective tenant, all in-
formation regarding maintenance conducted
with respect to that housing unit during
such period.’’; and
(D) in subsection (b), as designated by sub-
paragraph (B), by striking ‘‘such period’’ and
inserting ‘‘the period specified in subsection
(a)(1)’’;
(5) in section 2893, by striking ‘‘propensity
for’’ and inserting ‘‘pattern of’’; and
(6) in section 2894—
(A) in subsection (b), by adding at the end
the following new paragraph:
‘‘(6) The dispute resolution process shall
require the installation or regional com-
mander (as the case may be) to record each
dispute in the complaint database estab-
lished under section 2894a of this title.’’;
(B) in subsection (c)—
(i) in paragraph (1), in the matter pre-
ceding subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘24
hours’’ and inserting ‘‘two business days’’;
(ii) in paragraph (3)—
(I) by inserting ‘‘business’’ before ‘‘days’’;
and
(II) by inserting ‘‘, such office’’ before
‘‘shall complete’’;
(iii) in paragraph (4), in the matter pre-
ceding subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘, at a
minimum,’’ before ‘‘the following persons’’;
(iv) in paragraph (5)—
(I) by inserting ‘‘calendar’’ before ‘‘days’’
each place it appears; and
(II) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘30-
day period’’ and inserting ‘‘30-calendar-day
period’’; and
(v) by striking paragraph (6) and inserting
the following new paragraph (6):
‘‘(6) Except as provided in paragraph (5)(B),
a final decision shall be transmitted to the
tenant, landlord, and the installation or re-
gional commander (as the case may be) not
later than 30 calendar days after the request
was submitted.’’; and
(C) in subsection (e)—
(i) by striking paragraph (3);
(ii) by redesignating paragraph (2) as para-
graph (3);
(iii) in paragraph (1), in the matter pre-
ceding subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘, the
tenant may’’ and all that follows through
‘‘in which—’’ and inserting ‘‘regarding main-
tenance guidelines or procedures or habit-
ability, the tenant may request that all or
part of the payments described in paragraph
(3) for lease of the housing unit be segregated
and not used by the property owner, property
manager, or landlord pending completion of
the dispute resolution process.
‘‘(2) The amount allowed to be withheld
under paragraph (1) shall be limited to
amounts associated with the period in
which—’’; and
(iv) in paragraph (3), as redesignated by
clause (ii), by striking ‘‘Paragraph (1)’’ and
inserting ‘‘This subsection’’.
(c) REPORTS.—Section 2884(c)(10) of such
title is amended by striking ‘‘specific anal-
ysis’’ and all that follows through the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘list of dispute reso-
lution cases by installation and the final
outcome of each such case.’’.
(d) PAYMENT AUTHORITY.—Section 606(a) of
the John S. McCain National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public
Law 115–232; 10 U.S.C. 2871 note) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)(A), by inserting
‘‘monthly’’ before ‘‘payments’’;
(2) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ‘‘pay-
ments to’’ and all that follows through ‘‘sub-
paragraph (C)’’ and inserting ‘‘monthly pay-
ments, under such terms and in such
amounts as determined by the Secretary, to
one of more lessors responsible for under-
funded MHPI housing projects identified pur-
suant to subparagraph (C) under the jurisdic-
tion of the Secretary’’; and
(3) in paragraph (3)(B), by inserting ‘‘that’’
before ‘‘require’’.
(e) SUSPENSION OF RESIDENT ENERGY CON-
SERVATION PROGRAM.—Section 3063(b) of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92) is amend-
ed—
(1) by striking ‘‘on the installation mili-
tary housing unit’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘on the’’ and inserting
‘‘covered by a program suspended under sub-
section (a) on that’’.
(f) CLERICAL AMENDMENTS.—
(1) CHIEF HOUSING OFFICER.—
(A) ADDITION.—The table of sections at the
beginning of subchapter III of chapter 169 of
title 10, United States Code, is amended by
inserting after the item relating to section
2870 the following new item:
‘‘2870a. Chief Housing Officer.’’.
(B) REPEAL.—The table of sections at the
beginning of subchapter V of chapter 169 of
such title is amended by striking the item
relating to section 2890a.
(2) DISCLOSURE OF PERSONALLY IDENTIFI-
ABLE INFORMATION.—The table of sections at
the beginning of subchapter V of such title is
amended by striking the item relating to
section 2892b and inserting the following new
item:
‘‘2892b. Prohibition on requirement to dis-
close personally identifiable in-
formation in requests for cer-
tain maintenance.’’.
SEC. 2823. REQUIREMENT THAT SECRETARY OF
DEFENSE IMPLEMENT REC-
OMMENDATIONS RELATING TO MILI-
TARY FAMILY HOUSING CONTAINED
IN REPORT BY INSPECTOR GENERAL
OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
Not later than 90 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of De-
fense shall implement the recommendations
of the Inspector General of the Department
of Defense contained in the report of the In-
spector General dated April 30, 2020, and en-
titled ‘‘Evaluation of the DoD’s Management
of Health and Safety Hazards in Govern-
ment-Owned and Government-Controlled
Military Family Housing’’.
Subtitle C—Project Management and
Oversight Reforms
SEC. 2841. PROMOTION OF ENERGY RESILIENCE
AND ENERGY SECURITY IN
PRIVATIZED UTILITY SYSTEMS.
(a) UTILITY PRIVATIZATION CONTRACT RE-
NEWALS.—Section 2688(d)(2) of title 10, United
States Code, is amended—
(1) in the first sentence, by inserting ‘‘or
the renewal of such a contract’’ after ‘‘para-
graph (1)’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
sentence: ‘‘A renewal of a contract pursuant
to this paragraph may be entered into only
within the last 5 years of the existing con-
tract term.’’.
(b) USE OF ERCIP FUNDS ON PRIVATIZED
UTILITY SYSTEMS.—Section 2914 of such title
is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (c) as sub-
section (d); and
(2) by inserting after subsection (b) the fol-
lowing new subsection (c):
‘‘(c) USE OF CERTAIN OTHER AUTHORITIES.—
A project under this section may be—
‘‘(1) carried out in conjunction with the au-
thorities provided in subsections (j), and (k)
of section 2688 of this title and section 2913 of
this title, notwithstanding that the United
States does not own a utility system covered
by the project; or
‘‘(2) included as a separate requirement in
a contract entered into pursuant to title VIII
of the National Energy Conservation Policy
Act (42 U.S.C. 8287 et seq.).’’.
SEC. 2842. CONSIDERATION OF ENERGY SECU-
RITY AND ENERGY RESILIENCE IN
LIFE-CYCLE COST FOR MILITARY
CONSTRUCTION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter I of chapter
169 of title 10, United States Code, is amend-
ed by inserting after section 2815 the fol-
lowing new section:
‘‘§ 2816. Consideration of energy security and
energy resilience in life-cycle cost for mili-
tary construction
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—(1) The Secretary con-
cerned, when evaluating the life-cycle de-
signed cost of a covered military construc-
tion project, shall include as a facility re-
quirement the long-term consideration of en-
ergy security and energy resilience that
would ensure that the resulting facility is
capable of continuing to perform its mis-
sions, during the life of the facility, in the
event of a natural or human-caused disaster,
an attack, or any other unplanned event that
would otherwise interfere with the ability of
the facility to perform its missions.
‘‘(2) A facility requirement under para-
graph (1) shall not be weighed, for cost pur-
poses, against other facility requirements in
determining the design of the facility.
‘‘(b) INCLUSION IN THE BUILDING LIFE-CYCLE
COST PROGRAM.—The Secretary shall include
the requirements of subsection (a) in apply-
ing the latest version of the building life-
cycle cost program, as developed by the Na-
tional Institute of Standards and Tech-
nology, to consider on-site distributed en-
ergy assets in a building design for a covered
military construction project.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00176 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6863
November 16, 2020
‘‘(c) COVERED MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
PROJECT DEFINED.—(1) In this section, the
term ‘covered military construction project’
means a military construction project for a
facility that is used to perform critical func-
tions during a natural or human-caused dis-
aster, an attack, or any other unplanned
event.
‘‘(2) For purposes of paragraph (1), the
term ‘facility’ includes any of the following:
‘‘(A) Operations centers.
‘‘(B) Nuclear command and control facili-
ties.
‘‘(C) Integrated strategic and tactical
warning and attack assessment facilities.
‘‘(D) Continuity of government facilities.
‘‘(E) Missile defense facilities.
‘‘(F) Air defense facilities.
‘‘(G) Hospitals.
‘‘(H) Armories and readiness centers of the
National Guard.
‘‘(I) Communications facilities.
‘‘(J) Satellite and missile launch and con-
trol facilities.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of subchapter I of
such chapter is amended by inserting after
the item relating to section 2815 the fol-
lowing new item:
‘‘2816. Consideration of energy security and
energy resilience in life-cycle
cost for military construc-
tion.’’.
Subtitle D—Land Conveyances
SEC. 2861. RENEWAL OF FALLON RANGE TRAIN-
ING COMPLEX LAND WITHDRAWAL
AND RESERVATION.
Notwithstanding section 3015 of the Mili-
tary Lands Withdrawal Act of 1999 (title
XXX of Public Law 106–65; 113 Stat. 892), the
withdrawal and reservation of lands (known
as the Fallon Range Training Complex) made
by section 3011(a) of such Act (113 Stat. 885)
shall terminate on November 6, 2041.
SEC. 2862. RENEWAL OF NEVADA TEST AND
TRAINING RANGE LAND WITH-
DRAWAL AND RESERVATION.
Notwithstanding section 3015 of the Mili-
tary Lands Withdrawal Act of 1999 (title
XXX of Public Law 106–65; 113 Stat. 892), the
withdrawal and reservation of lands (known
as the Nevada Test and Training Range)
made by section 3011(b) of such Act (113 Stat.
886) shall terminate on November 6, 2041.
SEC. 2863. TRANSFER OF LAND UNDER THE AD-
MINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION OF
THE DEPARTMENT OF THE INTE-
RIOR WITHIN NAVAL SUPPORT AC-
TIVITY PANAMA CITY, FLORIDA.
(a) AUTHORITY.—The Secretary of the Inte-
rior shall transfer to the Secretary of the
Navy, without consideration, approximately
1.23 acres of land within Naval Support Ac-
tivity Panama City, Florida, that are used
on the day before the date of the enactment
of this Act by the Department of the Navy
pursuant to Executive Order 10355 (17 Fed.
Reg. 4831; relating to delegating to the Sec-
retary of the Interior the authority of the
President to withdraw or reserve lands of the
United States for public purposes) and the
public land order entitled ‘‘Public Land
Order 952’’ (19 Fed. Reg. 2085 (April 10, 1954)).
(b) STATUS OF FEDERAL LAND AFTER
TRANSFER.—Upon completion of a transfer to
the Secretary of the Navy of a parcel of land
under subsection (a), the parcel received by
the Secretary of the Navy shall cease to be
public land and shall be treated as property
(as defined in section 102(9) of title 40, United
States Code) under the administrative juris-
diction of the Secretary of the Navy.
(c) REIMBURSEMENT.—The Secretary of the
Navy shall reimburse the Secretary of the
Interior for any costs incurred by the Sec-
retary of the Interior for preparing a legal
description of the land to be transferred
under subsection (a).
SEC. 2864. LAND CONVEYANCE, CAMP NAVAJO,
ARIZONA.
(a) CONVEYANCE AUTHORIZED.—The Sec-
retary of the Army (in this section referred
to as the ‘‘Secretary’’) may convey, without
consideration, to the State of Arizona De-
partment of Emergency and Military Affairs
(in this section referred to as the ‘‘State’’),
all right, title, and interest of the United
States in and to a parcel of real property (in
this section referred to as the ‘‘Property’’),
including any improvements thereon, con-
sisting of not more than 3,000 acres at Camp
Navajo, Arizona, for the purpose of permit-
ting the State to use the Property for—
(1) training the Arizona Army and Air Na-
tional Guard; and
(2) defense industrial base economic devel-
opment purposes that are compatible with
the environmental security and primary Na-
tional Guard training purpose of Camp Nav-
ajo.
(b) CONDITIONS ON CONVEYANCE.—The con-
veyance authorized by subsection (a) shall be
subject to the following conditions:
(1) USE OF REVENUES.—The State shall use
all revenues generated by uses of the Prop-
erty to support the training requirements of
the Arizona Army and Air National Guard,
to include necessary infrastructure mainte-
nance and capital improvements.
(2) AUDIT.—The United States Property
and Fiscal Office for the State of Arizona
shall periodically audit all revenues gen-
erated by uses of the Property and all uses of
such revenue, and shall provide the audit re-
sults to the Chief of the National Guard Bu-
reau.
(c) REVERSIONARY INTEREST.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If the Secretary deter-
mines at any time that the Property is not
being used in accordance with the purpose of
the conveyance authorized by subsection (a),
or that the State has not complied with the
conditions specified in subsection (b), all
right, title, and interest in and to the Prop-
erty, including any improvements thereto,
shall, at the option of the Secretary, revert
to and become the property of the United
States, and the United States shall have the
right of immediate entry onto the Property.
(2) RECORD.—A determination by the Sec-
retary under paragraph (1) shall be made on
the record after an opportunity for a hear-
ing.
(d) ALTERNATIVE CONSIDERATION OPTION.—
(1) CONSIDERATION OPTION.—In lieu of exer-
cising the reversionary interest under sub-
section (c), the Secretary may accept an
offer by the State to pay to the United
States an amount equal to the fair market
value of the Property, excluding the value of
any improvements on the Property con-
structed without Federal funds after the
date of the conveyance authorized by sub-
section (a), as determined by the Secretary.
(2) TREATMENT OF CONSIDERATION RE-
CEIVED.—Consideration received by the Sec-
retary under paragraph (1) shall be deposited
in the special account in the Treasury estab-
lished for the Secretary under subsection (e)
of section 2667 of title 10, United States Code,
and shall be available to the Secretary for
the same uses and subject to the same limi-
tations as provided in that section.
(e) PAYMENT OF COST OF CONVEYANCE.—
(1) PAYMENT REQUIRED.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall re-
quire the State to cover costs to be incurred
by the Secretary, or to reimburse the Sec-
retary for such costs incurred by the Sec-
retary, to carry out the conveyance under
subsection (a), including survey costs, costs
for environmental documentation related to
the conveyance, and any other administra-
tive costs related to the conveyance.
(B) REFUND OF EXCESS AMOUNTS.—If
amounts are collected from the State in ad-
vance of the Secretary incurring the actual
costs, and the amount collected exceeds the
costs actually incurred by the Secretary to
carry out the conveyance, the Secretary
shall refund the excess amount to the State.
(2) TREATMENT OF AMOUNTS RECEIVED.—
Amounts received as reimbursement under
paragraph (1)(A) shall be credited to the fund
or account that was used to cover those costs
incurred by the Secretary in carrying out
the conveyance or, if the period of avail-
ability for obligations for that appropriation
has expired, to the appropriations or fund
that is currently available to the Secretary
for the same purpose. Amounts so credited
shall be merged with amounts in such fund
or account, and shall be available for the
same purposes, and subject to the same con-
ditions and limitations, as amounts in such
fund or account.
(f) DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY.—The exact
acreage and legal description of the Property
shall be determined by a survey satisfactory
to the Secretary.
(g) ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—
The Secretary may require such additional
terms and conditions in connection with the
conveyance as the Secretary considers ap-
propriate to protect the interests of the
United States.
(h) ENVIRONMENTAL OBLIGATIONS.—Nothing
in this section shall be construed as alle-
viating, altering, or affecting the responsi-
bility of the United States for cleanup and
remediation of the Property in accordance
with—
(1) the Defense Environmental Restoration
Program under section 2701(a)(1) of title 10,
United States Code; and
(2) the Comprehensive Environmental Re-
sponse, Compensation, and Liability Act of
1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.).
Subtitle E—Other Matters
SEC. 2881. MILITARY FAMILY READINESS CONSID-
ERATIONS IN BASING DECISIONS.
(a) TAKING OF CONSIDERATIONS INTO AC-
COUNT REQUIRED.—In determining whether to
proceed with any basing decision in the
United States after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, the Secretary of the mili-
tary department concerned shall take into
account, among such other factors as such
Secretary considers appropriate, the mili-
tary family readiness considerations speci-
fied in subsection (b).
(b) MILITARY FAMILY READINESS CONSIDER-
ATIONS.—The military family readiness con-
siderations specified in this subsection are
the following:
(1) INTERSTATE PORTABILITY OF PROFES-
SIONAL LICENSURE AND CERTIFICATION CREDEN-
TIALS.—The extent to which the State in
which the installation subject to the basing
decision is or will be located accepts as valid
professional licensure and certification cre-
dentials obtained in other States, including
professional licensure and certification cre-
dentials in the following professional fields
(and any subfield of such field):
(A) Accounting.
(B) Cosmetology.
(C) Emergency medical service.
(D) Engineering.
(E) Law.
(F) Nursing.
(G) Physical therapy.
(H) Psychology.
(I) Teaching.
(J) Such other professional fields (and sub-
fields of such fields) as the Secretary of De-
fense shall specify for purposes of this para-
graph.
(2) PUBLIC EDUCATION.—The extent to
which public education is available and ac-
cessible to dependents of members of the
Armed Forces in the military housing area
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00177 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6864 November 16, 2020
in which the installation subject to the bas-
ing decision is or will be located, including
with respect to the following:
(A) Academic performance of schools, in-
cluding student-to-teacher ratios and learn-
ing rates and graduation rates.
(B) Social climate within schools, includ-
ing absenteeism rates and suspension rates.
(C) Availability, accessibility, and quality
of services, including pre-kindergarten,
counselors and mental health support, stu-
dent-to-nurse ratios, and services for mili-
tary dependents with special needs as re-
quired by law.
(3) HOUSING.—The extent to which housing
(including family housing) that meets De-
partment of Defense requirements is avail-
able and accessible to members of the Armed
Forces through the private sector in the
military housing area in which the installa-
tion subject to the basing decision is or will
be located.
(4) HEALTH CARE.—The extent to which pri-
mary healthcare and specialty healthcare is
available and accessible to dependents of
members of the Armed Forces through the
private sector in the local community in
which the installation subject to the basing
decision is or will be located, including care
for military dependents with special needs.
(5) INTERGOVERNMENTAL SUPPORT.—The ex-
tent to which the State in which the instal-
lation subject to the basing decision is or
will be located, and local governments in the
vicinity of the installation, have or will have
intergovernmental support agreements with
the installation for the effective and effi-
cient provision of public services to the in-
stallation.
(6) OTHER CONSIDERATIONS.—Such other
considerations in connection with military
family readiness as the Secretary of Defense
shall specify for purposes of this subsection.
(c) ANALYTICAL FRAMEWORK.—The Sec-
retary of a military department shall take
into account the considerations specified in
subsection (b), among such other factors as
the Secretary considers appropriate, in de-
termining whether to proceed with a basing
decision under subsection (a) using an ana-
lytical framework developed by the Sec-
retary for that purpose that uses criteria
based on quantitative data available to the
Department of Defense and on such reliable
quantitative data from sources outside the
Department as the Secretary considers ap-
propriate.
(d) BASING DECISION SCORECARD.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each Secretary of a mili-
tary department shall establish and main-
tain a scorecard on military installations
under the jurisdiction of such Secretary, and
on States and localities in which such instal-
lations are or may be located, relevant to
the taking into account of the consider-
ations specified in subsection (b) in deter-
minations of such Secretary on basing deci-
sions as required by subsection (a).
(2) UPDATE.—Each Secretary shall update
the scorecard required of such Secretary by
this subsection not less frequently than once
each year in order to keep the information in
such scorecard as current as is practicable.
(3) AVAILABILITY TO PUBLIC.—A current
version of each scorecard under this sub-
section shall be available to the public
through an Internet website of the military
department concerned that is accessible to
the public.
(e) BRIEFINGS.—Not later than April 1 of
each of 2021, 2022, and 2023, the Secretary of
Defense shall brief the Committees on
Armed Services of the Senate and the House
of Representatives on actions taken pursu-
ant to this section, including a description
and assessment of the effect of the taking
into account of the considerations specified
in subsection (b) on particular basing deci-
sions in the United States during the one-
year period ending on the date of the brief-
ing.
(f) BASING DECISION DEFINED.—In this sec-
tion, the term ‘‘basing decision’’ means any
of the following:
(1) The establishment of a new mission at
a military installation.
(2) The relocation of an existing mission
from a military installation to another mili-
tary installation.
(3) The establishment of a new military in-
stallation.
SEC. 2882. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO
REDUCE AIR BASE RESILIENCY OR
DEMOLISH PROTECTED AIRCRAFT
SHELTERS IN THE EUROPEAN THE-
ATER WITHOUT CREATING A SIMI-
LAR PROTECTION FROM ATTACK.
No funds authorized to be appropriated by
this Act or any other Act for the Department
of Defense may be obligated or expended to
implement any activity that reduces air base
resiliency or demolishes protected aircraft
shelters in the European theater, and the De-
partment may not otherwise implement any
such activity, without creating a similar
protection from attack in the European the-
ater until such time as the Secretary of De-
fense certifies to the congressional defense
committees that protected aircraft shelters
are not required in the European theater.
SEC. 2883. PROHIBITIONS RELATING TO CLOSURE
OR RETURNING TO HOST NATION OF
EXISTING BASES UNDER THE EURO-
PEAN CONSOLIDATION INITIATIVE.
(a) PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS.—No
funds authorized to be appropriated by this
Act for fiscal year 2021 for the Department of
Defense may be obligated or expended to im-
plement any activity that closes or returns
to the host nation any existing base under
the European Consolidation Initiative.
(b) PROHIBITION ON CLOSURE OR RETURN.—
The Secretary of Defense shall not imple-
ment any activity that closes or returns to
the host nation any existing base under the
European Consolidation Initiative until the
Secretary certifies that there is no longer a
need for a rotational military presence in
the European theater.
SEC. 2884. ENHANCEMENT OF AUTHORITY TO AC-
CEPT CONDITIONAL GIFTS OF REAL
PROPERTY ON BEHALF OF MILITARY
MUSEUMS.
Section 2601(e)(1) of title 10, United States
Code, is amended by inserting ‘‘a military
museum,’’ after ‘‘offered to’’.
SEC. 2885. EQUAL TREATMENT OF INSURED DE-
POSITORY INSTITUTIONS AND CRED-
IT UNIONS OPERATING ON MILITARY
INSTALLATIONS.
Section 2667 of title 10, United States Code,
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(l) TREATMENT OF INSURED DEPOSITORY IN-
STITUTIONS.—(1) Each covered insured deposi-
tory institution operating on a military in-
stallation within the continental United
States may be allotted space or leased land
on the military installation without charge
for rent or services in the same manner as a
credit union organized under State law or a
Federal credit union under section 124 of the
Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1770) if
space is available.
‘‘(2) Each covered insured depository insti-
tution, credit union organized under State
law, and Federal credit union operating on a
military installation within the continental
United States shall be treated equally with
respect to policies of the Department of De-
fense governing the financial terms of leases,
logistical support, services, and utilities.
‘‘(3) The Secretary concerned shall not be
required to provide no-cost office space or a
no-cost land lease to any covered insured de-
pository institution, credit union organized
under State law, or Federal credit union.
‘‘(4) In this subsection:
‘‘(A) The term ‘covered insured depository
institution’ means an insured depository in-
stitution that meets the requirements appli-
cable to a credit union organized under State
law or a Federal credit union under section
124 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C.
1770). The depositors of an insured depository
institution shall be considered members for
purposes of the application of this subpara-
graph to that section.
‘‘(B) The term ‘Federal credit union’ has
the meaning given the term in section 101 of
the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752).
‘‘(C) The term ‘insured depository institu-
tion’ has the meaning given the term in sec-
tion 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
(12 U.S.C. 1813).’’.
SEC. 2886. REPORT ON OPERATIONAL AVIATION
UNITS IMPACTED BY NOISE RE-
STRICTIONS OR NOISE MITIGATION
MEASURES.
(a) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after
the date on which the Secretary of the Air
Force or the Secretary of the Navy deter-
mines that noise restrictions placed on an
operational aviation unit under the jurisdic-
tion of the Secretary concerned prohibit the
unit from reaching a combat ready or
deployable status or prohibit the maintain-
ing of aircrew currency requirements or re-
quired noise mitigation measures become
cost prohibitive to the Department of De-
fense, the Secretary concerned, in consulta-
tion with the Secretary of Defense, shall sub-
mit to the congressional defense committees
a report setting forth—
(1) recommendations to preserve or restore
the readiness of such unit; and
(2) appropriate steps to be taken by the
Secretary concerned to lower the cost of
noise mitigation measures.
(b) COST PROHIBITIVE.—A required noise
mitigation measure shall be considered cost
prohibitive to the Department of Defense for
purposes of subsection (a) if the cost to im-
plement the measure at an installation ex-
ceeds 10 percent of the annual budget for the
installation for facilities sustainment, res-
toration, and modernization.
SEC. 2887. TRANSFER OF FUNDS FOR OKLAHOMA
CITY NATIONAL MEMORIAL ENDOW-
MENT FUND.
Section 7(1) of the Oklahoma City National
Memorial Act of 1997 (16 U.S.C. 450ss–5(1)) is
amended by striking ‘‘there is hereby au-
thorized’’ and inserting ‘‘the Secretary may
provide, from the National Park Service’s
national recreation and preservation ac-
count, the remainder of’’.
TITLE XXIX—OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY
OPERATIONS MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
SEC. 2901. AUTHORIZED NAVY CONSTRUCTION
AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
The Secretary of the Navy may acquire
real property and carry out the military con-
struction project for the installation outside
the United States, and in the amount, set
forth in the following table:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00178 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6865
November 16, 2020
NAVY: OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES
Country Installation Amount
Spain ................................................................... Rota ............................................................................................................ $59,230,000
SEC. 2902. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE CONSTRUC-
TION AND LAND ACQUISITION
PROJECTS.
The Secretary of the Air Force may ac-
quire real property and carry out the mili-
tary construction projects for the installa-
tions outside the United States, and in the
amounts, set forth in the following table:
AIR FORCE: OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES
Country Installation Amount
Germany ............................................................. Ramstein .................................................................................................... $36,345,000
Spangdahlem Air Base ................................................................................ $25,824,000
Romania ............................................................. Campia Turzii ............................................................................................. $130,500,000
SEC. 2903. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
Funds are hereby authorized to be appro-
priated for fiscal years beginning after Sep-
tember 30, 2020, for the military construction
projects outside the United States author-
ized by this title as specified in the funding
table in section 4602.
SEC. 2904. REPLENISHMENT OF CERTAIN MILI-
TARY CONSTRUCTIONS FUNDS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Of the amount authorized
to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 by sec-
tion 2903 and available as specified in the
funding table in section 4602, $3,600,000,000
shall be available for replenishment of funds
that were authorized to be appropriated by
military construction authorization Acts for
fiscal years before fiscal year 2021 for mili-
tary construction projects authorized by
such Acts, but were used instead for military
construction projects authorized by section
2808 of title 10, United States Code, in con-
nection with the national emergency along
the southern land border of the United
States declared in 2019 pursuant to the Na-
tional Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et
seq.).
(b) REPLENISHMENT BY TRANSFER.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Any amounts available
under subsection (a) that are used for replen-
ishment of funds as described in that sub-
section shall be transferred to the account
that was the source of such funds.
(2) INAPPLICABILITY TOWARD TRANSFER LIMI-
TATIONS.—Any transfer of amounts under
this subsection shall not count toward any
limitation on transfer of Department of De-
fense funds in section 1001 or 1512 or any
other limitation on transfer of Department
of funds in law.
(3) SUNSET OF AUTHORITY.—The authority
to make transfers under this subsection shall
terminate on September 30, 2021.
(c) USE OF FUNDS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Amounts transferred
under subsection (b) for replenishment of
funds as described in subsection (a) may be
used only for military construction projects
for which such funds were originally author-
ized in a military construction authorization
Act described in subsection (a).
(2) NO INCREASE IN AUTHORIZED AMOUNT OF
PROJECTS.—The total amount of funds avail-
able for a military construction project de-
scribed in paragraph (1) may not exceed the
current amount authorized for such project
by applicable military construction author-
ization Acts (including this Act). A replen-
ishment of funds under this section for a
military construction project shall not oper-
ate to increase the authorized amount of the
project or the amount authorized to be avail-
able for the project.
DIVISION C—DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORIZATIONS
AND OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS
TITLE XXXI—DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS
Subtitle A—National Security Programs and
Authorizations
SEC. 3101. NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY AD-
MINISTRATION.
(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
Funds are hereby authorized to be appro-
priated to the Department of Energy for fis-
cal year 2021 for the activities of the Na-
tional Nuclear Security Administration in
carrying out programs as specified in the
funding table in section 4701.
(b) AUTHORIZATION OF NEW PLANT
PROJECTS.—From funds referred to in sub-
section (a) that are available for carrying
out plant projects, the Secretary of Energy
may carry out new plant projects for the Na-
tional Nuclear Security Administration as
follows:
Project 21–D–510, HE Synthesis, Formula-
tion, and Production, Pantex Plant, Ama-
rillo, Texas, $31,000,000.
Project 21–D–511, Savannah River Pluto-
nium Processing Facility, Savannah River
Site, Aiken, South Carolina, $241,900,000.
Project 21–D–512, Plutonium Pit Produc-
tion Project, Los Alamos National Labora-
tory, Los Alamos, New Mexico, $226,000,000.
Project 21–D–530, KL Steam and Conden-
sate Upgrades, Knolls Atomic Power Labora-
tory, Schenectady, New York, $4,000,000.
General Plant Project, U1a.03 Test Bed Fa-
cility Improvements, Nevada National Secu-
rity Side, Nevada, $16,000,000.
General Plant Project, TA–15 DARHT
Hydro Vessel Repair Facility, Los Alamos
National Laboratory, New Mexico,
$16,500,000.
SEC. 3102. DEFENSE ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP.
(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
Funds are hereby authorized to be appro-
priated to the Department of Energy for fis-
cal year 2021 for defense environmental
cleanup activities in carrying out programs
as specified in the funding table in section
4701.
(b) AUTHORIZATION OF NEW PLANT
PROJECTS.—From funds referred to in sub-
section (a) that are available for carrying
out plant projects, the Secretary of Energy
may carry out, for defense environmental
cleanup activities, the following new plant
project:
Project 21–D–401, Hoisting Capability
Project, Waste Isolation Pilot Plant, Carls-
bad, New Mexico, $10,000,000.
SEC. 3103. OTHER DEFENSE ACTIVITIES.
Funds are hereby authorized to be appro-
priated to the Department of Energy for fis-
cal year 2021 for other defense activities in
carrying out programs as specified in the
funding table in section 4701.
SEC. 3104. NUCLEAR ENERGY.
Funds are hereby authorized to be appro-
priated to the Department of Energy for fis-
cal year 2021 for nuclear energy as specified
in the funding table in section 4701.
Subtitle B—Budget of the National Nuclear
Security Administration
SEC. 3111. REVIEW OF ADEQUACY OF NUCLEAR
WEAPONS BUDGET.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle A of title XVII of
the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C.
2741 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end
the following new section:
‘‘SEC. 4717. REVIEW OF ADEQUACY OF NUCLEAR
WEAPONS BUDGET.
‘‘(a) REVIEW OF ADEQUACY OF ADMINISTRA-
TION BUDGET BY NUCLEAR WEAPONS COUN-
CIL.—
‘‘(1) TRANSMISSION TO COUNCIL.—The Sec-
retary of Energy shall transmit to the Nu-
clear Weapons Council (in this section re-
ferred to as the ‘Council’) a copy of the pro-
posed budget request of the Administration
for each fiscal year before that budget re-
quest is submitted to the Director of the Of-
fice of Management and Budget in relation
to the preparation of the budget of the Presi-
dent to be submitted to Congress under sec-
tion 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code.
‘‘(2) REVIEW AND DETERMINATION OF ADE-
QUACY.—
‘‘(A) REVIEW.—The Council shall review
each budget request transmitted to the
Council under paragraph (1).
‘‘(B) DETERMINATION OF ADEQUACY.—
‘‘(i) INADEQUATE REQUESTS.—If the Council
determines that a budget request for a fiscal
year transmitted to the Council under para-
graph (1) is inadequate, in whole or in part,
to implement the objectives of the Depart-
ment of Defense with respect to nuclear
weapons for that fiscal year, the Council
shall submit to the Secretary of Energy a
written description of funding levels and spe-
cific initiatives that would, in the deter-
mination of the Council, make the budget re-
quest adequate to implement those objec-
tives.
‘‘(ii) ADEQUATE REQUESTS.—If the Council
determines that a budget request for a fiscal
year transmitted to the Council under para-
graph (1) is adequate to implement the objec-
tives described in clause (i) for that fiscal
year, the Council shall submit to the Sec-
retary of Energy a written statement con-
firming the adequacy of the request.
‘‘(iii) RECORDS.—The Council shall main-
tain a record of each description submitted
under clause (i) and each statement sub-
mitted under clause (ii).
‘‘(3) DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY RESPONSE.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00179 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6866 November 16, 2020
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—If the Council submits
to the Secretary of Energy a written descrip-
tion under paragraph (2)(B)(i) with respect to
the budget request of the Administration for
a fiscal year, the Secretary shall include as
an appendix to the budget request submitted
to the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget—
‘‘(i) the funding levels and initiatives iden-
tified in the description under paragraph
(2)(B)(i); and
‘‘(ii) any additional comments the Sec-
retary considers appropriate.
‘‘(B) TRANSMISSION TO CONGRESS.—The Sec-
retary of Energy shall transmit to Congress,
with the budget justification materials sub-
mitted in support of the Department of En-
ergy budget for a fiscal year (as submitted
with the budget of the President under sec-
tion 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code), a
copy of the appendix described in subpara-
graph (A).
‘‘(b) REVIEW AND CERTIFICATION OF DEPART-
MENT OF ENERGY BUDGET BY NUCLEAR WEAP-
ONS COUNCIL.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—At the time the Sec-
retary of Energy submits the budget request
of the Department of Energy for that fiscal
year to the Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget in relation to the prepara-
tion of the budget of the President, the Sec-
retary shall transmit a copy of the budget
request of the Department to the Council.
‘‘(2) CERTIFICATION.—The Council shall—
‘‘(A) review the budget request transmitted
to the Council under paragraph (1);
‘‘(B) based on the review under subpara-
graph (A), make a determination with re-
spect to whether the budget request includes
the funding levels and initiatives described
in subsection (a)(2)(B)(i); and
‘‘(C) submit to Congress—
‘‘(i)(I) a certification that the budget re-
quest is adequate to implement the objec-
tives described in subsection (a)(2)(B)(i); or
‘‘(II) a statement that the budget request
is not adequate to implement those objec-
tives; and
‘‘(ii) a copy of the written description sub-
mitted by the Council to the Secretary under
subsection (a)(2)(B)(i), if any.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents for such Act is amended by insert-
ing after the item relating to section 4716 the
following new item:
‘‘Sec. 4717. Review of adequacy of nuclear
weapons budget.’’.
Subtitle C—Personnel Matters
SEC. 3121. NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY AD-
MINISTRATION PERSONNEL SYSTEM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle C of the National
Nuclear Security Administration Act (50
U.S.C. 2441 et seq.) is amended by adding at
the end the following new section:
‘‘SEC. 3248. ALTERNATIVE PERSONNEL SYSTEM.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator may
adapt the pay banding and performance-
based pay adjustment demonstration project
carried out by the Administration under the
authority provided by section 4703 of title 5,
United States Code, into a permanent alter-
native personnel system for the Administra-
tion (to be known as the ‘National Nuclear
Security Administration Personnel System’)
and implement that system with respect to
employees of the Administration.
‘‘(b) MODIFICATIONS.—In adapting the dem-
onstration project described in subsection (a)
into a permanent alternative personnel sys-
tem, the Administrator—
‘‘(1) may, subject to paragraph (2), revise
the requirements and limitations of the dem-
onstration project to the extent necessary;
and
‘‘(2) shall—
‘‘(A) ensure that the permanent alter-
native personnel system is carried out in a
manner consistent with the final plan for the
demonstration project published in the Fed-
eral Register on December 21, 2007 (72 Fed.
Reg. 72776);
‘‘(B) ensure that significant changes in the
system not take effect until revisions to the
plan for the demonstration project are ap-
proved by the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment and published in the Federal Register;
‘‘(C) ensure that procedural modifications
or clarifications to the final plan for the
demonstration project be made through local
notification processes;
‘‘(D) authorize, and establish incentives
for, employees of the Administration to have
rotational assignments among different pro-
grams of the Administration, the head-
quarters and field offices of the Administra-
tion, and the management and operating
contractors of the Administration; and
‘‘(E) establish requirements for employees
of the Administration who are in the perma-
nent alternative personnel system described
in subsection (a) to be promoted to senior-
level positions in the Administration, in-
cluding requirements with respect to—
‘‘(i) professional training and continuing
education; and
‘‘(ii) a certain number and types of rota-
tional assignments under subparagraph (D),
as determined by the Administrator.
‘‘(c) APPLICATION TO NAVAL NUCLEAR PRO-
PULSION PROGRAM.—The Director of the
Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program estab-
lished pursuant to section 4101 of the Atomic
Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2511) and sec-
tion 3216 of this Act may, with the concur-
rence of the Secretary of the Navy, apply the
alternative personnel system under sub-
section (a) to—
‘‘(1) all employees of the Naval Nuclear
Propulsion Program in the competitive serv-
ice (as defined in section 2102 of title 5,
United States Code); and
‘‘(2) all employees of the Department of
Navy who are assigned to the Naval Nuclear
Propulsion Program and are in the excepted
service (as defined in section 2103 of title 5,
United States Code) (other than such em-
ployees in statutory excepted service sys-
tems).’’.
(b) BRIEFING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Administrator for Nuclear Security shall
provide a briefing to the appropriate con-
gressional committees on the implementa-
tion of section 3248 of the National Nuclear
Security Administration Act, as added by
subsection (a).
(2) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this subsection, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means—
(A) the congressional defense committees;
(B) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate and the Committee
on Energy and Commerce of the House of
Representatives; and
(C) the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and
the Committee on Oversight and Govern-
ment Reform of the House of Representa-
tives.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section
3116 of the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115–91;
131 Stat. 1888; 50 U.S.C. 2441 note prec) is
amended—
(1) by striking subsections (a) and (d); and
(2) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c)
as subsections (a) and (b), respectively.
(d) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents for the National Nuclear Security
Administration Act is amended by inserting
after the item relating to section 3247 the
following new item:
‘‘Sec. 3248. Alternative personnel system.’’.
SEC. 3122. INCLUSION OF CERTAIN EMPLOYEES
AND CONTRACTORS OF DEPART-
MENT OF ENERGY IN DEFINITION OF
PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICER FOR PUR-
POSES OF CERTAIN DEATH BENE-
FITS.
Section 1204(9) of title I of the Omnibus
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968
(34 U.S.C. 10284(9)) is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘or’’ at
the end;
(2) in subparagraph (E)(ii), by striking the
period at the end and inserting ‘‘; or’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(F) an employee or contractor of the De-
partment of Energy who—
‘‘(i) is—
‘‘(I) a nuclear materials courier (as defined
in section 8331(27) of title 5, United States
Code); or
‘‘(II) designated by the Secretary of Energy
as a member of an emergency response team;
and
‘‘(ii) is performing official duties of the De-
partment, pursuant to a deployment order
issued by the Secretary, to protect the pub-
lic, property, or the interests of the United
States by—
‘‘(I) assessing, locating, identifying, secur-
ing, rendering safe, or disposing of weapons
of mass destruction (as defined in section
1403 of the Defense Against Weapons of Mass
Destruction Act of 1996 (50 U.S.C. 2302)); or
‘‘(II) managing the immediate con-
sequences of a radiological release or expo-
sure.’’.
SEC. 3123. REIMBURSEMENT FOR LIABILITY IN-
SURANCE FOR NUCLEAR MATERIALS
COURIERS.
Section 636(c)(2) of division A of the Treas-
ury, Postal Service, and General Govern-
ment Appropriations Act, 1997 (Public Law
104–208; 5 U.S.C. prec. 5941 note) is amended
by striking ‘‘or under’’ and all that follows
and inserting the following: ‘‘a special agent
under section 203 of the Omnibus Diplomatic
Security and Antiterrorism Act of 1986 (22
U.S.C. 4823), or a nuclear materials courier
(as defined in section 8331(27) of such title
5);’’.
SEC. 3124. TRANSPORTATION AND MOVING EX-
PENSES FOR IMMEDIATE FAMILY OF
DECEASED NUCLEAR MATERIALS
COURIERS.
Section 5724d(c)(1) of title 5, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘; and’’
and inserting a semicolon; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(D) any nuclear materials courier, as de-
fined in section 8331(27); and’’.
SEC. 3125. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR AP-
POINTMENT OF CERTAIN SCI-
ENTIFIC, ENGINEERING, AND TECH-
NICAL PERSONNEL.
Section 4601(c) of the Atomic Energy De-
fense Act (50 U.S.C. 2701(c)) is amended by
striking ‘‘September 30, 2020’’ and inserting
‘‘September 30, 2021’’.
Subtitle D—Cybersecurity
SEC. 3131. REPORTING ON PENETRATIONS OF
NETWORKS OF CONTRACTORS AND
SUBCONTRACTORS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle A of title XLV of
the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C.
2651 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end
the following new section:
‘‘SEC. 4511. REPORTING ON PENETRATIONS OF
NETWORKS OF CONTRACTORS AND
SUBCONTRACTORS.
‘‘(a) PROCEDURES FOR REPORTING PENETRA-
TIONS.—The Administrator shall establish
procedures that require each contractor and
subcontractor to report to the Chief Infor-
mation Officer when a covered network of
the contractor or subcontractor that meets
the criteria established pursuant to sub-
section (b) is successfully penetrated.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00180 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6867
November 16, 2020
‘‘(b) ESTABLISHMENT OF CRITERIA FOR COV-
ERED NETWORKS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall,
in consultation with the officials specified in
paragraph (2), establish criteria for covered
networks to be subject to the procedures for
reporting penetrations under subsection (a).
‘‘(2) OFFICIALS SPECIFIED.—The officials
specified in this paragraph are the following
officials of the Administration:
‘‘(A) The Deputy Administrator for De-
fense Programs.
‘‘(B) The Associate Administrator for Ac-
quisition and Project Management.
‘‘(C) The Chief Information Officer.
‘‘(D) Any other official of the Administra-
tion the Administrator considers necessary.
‘‘(c) PROCEDURE REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(1) RAPID REPORTING.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The procedures estab-
lished pursuant to subsection (a) shall re-
quire each contractor or subcontractor to
submit to the Chief Information Officer a re-
port on each successful penetration of a cov-
ered network of the contractor or subcon-
tractor that meets the criteria established
pursuant to subsection (b) not later than 60
days after the discovery of the successful
penetration.
‘‘(B) ELEMENTS.—Subject to subparagraph
(C), each report required by subparagraph (A)
with respect to a successful penetration of a
covered network of a contractor or subcon-
tractor shall include the following:
‘‘(i) A description of the technique or
method used in such penetration.
‘‘(ii) A sample of the malicious software, if
discovered and isolated by the contractor or
subcontractor, involved in such penetration.
‘‘(iii) A summary of information created by
or for the Administration in connection with
any program of the Administration that has
been potentially compromised as a result of
such penetration.
‘‘(C) AVOIDANCE OF DELAYS IN REPORTING.—
If a contractor or subcontractor is not able
to obtain all of the information required by
subparagraph (B) to be included in a report
required by subparagraph (A) by the date
that is 60 days after the discovery of a suc-
cessful penetration of a covered network of
the contractor or subcontractor, the con-
tractor or subcontractor shall—
‘‘(i) include in the report all information
available as of that date; and
‘‘(ii) provide to the Chief Information Offi-
cer the additional information required by
subparagraph (B) as the information becomes
available.
‘‘(2) ACCESS TO EQUIPMENT AND INFORMATION
BY ADMINISTRATION PERSONNEL.—Concurrent
with the establishment of the procedures
pursuant to subsection (a), the Adminis-
trator shall establish procedures to be used if
information owned by the Administration
was in use during or at risk as a result of the
successful penetration of a covered net-
work—
‘‘(A) in order to—
‘‘(i) in the case of a penetration of a cov-
ered network of a management and oper-
ating contractor, enhance the access of per-
sonnel of the Administration to Govern-
ment-owned equipment and information; and
‘‘(ii) in the case of a penetration of a cov-
ered network of a contractor or subcon-
tractor that is not a management and oper-
ating contractor, facilitate the access of per-
sonnel of the Administration to the equip-
ment and information of the contractor or
subcontractor; and
‘‘(B) which shall—
‘‘(i) include mechanisms for personnel of
the Administration to, upon request, obtain
access to equipment or information of a con-
tractor or subcontractor necessary to con-
duct forensic analysis in addition to any
analysis conducted by the contractor or sub-
contractor;
‘‘(ii) provide that a contractor or subcon-
tractor is only required to provide access to
equipment or information as described in
clause (i) to determine whether information
created by or for the Administration in con-
nection with any program of the Administra-
tion was successfully exfiltrated from a net-
work of the contractor or subcontractor and,
if so, what information was exfiltrated; and
‘‘(iii) provide for the reasonable protection
of trade secrets, commercial or financial in-
formation, and information that can be used
to identify a specific person.
‘‘(3) DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION.—The
procedures established pursuant to sub-
section (a) shall allow for limiting the dis-
semination of information obtained or de-
rived through such procedures so that such
information may be disseminated only to en-
tities—
‘‘(A) with missions that may be affected by
such information;
‘‘(B) that may be called upon to assist in
the diagnosis, detection, or mitigation of
cyber incidents;
‘‘(C) that conduct counterintelligence or
law enforcement investigations; or
‘‘(D) for national security purposes, includ-
ing cyber situational awareness and defense
purposes.
‘‘(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER.—The term
‘Chief Information Officer’ means the Asso-
ciate Administrator for Information Man-
agement and Chief Information Officer of the
Administration.
‘‘(2) CONTRACTOR.—The term ‘contractor’
means a private entity that has entered into
a contract or contractual action of any kind
with the Administration to furnish supplies,
equipment, materials, or services of any
kind.
‘‘(3) COVERED NETWORK.—The term ‘covered
network’ includes any network or informa-
tion system that accesses, receives, or
stores—
‘‘(A) classified information; or
‘‘(B) sensitive unclassified information ger-
mane to any program of the Administration,
as determined by the Administrator.
‘‘(4) SUBCONTRACTOR.—The term ‘subcon-
tractor’ means a private entity that has en-
tered into a contract or contractual action
with a contractor or another subcontractor
to furnish supplies, equipment, materials, or
services of any kind in connection with an-
other contract in support of any program of
the Administration.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents for the Atomic Energy Defense Act
is amended by inserting after the item relat-
ing to section 4510 the following new item:
‘‘Sec. 4511. Reporting on penetrations of net-
works of contractors and sub-
contractors.’’.
SEC. 3132. CLARIFICATION OF RESPONSIBILITY
FOR CYBERSECURITY OF NATIONAL
NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRA-
TION FACILITIES.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF CHIEF INFORMATION
OFFICER.—Subtitle B of the National Nuclear
Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2421
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the
following new section:
‘‘SEC. 3237. CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER.
‘‘There is within the Administration a
Chief Information Officer, who shall be—
‘‘(1) appointed by the Administrator; and
‘‘(2) responsible for the development and
implementation of cybersecurity for all fa-
cilities of the Administration.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
3232(b)(3) of the National Nuclear Security
Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2422(b)(3)) is
amended by striking ‘‘and cyber’’.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents for the National Nuclear Security
Administration Act is amended by inserting
after the item relating to section 3236 the
following new item:
‘‘Sec. 3237. Chief Information Officer.’’.
Subtitle E—Defense Environmental Cleanup
SEC. 3141. PUBLIC STATEMENT OF ENVIRON-
MENTAL LIABILITIES FOR FACILI-
TIES UNDERGOING DEFENSE ENVI-
RONMENTAL CLEANUP.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle A of title XLIV
of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C.
2581 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end
the following new section:
‘‘SEC. 4410. PUBLIC STATEMENT OF ENVIRON-
MENTAL LIABILITIES.
‘‘Each year, at the same time that the De-
partment of Energy submits its annual fi-
nancial report under section 3516 of title 31,
United States Code, the Secretary of Energy
shall make available to the public a state-
ment of environmental liabilities, as cal-
culated for the most recent audited financial
statement of the Department under section
3515 of that title, for each defense nuclear fa-
cility at which defense environmental clean-
up activities are occurring.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents for the Atomic Energy Defense Act
is amended by inserting after the item relat-
ing to section 4409 the following new item:
‘‘Sec. 4410. Public statement of environ-
mental liabilities.’’.
SEC. 3142. INCLUSION OF MISSED MILESTONES IN
FUTURE-YEARS DEFENSE ENVIRON-
MENTAL CLEANUP PLAN.
Section 4402A(b)(3) of the Atomic Energy
Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2582A(b)(3)) is amend-
ed by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(D) For any milestone that has been
missed, renegotiated, or postponed, a state-
ment of the current milestone, the original
milestone, and any interim milestones.’’.
SEC. 3143. CLASSIFICATION OF DEFENSE ENVI-
RONMENTAL CLEANUP AS CAPITAL
ASSET PROJECTS OR OPERATIONS
ACTIVITIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Assistant Secretary
of Energy for Environmental Management,
in consultation with other appropriate offi-
cials of the Department of Energy, shall es-
tablish requirements for the classification of
defense environmental cleanup projects as
capital asset projects or operations activi-
ties.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than
March 1, 2021, the Assistant Secretary shall
submit to the congressional defense commit-
tees a report—
(1) setting forth the requirements estab-
lished under subsection (a); and
(2) assessing whether any ongoing defense
environmental cleanup projects should be re-
classified based on those requirements.
SEC. 3144. CONTINUED ANALYSIS OF AP-
PROACHES FOR SUPPLEMENTAL
TREATMENT OF LOW-ACTIVITY
WASTE AT HANFORD NUCLEAR RES-
ERVATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 120 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Energy shall enter into an
arrangement with a federally funded re-
search and development center to conduct a
follow-on analysis to the analysis required
by section 3134 of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public
Law 114–328; 130 Stat. 2769) with respect to
approaches for treating the portion of low-
activity waste at the Hanford Nuclear Res-
ervation, Richland, Washington, intended for
supplemental treatment.
(b) COMPARISON OF ALTERNATIVES TO AID
DECISIONMAKING.—The analysis required by
subsection (a) shall be designed, to the great-
est extent possible, to provide decision-
makers with the ability to make a direct
comparison between approaches for the sup-
plemental treatment of low-activity waste
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00181 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6868 November 16, 2020
at the Hanford Nuclear Reservation based on
criteria that are relevant to decisionmaking
and most clearly differentiate between ap-
proaches.
(c) ELEMENTS.—The analysis required by
subsection (a) shall include an assessment of
the following:
(1) The most effective potential technology
for supplemental treatment of low-activity
waste that will produce an effective waste
form, including an assessment of the fol-
lowing:
(A) The maturity and complexity of the
technology.
(B) The extent of previous use of the tech-
nology.
(C) The life cycle costs and duration of use
of the technology.
(D) The effectiveness of the technology
with respect to immobilization.
(E) The performance of the technology ex-
pected under permanent disposal.
(2) The differences among approaches for
the supplemental treatment of low-activity
waste considered as of the date of the anal-
ysis.
(3) The compliance of such approaches with
the technical standards described in section
3134(b)(2)(D) of section 3134 of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2017.
(4) The differences among potential dis-
posal sites for the waste form produced
through such treatment, including mitiga-
tion of radionuclides, including technetium-
99, selenium-79, and iodine-129, on a system
level.
(5) Potential modifications to the design of
facilities to enhance performance with re-
spect to disposal of the waste form to ac-
count for the following:
(A) Regulatory compliance.
(B) Public acceptance.
(C) Cost.
(D) Safety.
(E) The expected radiation dose to maxi-
mally exposed individuals over time.
(F) Differences among disposal environ-
ments.
(6) Approximately how much and what
type of pretreatment is needed to meet regu-
latory requirements regarding long-lived
radionuclides and hazardous chemicals to re-
duce disposal costs for radionuclides de-
scribed in paragraph (4).
(7) Whether the radionuclides can be left in
the waste form or economically removed and
bounded at a system level by the perform-
ance assessment of a potential disposal site
and, if the radionuclides cannot be left in the
waste form, how to account for the sec-
ondary waste stream.
(8) Other relevant factors relating to the
technology described in paragraph (1), in-
cluding the following:
(A) The costs and risks in delays with re-
spect to tank performance over time.
(B) Consideration of experience with treat-
ment methods at other sites and commercial
facilities.
(C) Outcomes of the test bed initiative of
the Office of Environmental Management at
the Hanford Nuclear Reservation.
(d) REVIEW, CONSULTATION, SUBMISSION,
AND LIMITATIONS.—The provision of sub-
sections (c) through (f) of section 3134 of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2017 shall apply with respect to the
analysis required by subsection (a) to the
same extent and in the same manner that
such provisions applied with respect to the
analysis required by subsection (a) of such
section 3134, except that subsection (e) of
such section shall be applied and adminis-
tered by substituting ‘‘the date of the enact-
ment of the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2021’’ for ‘‘the date of the
enactment of this Act’’ each place it appears.
Subtitle F—Other Matters
SEC. 3151. MODIFICATIONS TO ENHANCED PRO-
CUREMENT AUTHORITY TO MANAGE
SUPPLY CHAIN RISK.
Section 4806 of the Atomic Energy Defense
Act (50 U.S.C. 2786) is amended—
(1) in subsections (a) and (c), by inserting
‘‘or special exclusion action’’ after ‘‘covered
procurement action’’ each place it appears;
(2) by redesignating subsections (e) and (f)
as subsections (f) and (g), respectively;
(3) by inserting after subsection (d) the fol-
lowing new subsection (e):
‘‘(e) DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.—The Sec-
retary may delegate the authority under this
section to—
‘‘(1) in the case of the Administration, the
Administrator; and
‘‘(2) in the case of any other component of
the Department of Energy, the Senior Pro-
curement Executive of the Department.’’;
and
(4) in subsection (f), as redesignated by
paragraph (2)—
(A) by redesignating paragraph (6) as para-
graph (7); and
(B) by inserting after paragraph (5) the fol-
lowing new paragraph (6):
‘‘(6) SPECIAL EXCLUSION ACTION.—The term
‘special exclusion action’ means an action to
prohibit, for a period not to exceed two
years, the award of any contracts or sub-
contracts by the Administration or any
other component of the Department of En-
ergy related to any covered system to a
source the Secretary determines to represent
a supply chain risk.’’.
SEC. 3152. PROHIBITION ON USE OF
LABORATORY- OR PRODUCTION FA-
CILITY-DIRECTED RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT FUNDS FOR GEN-
ERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE OVER-
HEAD COSTS.
Section 4811 of the Atomic Energy Defense
Act (50 U.S.C. 2791), as amended by section
3152, is further amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (d) as sub-
section (e); and
(2) by inserting after subsection (c) the fol-
lowing new subsection (d):
‘‘(d) PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR
OVERHEAD.—Funds provided to a national se-
curity laboratory or nuclear weapons pro-
duction facility for laboratory- or production
facility-directed research and development
may not be used to cover the costs of general
and administrative overhead for the labora-
tory or facility.’’.
SEC. 3153. MONITORING OF INDUSTRIAL BASE
FOR NUCLEAR WEAPONS COMPO-
NENTS, SUBSYSTEMS, AND MATE-
RIALS.
(a) DESIGNATION OF OFFICIAL.—Not later
than March 1, 2021, the Administrator for
Nuclear Security shall designate a senior of-
ficial within the National Nuclear Security
Administration to be responsible for moni-
toring the industrial base that supports the
nuclear weapons components, subsystems,
and materials of the Administration, includ-
ing—
(1) the consistent monitoring of the cur-
rent status of the industrial base;
(2) tracking of industrial base issues over
time; and
(3) proactively identifying gaps or risks in
specific areas relating to the industrial base.
(b) PROVISION OF RESOURCES.—The Admin-
istrator shall ensure that the official des-
ignated under subsection (a) is provided with
resources sufficient to conduct the moni-
toring required by that subsection.
(c) CONSULTATIONS.—The Administrator,
acting through the official designated under
subsection (a), shall, to the extent prac-
ticable and beneficial, in conducting the
monitoring required by that subsection, con-
sult with—
(1) officials of the Department of Defense
who are members of the Nuclear Weapons
Council established under section 179 of title
10, United States Code;
(2) officials of the Department of Defense
responsible for the defense industrial base;
and
(3) other components of the Department of
Energy that rely on similar components,
subsystems, or materials.
(d) BRIEFINGS.—
(1) INITIAL BRIEFING.—Not later than April
1, 2021, the Administrator shall provide to
the Committees on Armed Services of the
Senate and the House of Representatives a
briefing on the designation of the official re-
quired by subsection (a), including on—
(A) the responsibilities assigned to that of-
ficial; and
(B) the plan for providing that official with
resources sufficient to conduct the moni-
toring required by subsection (a).
(2) SUBSEQUENT BRIEFINGS.—Not later than
April 1, 2022, and annually thereafter
through 2024, the Administrator shall pro-
vide to the Committees on Armed Services of
the Senate and the House of Representatives
a briefing on activities carried out under this
section that includes an assessment of the
progress made by the official designated
under subsection (a) in conducting the moni-
toring required by that subsection.
SEC. 3154. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR
ADVANCED NAVAL NUCLEAR FUEL
SYSTEM BASED ON LOW-ENRICHED
URANIUM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—None of the funds author-
ized to be appropriated for the National Nu-
clear Security Administration for fiscal year
2021 may be obligated or expended to conduct
research and development of an advanced
naval nuclear fuel system based on low-en-
riched uranium until the following certifi-
cations are submitted to the congressional
defense committees:
(1) A joint certification of the Secretary of
Energy and the Secretary of Defense that
the determination made by the Secretary of
Energy and the Secretary of the Navy pursu-
ant to section 3118(c)(1) of the National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016
(Public Law 114–92; 129 Stat. 1196) and sub-
mitted to the congressional defense commit-
tees on March 25, 2018, that the United
States should not pursue such research and
development, no longer reflects the policy of
the United States.
(2) A certification of the Secretary of the
Navy that an advanced naval nuclear fuel
system based on low-enriched uranium would
not reduce vessel capability, increase ex-
pense, or reduce operational availability as a
result of refueling requirements.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 60
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Administrator for Nuclear Security
shall submit to the congressional defense
committees a report on activities conducted
using amounts made available for fiscal year
2020 for nonproliferation fuels development,
including a description of progress made to-
ward technological or nonproliferation goals.
SEC. 3155. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
FOR W93 NUCLEAR WARHEAD PRO-
GRAM.
In accordance with section 4209(a)(1)(B) of
the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C.
2529(a)(1)(B)), funds are hereby authorized to
be appropriated to the Department of Energy
for fiscal year 2021 for the W93 nuclear war-
head program as specified in the funding
table in section 4701.
SEC. 3156. REVIEW OF FUTURE OF COMPUTING
BEYOND EXASCALE AT THE NA-
TIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMIN-
ISTRATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator for
Nuclear Security, in consultation with the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00182 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6869
November 16, 2020
Secretary of Energy, shall enter into an
agreement with the National Academy of
Science to review the future of computing
beyond exascale computing to meet national
security needs at the National Nuclear Secu-
rity Administration.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The review required by
subsection (a) shall address the following:
(1) Future computing needs of the National
Nuclear Security Administration that
exascale computing will not accomplish dur-
ing the 20 years after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act.
(2) Computing architectures that poten-
tially can meet those needs, including—
(A) classical computing architectures em-
ployed as of such date of enactment;
(B) quantum computing architectures and
other novel computing architectures;
(C) hybrid combinations of classical and
quantum computing architectures; and
(D) other architectures as necessary.
(3) The development of software for the
computing architectures described in para-
graph (2).
(4) The maturity of the computing archi-
tectures described in paragraph (2) and the
software described in paragraph (3), with key
obstacles that must be overcome for the em-
ployment of such architectures and software.
(5) The secure industrial base that exists as
of the date of the enactment of this Act to
meet the unique needs of computing at the
National Nuclear Security Administration,
including needs with respect to—
(A) personnel;
(B) microelectronics; and
(C) other appropriate matters.
(c) INFORMATION AND CLEARANCES.—The
Administrator shall ensure that personnel of
the National Academy of Sciences over-
seeing the implementation of the agreement
required by subsection (a) or conducting the
review required by that subsection receive,
in a timely manner, access to information
and necessary security clearances to enable
the conduct of the review.
(d) REPORT REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the National Academy of Sciences shall sub-
mit to the congressional defense committees
a report on the findings of the review re-
quired by subsection (a).
(2) FORM.—The report required by para-
graph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified
form but may include a classified annex.
(e) EXASCALE COMPUTING DEFINED.—In this
section, the term ‘‘exascale computing’’
means computing through the use of a com-
puting machine that performs near or above
10 to the 18th power floating point oper-
ations per second.
SEC. 3157. APPLICATION OF REQUIREMENT FOR
INDEPENDENT COST ESTIMATES
AND REVIEWS TO NEW NUCLEAR
WEAPON SYSTEMS.
Section 4217(b)(1) of the Atomic Energy De-
fense Act (50 U.S.C. 2537(b)(1)) is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (A)—
(A) in clause (i), by inserting ‘‘, and each
new nuclear weapon system at the comple-
tion of phase 2A’’ after ‘‘phase 6.2A’’;
(B) in clause (ii), by inserting ‘‘, and each
new nuclear weapon system at the comple-
tion of phase 3’’ after ‘‘phase 6.3’’; and
(C) in clause (iii)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘, and each new nuclear
weapon system at the completion of phase 4’’
after ‘‘phase 6.4’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘or 5, as applicable’’ after
‘‘phase 6.5’’; and
(2) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ‘‘, and
each new nuclear weapon system at the com-
pletion of phase 2’’ after ‘‘phase 6.2’’.
SEC. 3159. INTEGRATION OF STOCKPILE STEW-
ARDSHIP AND NONPROLIFERATION
MISSIONS.
(a) SENSE OF SENATE.—It is the sense of the
Senate that, in recognition of the close rela-
tionships between the nuclear weapons ex-
pertise and infrastructure of the national se-
curity laboratories (as defined in section 4002
of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C.
2501)), those laboratories should continue to
apply their capabilities to assessing, under-
standing, and countering current and emerg-
ing nuclear threats, including the nuclear
capabilities of adversaries of the United
States.
(b) INTEGRATION.—The Secretary of Energy
shall ensure that the capabilities of the
stockpile stewardship program under section
4201 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50
U.S.C. 2521) are available to assess prolifera-
tion challenges, nuclear capabilities of ad-
versaries of the United States, and related
safeguards.
SEC. 3160. TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT AND IN-
TEGRATION PROGRAM.
The Administrator for Nuclear Security
shall establish a technology development
and integration program to improve the safe-
ty and security of the nuclear weapons
stockpile, and to prevent proliferation,
through research and development, engineer-
ing, and integration of technologies applica-
ble to multiple weapons systems in the
stockpile.
SEC. 3161. ADVANCED MANUFACTURING DEVEL-
OPMENT PROGRAM.
The Administrator for Nuclear Security
shall establish an advanced manufacturing
development program to focus on the devel-
opment, demonstration, and deployment of
next-generation processes and manufac-
turing tools to ensure that the nuclear weap-
ons stockpile is safe and secure.
SEC. 3162. MATERIALS SCIENCE PROGRAM.
The Administrator for Nuclear Security
shall establish a materials science program
to develop new materials to replace mate-
rials that are no longer available for weap-
ons sustainment.
SEC. 3163. MODIFICATIONS TO INERTIAL CON-
FINEMENT FUSION IGNITION AND
HIGH YIELD PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Inertial Confinement
Fusion Ignition and High Yield Program of
the National Nuclear Security Administra-
tion (in this section referred to as the ‘‘Pro-
gram’’) shall provide the scientific under-
standing and experimental capabilities re-
quired to validate the safety and effective-
ness of the nuclear weapons stockpile.
(b) RECOMMENDATIONS RELATING TO HIGH
ENERGY DENSITY PHYSICS.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT OF WORKING GROUP.—
The Administrator for Nuclear Security
shall establish a working group to identify
and implement any recommendations issued
by the National Academies of Sciences, En-
gineering, and Medicine as required by sec-
tion 3137 of the National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law
116–92).
(2) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than
March 31, 2021, the Administrator shall sub-
mit to the congressional defense committees
a report on the timelines for completing im-
plementation of the recommendations de-
scribed in paragraph (1).
SEC. 3164. EARNED VALUE MANAGEMENT PRO-
GRAM FOR LIFE EXTENSION PRO-
GRAMS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle A of title XLII of
the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C.
2521 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end
the following new section:
‘‘SEC. 4223. EARNED VALUE MANAGEMENT PRO-
GRAM FOR LIFE EXTENSION PRO-
GRAMS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall
establish an earned value management pro-
gram to establish earned value management
standards—
‘‘(1) to ensure specific benchmarks are set
for technology readiness for life extension
programs; and
‘‘(2) to ensure that appropriate risk mitiga-
tion measures are taken to meet the cost
and schedule requirements of such programs.
‘‘(b) REVIEW OF CONTRACTOR EARNED VALUE
MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS.—The Administrator
shall enter into an arrangement with an
independent entity under which that entity
shall review and determine whether the
earned value management standards of con-
tractors of the Administration for life exten-
sion programs are consistent with the stand-
ards established under subsection (a).
‘‘(c) RECONCILIATION OF COST ESTIMATES.—
The Administrator shall ensure that key de-
cisions of the Administration concerning
project milestones in life extension programs
are based on a reconciliation of cost esti-
mates of the Administration with any inde-
pendent cost estimates conducted by the Di-
rector of Cost Estimating and Program Eval-
uation.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents for the Atomic Energy Defense Act
is amended by inserting after the item relat-
ing to section 4222 the following new item:
‘‘Sec. 4223. Earned value management pro-
gram for life extension pro-
grams.’’.
SEC. 3165. USE OF HIGH PERFORMANCE COM-
PUTING CAPABILITIES FOR COVID–
19 RESEARCH.
The Secretary of Energy shall make the
unclassified high performance computing ca-
pabilities of the Department of Energy avail-
able for research relating to the coronavirus
disease 2019 (commonly known as ‘‘COVID–
19’’) so long as and to the extent that doing
so does not negatively affect the stockpile
stewardship mission of the National Nuclear
Security Administration.
SEC. 3166. AVAILABILITY OF STOCKPILE RESPON-
SIVENESS FUNDS FOR PROJECTS TO
REDUCE TIME NECESSARY TO EXE-
CUTE A NUCLEAR TEST.
From amounts authorized to be appro-
priated by section 3101 and available, as spec-
ified in the funding table in section 4701, for
the Stockpile Responsiveness Program under
section 4220 of the Atomic Energy Defense
Act (50 U.S.C. 2538b), not less than $10,000,000
shall be made available to carry out projects
related to reducing the time required to exe-
cute a nuclear test if necessary.
SEC. 3167. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON EXTENSION
OF LIMITATIONS ON IMPORTATION
OF URANIUM FROM RUSSIAN FED-
ERATION.
It is the sense of the Senate that—
(1) a secure nuclear fuel supply chain is es-
sential to the economic and national secu-
rity of the United States;
(2) the United States should—
(A) expeditiously complete negotiation of
an extension of the Agreement Suspending
the Antidumping Investigation on Uranium
from the Russian Federation (commonly re-
ferred to as the ‘‘Russian Suspension Agree-
ment’’); or
(B) if an agreement to extend the Russian
Suspension Agreement cannot be reached,
complete the antidumping investigation
under title VII of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19
U.S.C. 1671 et seq.) with respect to imports of
uranium from the Russian Federation—
(i) to avoid unfair trade in uranium and
maintain a nuclear fuel supply chain in the
United States, consistent with the national
security and nonproliferation goals of the
United States; and
(ii) to protect the United States nuclear
fuel supply chain from the continued manip-
ulation of the global and United States ura-
nium markets by the Russian Federation
and Russian-influenced competitors;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00183 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6870 November 16, 2020
(3) a renegotiated, long-term extension of
the Russian Suspension Agreement can pre-
vent adversaries of the United States from
monopolizing the nuclear fuel supply chain;
(4) as was done in 2008, upon completion of
a new negotiated long-term extension of the
Russian Suspension Agreement, Congress
should enact legislation to codify the terms
of extension into law to ensure long-term
stability for the domestic nuclear fuel supply
chain; and
(5) if the negotiations to extend the Rus-
sian Suspension Agreement prove unsuccess-
ful, Congress should be prepared to enact leg-
islation to prevent the manipulation by the
Russian Federation of global uranium mar-
kets and potential domination by the Rus-
sian Federation of the United States ura-
nium market.
TITLE XXXII—DEFENSE NUCLEAR
FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD
SEC. 3201. AUTHORIZATION.
There are authorized to be appropriated for
fiscal year 2021, $28,836,000 for the operation
of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety
Board under chapter 21 of the Atomic Energy
Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2286 et seq.).
SEC. 3202. NONPUBLIC COLLABORATIVE DISCUS-
SIONS BY DEFENSE NUCLEAR FA-
CILITIES SAFETY BOARD.
Section 313 of the Atomic Energy Act of
1954 (42 U.S.C. 2286b) is amended by adding at
the end the following new subsection:
‘‘(k) NONPUBLIC COLLABORATIVE DISCUS-
SIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding section
552b of title 5, United States Code, a quorum
of the members of the Board may hold a
meeting that is not open to public observa-
tion to discuss official business of the Board
if—
‘‘(A) no formal or informal vote or other
official action is taken at the meeting;
‘‘(B) each individual present at the meet-
ing is a member or an employee of the Board;
‘‘(C) at least one member of the Board from
each political party is present at the meet-
ing, unless all members of the Board are of
the same political party at the time of the
meeting; and
‘‘(D) the general counsel of the Board, or a
designee of the general counsel, is present at
the meeting.
‘‘(2) DISCLOSURE OF NONPUBLIC COLLABO-
RATIVE DISCUSSIONS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided by
subparagraph (B), not later than two busi-
ness days after the conclusion of a meeting
described in paragraph (1), the Board shall
make available to the public, in a place eas-
ily accessible to the public—
‘‘(i) a list of the individuals present at the
meeting; and
‘‘(ii) a summary of the matters, including
key issues, discussed at the meeting, except
for any matter the Board properly deter-
mines may be withheld from the public
under section 552b(c) of title 5, United States
Code.
‘‘(B) INFORMATION ABOUT MATTERS WITH-
HELD FROM PUBLIC.—If the Board properly de-
termines under subparagraph (A)(ii) that a
matter may be withheld from the public
under section 552b(c) of title 5, United States
Code, the Board shall include in the sum-
mary required by that subparagraph as much
general information as possible with respect
to the matter.
‘‘(3) RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this subsection may be construed—
‘‘(A) to limit the applicability of section
552b of title 5, United States Code, with re-
spect to—
‘‘(i) a meeting of the members of the Board
other than a meeting described in paragraph
(1); or
‘‘(ii) any information that is proposed to be
withheld from the public under paragraph
(2)(A)(ii); or
‘‘(B) to authorize the Board to withhold
from any individual any record that is acces-
sible to that individual under section 552a of
title 5, United States Code.’’.
SEC. 3203. IMPROVEMENTS TO OPERATIONS OF
DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES
SAFETY BOARD.
(a) MISSION OF BOARD.—Section 312(a) of
the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C.
2286a(a)) is amended by striking ‘‘employees
and contractors at such facilities’’ and in-
serting ‘‘workers at such facilities con-
ducting activities covered by part 830 of title
10, Code of Federal Regulations (or any suc-
cessor regulation)’’.
(b) COOPERATION.—Section 314(a) of the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2286c(a))
is amended—
(1) by inserting ‘‘(1)’’ before ‘‘Except’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(2) For purposes of this subsection, the
term ‘unfettered access’, with respect to a
facility or personnel of or information re-
lated to a facility, means access equivalent
to the access to the facility, personnel, or in-
formation provided to a regular employee of
the facility, after proper identification and
compliance with applicable access control
measures for security, radiological protec-
tion, and personal safety.’’.
TITLE XXXV—MARITIME ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 3501. MARITIME ADMINISTRATION.
Section 109 of title 49, United States Code,
is amended to read as follows:
‘‘§ 109. Maritime Administration
‘‘(a) ORGANIZATION AND MISSION.—The Mar-
itime Administration is an administration in
the Department of Transportation. The mis-
sion of the Maritime Administration is to
foster, promote, and develop the merchant
maritime industry of the United States.
‘‘(b) MARITIME ADMINISTRATOR.—The head
of the Maritime Administration is the Mari-
time Administrator, who is appointed by the
President by and with the advice and con-
sent of the Senate. The Administrator shall
report directly to the Secretary of Transpor-
tation and carry out the duties prescribed by
the Secretary.
‘‘(c) DEPUTY MARITIME ADMINISTRATOR.—
The Maritime Administration shall have a
Deputy Maritime Administrator, who is ap-
pointed in the competitive service by the
Secretary, after consultation with the Ad-
ministrator. The Deputy Administrator shall
carry out the duties prescribed by the Ad-
ministrator. The Deputy Administrator shall
be Acting Administrator during the absence
or disability of the Administrator and, un-
less the Secretary designates another indi-
vidual, during a vacancy in the office of Ad-
ministrator.
‘‘(d) DUTIES AND POWERS VESTED IN SEC-
RETARY.—All duties and powers of the Mari-
time Administration are vested in the Sec-
retary.
‘‘(e) REGIONAL OFFICES.—The Maritime Ad-
ministration shall have regional offices for
the Atlantic, Gulf, Great Lakes, and Pacific
port ranges, and may have other regional of-
fices as necessary. The Secretary shall ap-
point a qualified individual as Director of
each regional office. The Secretary shall
carry out appropriate activities and pro-
grams of the Maritime Administration
through the regional offices.
‘‘(f) INTERAGENCY AND INDUSTRY RELA-
TIONS.—The Secretary shall establish and
maintain liaison with other agencies, and
with representative trade organizations
throughout the United States, concerned
with the transportation of commodities by
water in the export and import foreign com-
merce of the United States, for the purpose
of securing preference to vessels of the
United States for the transportation of those
commodities.
‘‘(g) DETAILING OFFICERS FROM ARMED
FORCES.—To assist the Secretary in carrying
out duties and powers relating to the Mari-
time Administration, not more than five of-
ficers of the Armed Forces may be detailed
to the Secretary at any one time, in addition
to details authorized by any other law. Dur-
ing the period of a detail, the Secretary shall
pay the officer an amount that, when added
to the officer’s pay and allowances as an offi-
cer in the Armed Forces, makes the officer’s
total pay and allowances equal to the
amount that would be paid to an individual
performing work the Secretary considers to
be of similar importance, difficulty, and re-
sponsibility as that performed by the officer
during the detail.
‘‘(h) CONTRACTS, COOPERATIVE AGREE-
MENTS, AND AUDITS.—
‘‘(1) CONTRACTS AND COOPERATIVE AGREE-
MENTS.—In the same manner that a private
corporation may make a contract within the
scope of its authority under its charter, the
Secretary may make contracts and coopera-
tive agreements for the United States Gov-
ernment and disburse amounts to—
‘‘(A) carry out the Secretary’s duties and
powers under this section, subtitle V of title
46, and all other Maritime Administration
programs; and
‘‘(B) protect, preserve, and improve collat-
eral held by the Secretary to secure indebt-
edness.
‘‘(2) AUDITS.—The financial transactions of
the Secretary under paragraph (1) shall be
audited by the Comptroller General. The
Comptroller General shall allow credit for an
expenditure shown to be necessary because
of the nature of the business activities au-
thorized by this section or subtitle V of title
46. At least once a year, the Comptroller
General shall report to Congress any depar-
ture by the Secretary from this section or
subtitle V of title 46.
‘‘(i) GRANT ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.—
Except as otherwise provided by law, the ad-
ministrative and related expenses for the ad-
ministration of any grant programs by the
Maritime Administrator may not exceed 3
percent.
‘‘(j) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise pro-
vided in this subsection, there are authorized
to be appropriated such amounts as may be
necessary to carry out the duties and powers
of the Secretary relating to the Maritime
Administration.
‘‘(2) LIMITATIONS.—Only those amounts
specifically authorized by law may be appro-
priated for the use of the Maritime Adminis-
tration for—
‘‘(A) acquisition, construction, or recon-
struction of vessels;
‘‘(B) construction-differential subsidies in-
cident to the construction, reconstruction,
or reconditioning of vessels;
‘‘(C) costs of national defense features;
‘‘(D) payments of obligations incurred for
operating-differential subsidies;
‘‘(E) expenses necessary for research and
development activities, including reimburse-
ment of the Vessel Operations Revolving
Fund for losses resulting from expenses of
experimental vessel operations;
‘‘(F) the Vessel Operations Revolving
Fund;
‘‘(G) National Defense Reserve Fleet ex-
penses;
‘‘(H) expenses necessary to carry out part
B of subtitle V of title 46; and
‘‘(I) other operations and training expenses
related to the development of waterborne
transportation systems, the use of water-
borne transportation systems, and general
administration.’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00184 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6871
November 16, 2020
DIVISION D—FUNDING TABLES
SEC. 4001. AUTHORIZATION OF AMOUNTS IN
FUNDING TABLES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Whenever a funding table
in this division specifies a dollar amount au-
thorized for a project, program, or activity,
the obligation and expenditure of the speci-
fied dollar amount for the project, program,
or activity is hereby authorized, subject to
the availability of appropriations.
(b) MERIT-BASED DECISIONS.—A decision to
commit, obligate, or expend funds with or to
a specific entity on the basis of a dollar
amount authorized pursuant to subsection
(a) shall—
(1) be based on merit-based selection proce-
dures in accordance with the requirements of
sections 2304(k) and 2374 of title 10, United
States Code, or on competitive procedures;
and
(2) comply with other applicable provisions
of law.
(c) RELATIONSHIP TO TRANSFER AND PRO-
GRAMMING AUTHORITY.—An amount specified
in the funding tables in this division may be
transferred or reprogrammed under a trans-
fer or reprogramming authority provided by
another provision of this Act or by other
law. The transfer or reprogramming of an
amount specified in such funding tables shall
not count against a ceiling on such transfers
or reprogrammings under section 1001 or sec-
tion 1522 of this Act or any other provision of
law, unless such transfer or reprogramming
would move funds between appropriation ac-
counts.
(d) APPLICABILITY TO CLASSIFIED ANNEX.—
This section applies to any classified annex
that accompanies this Act.
(e) ORAL WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS.—No
oral or written communication concerning
any amount specified in the funding tables in
this division shall supersede the require-
ments of this section.
TITLE XLI—PROCUREMENT
SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT.
SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, ARMY
FIXED WING
2 MQ–1 UAV .......................................................................................................................................... 0 165,000
Reverse planned temporary procurement pause .......................................................................... [165,000]
3 FUTURE UAS FAMILY ..................................................................................................................... 1,100 1,100
4 RQ–11 (RAVEN) .................................................................................................................................. 20,851 20,851
ROTARY
7 AH–64 APACHE BLOCK IIIA REMAN ................................................................................................ 792,027 792,027
8 AH–64 APACHE BLOCK IIIA REMAN AP .......................................................................................... 169,460 169,460
11 UH–60 BLACKHAWK M MODEL (MYP) .............................................................................................. 742,998 742,998
12 UH–60 BLACKHAWK M MODEL (MYP) AP ........................................................................................ 87,427 87,427
13 UH–60 BLACK HAWK L AND V MODELS .......................................................................................... 172,797 172,797
14 CH–47 HELICOPTER .......................................................................................................................... 160,750 160,750
15 CH–47 HELICOPTER AP ..................................................................................................................... 18,372 18,372
MODIFICATION OF AIRCRAFT
18 UNIVERSAL GROUND CONTROL EQUIPMENT (UAS) .................................................................... 7,509 7,509
19 GRAY EAGLE MODS2 ........................................................................................................................ 16,280 16,280
20 MULTI SENSOR ABN RECON (MIP) ................................................................................................. 35,864 35,864
21 AH–64 MODS ....................................................................................................................................... 118,316 118,316
22 CH–47 CARGO HELICOPTER MODS (MYP) ....................................................................................... 15,548 35,548
IVCS ............................................................................................................................................. [20,000]
23 GRCS SEMA MODS (MIP) .................................................................................................................. 2,947 2,947
24 ARL SEMA MODS (MIP) .................................................................................................................... 9,598 9,598
25 EMARSS SEMA MODS (MIP) ............................................................................................................ 2,452 2,452
26 UTILITY/CARGO AIRPLANE MODS ................................................................................................. 13,868 13,868
27 UTILITY HELICOPTER MODS .......................................................................................................... 25,842 25,842
28 NETWORK AND MISSION PLAN ....................................................................................................... 77,432 77,432
29 COMMS, NAV SURVEILLANCE ........................................................................................................ 101,355 101,355
31 AVIATION ASSURED PNT ................................................................................................................ 54,609 54,609
32 GATM ROLLUP .................................................................................................................................. 12,180 12,180
34 UAS MODS ......................................................................................................................................... 4,204 4,204
GROUND SUPPORT AVIONICS
35 AIRCRAFT SURVIVABILITY EQUIPMENT ...................................................................................... 49,455 49,455
36 SURVIVABILITY CM ......................................................................................................................... 8,035 8,035
37 CMWS ................................................................................................................................................. 10,567 10,567
38 COMMON INFRARED COUNTERMEASURES (CIRCM) .................................................................... 237,467 237,467
OTHER SUPPORT
39 AVIONICS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT ................................................................................................... 1,789 1,789
40 COMMON GROUND EQUIPMENT ...................................................................................................... 17,584 17,584
41 AIRCREW INTEGRATED SYSTEMS ................................................................................................. 48,265 48,265
42 AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL ................................................................................................................... 26,408 26,408
44 LAUNCHER, 2.75 ROCKET ................................................................................................................. 2,256 2,256
45 LAUNCHER GUIDED MISSILE: LONGBOW HELLFIRE XM2 ........................................................... 8,982 8,982
TOTAL AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, ARMY ...................................................................................... 3,074,594 3,259,594
MISSILE PROCUREMENT, ARMY
SURFACE-TO-AIR MISSILE SYSTEM
2 M-SHORAD—PROCUREMENT ........................................................................................................... 378,654 378,654
3 MSE MISSILE .................................................................................................................................... 603,188 779,773
Transfer missiles from EDI OCO .................................................................................................. [176,585]
4 PRECISION STRIKE MISSILE (PRSM) ............................................................................................. 49,941 49,941
5 INDIRECT FIRE PROTECTION CAPABILITY INC 2–I ...................................................................... 106,261 65,761
Army-identified funding early to need ......................................................................................... [–40,500]
AIR-TO-SURFACE MISSILE SYSTEM
6 HELLFIRE SYS SUMMARY .............................................................................................................. 91,225 91,225
7 JOINT AIR-TO-GROUND MSLS (JAGM) ........................................................................................... 213,397 213,397
8 LONG RANGE PRECISION MUNITION ............................................................................................. 45,307 45,307
ANTI-TANK/ASSAULT MISSILE SYS
9 JAVELIN (AAWS-M) SYSTEM SUMMARY ....................................................................................... 190,325 190,325
10 TOW 2 SYSTEM SUMMARY .............................................................................................................. 121,074 121,074
11 GUIDED MLRS ROCKET (GMLRS) ................................................................................................... 850,157 850,157
12 MLRS REDUCED RANGE PRACTICE ROCKETS (RRPR) ................................................................. 30,836 30,836
13 HIGH MOBILITY ARTILLERY ROCKET SYSTEM (HIMARS ........................................................... 41,226 41,226
MODIFICATIONS
16 PATRIOT MODS ................................................................................................................................ 278,050 278,050
17 ATACMS MODS ................................................................................................................................. 141,690 141,690
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00185 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6872 November 16, 2020
SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
20 AVENGER MODS ............................................................................................................................... 13,942 13,942
21 ITAS/TOW MODS ............................................................................................................................... 5,666 5,666
22 MLRS MODS ...................................................................................................................................... 310,419 310,419
23 HIMARS MODIFICATIONS ................................................................................................................ 6,081 6,081
SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
24 SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS ......................................................................................................... 5,090 5,090
SUPPORT EQUIPMENT & FACILITIES
25 AIR DEFENSE TARGETS .................................................................................................................. 8,978 8,978
TOTAL MISSILE PROCUREMENT, ARMY .......................................................................................... 3,491,507 3,627,592
PROCUREMENT OF W&TCV, ARMY
TRACKED COMBAT VEHICLES
2 ARMORED MULTI PURPOSE VEHICLE (AMPV) ............................................................................. 192,971 172,971
Program decrease ......................................................................................................................... [–20,000]
MODIFICATION OF TRACKED COMBAT VEHICLES
4 STRYKER UPGRADE ........................................................................................................................ 847,212 847,212
5 BRADLEY PROGRAM (MOD) ............................................................................................................ 493,109 473,109
UBIS slip ...................................................................................................................................... [–20,000]
6 M109 FOV MODIFICATIONS .............................................................................................................. 26,893 26,893
7 PALADIN INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT (PIM) .............................................................................. 435,825 435,825
9 ASSAULT BRIDGE (MOD) ................................................................................................................. 5,074 5,074
10 ASSAULT BREACHER VEHICLE ...................................................................................................... 19,500 19,500
11 M88 FOV MODS .................................................................................................................................. 18,382 13,382
Unjustified growth ....................................................................................................................... [–5,000]
12 JOINT ASSAULT BRIDGE ................................................................................................................. 72,178 61,678
IOTE and testing delay ................................................................................................................ [–10,500]
13 M1 ABRAMS TANK (MOD) ................................................................................................................. 392,013 392,013
14 ABRAMS UPGRADE PROGRAM ....................................................................................................... 1,033,253 1,033,253
WEAPONS & OTHER COMBAT VEHICLES
16 MULTI-ROLE ANTI-ARMOR ANTI-PERSONNEL WEAPON S .......................................................... 17,864 17,864
18 MORTAR SYSTEMS .......................................................................................................................... 10,288 10,288
19 XM320 GRENADE LAUNCHER MODULE (GLM) ............................................................................... 5,969 5,969
20 PRECISION SNIPER RIFLE .............................................................................................................. 10,137 10,137
21 COMPACT SEMI-AUTOMATIC SNIPER SYSTEM ............................................................................ 999 999
22 CARBINE ............................................................................................................................................ 7,411 7,411
23 NEXT GENERATION SQUAD WEAPON ............................................................................................ 35,822 35,822
24 COMMON REMOTELY OPERATED WEAPONS STATION ................................................................ 24,534 24,534
25 HANDGUN .......................................................................................................................................... 4,662 4,662
MOD OF WEAPONS AND OTHER COMBAT VEH
26 MK–19 GRENADE MACHINE GUN MODS .......................................................................................... 6,444 6,444
27 M777 MODS ......................................................................................................................................... 10,983 10,983
28 M4 CARBINE MODS ........................................................................................................................... 4,824 4,824
31 M240 MEDIUM MACHINE GUN MODS ............................................................................................... 6,385 6,385
32 SNIPER RIFLES MODIFICATIONS ................................................................................................... 1,898 1,898
33 M119 MODIFICATIONS ...................................................................................................................... 2,009 2,009
34 MORTAR MODIFICATION ................................................................................................................. 1,689 1,689
35 MODIFICATIONS LESS THAN $5.0M (WOCV-WTCV) ........................................................................ 2,604 2,604
SUPPORT EQUIPMENT & FACILITIES
36 ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M (WOCV-WTCV) ......................................................................................... 2,763 2,763
37 PRODUCTION BASE SUPPORT (WOCV-WTCV) ................................................................................ 3,045 3,045
TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF W&TCV, ARMY ...................................................................................... 3,696,740 3,641,240
PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, ARMY
SMALL/MEDIUM CAL AMMUNITION
1 CTG, 5.56MM, ALL TYPES ................................................................................................................. 68,472 68,472
2 CTG, 7.62MM, ALL TYPES ................................................................................................................. 109,933 109,933
3 NEXT GENERATION SQUAD WEAPON AMMUNITION .................................................................... 11,988 11,988
4 CTG, HANDGUN, ALL TYPES ........................................................................................................... 853 853
5 CTG, .50 CAL, ALL TYPES ................................................................................................................ 58,280 58,280
6 CTG, 20MM, ALL TYPES ................................................................................................................... 31,708 31,708
7 CTG, 25MM, ALL TYPES ................................................................................................................... 9,111 9,111
8 CTG, 30MM, ALL TYPES ................................................................................................................... 58,172 58,172
9 CTG, 40MM, ALL TYPES ................................................................................................................... 114,638 114,638
MORTAR AMMUNITION
10 60MM MORTAR, ALL TYPES ............................................................................................................ 31,222 31,222
11 81MM MORTAR, ALL TYPES ............................................................................................................ 42,857 42,857
12 120MM MORTAR, ALL TYPES ........................................................................................................... 107,762 107,762
TANK AMMUNITION
13 CARTRIDGES, TANK, 105MM AND 120MM, ALL TYPES .................................................................. 233,444 233,444
ARTILLERY AMMUNITION
14 ARTILLERY CARTRIDGES, 75MM & 105MM, ALL TYPES ............................................................... 35,963 35,963
15 ARTILLERY PROJECTILE, 155MM, ALL TYPES ............................................................................. 293,692 293,692
16 PROJ 155MM EXTENDED RANGE M982 ............................................................................................ 69,159 69,159
17 ARTILLERY PROPELLANTS, FUZES AND PRIMERS, ALL ........................................................... 232,913 232,913
MINES
18 MINES & CLEARING CHARGES, ALL TYPES .................................................................................. 65,278 65,278
19 CLOSE TERRAIN SHAPING OBSTACLE .......................................................................................... 4,995 4,995
ROCKETS
20 SHOULDER LAUNCHED MUNITIONS, ALL TYPES ......................................................................... 69,112 69,112
21 ROCKET, HYDRA 70, ALL TYPES ..................................................................................................... 125,915 125,915
OTHER AMMUNITION
22 CAD/PAD, ALL TYPES ...................................................................................................................... 8,891 8,891
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00186 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6873
November 16, 2020
SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
23 DEMOLITION MUNITIONS, ALL TYPES .......................................................................................... 54,043 54,043
24 GRENADES, ALL TYPES .................................................................................................................. 28,931 28,931
25 SIGNALS, ALL TYPES ...................................................................................................................... 27,036 27,036
26 SIMULATORS, ALL TYPES .............................................................................................................. 10,253 10,253
MISCELLANEOUS
27 AMMO COMPONENTS, ALL TYPES ................................................................................................. 3,476 3,476
29 ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION (AMMO) ......................................................................................... 10,569 10,569
30 AMMUNITION PECULIAR EQUIPMENT ........................................................................................... 12,338 12,338
31 FIRST DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION (AMMO) ....................................................................... 15,908 15,908
32 CLOSEOUT LIABILITIES .................................................................................................................. 99 99
PRODUCTION BASE SUPPORT
33 INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES ................................................................................................................ 592,224 592,224
34 CONVENTIONAL MUNITIONS DEMILITARIZATION ....................................................................... 235,112 235,112
35 ARMS INITIATIVE ............................................................................................................................ 3,369 3,369
TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, ARMY ........................................................................... 2,777,716 2,777,716
OTHER PROCUREMENT, ARMY
TACTICAL VEHICLES
1 TACTICAL TRAILERS/DOLLY SETS ................................................................................................ 12,986 12,986
2 SEMITRAILERS, FLATBED: ............................................................................................................. 31,443 31,443
3 SEMITRAILERS, TANKERS ............................................................................................................. 17,082 17,082
4 HI MOB MULTI-PURP WHLD VEH (HMMWV) .................................................................................. 44,795 44,795
5 GROUND MOBILITY VEHICLES (GMV) ............................................................................................ 37,932 37,932
8 JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE FAMILY OF VEHICL .............................................................. 894,414 894,414
9 TRUCK, DUMP, 20T (CCE) ................................................................................................................. 29,368 29,368
10 FAMILY OF MEDIUM TACTICAL VEH (FMTV) ............................................................................... 95,092 95,092
11 FAMILY OF COLD WEATHER ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE (C ............................................................ 999 999
12 FIRETRUCKS & ASSOCIATED FIREFIGHTING EQUIP ................................................................... 27,687 27,687
14 PLS ESP ............................................................................................................................................. 21,969 21,969
15 HVY EXPANDED MOBILE TACTICAL TRUCK EXT SERV .............................................................. 65,635 65,635
16 HMMWV RECAPITALIZATION PROGRAM ...................................................................................... 5,927 5,927
17 TACTICAL WHEELED VEHICLE PROTECTION KITS ...................................................................... 36,497 36,497
18 MODIFICATION OF IN SVC EQUIP ................................................................................................... 114,977 114,977
NON-TACTICAL VEHICLES
20 PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES ................................................................................................ 1,246 1,246
21 NONTACTICAL VEHICLES, OTHER ................................................................................................. 19,870 19,870
COMM—JOINT COMMUNICATIONS
22 SIGNAL MODERNIZATION PROGRAM ............................................................................................ 160,469 160,469
23 TACTICAL NETWORK TECHNOLOGY MOD IN SVC ........................................................................ 360,379 365,379
MDTF scalable node equipment ................................................................................................... [5,000]
24 SITUATION INFORMATION TRANSPORT ....................................................................................... 63,396 63,396
26 JCSE EQUIPMENT (USRDECOM) ..................................................................................................... 5,170 5,170
COMM—SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
29 DEFENSE ENTERPRISE WIDEBAND SATCOM SYSTEMS ............................................................. 101,498 101,498
30 TRANSPORTABLE TACTICAL COMMAND COMMUNICATIONS ..................................................... 72,450 74,850
AFRICOM force protection upgrades ........................................................................................... [1,000]
MDTF support requirements ........................................................................................................ [1,400]
31 SHF TERM ......................................................................................................................................... 13,173 13,173
32 ASSURED POSITIONING, NAVIGATION AND TIMING ................................................................... 134,928 134,928
33 SMART-T (SPACE) ............................................................................................................................ 8,611 8,611
34 GLOBAL BRDCST SVC—GBS ............................................................................................................ 8,191 8,191
COMM—C3 SYSTEM
36 COE TACTICAL SERVER INFRASTRUCTURE (TSI) ....................................................................... 94,871 94,871
COMM—COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS
37 HANDHELD MANPACK SMALL FORM FIT (HMS) .......................................................................... 550,848 552,348
AFRICOM force protection upgrades ........................................................................................... [1,500]
38 RADIO TERMINAL SET, MIDS LVT(2) ............................................................................................. 8,237 8,237
41 SPIDER FAMILY OF NETWORKED MUNITIONS INCR ................................................................... 13,967 0
Program cancelation .................................................................................................................... [–13,967]
43 UNIFIED COMMAND SUITE .............................................................................................................. 19,579 19,579
44 COTS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ........................................................................................... 94,156 94,156
45 FAMILY OF MED COMM FOR COMBAT CASUALTY CARE ............................................................ 18,313 18,313
46 ARMY COMMUNICATIONS & ELECTRONICS .................................................................................. 51,480 51,480
COMM—INTELLIGENCE COMM
48 CI AUTOMATION ARCHITECTURE (MIP) ........................................................................................ 13,146 13,146
49 DEFENSE MILITARY DECEPTION INITIATIVE .............................................................................. 5,624 5,624
INFORMATION SECURITY
51 INFORMATION SYSTEM SECURITY PROGRAM-ISSP .................................................................... 4,596 4,596
52 COMMUNICATIONS SECURITY (COMSEC) ...................................................................................... 159,272 159,272
53 DEFENSIVE CYBER OPERATIONS .................................................................................................. 54,753 55,653
MDTF cyber defense and EW tools ............................................................................................... [900]
54 INSIDER THREAT PROGRAM—UNIT ACTIVITY MONITO .............................................................. 1,760 1,760
56 ITEMS LESS THAN $5M (INFO SECURITY) ..................................................................................... 260 260
COMM—LONG HAUL COMMUNICATIONS
57 BASE SUPPORT COMMUNICATIONS ............................................................................................... 29,761 30,761
AFRICOM UFR force protection upgrades ................................................................................... [1,000]
COMM—BASE COMMUNICATIONS
58 INFORMATION SYSTEMS ................................................................................................................ 147,696 147,696
59 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT MODERNIZATION PROGRAM ......................................................... 4,900 4,900
60 HOME STATION MISSION COMMAND CENTERS (HSMCC) ............................................................. 15,227 15,227
61 JOINT INFORMATION ENVIRONMENT (JIE) .................................................................................. 3,177 3,177
62 INSTALLATION INFO INFRASTRUCTURE MOD PROGRAM .......................................................... 300,035 300,035
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00187 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6874 November 16, 2020
SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
ELECT EQUIP—TACT INT REL ACT (TIARA)
65 JTT/CIBS-M (MIP) ............................................................................................................................. 5,304 5,304
66 TERRESTRIAL LAYER SYSTEMS (TLS) (MIP) ............................................................................... 8,081 8,081
68 DCGS-A (MIP) .................................................................................................................................... 151,886 151,886
70 TROJAN (MIP) ................................................................................................................................... 17,593 17,593
71 MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIP (INTEL SPT) (MIP) ..................................................................................... 28,558 28,558
73 BIOMETRIC TACTICAL COLLECTION DEVICES (MIP) ................................................................... 999 999
ELECT EQUIP—ELECTRONIC WARFARE (EW)
75 LIGHTWEIGHT COUNTER MORTAR RADAR ................................................................................... 5,332 5,332
76 EW PLANNING & MANAGEMENT TOOLS (EWPMT) ....................................................................... 7,849 7,849
77 AIR VIGILANCE (AV) (MIP) .............................................................................................................. 8,160 8,160
79 MULTI-FUNCTION ELECTRONIC WARFARE (MFEW) SYST .......................................................... 8,669 8,669
81 COUNTERINTELLIGENCE/SECURITY COUNTERMEASURES ........................................................ 0 13,400
MDTF advanced intel systems remote collection ........................................................................ [13,400]
82 CI MODERNIZATION (MIP) ............................................................................................................... 300 300
ELECT EQUIP—TACTICAL SURV. (TAC SURV)
83 SENTINEL MODS .............................................................................................................................. 58,884 58,884
84 NIGHT VISION DEVICES .................................................................................................................. 1,127,375 1,127,375
86 SMALL TACTICAL OPTICAL RIFLE MOUNTED MLRF .................................................................. 13,954 13,954
88 INDIRECT FIRE PROTECTION FAMILY OF SYSTEMS ................................................................... 10,069 14,069
AFRICOM UFR force protection upgrades ................................................................................... [4,000]
89 FAMILY OF WEAPON SIGHTS (FWS) .............................................................................................. 133,590 133,590
91 JOINT BATTLE COMMAND—PLATFORM (JBC-P) .......................................................................... 243,850 243,850
92 JOINT EFFECTS TARGETING SYSTEM (JETS) .............................................................................. 69,641 69,641
94 COMPUTER BALLISTICS: LHMBC XM32 .......................................................................................... 7,509 7,509
95 MORTAR FIRE CONTROL SYSTEM ................................................................................................. 3,800 3,800
96 MORTAR FIRE CONTROL SYSTEMS MODIFICATIONS .................................................................. 7,292 7,292
97 COUNTERFIRE RADARS .................................................................................................................. 72,421 72,421
ELECT EQUIP—TACTICAL C2 SYSTEMS
98 ARMY COMMAND POST INTEGRATED INFRASTRUCTURE ( ....................................................... 49,947 49,947
99 FIRE SUPPORT C2 FAMILY ............................................................................................................. 9,390 9,390
100 AIR & MSL DEFENSE PLANNING & CONTROL SYS ....................................................................... 47,374 47,374
101 IAMD BATTLE COMMAND SYSTEM ................................................................................................ 201,587 201,587
102 LIFE CYCLE SOFTWARE SUPPORT (LCSS) .................................................................................... 4,495 4,495
103 NETWORK MANAGEMENT INITIALIZATION AND SERVICE ......................................................... 18,651 18,651
105 GLOBAL COMBAT SUPPORT SYSTEM-ARMY (GCSS-A) ................................................................ 2,792 2,792
106 INTEGRATED PERSONNEL AND PAY SYSTEM-ARMY (IPP ......................................................... 9,071 9,071
107 RECONNAISSANCE AND SURVEYING INSTRUMENT SET ............................................................ 12,117 12,117
108 MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIPMENT (ENFIRE) .......................................................................................... 3,004 3,004
ELECT EQUIP—AUTOMATION
109 ARMY TRAINING MODERNIZATION ............................................................................................... 14,574 14,574
110 AUTOMATED DATA PROCESSING EQUIP ....................................................................................... 140,619 140,619
111 GENERAL FUND ENTERPRISE BUSINESS SYSTEMS FAM .......................................................... 4,448 4,448
112 HIGH PERF COMPUTING MOD PGM (HPCMP) ................................................................................ 68,405 68,405
113 CONTRACT WRITING SYSTEM ........................................................................................................ 8,459 8,459
114 CSS COMMUNICATIONS ................................................................................................................... 57,651 57,651
115 RESERVE COMPONENT AUTOMATION SYS (RCAS) ...................................................................... 14,848 14,848
ELECT EQUIP—AUDIO VISUAL SYS (A/V)
117 ITEMS LESS THAN $5M (SURVEYING EQUIPMENT) ...................................................................... 4,995 4,995
ELECT EQUIP—SUPPORT
119 BCT EMERGING TECHNOLOGIES .................................................................................................... 16,983 20,883
MDTF advanced intel systems remote collection ........................................................................ [3,900]
CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
9999 CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS ................................................................................................................. 1,582 1,582
CHEMICAL DEFENSIVE EQUIPMENT
123 CBRN DEFENSE ................................................................................................................................ 28,456 42,456
WMD CST equipment ................................................................................................................... [14,000]
124 SMOKE & OBSCURANT FAMILY: SOF (NON AAO ITEM) ................................................................ 13,995 13,995
BRIDGING EQUIPMENT
125 TACTICAL BRIDGING ....................................................................................................................... 10,545 10,545
126 TACTICAL BRIDGE, FLOAT-RIBBON ............................................................................................... 72,074 72,074
127 BRIDGE SUPPLEMENTAL SET ........................................................................................................ 32,493 32,493
128 COMMON BRIDGE TRANSPORTER (CBT) RECAP ........................................................................... 62,978 62,978
ENGINEER (NON-CONSTRUCTION) EQUIPMENT
129 HANDHELD STANDOFF MINEFIELD DETECTION SYS-HST ......................................................... 5,570 5,570
130 GRND STANDOFF MINE DETECTN SYSM (GSTAMIDS) ................................................................. 2,497 2,497
132 HUSKY MOUNTED DETECTION SYSTEM (HMDS) .......................................................................... 109,069 109,069
134 EOD ROBOTICS SYSTEMS RECAPITALIZATION ............................................................................ 36,584 36,584
135 ROBOTICS AND APPLIQUE SYSTEMS ............................................................................................ 179,544 179,544
137 RENDER SAFE SETS KITS OUTFITS .............................................................................................. 64,583 64,583
139 FAMILY OF BOATS AND MOTORS ................................................................................................... 5,289 5,289
COMBAT SERVICE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
140 HEATERS AND ECU’S ....................................................................................................................... 8,200 8,200
142 PERSONNEL RECOVERY SUPPORT SYSTEM (PRSS) .................................................................... 4,625 4,625
143 GROUND SOLDIER SYSTEM ............................................................................................................ 154,937 154,937
144 MOBILE SOLDIER POWER ............................................................................................................... 34,297 34,297
147 CARGO AERIAL DEL & PERSONNEL PARACHUTE SYSTEM ........................................................ 53,021 53,021
148 FAMILY OF ENGR COMBAT AND CONSTRUCTION SETS .............................................................. 23,324 23,324
149 ITEMS LESS THAN $5M (ENG SPT) ................................................................................................. 8,014 8,014
PETROLEUM EQUIPMENT
150 DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS, PETROLEUM & WATER ....................................................................... 78,448 78,448
MEDICAL EQUIPMENT
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00188 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6875
November 16, 2020
SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
151 COMBAT SUPPORT MEDICAL .......................................................................................................... 59,485 59,485
MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT
152 MOBILE MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT SYSTEMS ........................................................................... 40,337 40,337
153 ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M (MAINT EQ) ............................................................................................. 5,386 5,386
CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
154 GRADER, ROAD MTZD, HVY, 6X4 (CCE) .......................................................................................... 5,406 5,406
155 SCRAPERS, EARTHMOVING ............................................................................................................ 4,188 4,188
156 LOADERS ........................................................................................................................................... 4,521 4,521
157 HYDRAULIC EXCAVATOR ................................................................................................................ 5,186 5,186
158 TRACTOR, FULL TRACKED ............................................................................................................. 4,715 4,715
159 ALL TERRAIN CRANES .................................................................................................................... 70,560 70,560
162 CONST EQUIP ESP ............................................................................................................................ 8,925 8,925
RAIL FLOAT CONTAINERIZATION EQUIPMENT
164 ARMY WATERCRAFT ESP ............................................................................................................... 40,910 40,910
165 MANEUVER SUPPORT VESSEL (MSV) ........................................................................................... 76,576 76,576
166 ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M (FLOAT/RAIL) ......................................................................................... 1,844 1,844
GENERATORS
167 GENERATORS AND ASSOCIATED EQUIP ....................................................................................... 53,433 53,433
168 TACTICAL ELECTRIC POWER RECAPITALIZATION ..................................................................... 22,216 22,216
MATERIAL HANDLING EQUIPMENT
169 FAMILY OF FORKLIFTS .................................................................................................................. 16,145 16,145
TRAINING EQUIPMENT
170 COMBAT TRAINING CENTERS SUPPORT ....................................................................................... 90,580 90,580
171 TRAINING DEVICES, NONSYSTEM ................................................................................................. 161,814 161,814
172 SYNTHETIC TRAINING ENVIRONMENT (STE) ............................................................................... 13,063 13,063
175 GAMING TECHNOLOGY IN SUPPORT OF ARMY TRAINING .......................................................... 1,950 1,950
TEST MEASURE AND DIG EQUIPMENT (TMD)
176 CALIBRATION SETS EQUIPMENT ................................................................................................... 2,511 2,511
177 INTEGRATED FAMILY OF TEST EQUIPMENT (IFTE) ................................................................... 78,578 78,578
178 TEST EQUIPMENT MODERNIZATION (TEMOD) ............................................................................. 14,941 14,941
OTHER SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
180 RAPID EQUIPPING SOLDIER SUPPORT EQUIPMENT ................................................................... 8,629 8,629
181 PHYSICAL SECURITY SYSTEMS (OPA3) ......................................................................................... 75,499 87,499
AFRICOM UFR force protection upgrades ................................................................................... [12,000]
182 BASE LEVEL COMMON EQUIPMENT .............................................................................................. 27,444 27,444
183 MODIFICATION OF IN-SVC EQUIPMENT (OPA–3) ........................................................................... 32,485 48,385
Expeditionary Solid Waste Disposal System ............................................................................... [15,900]
187 SPECIAL EQUIPMENT FOR TEST AND EVALUATION ................................................................... 39,436 39,436
OPA2
189 INITIAL SPARES—C&E .................................................................................................................... 9,950 9,950
TOTAL OTHER PROCUREMENT, ARMY ............................................................................................ 8,625,206 8,685,239
AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, NAVY
COMBAT AIRCRAFT
1 F/A–18E/F (FIGHTER) HORNET ......................................................................................................... 1,761,146 1,761,146
3 JOINT STRIKE FIGHTER CV ............................................................................................................ 2,181,780 2,381,780
Additional aircraft ....................................................................................................................... [200,000]
4 JOINT STRIKE FIGHTER CV AP ...................................................................................................... 330,386 330,386
5 JSF STOVL ........................................................................................................................................ 1,109,393 1,234,893
Additional 2 F–35B aircraft .......................................................................................................... [125,500]
6 JSF STOVL AP .................................................................................................................................. 303,035 303,035
7 CH–53K (HEAVY LIFT) ...................................................................................................................... 813,324 793,324
Force Design 2030 realignment NRE excess .................................................................................. [–20,000]
8 CH–53K (HEAVY LIFT) AP ................................................................................................................. 201,188 191,188
Force Design 2030 realignment ..................................................................................................... [–10,000]
9 V–22 (MEDIUM LIFT) ......................................................................................................................... 934,793 934,793
10 V–22 (MEDIUM LIFT) AP ................................................................................................................... 39,547 39,547
11 H–1 UPGRADES (UH–1Y/AH–1Z) ........................................................................................................ 7,267 7,267
13 P–8A POSEIDON ................................................................................................................................. 80,134 80,134
15 E–2D ADV HAWKEYE ........................................................................................................................ 626,109 626,109
16 E–2D ADV HAWKEYE AP .................................................................................................................. 123,166 123,166
TRAINER AIRCRAFT
17 ADVANCED HELICOPTER TRAINING SYSTEM .............................................................................. 269,867 269,867
OTHER AIRCRAFT
18 KC–130J ............................................................................................................................................... 380,984 380,984
19 KC–130J AP ......................................................................................................................................... 67,022 67,022
21 MQ–4 TRITON ..................................................................................................................................... 150,570 100,570
Excess funding given procurement pause until FY23 ................................................................... [–50,000]
23 MQ–8 UAV .......................................................................................................................................... 40,375 40,375
24 STUASL0 UAV ................................................................................................................................... 30,930 30,930
26 VH–92A EXECUTIVE HELO ............................................................................................................... 610,231 610,231
MODIFICATION OF AIRCRAFT
28 F–18 A-D UNIQUE ............................................................................................................................... 208,261 208,261
29 F–18E/F AND EA–18G MODERNIZATION AND SUSTAINM ............................................................... 468,954 468,954
30 AEA SYSTEMS .................................................................................................................................. 21,061 21,061
31 AV–8 SERIES ..................................................................................................................................... 34,082 34,082
32 INFRARED SEARCH AND TRACK (IRST) ........................................................................................ 158,055 158,055
33 ADVERSARY ..................................................................................................................................... 42,946 42,946
34 F–18 SERIES ....................................................................................................................................... 379,351 379,351
35 H–53 SERIES ...................................................................................................................................... 74,771 74,771
36 MH–60 SERIES ................................................................................................................................... 131,584 131,584
37 H–1 SERIES ........................................................................................................................................ 185,140 185,140
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00189 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6876 November 16, 2020
SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
38 EP–3 SERIES ...................................................................................................................................... 26,602 26,602
40 E–2 SERIES ........................................................................................................................................ 175,540 175,540
41 TRAINER A/C SERIES ....................................................................................................................... 7,085 7,085
42 C–2A .................................................................................................................................................... 9,525 9,525
43 C–130 SERIES ..................................................................................................................................... 141,705 141,705
44 FEWSG ............................................................................................................................................... 684 684
45 CARGO/TRANSPORT A/C SERIES .................................................................................................... 8,911 8,911
46 E–6 SERIES ........................................................................................................................................ 197,206 197,206
47 EXECUTIVE HELICOPTERS SERIES ............................................................................................... 29,086 29,086
49 T–45 SERIES ....................................................................................................................................... 155,745 155,745
50 POWER PLANT CHANGES ................................................................................................................ 24,633 24,633
51 JPATS SERIES .................................................................................................................................. 22,682 22,682
52 AVIATION LIFE SUPPORT MODS .................................................................................................... 40,401 45,401
Aviation body armor vest ............................................................................................................. [5,000]
53 COMMON ECM EQUIPMENT ............................................................................................................. 138,480 138,480
54 COMMON AVIONICS CHANGES ........................................................................................................ 143,322 143,322
55 COMMON DEFENSIVE WEAPON SYSTEM ....................................................................................... 2,142 2,142
56 ID SYSTEMS ...................................................................................................................................... 35,999 35,999
57 P–8 SERIES ........................................................................................................................................ 180,530 180,530
58 MAGTF EW FOR AVIATION .............................................................................................................. 27,794 27,794
59 MQ–8 SERIES ..................................................................................................................................... 28,774 28,774
60 V–22 (TILT/ROTOR ACFT) OSPREY .................................................................................................. 334,405 334,405
61 NEXT GENERATION JAMMER (NGJ) ............................................................................................... 176,638 176,638
62 F–35 STOVL SERIES .......................................................................................................................... 153,588 153,588
63 F–35 CV SERIES ................................................................................................................................. 105,452 105,452
64 QRC .................................................................................................................................................... 126,618 126,618
65 MQ–4 SERIES ..................................................................................................................................... 12,998 12,998
66 RQ–21 SERIES .................................................................................................................................... 18,550 18,550
AIRCRAFT SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
70 SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS ......................................................................................................... 2,198,460 2,228,460
Additional F–35B/C spares ............................................................................................................ [30,000]
AIRCRAFT SUPPORT EQUIP & FACILITIES
71 COMMON GROUND EQUIPMENT ...................................................................................................... 543,559 543,559
72 AIRCRAFT INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES ............................................................................................. 75,685 75,685
73 WAR CONSUMABLES ........................................................................................................................ 40,633 40,633
74 OTHER PRODUCTION CHARGES ...................................................................................................... 21,194 21,194
75 SPECIAL SUPPORT EQUIPMENT .................................................................................................... 155,179 155,179
76 FIRST DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION ...................................................................................... 2,121 2,121
TOTAL AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, NAVY ....................................................................................... 17,127,378 17,407,878
WEAPONS PROCUREMENT, NAVY
MODIFICATION OF MISSILES
1 TRIDENT II MODS ............................................................................................................................. 1,173,837 1,173,837
SUPPORT EQUIPMENT & FACILITIES
2 MISSILE INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES ................................................................................................ 7,275 7,275
STRATEGIC MISSILES
3 TOMAHAWK ....................................................................................................................................... 277,694 303,694
Program increase for USMC Tomahawk ...................................................................................... [26,000]
TACTICAL MISSILES
4 AMRAAM ........................................................................................................................................... 326,952 326,952
5 SIDEWINDER ..................................................................................................................................... 126,485 126,485
7 STANDARD MISSILE ........................................................................................................................ 456,206 456,206
8 STANDARD MISSILE AP .................................................................................................................. 66,716 66,716
9 SMALL DIAMETER BOMB II ............................................................................................................ 78,867 78,867
10 RAM ................................................................................................................................................... 90,533 90,533
11 JOINT AIR GROUND MISSILE (JAGM) ............................................................................................ 49,386 49,386
14 AERIAL TARGETS ............................................................................................................................ 174,336 174,336
15 DRONES AND DECOYS ..................................................................................................................... 41,256 41,256
16 OTHER MISSILE SUPPORT .............................................................................................................. 3,501 3,501
17 LRASM ............................................................................................................................................... 168,845 203,845
Additional Navy LRASM missiles ................................................................................................ [35,000]
18 LCS OTH MISSILE ............................................................................................................................. 32,910 32,910
MODIFICATION OF MISSILES
19 TOMAHAWK MODS ........................................................................................................................... 164,915 164,915
20 ESSM .................................................................................................................................................. 215,375 215,375
22 HARM MODS ...................................................................................................................................... 147,572 147,572
23 STANDARD MISSILES MODS ........................................................................................................... 83,654 83,654
SUPPORT EQUIPMENT & FACILITIES
24 WEAPONS INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES .............................................................................................. 1,996 1,996
25 FLEET SATELLITE COMM FOLLOW-ON ......................................................................................... 53,401 53,401
ORDNANCE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
27 ORDNANCE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT ................................................................................................ 215,659 215,659
TORPEDOES AND RELATED EQUIP
28 SSTD .................................................................................................................................................. 5,811 3,611
Insufficient justification for ADC non-recurring costs ................................................................ [–2,200]
29 MK–48 TORPEDO ................................................................................................................................ 284,901 284,901
30 ASW TARGETS .................................................................................................................................. 13,833 13,833
MOD OF TORPEDOES AND RELATED EQUIP
31 MK–54 TORPEDO MODS .................................................................................................................... 110,286 100,286
Mk 54 Mod 0 production delays .................................................................................................... [–10,000]
32 MK–48 TORPEDO ADCAP MODS ....................................................................................................... 57,214 57,214
33 MARITIME MINES ............................................................................................................................ 5,832 5,832
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00190 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6877
November 16, 2020
SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
34 TORPEDO SUPPORT EQUIPMENT ................................................................................................... 97,581 97,581
35 ASW RANGE SUPPORT ..................................................................................................................... 4,159 4,159
DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION
36 FIRST DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION ...................................................................................... 4,106 4,106
GUNS AND GUN MOUNTS
37 SMALL ARMS AND WEAPONS ......................................................................................................... 16,030 16,030
MODIFICATION OF GUNS AND GUN MOUNTS
38 CIWS MODS ....................................................................................................................................... 37,147 37,147
39 COAST GUARD WEAPONS ................................................................................................................ 45,804 45,804
40 GUN MOUNT MODS ........................................................................................................................... 74,427 74,427
41 LCS MODULE WEAPONS .................................................................................................................. 4,253 4,253
42 AIRBORNE MINE NEUTRALIZATION SYSTEMS ............................................................................ 6,662 6,662
SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
45 SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS ......................................................................................................... 159,578 159,578
TOTAL WEAPONS PROCUREMENT, NAVY ....................................................................................... 4,884,995 4,933,795
PROCUREMENT OF AMMO, NAVY & MC
NAVY AMMUNITION
1 GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS ........................................................................................................... 41,496 41,496
2 JDAM ................................................................................................................................................. 64,631 64,631
3 AIRBORNE ROCKETS, ALL TYPES .................................................................................................. 60,719 60,719
4 MACHINE GUN AMMUNITION .......................................................................................................... 11,158 11,158
5 PRACTICE BOMBS ............................................................................................................................ 51,409 51,409
6 CARTRIDGES & CART ACTUATED DEVICES .................................................................................. 64,694 64,694
7 AIR EXPENDABLE COUNTERMEASURES ....................................................................................... 51,523 51,523
8 JATOS ................................................................................................................................................ 6,761 6,761
9 5 INCH/54 GUN AMMUNITION ........................................................................................................... 31,517 31,517
10 INTERMEDIATE CALIBER GUN AMMUNITION .............................................................................. 38,005 38,005
11 OTHER SHIP GUN AMMUNITION ..................................................................................................... 40,626 40,626
12 SMALL ARMS & LANDING PARTY AMMO ...................................................................................... 48,202 48,202
13 PYROTECHNIC AND DEMOLITION .................................................................................................. 9,766 9,766
15 AMMUNITION LESS THAN $5 MILLION ........................................................................................... 2,115 2,115
MARINE CORPS AMMUNITION
16 MORTARS .......................................................................................................................................... 46,781 46,781
17 DIRECT SUPPORT MUNITIONS ....................................................................................................... 119,504 119,504
18 INFANTRY WEAPONS AMMUNITION .............................................................................................. 83,220 83,220
19 COMBAT SUPPORT MUNITIONS ...................................................................................................... 32,650 32,650
20 AMMO MODERNIZATION .................................................................................................................. 15,144 15,144
21 ARTILLERY MUNITIONS ................................................................................................................. 59,539 59,539
22 ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION ....................................................................................................... 4,142 4,142
TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF AMMO, NAVY & MC .............................................................................. 883,602 883,602
SHIPBUILDING AND CONVERSION, NAVY
FLEET BALLISTIC MISSILE SHIPS
1 OHIO REPLACEMENT SUBMARINE ................................................................................................. 2,891,475 2,891,475
2 OHIO REPLACEMENT SUBMARINE AP ........................................................................................... 1,123,175 1,298,175
Submarine supplier stability ....................................................................................................... [175,000]
OTHER WARSHIPS
3 CARRIER REPLACEMENT PROGRAM ............................................................................................. 997,544 997,544
4 CVN–81 ................................................................................................................................................ 1,645,606 1,645,606
5 VIRGINIA CLASS SUBMARINE ........................................................................................................ 2,334,693 2,260,293
Unjustified cost growth ................................................................................................................ [–74,400]
6 VIRGINIA CLASS SUBMARINE AP .................................................................................................. 1,901,187 2,373,187
Long lead material for option ship ............................................................................................... [472,000]
7 CVN REFUELING OVERHAULS ........................................................................................................ 1,878,453 1,878,453
8 CVN REFUELING OVERHAULS AP .................................................................................................. 17,384 17,384
9 DDG 1000 ............................................................................................................................................. 78,205 78,205
10 DDG–51 ............................................................................................................................................... 3,040,270 3,010,270
Available prior-year funds ........................................................................................................... [–30,000]
11 DDG–51 AP ......................................................................................................................................... 29,297 464,297
LLTM for FY22 DDG–51s .............................................................................................................. [260,000]
Surface ship supplier stability ..................................................................................................... [175,000]
13 FFG-FRIGATE ................................................................................................................................... 1,053,123 1,053,123
AMPHIBIOUS SHIPS
14 LPD FLIGHT II .................................................................................................................................. 1,155,801 905,801
Transfer to Line 15 ....................................................................................................................... [–250,000]
15 LPD FLIGHT II AP ............................................................................................................................ 0 500,000
LPD–32 and LPD–33 program increase .......................................................................................... [250,000]
Transfer from Line 14 for LPD–32 and LPD–33 ............................................................................. [250,000]
17 LHA REPLACEMENT ........................................................................................................................ 0 250,000
LHA–9 program increase .............................................................................................................. [250,000]
AUXILIARIES, CRAFT AND PRIOR YR PROGRAM COST
22 TOWING, SALVAGE, AND RESCUE SHIP (ATS) .............................................................................. 168,209 168,209
23 LCU 1700 ............................................................................................................................................. 87,395 70,395
Insufficient justification .............................................................................................................. [–17,000]
24 OUTFITTING ..................................................................................................................................... 825,586 747,286
Unjustified cost growth ................................................................................................................ [–78,300]
26 SERVICE CRAFT ............................................................................................................................... 249,781 275,281
Accelerate YP–703 Flight II .......................................................................................................... [25,500]
27 LCAC SLEP ........................................................................................................................................ 56,461 0
Insufficient justification .............................................................................................................. [–56,461]
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00191 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6878 November 16, 2020
SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
28 COMPLETION OF PY SHIPBUILDING PROGRAMS ......................................................................... 369,112 369,112
TOTAL SHIPBUILDING AND CONVERSION, NAVY ........................................................................... 19,902,757 21,254,096
OTHER PROCUREMENT, NAVY
SHIP PROPULSION EQUIPMENT
1 SURFACE POWER EQUIPMENT ....................................................................................................... 11,738 11,738
GENERATORS
2 SURFACE COMBATANT HM&E ........................................................................................................ 58,497 38,497
Hardware and software upgrades for 5 previously procured HED ship sets .................................. [15,000]
HED installation early to need .................................................................................................... [–35,000]
NAVIGATION EQUIPMENT
3 OTHER NAVIGATION EQUIPMENT .................................................................................................. 74,084 74,084
OTHER SHIPBOARD EQUIPMENT
4 SUB PERISCOPE, IMAGING AND SUPT EQUIP PROG .................................................................... 204,806 204,806
5 DDG MOD ........................................................................................................................................... 547,569 497,569
Installation excess unit cost growth ............................................................................................ [–50,000]
6 FIREFIGHTING EQUIPMENT ........................................................................................................... 18,394 18,394
7 COMMAND AND CONTROL SWITCHBOARD .................................................................................... 2,374 2,374
8 LHA/LHD MIDLIFE ............................................................................................................................ 78,265 78,265
9 POLLUTION CONTROL EQUIPMENT ............................................................................................... 23,035 23,035
10 SUBMARINE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT .............................................................................................. 64,632 64,632
11 VIRGINIA CLASS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT ....................................................................................... 22,868 22,868
12 LCS CLASS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT ................................................................................................ 3,976 3,976
13 SUBMARINE BATTERIES ................................................................................................................. 31,322 31,322
14 LPD CLASS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT ................................................................................................ 50,475 50,475
15 DDG 1000 CLASS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT ......................................................................................... 42,279 42,279
16 STRATEGIC PLATFORM SUPPORT EQUIP ..................................................................................... 15,429 15,429
17 DSSP EQUIPMENT ............................................................................................................................ 2,918 2,918
18 CG MODERNIZATION ........................................................................................................................ 87,978 87,978
19 LCAC .................................................................................................................................................. 9,366 9,366
20 UNDERWATER EOD EQUIPMENT .................................................................................................... 16,842 16,842
21 ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION ....................................................................................................... 105,715 105,715
22 CHEMICAL WARFARE DETECTORS ................................................................................................ 3,044 3,044
23 SUBMARINE LIFE SUPPORT SYSTEM ........................................................................................... 5,885 5,885
REACTOR PLANT EQUIPMENT
24 SHIP MAINTENANCE, REPAIR AND MODERNIZATION ................................................................. 1,260,721 1,260,721
25 REACTOR POWER UNITS ................................................................................................................. 5,305 5,305
26 REACTOR COMPONENTS ................................................................................................................. 415,404 415,404
OCEAN ENGINEERING
27 DIVING AND SALVAGE EQUIPMENT .............................................................................................. 11,143 11,143
SMALL BOATS
28 STANDARD BOATS ........................................................................................................................... 52,371 52,371
PRODUCTION FACILITIES EQUIPMENT
29 OPERATING FORCES IPE ................................................................................................................. 233,667 233,667
OTHER SHIP SUPPORT
30 LCS COMMON MISSION MODULES EQUIPMENT ............................................................................ 39,714 17,414
MCM containers and MPCE sonar processing insufficient justification ...................................... [–22,300]
31 LCS MCM MISSION MODULES ......................................................................................................... 218,822 95,322
Excess procurement ahead of satisfactory testing ....................................................................... [–123,500]
32 LCS ASW MISSION MODULES .......................................................................................................... 61,759 4,759
Excess procurement ahead of satisfactory testing ....................................................................... [–57,000]
33 LCS SUW MISSION MODULES .......................................................................................................... 24,412 24,412
34 LCS IN-SERVICE MODERNIZATION ................................................................................................ 121,848 121,848
35 SMALL & MEDIUM UUV ................................................................................................................... 67,709 37,609
SMCM UUV excess procurement ahead of satisfactory testing ................................................... [–30,100]
SHIP SONARS
37 SPQ–9B RADAR .................................................................................................................................. 27,517 27,517
38 AN/SQQ–89 SURF ASW COMBAT SYSTEM ....................................................................................... 128,664 128,664
39 SSN ACOUSTIC EQUIPMENT ............................................................................................................ 374,737 374,737
40 UNDERSEA WARFARE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT .............................................................................. 9,286 9,286
ASW ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
41 SUBMARINE ACOUSTIC WARFARE SYSTEM ................................................................................. 26,066 26,066
42 SSTD .................................................................................................................................................. 13,241 13,241
43 FIXED SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM .................................................................................................... 193,446 193,446
44 SURTASS ........................................................................................................................................... 63,838 63,838
ELECTRONIC WARFARE EQUIPMENT
45 AN/SLQ–32 .......................................................................................................................................... 387,195 330,795
Early to need ................................................................................................................................ [–56,400]
RECONNAISSANCE EQUIPMENT
46 SHIPBOARD IW EXPLOIT ................................................................................................................. 235,744 235,744
47 AUTOMATED IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM (AIS) .............................................................................. 3,862 3,862
OTHER SHIP ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
48 COOPERATIVE ENGAGEMENT CAPABILITY .................................................................................. 26,006 18,706
Common Array Block antenna program delays ........................................................................... [–7,300]
49 NAVAL TACTICAL COMMAND SUPPORT SYSTEM (NTCSS) ......................................................... 15,385 15,385
50 ATDLS ............................................................................................................................................... 103,835 103,835
51 NAVY COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEM (NCCS) ........................................................................ 3,594 3,594
52 MINESWEEPING SYSTEM REPLACEMENT .................................................................................... 15,744 15,744
53 SHALLOW WATER MCM ................................................................................................................... 5,493 5,493
54 NAVSTAR GPS RECEIVERS (SPACE) .............................................................................................. 38,043 38,043
55 AMERICAN FORCES RADIO AND TV SERVICE ............................................................................... 2,592 2,592
56 STRATEGIC PLATFORM SUPPORT EQUIP ..................................................................................... 7,985 7,985
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00192 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6879
November 16, 2020
SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
AVIATION ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
57 ASHORE ATC EQUIPMENT ............................................................................................................... 83,475 83,475
58 AFLOAT ATC EQUIPMENT ............................................................................................................... 65,113 65,113
59 ID SYSTEMS ...................................................................................................................................... 23,815 23,815
60 JOINT PRECISION APPROACH AND LANDING SYSTEM ( ............................................................. 100,751 100,751
61 NAVAL MISSION PLANNING SYSTEMS .......................................................................................... 13,947 13,947
OTHER SHORE ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
62 MARITIME INTEGRATED BROADCAST SYSTEM ........................................................................... 1,375 1,375
63 TACTICAL/MOBILE C4I SYSTEMS ................................................................................................... 22,771 22,771
64 DCGS-N .............................................................................................................................................. 18,872 18,872
65 CANES ................................................................................................................................................ 389,585 389,585
66 RADIAC .............................................................................................................................................. 10,335 10,335
67 CANES-INTELL ................................................................................................................................. 48,654 48,654
68 GPETE ............................................................................................................................................... 8,133 8,133
69 MASF ................................................................................................................................................. 4,150 4,150
70 INTEG COMBAT SYSTEM TEST FACILITY ..................................................................................... 5,934 5,934
71 EMI CONTROL INSTRUMENTATION ............................................................................................... 4,334 4,334
72 ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION ....................................................................................................... 159,815 105,015
NGSSR available prior year funds ............................................................................................... [–54,800]
SHIPBOARD COMMUNICATIONS
73 SHIPBOARD TACTICAL COMMUNICATIONS ................................................................................... 56,106 56,106
74 SHIP COMMUNICATIONS AUTOMATION ......................................................................................... 124,288 124,288
75 COMMUNICATIONS ITEMS UNDER $5M .......................................................................................... 45,120 45,120
SUBMARINE COMMUNICATIONS
76 SUBMARINE BROADCAST SUPPORT .............................................................................................. 31,133 31,133
77 SUBMARINE COMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT ................................................................................. 62,214 62,214
SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
78 SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS .................................................................................... 47,421 47,421
79 NAVY MULTIBAND TERMINAL (NMT) ............................................................................................ 64,552 64,552
SHORE COMMUNICATIONS
80 JOINT COMMUNICATIONS SUPPORT ELEMENT (JCSE) ............................................................... 4,398 4,398
CRYPTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT
81 INFO SYSTEMS SECURITY PROGRAM (ISSP) ................................................................................ 157,551 157,551
82 MIO INTEL EXPLOITATION TEAM .................................................................................................. 985 985
CRYPTOLOGIC EQUIPMENT
83 CRYPTOLOGIC COMMUNICATIONS EQUIP ..................................................................................... 15,906 15,906
OTHER ELECTRONIC SUPPORT
90 COAST GUARD EQUIPMENT ............................................................................................................ 70,689 70,689
SONOBUOYS
92 SONOBUOYS—ALL TYPES ............................................................................................................... 237,639 286,739
Program increase for sonobuoys .................................................................................................. [49,100]
AIRCRAFT SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
93 MINOTAUR ........................................................................................................................................ 5,077 5,077
94 WEAPONS RANGE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT ..................................................................................... 83,969 83,969
95 AIRCRAFT SUPPORT EQUIPMENT ................................................................................................. 187,758 187,758
96 ADVANCED ARRESTING GEAR (AAG) ............................................................................................ 16,059 16,059
97 METEOROLOGICAL EQUIPMENT .................................................................................................... 15,192 15,192
99 LEGACY AIRBORNE MCM ................................................................................................................ 6,674 6,674
100 LAMPS EQUIPMENT ......................................................................................................................... 1,189 1,189
101 AVIATION SUPPORT EQUIPMENT .................................................................................................. 58,873 58,873
102 UMCS-UNMAN CARRIER AVIATION(UCA)MISSION CNTRL .......................................................... 60,937 60,937
SHIP GUN SYSTEM EQUIPMENT
103 SHIP GUN SYSTEMS EQUIPMENT ................................................................................................... 5,540 5,540
SHIP MISSILE SYSTEMS EQUIPMENT
104 HARPOON SUPPORT EQUIPMENT ................................................................................................... 208 208
105 SHIP MISSILE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT ........................................................................................... 262,077 262,077
106 TOMAHAWK SUPPORT EQUIPMENT ............................................................................................... 84,087 84,087
FBM SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
107 STRATEGIC MISSILE SYSTEMS EQUIP .......................................................................................... 258,910 258,910
ASW SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
108 SSN COMBAT CONTROL SYSTEMS ................................................................................................. 173,770 173,770
109 ASW SUPPORT EQUIPMENT ............................................................................................................ 26,584 26,584
OTHER ORDNANCE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
110 EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL EQUIP .................................................................................... 7,470 7,470
111 ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION ....................................................................................................... 6,356 6,356
OTHER EXPENDABLE ORDNANCE
112 ANTI-SHIP MISSILE DECOY SYSTEM ............................................................................................. 86,356 86,356
113 SUBMARINE TRAINING DEVICE MODS .......................................................................................... 69,240 69,240
114 SURFACE TRAINING EQUIPMENT .................................................................................................. 192,245 192,245
CIVIL ENGINEERING SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
115 PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES ................................................................................................ 6,123 6,123
116 GENERAL PURPOSE TRUCKS ......................................................................................................... 2,693 2,693
117 CONSTRUCTION & MAINTENANCE EQUIP ...................................................................................... 47,301 47,301
118 FIRE FIGHTING EQUIPMENT .......................................................................................................... 10,352 10,352
119 TACTICAL VEHICLES ....................................................................................................................... 31,475 31,475
121 POLLUTION CONTROL EQUIPMENT ............................................................................................... 2,630 2,630
122 ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION ....................................................................................................... 47,972 47,972
123 PHYSICAL SECURITY VEHICLES .................................................................................................... 1,171 1,171
SUPPLY SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
124 SUPPLY EQUIPMENT ....................................................................................................................... 19,693 19,693
125 FIRST DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION ...................................................................................... 4,956 4,956
126 SPECIAL PURPOSE SUPPLY SYSTEMS ......................................................................................... 668,639 668,639
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00193 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6880 November 16, 2020
SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
TRAINING DEVICES
127 TRAINING SUPPORT EQUIPMENT .................................................................................................. 4,026 4,026
128 TRAINING AND EDUCATION EQUIPMENT ...................................................................................... 73,454 73,454
COMMAND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
129 COMMAND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT .................................................................................................. 32,390 32,390
130 MEDICAL SUPPORT EQUIPMENT ................................................................................................... 974 974
132 NAVAL MIP SUPPORT EQUIPMENT ................................................................................................ 5,606 5,606
133 OPERATING FORCES SUPPORT EQUIPMENT ................................................................................ 16,024 16,024
134 C4ISR EQUIPMENT ........................................................................................................................... 6,697 6,697
135 ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT EQUIPMENT ..................................................................................... 27,503 27,503
136 PHYSICAL SECURITY EQUIPMENT ................................................................................................ 138,281 138,281
137 ENTERPRISE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY .................................................................................. 42,680 42,680
OTHER
140 NEXT GENERATION ENTERPRISE SERVICE ................................................................................. 184,443 184,443
141 CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES .............................................................................................................. 16,523 16,523
CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
9999 CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS ................................................................................................................. 18,446 18,446
SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
142 SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS ......................................................................................................... 374,195 374,195
TOTAL OTHER PROCUREMENT, NAVY ............................................................................................ 10,948,518 10,576,218
PROCUREMENT, MARINE CORPS
TRACKED COMBAT VEHICLES
1 AAV7A1 PIP ....................................................................................................................................... 87,476 87,476
2 AMPHIBIOUS COMBAT VEHICLE FAMILY OF VEHICLES ............................................................. 478,874 478,874
3 LAV PIP ............................................................................................................................................. 41,988 41,988
ARTILLERY AND OTHER WEAPONS
4 155MM LIGHTWEIGHT TOWED HOWITZER ..................................................................................... 59 59
5 ARTILLERY WEAPONS SYSTEM ..................................................................................................... 174,687 234,287
Ground-Based Anti-Ship Missile NSM .......................................................................................... [59,600]
6 WEAPONS AND COMBAT VEHICLES UNDER $5 MILLION ............................................................. 24,867 24,867
OTHER SUPPORT
7 MODIFICATION KITS ........................................................................................................................ 3,067 3,067
GUIDED MISSILES
8 GROUND BASED AIR DEFENSE ....................................................................................................... 18,920 18,920
9 ANTI-ARMOR MISSILE-JAVELIN .................................................................................................... 19,888 19,888
10 FAMILY ANTI-ARMOR WEAPON SYSTEMS (FOAAWS) ................................................................. 21,891 21,891
11 ANTI-ARMOR MISSILE-TOW ............................................................................................................ 34,985 34,985
12 GUIDED MLRS ROCKET (GMLRS) ................................................................................................... 133,689 133,689
COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEMS
13 COMMON AVIATION COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEM (C ........................................................ 35,057 35,057
REPAIR AND TEST EQUIPMENT
14 REPAIR AND TEST EQUIPMENT ..................................................................................................... 24,405 24,405
OTHER SUPPORT (TEL)
15 MODIFICATION KITS ........................................................................................................................ 1,006 1,006
COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEM (NON-TEL)
16 ITEMS UNDER $5 MILLION (COMM & ELEC) ................................................................................... 69,725 69,725
17 AIR OPERATIONS C2 SYSTEMS ....................................................................................................... 15,611 15,611
RADAR + EQUIPMENT (NON-TEL)
19 GROUND/AIR TASK ORIENTED RADAR (G/ATOR) .......................................................................... 284,283 284,283
INTELL/COMM EQUIPMENT (NON-TEL)
20 GCSS-MC ............................................................................................................................................ 1,587 1,587
21 FIRE SUPPORT SYSTEM .................................................................................................................. 24,934 24,934
22 INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT ......................................................................................... 50,728 50,728
24 UNMANNED AIR SYSTEMS (INTEL) ................................................................................................ 24,853 24,853
25 DCGS-MC ............................................................................................................................................ 38,260 38,260
26 UAS PAYLOADS ................................................................................................................................ 5,489 5,489
OTHER SUPPORT (NON-TEL)
29 NEXT GENERATION ENTERPRISE NETWORK (NGEN) .................................................................. 78,922 78,922
30 COMMON COMPUTER RESOURCES ................................................................................................. 35,349 35,349
31 COMMAND POST SYSTEMS ............................................................................................................. 33,713 33,713
32 RADIO SYSTEMS .............................................................................................................................. 343,250 343,250
33 COMM SWITCHING & CONTROL SYSTEMS ..................................................................................... 40,627 40,627
34 COMM & ELEC INFRASTRUCTURE SUPPORT ................................................................................ 43,782 43,782
35 CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES .............................................................................................................. 53,896 53,896
CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
9999 CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS ................................................................................................................. 3,797 3,797
ADMINISTRATIVE VEHICLES
37 COMMERCIAL CARGO VEHICLES .................................................................................................... 22,460 22,460
TACTICAL VEHICLES
38 MOTOR TRANSPORT MODIFICATIONS ........................................................................................... 10,739 10,739
39 JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE ................................................................................................. 381,675 381,675
40 FAMILY OF TACTICAL TRAILERS .................................................................................................. 2,963 2,963
ENGINEER AND OTHER EQUIPMENT
42 ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL EQUIP ASSORT ................................................................................ 385 385
43 TACTICAL FUEL SYSTEMS ............................................................................................................. 501 501
44 POWER EQUIPMENT ASSORTED ..................................................................................................... 23,430 23,430
45 AMPHIBIOUS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT ............................................................................................. 5,752 5,752
46 EOD SYSTEMS .................................................................................................................................. 20,939 20,939
MATERIALS HANDLING EQUIPMENT
47 PHYSICAL SECURITY EQUIPMENT ................................................................................................ 23,063 23,063
GENERAL PROPERTY
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00194 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6881
November 16, 2020
SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
48 FIELD MEDICAL EQUIPMENT ......................................................................................................... 4,187 4,187
49 TRAINING DEVICES ......................................................................................................................... 101,765 101,765
50 FAMILY OF CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT ..................................................................................... 19,305 19,305
51 ULTRA-LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE (ULTV) .................................................................................. 678 678
OTHER SUPPORT
52 ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION ....................................................................................................... 9,174 9,174
SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
53 SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS ......................................................................................................... 27,295 27,295
TOTAL PROCUREMENT, MARINE CORPS ........................................................................................ 2,903,976 2,963,576
AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
TACTICAL FORCES
1 F–35 .................................................................................................................................................... 4,567,018 5,543,685
Additional 12 F–35As .................................................................................................................... [976,667]
2 F–35 .................................................................................................................................................... 610,800 610,800
4 F–15EX ................................................................................................................................................ 1,269,847 1,269,847
5 F–15EX ................................................................................................................................................ 133,500 133,500
TACTICAL AIRLIFT
7 KC–46A MDAP .................................................................................................................................... 2,850,151 2,850,151
OTHER AIRLIFT
8 C–130J ................................................................................................................................................. 37,131 37,131
10 MC–130J .............................................................................................................................................. 362,807 362,807
11 MC–130J .............................................................................................................................................. 39,987 39,987
HELICOPTERS
12 UH–1N REPLACEMENT ..................................................................................................................... 194,016 194,016
13 COMBAT RESCUE HELICOPTER ...................................................................................................... 973,473 973,473
MISSION SUPPORT AIRCRAFT
15 CIVIL AIR PATROL A/C .................................................................................................................... 2,811 2,811
OTHER AIRCRAFT
16 TARGET DRONES ............................................................................................................................. 133,273 133,273
18 COMPASS CALL ................................................................................................................................ 161,117 161,117
20 MQ–9 ................................................................................................................................................... 29,409 79,409
Program increase ......................................................................................................................... [50,000]
STRATEGIC AIRCRAFT
22 B–1 ...................................................................................................................................................... 3,853 0
USAF-requested transfer to RDAF Line 174 ................................................................................. [–3,853]
23 B–2A ................................................................................................................................................... 31,476 31,476
24 B–1B .................................................................................................................................................... 21,808 21,315
USAF-requested transfer to RDAF Line 174 ................................................................................. [–493]
25 B–52 .................................................................................................................................................... 53,949 53,949
26 LARGE AIRCRAFT INFRARED COUNTERMEASURES ................................................................... 9,999 9,999
TACTICAL AIRCRAFT
27 A–10 .................................................................................................................................................... 135,793 135,793
28 E–11 BACN/HAG .................................................................................................................................. 33,645 33,645
29 F–15 .................................................................................................................................................... 349,304 349,304
30 F–16 .................................................................................................................................................... 615,760 640,760
Additional radars ......................................................................................................................... [25,000]
32 F–22A .................................................................................................................................................. 387,905 387,905
33 F–35 MODIFICATIONS ....................................................................................................................... 322,185 322,185
34 F–15 EPAW ......................................................................................................................................... 31,995 31,995
35 INCREMENT 3.2B ............................................................................................................................... 5,889 5,889
36 KC–46A MDAP .................................................................................................................................... 24,085 24,085
AIRLIFT AIRCRAFT
37 C–5 ...................................................................................................................................................... 62,108 62,108
38 C–17A .................................................................................................................................................. 66,798 66,798
40 C–32A .................................................................................................................................................. 2,947 2,947
41 C–37A .................................................................................................................................................. 12,985 12,985
TRAINER AIRCRAFT
42 GLIDER MODS ................................................................................................................................... 977 977
43 T–6 ...................................................................................................................................................... 26,829 26,829
44 T–1 ...................................................................................................................................................... 4,465 4,465
45 T–38 .................................................................................................................................................... 36,806 44,506
T–38 ejection seats ........................................................................................................................ [7,700]
OTHER AIRCRAFT
46 U–2 MODS ........................................................................................................................................... 110,618 110,618
47 KC–10A (ATCA) ................................................................................................................................... 117 117
49 VC–25A MOD ....................................................................................................................................... 1,983 1,983
50 C–40 ..................................................................................................................................................... 9,252 9,252
51 C–130 ................................................................................................................................................... 5,871 5,871
52 C–130J MODS ...................................................................................................................................... 140,032 140,032
53 C–135 ................................................................................................................................................... 88,250 88,250
55 COMPASS CALL ................................................................................................................................ 193,389 193,389
57 RC–135 ................................................................................................................................................. 191,332 191,332
58 E–3 ...................................................................................................................................................... 172,141 172,141
59 E–4 ...................................................................................................................................................... 58,803 44,103
Funds rephased to future fiscal years .......................................................................................... [–14,700]
60 E–8 ...................................................................................................................................................... 11,037 21,037
Secure information transmission capability ................................................................................ [10,000]
61 AIRBORNE WARNING AND CNTRL SYS (AWACS) 40/45 .................................................................. 53,343 53,343
62 FAMILY OF BEYOND LINE-OF-SIGHT TERMINALS ...................................................................... 1,573 1,573
63 H–1 ...................................................................................................................................................... 4,410 4,410
64 H–60 .................................................................................................................................................... 44,538 44,538
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00195 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6882 November 16, 2020
SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
65 RQ–4 MODS ........................................................................................................................................ 40,468 40,468
66 HC/MC–130 MODIFICATIONS ............................................................................................................. 20,780 20,780
67 OTHER AIRCRAFT ............................................................................................................................ 100,774 100,774
68 MQ–9 MODS ........................................................................................................................................ 188,387 188,387
70 CV–22 MODS ....................................................................................................................................... 122,306 127,306
CV–22 ABSS .................................................................................................................................. [5,000]
AIRCRAFT SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
71 INITIAL SPARES/REPAIR PARTS ................................................................................................... 926,683 956,683
F–35A initial spares increase ........................................................................................................ [30,000]
COMMON SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
73 AIRCRAFT REPLACEMENT SUPPORT EQUIP ................................................................................ 132,719 132,719
POST PRODUCTION SUPPORT
74 B–2A ................................................................................................................................................... 1,683 1,683
75 B–2B .................................................................................................................................................... 46,734 46,734
76 B–52 .................................................................................................................................................... 1,034 1,034
79 E–11 BACN/HAG .................................................................................................................................. 63,419 63,419
80 F–15 .................................................................................................................................................... 2,632 2,632
81 F–16 .................................................................................................................................................... 14,163 14,163
83 OTHER AIRCRAFT ............................................................................................................................ 4,595 4,595
84 RQ–4 POST PRODUCTION CHARGES ................................................................................................ 32,585 32,585
INDUSTRIAL PREPAREDNESS
85 INDUSTRIAL RESPONSIVENESS .................................................................................................... 18,215 18,215
WAR CONSUMABLES
86 WAR CONSUMABLES ........................................................................................................................ 36,046 36,046
OTHER PRODUCTION CHARGES
87 OTHER PRODUCTION CHARGES ...................................................................................................... 1,439,640 1,514,640
Classified increase ........................................................................................................................ [75,000]
CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
9999 CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS ................................................................................................................. 21,692 21,692
TOTAL AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE ............................................................................. 17,908,145 19,068,466
MISSILE PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
MISSILE REPLACEMENT EQUIPMENT—BALLISTIC
1 MISSILE REPLACEMENT EQ-BALLISTIC ....................................................................................... 75,012 75,012
TACTICAL
2 REPLAC EQUIP & WAR CONSUMABLES ......................................................................................... 4,495 4,495
4 JOINT AIR-SURFACE STANDOFF MISSILE .................................................................................... 475,949 400,949
Realignment to support NDS requirements in Pacific ................................................................. [–75,000]
5 LRASM0 ............................................................................................................................................. 19,800 94,800
Additional Air Force LRASM missiles ......................................................................................... [75,000]
6 SIDEWINDER (AIM–9X) ..................................................................................................................... 164,769 164,769
7 AMRAAM ........................................................................................................................................... 453,223 453,223
8 PREDATOR HELLFIRE MISSILE ..................................................................................................... 40,129 40,129
9 SMALL DIAMETER BOMB ................................................................................................................ 45,475 45,475
10 SMALL DIAMETER BOMB II ............................................................................................................ 273,272 273,272
INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES
11 INDUSTR’L PREPAREDNS/POL PREVENTION ............................................................................... 814 814
CLASS IV
13 ICBM FUZE MOD ............................................................................................................................... 3,458 3,458
14 ICBM FUZE MOD AP ......................................................................................................................... 43,450 43,450
15 MM III MODIFICATIONS ................................................................................................................... 85,310 85,310
16 AGM–65D MAVERICK ........................................................................................................................ 298 298
17 AIR LAUNCH CRUISE MISSILE (ALCM) .......................................................................................... 52,924 52,924
MISSILE SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
18 MSL SPRS/REPAIR PARTS (INITIAL) ............................................................................................. 9,402 9,402
19 MSL SPRS/REPAIR PARTS (REPLEN) ............................................................................................ 84,671 84,671
SPECIAL PROGRAMS
25 SPECIAL UPDATE PROGRAMS ........................................................................................................ 23,501 23,501
CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
9999 CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS ................................................................................................................. 540,465 540,465
TOTAL MISSILE PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE ................................................................................. 2,396,417 2,396,417
PROCUREMENT, SPACE FORCE
SPACE PROCUREMENT, SF
1 ADVANCED EHF ................................................................................................................................ 14,823 14,823
2 AF SATELLITE COMM SYSTEM ...................................................................................................... 48,326 48,326
3 COUNTERSPACE SYSTEMS ............................................................................................................. 65,540 65,540
4 FAMILY OF BEYOND LINE-OF-SIGHT TERMINALS ...................................................................... 66,190 66,190
5 GENERAL INFORMATION TECH—SPACE ....................................................................................... 3,299 3,299
6 GPSIII FOLLOW ON ........................................................................................................................... 627,796 627,796
7 GPS III SPACE SEGMENT ................................................................................................................ 20,122 20,122
8 GLOBAL POSTIONING (SPACE) ....................................................................................................... 2,256 2,256
9 SPACEBORNE EQUIP (COMSEC) ...................................................................................................... 35,495 35,495
10 MILSATCOM ...................................................................................................................................... 15,795 15,795
11 SBIR HIGH (SPACE) .......................................................................................................................... 160,891 160,891
12 SPECIAL SPACE ACTIVITIES .......................................................................................................... 78,387 78,387
13 NATIONAL SECURITY SPACE LAUNCH .......................................................................................... 1,043,171 1,043,171
14 NUDET DETECTION SYSTEM .......................................................................................................... 6,638 6,638
15 ROCKET SYSTEMS LAUNCH PROGRAM ......................................................................................... 47,741 47,741
16 SPACE FENCE ................................................................................................................................... 11,279 11,279
17 SPACE MODS ..................................................................................................................................... 96,551 109,051
Cobra Dane service life extension ................................................................................................ [12,500]
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00196 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6883
November 16, 2020
SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
18 SPACELIFT RANGE SYSTEM SPACE .............................................................................................. 100,492 100,492
SPARES
19 SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS ......................................................................................................... 1,272 1,272
TOTAL PROCUREMENT, SPACE FORCE ........................................................................................... 2,446,064 2,458,564
PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, AIR FORCE
ROCKETS
1 ROCKETS ........................................................................................................................................... 14,962 14,962
CARTRIDGES
2 CARTRIDGES .................................................................................................................................... 123,365 123,365
BOMBS
3 PRACTICE BOMBS ............................................................................................................................ 59,725 59,725
6 JOINT DIRECT ATTACK MUNITION ................................................................................................ 206,989 206,989
7 B61 ...................................................................................................................................................... 35,634 35,634
OTHER ITEMS
9 CAD/PAD ............................................................................................................................................ 47,830 47,830
10 EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL (EOD) ..................................................................................... 6,232 6,232
11 SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS ......................................................................................................... 542 542
12 MODIFICATIONS ............................................................................................................................... 1,310 1,310
13 ITEMS LESS THAN $5,000,000 ............................................................................................................ 4,753 4,753
FLARES
15 FLARES ............................................................................................................................................. 40,088 40,088
FUZES
16 FUZES ................................................................................................................................................ 40,983 40,983
SMALL ARMS
17 SMALL ARMS .................................................................................................................................... 13,925 13,925
TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, AIR FORCE .................................................................. 596,338 596,338
OTHER PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES
1 PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES ................................................................................................ 9,016 9,016
CARGO AND UTILITY VEHICLES
2 MEDIUM TACTICAL VEHICLE ......................................................................................................... 15,058 15,058
3 CAP VEHICLES .................................................................................................................................. 1,059 1,059
4 CARGO AND UTILITY VEHICLES .................................................................................................... 38,920 38,920
SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLES
5 JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE ................................................................................................. 30,544 30,544
6 SECURITY AND TACTICAL VEHICLES ........................................................................................... 319 319
7 SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLES ........................................................................................................ 43,157 43,157
FIRE FIGHTING EQUIPMENT
8 FIRE FIGHTING/CRASH RESCUE VEHICLES .................................................................................. 8,621 8,621
MATERIALS HANDLING EQUIPMENT
9 MATERIALS HANDLING VEHICLES ................................................................................................ 12,897 12,897
BASE MAINTENANCE SUPPORT
10 RUNWAY SNOW REMOV AND CLEANING EQU ............................................................................... 3,577 3,577
11 BASE MAINTENANCE SUPPORT VEHICLES .................................................................................. 43,095 43,095
COMM SECURITY EQUIPMENT(COMSEC)
13 COMSEC EQUIPMENT ....................................................................................................................... 54,864 54,864
INTELLIGENCE PROGRAMS
14 INTERNATIONAL INTEL TECH & ARCHITECTURES ..................................................................... 9,283 10,783
PDI: Mission Partner Environment BICES-X local upgrades ....................................................... [1,500]
15 INTELLIGENCE TRAINING EQUIPMENT ........................................................................................ 6,849 6,849
16 INTELLIGENCE COMM EQUIPMENT ............................................................................................... 33,471 33,471
ELECTRONICS PROGRAMS
17 AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL & LANDING SYS ...................................................................................... 29,409 29,409
18 BATTLE CONTROL SYSTEM—FIXED .............................................................................................. 7,909 7,909
19 THEATER AIR CONTROL SYS IMPROVEMEN ................................................................................ 32,632 32,632
20 WEATHER OBSERVATION FORECAST ............................................................................................ 33,021 33,021
21 STRATEGIC COMMAND AND CONTROL .......................................................................................... 31,353 31,353
22 CHEYENNE MOUNTAIN COMPLEX .................................................................................................. 10,314 10,314
23 MISSION PLANNING SYSTEMS ....................................................................................................... 15,132 15,132
25 INTEGRATED STRAT PLAN & ANALY NETWORK (ISPAN) ........................................................... 9,806 9,806
SPCL COMM-ELECTRONICS PROJECTS
26 GENERAL INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ....................................................................................... 39,887 39,887
27 AF GLOBAL COMMAND & CONTROL SYS ....................................................................................... 2,602 2,602
29 MOBILITY COMMAND AND CONTROL ............................................................................................. 10,541 10,541
30 AIR FORCE PHYSICAL SECURITY SYSTEM ................................................................................... 96,277 96,277
31 COMBAT TRAINING RANGES .......................................................................................................... 195,185 195,185
32 MINIMUM ESSENTIAL EMERGENCY COMM N ............................................................................... 29,664 29,664
33 WIDE AREA SURVEILLANCE (WAS) ................................................................................................ 59,633 59,633
34 C3 COUNTERMEASURES .................................................................................................................. 105,584 105,584
36 DEFENSE ENTERPRISE ACCOUNTING & MGT SYS ....................................................................... 899 899
38 THEATER BATTLE MGT C2 SYSTEM .............................................................................................. 3,392 3,392
39 AIR & SPACE OPERATIONS CENTER (AOC) ................................................................................... 24,983 24,983
AIR FORCE COMMUNICATIONS
41 BASE INFORMATION TRANSPT INFRAST (BITI) WIRED .............................................................. 19,147 19,147
42 AFNET ............................................................................................................................................... 84,515 84,515
43 JOINT COMMUNICATIONS SUPPORT ELEMENT (JCSE) ............................................................... 6,185 6,185
44 USCENTCOM ...................................................................................................................................... 19,649 19,649
45 USSTRATCOM ................................................................................................................................... 4,337 4,337
ORGANIZATION AND BASE
46 TACTICAL C-E EQUIPMENT ............................................................................................................. 137,033 137,033
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00197 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6884 November 16, 2020
SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
47 RADIO EQUIPMENT .......................................................................................................................... 15,264 15,264
49 BASE COMM INFRASTRUCTURE ..................................................................................................... 132,281 146,281
PDI: Mission Partner Environment PACNET .............................................................................. [14,000]
MODIFICATIONS
50 COMM ELECT MODS ......................................................................................................................... 21,471 21,471
PERSONAL SAFETY & RESCUE EQUIP
51 PERSONAL SAFETY AND RESCUE EQUIPMENT ........................................................................... 49,578 49,578
DEPOT PLANT+MTRLS HANDLING EQ
52 POWER CONDITIONING EQUIPMENT .............................................................................................. 11,454 11,454
53 MECHANIZED MATERIAL HANDLING EQUIP ................................................................................ 12,110 12,110
BASE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
54 BASE PROCURED EQUIPMENT ........................................................................................................ 21,142 21,142
55 ENGINEERING AND EOD EQUIPMENT ............................................................................................ 7,700 7,700
56 MOBILITY EQUIPMENT .................................................................................................................... 18,266 22,966
Insulation system for Air Force shelters ..................................................................................... [4,700]
57 FUELS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT (FSE) .............................................................................................. 9,601 9,601
58 BASE MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT ....................................................................... 42,078 42,078
SPECIAL SUPPORT PROJECTS
60 DARP RC135 ....................................................................................................................................... 27,164 27,164
61 DCGS-AF ............................................................................................................................................ 121,528 121,528
63 SPECIAL UPDATE PROGRAM .......................................................................................................... 782,641 782,641
CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
9999 CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS ................................................................................................................. 21,086,112 21,086,112
SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
64 SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS (CYBER) .......................................................................................... 1,664 1,664
65 SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS ......................................................................................................... 15,847 15,847
TOTAL OTHER PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE ................................................................................... 23,695,720 23,715,920
PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-WIDE
MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DCMA
2 MAJOR EQUIPMENT ......................................................................................................................... 1,398 1,398
MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DCSA
3 MAJOR EQUIPMENT ......................................................................................................................... 2,212 2,212
MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DHRA
5 PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION ...................................................................................................... 4,213 4,213
MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DISA
11 INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY ............................................................................................. 17,211 17,211
12 TELEPORT PROGRAM ...................................................................................................................... 29,841 29,841
13 JOINT FORCES HEADQUARTERS—DODIN ...................................................................................... 3,091 3,091
14 ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION ....................................................................................................... 41,569 41,569
16 DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEM NETWORK .............................................................................. 26,978 26,978
17 WHITE HOUSE COMMUNICATION AGENCY .................................................................................... 44,161 44,161
18 SENIOR LEADERSHIP ENTERPRISE .............................................................................................. 35,935 35,935
19 JOINT REGIONAL SECURITY STACKS (JRSS) ............................................................................... 88,741 77,641
JRSS SIPR funding ...................................................................................................................... [–11,100]
20 JOINT SERVICE PROVIDER ............................................................................................................. 157,538 157,538
21 FOURTH ESTATE NETWORK OPTIMIZATION (4ENO) .................................................................... 42,084 42,084
MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DLA
23 MAJOR EQUIPMENT ......................................................................................................................... 417,459 417,459
MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DMACT
24 MAJOR EQUIPMENT ......................................................................................................................... 7,993 7,993
MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DODEA
25 AUTOMATION/EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT & LOGISTICS ................................................................ 1,319 1,319
MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DPAA
26 MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DPAA ............................................................................................................. 500 500
MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DEFENSE SECURITY COOPERATION AGENCY
27 REGIONAL CENTER PROCUREMENT .............................................................................................. 1,598 1,598
MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DEFENSE THREAT REDUCTION AGENCY
28 VEHICLES .......................................................................................................................................... 215 215
29 OTHER MAJOR EQUIPMENT ............................................................................................................ 9,994 9,994
MAJOR EQUIPMENT, MISSILE DEFENSE AGENCY
31 THAAD ............................................................................................................................................... 495,396 601,796
8th THAAD battery components .................................................................................................. [76,300]
HEMTT life-of-type buy ............................................................................................................... [30,100]
34 AEGIS BMD ........................................................................................................................................ 356,195 356,195
35 AEGIS BMD AP .................................................................................................................................. 44,901 44,901
36 BMDS AN/TPY–2 RADARS ................................................................................................................. 0 243,300
8th THAAD battery radar equipment ........................................................................................... [243,300]
37 SM–3 IIAS ........................................................................................................................................... 218,322 346,322
Additional SM–3 Block IIA interceptors ...................................................................................... [128,000]
38 ARROW 3 UPPER TIER SYSTEMS .................................................................................................... 77,000 77,000
39 SHORT RANGE BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE (SRBMD) ............................................................. 50,000 50,000
40 AEGIS ASHORE PHASE III ............................................................................................................... 39,114 39,114
41 IRON DOME ....................................................................................................................................... 73,000 73,000
42 AEGIS BMD HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE ..................................................................................... 104,241 104,241
MAJOR EQUIPMENT, NSA
48 INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY PROGRAM (ISSP) ............................................................... 101 101
MAJOR EQUIPMENT, OSD
49 MAJOR EQUIPMENT, OSD ................................................................................................................ 3,099 3,099
MAJOR EQUIPMENT, TJS
50 MAJOR EQUIPMENT, TJS ................................................................................................................ 8,329 8,329
51 MAJOR EQUIPMENT—TJS CYBER .................................................................................................. 1,247 1,247
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00198 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6885
November 16, 2020
SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
MAJOR EQUIPMENT, WHS
53 MAJOR EQUIPMENT, WHS ............................................................................................................... 515 515
CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
9999 CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS ................................................................................................................. 554,264 554,264
AVIATION PROGRAMS
55 ARMED OVERWATCH/TARGETING ................................................................................................. 101,000 0
Lack of validated requirement and analysis ................................................................................ [–101,000]
56 MANNED ISR ..................................................................................................................................... 0 40,100
SOCOM DHC–8 combat loss replacement ...................................................................................... [40,100]
59 ROTARY WING UPGRADES AND SUSTAINMENT ........................................................................... 211,041 211,041
60 UNMANNED ISR ................................................................................................................................ 25,488 25,488
61 NON-STANDARD AVIATION ............................................................................................................. 61,874 61,874
62 U–28 .................................................................................................................................................... 3,825 28,525
SOCOM aircraft maintenance support combat loss replacement ................................................. [24,700]
63 MH–47 CHINOOK ................................................................................................................................. 135,482 135,482
64 CV–22 MODIFICATION ....................................................................................................................... 14,829 14,829
65 MQ–9 UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLE .............................................................................................. 6,746 6,746
66 PRECISION STRIKE PACKAGE ........................................................................................................ 243,111 243,111
67 AC/MC–130J ......................................................................................................................................... 163,914 163,914
68 C–130 MODIFICATIONS ...................................................................................................................... 20,414 20,414
SHIPBUILDING
69 UNDERWATER SYSTEMS ................................................................................................................ 20,556 20,556
AMMUNITION PROGRAMS
70 ORDNANCE ITEMS <$5M ................................................................................................................... 186,197 186,197
OTHER PROCUREMENT PROGRAMS
71 INTELLIGENCE SYSTEMS ............................................................................................................... 94,982 108,382
Transfer from MMP-Light to man-pack ....................................................................................... [13,400]
72 DISTRIBUTED COMMON GROUND/SURFACE SYSTEMS ................................................................ 11,645 11,645
73 OTHER ITEMS <$5M .......................................................................................................................... 96,333 96,333
74 COMBATANT CRAFT SYSTEMS ....................................................................................................... 17,278 17,278
75 SPECIAL PROGRAMS ....................................................................................................................... 78,865 78,865
76 TACTICAL VEHICLES ....................................................................................................................... 30,158 30,158
77 WARRIOR SYSTEMS <$5M ................................................................................................................ 260,733 248,533
MMP-Light unexecutable, transfer to man-pack ......................................................................... [–12,200]
78 COMBAT MISSION REQUIREMENTS ............................................................................................... 19,848 19,848
79 GLOBAL VIDEO SURVEILLANCE ACTIVITIES ............................................................................... 2,401 2,401
80 OPERATIONAL ENHANCEMENTS INTELLIGENCE ........................................................................ 13,861 13,861
81 OPERATIONAL ENHANCEMENTS .................................................................................................... 247,038 259,538
SOCOM Syria exfiltration reconsitution ..................................................................................... [12,500]
CBDP
82 CHEMICAL BIOLOGICAL SITUATIONAL AWARENESS .................................................................. 147,150 147,150
83 CB PROTECTION & HAZARD MITIGATION ..................................................................................... 149,944 149,944
TOTAL PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-WIDE ........................................................................................ 5,324,487 5,768,587
TOTAL PROCUREMENT .................................................................................................................... 130,684,160 134,014,838
SEC. 4102. PROCUREMENT FOR OVERSEAS CON-
TINGENCY OPERATIONS.
SEC. 4102. PROCUREMENT FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, ARMY
ROTARY
9 AH–64 APACHE BLOCK IIIB NEW BUILD ......................................................................................... 69,154 69,154
14 CH–47 HELICOPTER .......................................................................................................................... 50,472 50,472
MODIFICATION OF AIRCRAFT
17 MQ–1 PAYLOAD (MIP) ....................................................................................................................... 5,968 5,968
20 MULTI SENSOR ABN RECON (MIP) ................................................................................................. 122,520 122,520
25 EMARSS SEMA MODS (MIP) ............................................................................................................ 26,460 26,460
30 DEGRADED VISUAL ENVIRONMENT .............................................................................................. 1,916 1,916
GROUND SUPPORT AVIONICS
37 CMWS ................................................................................................................................................. 149,162 149,162
38 COMMON INFRARED COUNTERMEASURES (CIRCM) .................................................................... 32,400 32,400
OTHER SUPPORT
41 AIRCREW INTEGRATED SYSTEMS ................................................................................................. 3,028 3,028
TOTAL AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, ARMY ...................................................................................... 461,080 461,080
MISSILE PROCUREMENT, ARMY
SURFACE-TO-AIR MISSILE SYSTEM
2 M-SHORAD—PROCUREMENT ........................................................................................................... 158,300 158,300
3 MSE MISSILE .................................................................................................................................... 176,585 0
Inappropriate for EDI, transfer to base ........................................................................................ [–176,585]
AIR-TO-SURFACE MISSILE SYSTEM
6 HELLFIRE SYS SUMMARY .............................................................................................................. 236,265 236,265
ANTI-TANK/ASSAULT MISSILE SYS
11 GUIDED MLRS ROCKET (GMLRS) ................................................................................................... 127,015 127,015
15 LETHAL MINIATURE AERIAL MISSILE SYSTEM (LMAMS .......................................................... 84,993 84,993
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00199 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6886 November 16, 2020
SEC. 4102. PROCUREMENT FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
MODIFICATIONS
17 ATACMS MODS ................................................................................................................................. 78,434 78,434
22 MLRS MODS ...................................................................................................................................... 20,000 20,000
TOTAL MISSILE PROCUREMENT, ARMY .......................................................................................... 881,592 705,007
PROCUREMENT OF W&TCV, ARMY
WEAPONS & OTHER COMBAT VEHICLES
16 MULTI-ROLE ANTI-ARMOR ANTI-PERSONNEL WEAPON S .......................................................... 4,765 4,765
18 MORTAR SYSTEMS .......................................................................................................................... 10,460 10,460
TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF W&TCV, ARMY ...................................................................................... 15,225 15,225
PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, ARMY
SMALL/MEDIUM CAL AMMUNITION
1 CTG, 5.56MM, ALL TYPES ................................................................................................................. 567 567
2 CTG, 7.62MM, ALL TYPES ................................................................................................................. 40 40
4 CTG, HANDGUN, ALL TYPES ........................................................................................................... 17 17
5 CTG, .50 CAL, ALL TYPES ................................................................................................................ 189 189
8 CTG, 30MM, ALL TYPES ................................................................................................................... 24,900 24,900
ARTILLERY AMMUNITION
16 PROJ 155MM EXTENDED RANGE M982 ............................................................................................ 29,213 29,213
17 ARTILLERY PROPELLANTS, FUZES AND PRIMERS, ALL ........................................................... 21,675 21,675
ROCKETS
20 SHOULDER LAUNCHED MUNITIONS, ALL TYPES ......................................................................... 176 176
21 ROCKET, HYDRA 70, ALL TYPES ..................................................................................................... 33,880 33,880
MISCELLANEOUS
29 ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION (AMMO) ......................................................................................... 11 11
TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, ARMY ........................................................................... 110,668 110,668
OTHER PROCUREMENT, ARMY
TACTICAL VEHICLES
13 FAMILY OF HEAVY TACTICAL VEHICLES (FHTV) ........................................................................ 6,500 6,500
14 PLS ESP ............................................................................................................................................. 15,163 15,163
17 TACTICAL WHEELED VEHICLE PROTECTION KITS ...................................................................... 27,066 27,066
COMM—SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
30 TRANSPORTABLE TACTICAL COMMAND COMMUNICATIONS ..................................................... 2,700 2,700
32 ASSURED POSITIONING, NAVIGATION AND TIMING ................................................................... 12,566 12,566
33 SMART-T (SPACE) ............................................................................................................................ 289 289
34 GLOBAL BRDCST SVC—GBS ............................................................................................................ 319 319
COMM—COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS
45 FAMILY OF MED COMM FOR COMBAT CASUALTY CARE ............................................................ 1,257 1,257
COMM—INTELLIGENCE COMM
48 CI AUTOMATION ARCHITECTURE (MIP) ........................................................................................ 1,230 1,230
INFORMATION SECURITY
52 COMMUNICATIONS SECURITY (COMSEC) ...................................................................................... 128 128
COMM—BASE COMMUNICATIONS
58 INFORMATION SYSTEMS ................................................................................................................ 15,277 15,277
62 INSTALLATION INFO INFRASTRUCTURE MOD PROGRAM .......................................................... 74,004 80,004
EDI: NATO Response Force (NRF) networks ............................................................................... [6,000]
ELECT EQUIP—TACT INT REL ACT (TIARA)
68 DCGS-A (MIP) .................................................................................................................................... 47,709 47,709
70 TROJAN (MIP) ................................................................................................................................... 1,766 1,766
71 MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIP (INTEL SPT) (MIP) ..................................................................................... 61,450 61,450
73 BIOMETRIC TACTICAL COLLECTION DEVICES (MIP) ................................................................... 12,337 12,337
ELECT EQUIP—ELECTRONIC WARFARE (EW)
80 FAMILY OF PERSISTENT SURVEILLANCE CAP. (MIP) ................................................................ 44,293 44,293
81 COUNTERINTELLIGENCE/SECURITY COUNTERMEASURES ........................................................ 49,100 49,100
ELECT EQUIP—TACTICAL SURV. (TAC SURV)
83 SENTINEL MODS .............................................................................................................................. 33,496 33,496
84 NIGHT VISION DEVICES .................................................................................................................. 643 643
87 RADIATION MONITORING SYSTEMS .............................................................................................. 11 11
88 INDIRECT FIRE PROTECTION FAMILY OF SYSTEMS ................................................................... 37,000 37,000
94 COMPUTER BALLISTICS: LHMBC XM32 .......................................................................................... 280 280
95 MORTAR FIRE CONTROL SYSTEM ................................................................................................. 13,672 13,672
ELECT EQUIP—TACTICAL C2 SYSTEMS
100 AIR & MSL DEFENSE PLANNING & CONTROL SYS ....................................................................... 15,143 15,143
ELECT EQUIP—AUTOMATION
109 ARMY TRAINING MODERNIZATION ............................................................................................... 4,688 4,688
110 AUTOMATED DATA PROCESSING EQUIP ....................................................................................... 16,552 16,552
CHEMICAL DEFENSIVE EQUIPMENT
121 FAMILY OF NON-LETHAL EQUIPMENT (FNLE) ............................................................................. 25,480 25,480
122 BASE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (BDS) .................................................................................................... 98,960 98,960
123 CBRN DEFENSE ................................................................................................................................ 18,887 18,887
BRIDGING EQUIPMENT
125 TACTICAL BRIDGING ....................................................................................................................... 50,400 50,400
ENGINEER (NON-CONSTRUCTION) EQUIPMENT
137 RENDER SAFE SETS KITS OUTFITS .............................................................................................. 84,000 84,000
COMBAT SERVICE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
140 HEATERS AND ECU’S ....................................................................................................................... 370 370
142 PERSONNEL RECOVERY SUPPORT SYSTEM (PRSS) .................................................................... 3,721 3,721
145 FORCE PROVIDER ............................................................................................................................ 56,400 129,800
EDI: Improvements to living quarters for rotational forces in Europe ........................................ [73,400]
146 FIELD FEEDING EQUIPMENT ......................................................................................................... 2,279 2,279
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00200 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6887
November 16, 2020
SEC. 4102. PROCUREMENT FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
147 CARGO AERIAL DEL & PERSONNEL PARACHUTE SYSTEM ........................................................ 2,040 2,040
PETROLEUM EQUIPMENT
150 DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS, PETROLEUM & WATER ....................................................................... 4,374 4,374
MEDICAL EQUIPMENT
151 COMBAT SUPPORT MEDICAL .......................................................................................................... 6,390 6,390
MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT
152 MOBILE MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT SYSTEMS ........................................................................... 7,769 7,769
153 ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M (MAINT EQ) ............................................................................................. 184 184
CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
156 LOADERS ........................................................................................................................................... 3,190 3,190
157 HYDRAULIC EXCAVATOR ................................................................................................................ 7,600 7,600
158 TRACTOR, FULL TRACKED ............................................................................................................. 7,450 7,450
160 HIGH MOBILITY ENGINEER EXCAVATOR (HMEE) ........................................................................ 3,703 3,703
162 CONST EQUIP ESP ............................................................................................................................ 657 657
GENERATORS
167 GENERATORS AND ASSOCIATED EQUIP ....................................................................................... 106 106
MATERIAL HANDLING EQUIPMENT
169 FAMILY OF FORKLIFTS .................................................................................................................. 1,885 1,885
OTHER SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
180 RAPID EQUIPPING SOLDIER SUPPORT EQUIPMENT ................................................................... 8,500 8,500
181 PHYSICAL SECURITY SYSTEMS (OPA3) ......................................................................................... 3,248 3,248
185 BUILDING, PRE-FAB, RELOCATABLE ............................................................................................ 31,845 31,845
TOTAL OTHER PROCUREMENT, ARMY ............................................................................................ 924,077 1,003,477
AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, NAVY
OTHER AIRCRAFT
24 STUASL0 UAV ................................................................................................................................... 7,921 7,921
MODIFICATION OF AIRCRAFT
53 COMMON ECM EQUIPMENT ............................................................................................................. 3,474 3,474
55 COMMON DEFENSIVE WEAPON SYSTEM ....................................................................................... 3,339 3,339
64 QRC .................................................................................................................................................... 18,507 18,507
TOTAL AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, NAVY ....................................................................................... 33,241 33,241
WEAPONS PROCUREMENT, NAVY
TACTICAL MISSILES
12 HELLFIRE ......................................................................................................................................... 5,572 5,572
TOTAL WEAPONS PROCUREMENT, NAVY ....................................................................................... 5,572 5,572
PROCUREMENT OF AMMO, NAVY & MC
NAVY AMMUNITION
1 GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS ........................................................................................................... 8,068 8,068
2 JDAM ................................................................................................................................................. 15,529 15,529
3 AIRBORNE ROCKETS, ALL TYPES .................................................................................................. 23,000 23,000
4 MACHINE GUN AMMUNITION .......................................................................................................... 22,600 22,600
6 CARTRIDGES & CART ACTUATED DEVICES .................................................................................. 3,927 3,927
7 AIR EXPENDABLE COUNTERMEASURES ....................................................................................... 15,978 15,978
8 JATOS ................................................................................................................................................ 2,100 2,100
11 OTHER SHIP GUN AMMUNITION ..................................................................................................... 2,611 2,611
12 SMALL ARMS & LANDING PARTY AMMO ...................................................................................... 1,624 1,624
13 PYROTECHNIC AND DEMOLITION .................................................................................................. 505 505
TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF AMMO, NAVY & MC .............................................................................. 95,942 95,942
OTHER PROCUREMENT, NAVY
SMALL BOATS
28 STANDARD BOATS ........................................................................................................................... 19,104 19,104
OTHER SHIP SUPPORT
35 SMALL & MEDIUM UUV ................................................................................................................... 2,946 2,946
ASW ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
43 FIXED SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM .................................................................................................... 213,000 213,000
SONOBUOYS
92 SONOBUOYS—ALL TYPES ............................................................................................................... 26,196 26,196
AIRCRAFT SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
95 AIRCRAFT SUPPORT EQUIPMENT ................................................................................................. 60,217 60,217
OTHER ORDNANCE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
110 EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL EQUIP .................................................................................... 2,124 2,124
CIVIL ENGINEERING SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
115 PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES ................................................................................................ 177 177
116 GENERAL PURPOSE TRUCKS ......................................................................................................... 416 416
118 FIRE FIGHTING EQUIPMENT .......................................................................................................... 801 801
SUPPLY SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
125 FIRST DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION ...................................................................................... 520 520
TRAINING DEVICES
128 TRAINING AND EDUCATION EQUIPMENT ...................................................................................... 11,500 11,500
COMMAND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
130 MEDICAL SUPPORT EQUIPMENT ................................................................................................... 3,525 3,525
136 PHYSICAL SECURITY EQUIPMENT ................................................................................................ 3,000 3,000
TOTAL OTHER PROCUREMENT, NAVY ............................................................................................ 343,526 343,526
PROCUREMENT, MARINE CORPS
GUIDED MISSILES
12 GUIDED MLRS ROCKET (GMLRS) ................................................................................................... 17,456 17,456
OTHER SUPPORT (TEL)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00201 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6888 November 16, 2020
SEC. 4102. PROCUREMENT FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
15 MODIFICATION KITS ........................................................................................................................ 4,200 4,200
INTELL/COMM EQUIPMENT (NON-TEL)
22 INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT ......................................................................................... 10,124 10,124
TACTICAL VEHICLES
38 MOTOR TRANSPORT MODIFICATIONS ........................................................................................... 16,183 16,183
TOTAL PROCUREMENT, MARINE CORPS ........................................................................................ 47,963 47,963
AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
HELICOPTERS
13 COMBAT RESCUE HELICOPTER ...................................................................................................... 174,000 174,000
OTHER AIRCRAFT
20 MQ–9 ................................................................................................................................................... 142,490 142,490
21 RQ–20B PUMA .................................................................................................................................... 13,770 13,770
STRATEGIC AIRCRAFT
26 LARGE AIRCRAFT INFRARED COUNTERMEASURES ................................................................... 57,521 57,521
OTHER AIRCRAFT
46 U–2 MODS ........................................................................................................................................... 9,600 9,600
55 COMPASS CALL ................................................................................................................................ 12,800 12,800
66 HC/MC–130 MODIFICATIONS ............................................................................................................. 58,020 58,020
69 MQ–9 UAS PAYLOADS ...................................................................................................................... 46,100 46,100
70 CV–22 MODS ....................................................................................................................................... 6,290 6,290
AIRCRAFT SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
71 INITIAL SPARES/REPAIR PARTS ................................................................................................... 10,700 10,700
72 MQ–9 ................................................................................................................................................... 12,250 12,250
COMMON SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
73 AIRCRAFT REPLACEMENT SUPPORT EQUIP ................................................................................ 25,614 25,614
TOTAL AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE ............................................................................. 569,155 569,155
MISSILE PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
TACTICAL
4 JOINT AIR-SURFACE STANDOFF MISSILE .................................................................................... 30,000 30,000
8 PREDATOR HELLFIRE MISSILE ..................................................................................................... 143,420 143,420
9 SMALL DIAMETER BOMB ................................................................................................................ 50,352 50,352
TOTAL MISSILE PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE ................................................................................. 223,772 223,772
PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, AIR FORCE
ROCKETS
1 ROCKETS ........................................................................................................................................... 19,489 19,489
CARTRIDGES
2 CARTRIDGES .................................................................................................................................... 40,434 40,434
BOMBS
4 GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS ........................................................................................................... 369,566 369,566
6 JOINT DIRECT ATTACK MUNITION ................................................................................................ 237,723 237,723
FLARES
15 FLARES ............................................................................................................................................. 21,171 21,171
FUZES
16 FUZES ................................................................................................................................................ 107,855 107,855
SMALL ARMS
17 SMALL ARMS .................................................................................................................................... 6,217 6,217
TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, AIR FORCE .................................................................. 802,455 802,455
OTHER PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES
1 PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES ................................................................................................ 1,302 1,302
CARGO AND UTILITY VEHICLES
2 MEDIUM TACTICAL VEHICLE ......................................................................................................... 3,400 3,400
4 CARGO AND UTILITY VEHICLES .................................................................................................... 12,475 12,475
SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLES
5 JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE ................................................................................................. 26,150 26,150
7 SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLES ........................................................................................................ 51,254 51,254
FIRE FIGHTING EQUIPMENT
8 FIRE FIGHTING/CRASH RESCUE VEHICLES .................................................................................. 24,903 24,903
MATERIALS HANDLING EQUIPMENT
9 MATERIALS HANDLING VEHICLES ................................................................................................ 14,167 14,167
BASE MAINTENANCE SUPPORT
10 RUNWAY SNOW REMOV AND CLEANING EQU ............................................................................... 5,759 5,759
11 BASE MAINTENANCE SUPPORT VEHICLES .................................................................................. 20,653 20,653
SPCL COMM-ELECTRONICS PROJECTS
26 GENERAL INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ....................................................................................... 5,100 5,100
30 AIR FORCE PHYSICAL SECURITY SYSTEM ................................................................................... 56,496 56,496
ORGANIZATION AND BASE
49 BASE COMM INFRASTRUCTURE ..................................................................................................... 30,717 30,717
BASE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
55 ENGINEERING AND EOD EQUIPMENT ............................................................................................ 13,172 13,172
56 MOBILITY EQUIPMENT .................................................................................................................... 33,694 33,694
57 FUELS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT (FSE) .............................................................................................. 1,777 1,777
58 BASE MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT ....................................................................... 31,620 31,620
SPECIAL SUPPORT PROJECTS
61 DCGS-AF ............................................................................................................................................ 18,700 18,700
SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
65 SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS ......................................................................................................... 4,000 4,000
TOTAL OTHER PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE ................................................................................... 355,339 355,339
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00202 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6889
November 16, 2020
SEC. 4102. PROCUREMENT FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-WIDE
MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DISA
16 DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEM NETWORK .............................................................................. 6,120 6,120
MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DEFENSE THREAT REDUCTION AGENCY
30 COUNTER IMPROVISED THREAT TECHNOLOGIES ....................................................................... 2,540 2,540
CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS ................................................................................................................. 3,500 3,500
CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
AVIATION PROGRAMS
56 MANNED ISR ..................................................................................................................................... 5,000 5,000
57 MC–12 .................................................................................................................................................. 5,000 5,000
60 UNMANNED ISR ................................................................................................................................ 8,207 8,207
AMMUNITION PROGRAMS
70 ORDNANCE ITEMS <$5M ................................................................................................................... 105,355 105,355
OTHER PROCUREMENT PROGRAMS
71 INTELLIGENCE SYSTEMS ............................................................................................................... 16,234 16,234
73 OTHER ITEMS <$5M .......................................................................................................................... 984 984
76 TACTICAL VEHICLES ....................................................................................................................... 2,990 2,990
77 WARRIOR SYSTEMS <$5M ................................................................................................................ 32,573 32,573
78 COMBAT MISSION REQUIREMENTS ............................................................................................... 10,000 10,000
80 OPERATIONAL ENHANCEMENTS INTELLIGENCE ........................................................................ 6,724 6,724
81 OPERATIONAL ENHANCEMENTS .................................................................................................... 53,264 53,264
TOTAL PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-WIDE ........................................................................................ 258,491 258,491
TOTAL PROCUREMENT .................................................................................................................... 5,128,098 5,030,913
TITLE XLII—RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT,
TEST, AND EVALUATION
SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND
EVALUATION.
SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line
Program
Element
Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST & EVAL, ARMY
BASIC RESEARCH
2 0601102A DEFENSE RESEARCH SCIENCES ................................................................................. 303,257 315,257
AI human performance optimization ........................................................................ [2,000]
Increase in basic research ......................................................................................... [10,000]
3 0601103A UNIVERSITY RESEARCH INITIATIVES ....................................................................... 67,148 67,148
4 0601104A UNIVERSITY AND INDUSTRY RESEARCH CENTERS ................................................. 87,877 87,877
5 0601121A CYBER COLLABORATIVE RESEARCH ALLIANCE ...................................................... 5,077 5,077
SUBTOTAL BASIC RESEARCH ....................................................................................... 463,359 475,359
APPLIED RESEARCH
7 0602115A BIOMEDICAL TECHNOLOGY ......................................................................................... 11,835 15,835
Pandemic vaccine response ....................................................................................... [4,000]
11 0602134A COUNTER IMPROVISED-THREAT ADVANCED STUDIES ............................................ 2,000 2,000
12 0602141A LETHALITY TECHNOLOGY ........................................................................................... 42,425 45,425
Hybrid additive manufacturing ................................................................................. [3,000]
13 0602142A ARMY APPLIED RESEARCH ......................................................................................... 30,757 33,757
Pathfinder Air Assault .............................................................................................. [3,000]
14 0602143A SOLDIER LETHALITY TECHNOLOGY .......................................................................... 125,435 135,935
Harnessing Emerging Research Opportunities to Empower Soldiers Program ......... [2,500]
Metal-based display technologies .............................................................................. [3,000]
Pathfinder Airborne .................................................................................................. [5,000]
15 0602144A GROUND TECHNOLOGY ................................................................................................. 28,047 30,047
Ground technology advanced manufacturing, materials and process initiative ....... [2,000]
16 0602145A NEXT GENERATION COMBAT VEHICLE TECHNOLOGY ............................................. 217,565 227,565
Ground combat vehicle platform electrification ....................................................... [2,000]
Immersive virtual modeling and simulation techniques ........................................... [5,000]
Next Generation Combat Vehicle modeling and simulation ..................................... [3,000]
17 0602146A NETWORK C3I TECHNOLOGY ........................................................................................ 114,404 126,404
Backpackable Communications Intelligence System ............................................... [5,000]
Defense resiliency platform against extreme cold weather ....................................... [3,000]
Multi-drone multi-sensor ISR capability .................................................................. [2,000]
Quantum computing base materials optimization .................................................... [2,000]
18 0602147A LONG RANGE PRECISION FIRES TECHNOLOGY ......................................................... 60,553 67,553
Composite artillery tube and propulsion prototyping ............................................... [7,000]
19 0602148A FUTURE VERTICLE LIFT TECHNOLOGY ..................................................................... 96,484 96,484
20 0602150A AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY ............................................................... 56,298 66,298
Counter unmanned aerial systems threat R&D ......................................................... [5,000]
Counter unmanned aircraft systems research ........................................................... [5,000]
22 0602213A C3I APPLIED CYBER ...................................................................................................... 18,816 18,816
40 0602785A MANPOWER/PERSONNEL/TRAINING TECHNOLOGY .................................................. 20,766 20,766
42 0602787A MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY ............................................................................................... 95,496 97,496
Research for coronavirus vaccine .............................................................................. [2,000]
SUBTOTAL APPLIED RESEARCH .................................................................................. 920,881 984,381
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00203 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6890 November 16, 2020
SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line
Program
Element
Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
44 0603002A MEDICAL ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY ........................................................................... 38,896 38,896
49 0603007A MANPOWER, PERSONNEL AND TRAINING ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY .................... 11,659 11,659
52 0603115A MEDICAL DEVELOPMENT ............................................................................................ 27,723 27,723
53 0603117A ARMY ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT .................................................... 62,663 62,663
54 0603118A SOLDIER LETHALITY ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY ...................................................... 109,608 111,608
3D advanced manufacturing ...................................................................................... [2,000]
55 0603119A GROUND ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY ............................................................................ 14,795 20,795
Cybersecurity for industrial control systems and building automation ................... [3,000]
Graphene applications for military engineering ....................................................... [3,000]
59 0603134A COUNTER IMPROVISED-THREAT SIMULATION ......................................................... 25,000 25,000
63 0603457A C3I CYBER ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT ...................................................................... 23,357 23,357
64 0603461A HIGH PERFORMANCE COMPUTING MODERNIZATION PROGRAM ............................ 188,024 193,024
High performance computing modernization ............................................................ [5,000]
65 0603462A NEXT GENERATION COMBAT VEHICLE ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY ......................... 199,358 226,858
Carbon fiber and graphitic composites ...................................................................... [10,000]
Cyber and connected vehicle innovation research ..................................................... [5,000]
Small unit ground robotic capabilities ..................................................................... [7,500]
Virtual experimentations enhancement .................................................................... [5,000]
66 0603463A NETWORK C3I ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY ................................................................... 158,608 158,608
67 0603464A LONG RANGE PRECISION FIRES ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY .................................... 121,060 124,060
Hyper velocity projectile—extended range technologies ........................................... [3,000]
68 0603465A FUTURE VERTICAL LIFT ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY ................................................ 156,194 156,194
69 0603466A AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY ........................................... 58,130 73,630
Electromagnetic effects research to support fires and AMD CFTs ........................... [5,000]
High-energy laser system characterization lab ......................................................... [10,500]
77 0603920A HUMANITARIAN DEMINING ......................................................................................... 8,515 8,515
SUBTOTAL ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT .............................................. 1,203,590 1,262,590
ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES
78 0603305A ARMY MISSLE DEFENSE SYSTEMS INTEGRATION .................................................. 11,062 14,062
Hypersonic hot air tunnel test environment ............................................................. [3,000]
79 0603308A ARMY SPACE SYSTEMS INTEGRATION ...................................................................... 26,230 26,230
80 0603327A AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS ENGINEERING ............................................. 26,482 26,482
81 0603619A LANDMINE WARFARE AND BARRIER—ADV DEV ...................................................... 64,092 64,092
83 0603639A TANK AND MEDIUM CALIBER AMMUNITION ............................................................. 92,753 92,753
84 0603645A ARMORED SYSTEM MODERNIZATION—ADV DEV ..................................................... 151,478 151,478
85 0603747A SOLDIER SUPPORT AND SURVIVABILITY .................................................................. 5,841 5,841
86 0603766A TACTICAL ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM—ADV DEV ................................ 194,775 194,775
87 0603774A NIGHT VISION SYSTEMS ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT .............................................. 24,316 24,316
88 0603779A ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY TECHNOLOGY—DEM/VAL ............................................ 13,387 13,387
89 0603790A NATO RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ...................................................................... 4,762 4,762
90 0603801A AVIATION—ADV DEV .................................................................................................... 647,937 652,937
Future Long Range Assault Aircraft (FLRAA) ......................................................... [5,000]
91 0603804A LOGISTICS AND ENGINEER EQUIPMENT—ADV DEV ................................................. 4,761 4,761
92 0603807A MEDICAL SYSTEMS—ADV DEV .................................................................................... 28,520 28,520
93 0603827A SOLDIER SYSTEMS—ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT ..................................................... 26,138 26,138
94 0604017A ROBOTICS DEVELOPMENT ........................................................................................... 121,207 121,207
96 0604021A ELECTRONIC WARFARE TECHNOLOGY MATURATION (MIP) ................................... 22,840 22,840
97 0604035A LOW EARTH ORBIT (LEO) SATELLITE CAPABILITY ................................................. 22,678 22,678
98 0604100A ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES .................................................................................... 10,082 10,082
99 0604101A SMALL UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLE (SUAV) (6.4) ................................................... 1,378 1,378
100 0604113A FUTURE TACTICAL UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEM (FTUAS) ................................ 40,083 40,083
101 0604114A LOWER TIER AIR MISSILE DEFENSE (LTAMD) SENSOR .......................................... 376,373 376,373
102 0604115A TECHNOLOGY MATURATION INITIATIVES ................................................................ 156,834 146,834
OpFires lack of transition pathway .......................................................................... [–10,000]
103 0604117A MANEUVER—SHORT RANGE AIR DEFENSE (M-SHORAD) ......................................... 4,995 4,995
105 0604119A ARMY ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPING ......................... 170,490 170,490
106 0604120A ASSURED POSITIONING, NAVIGATION AND TIMING (PNT) ...................................... 128,125 128,125
107 0604121A SYNTHETIC TRAINING ENVIRONMENT REFINEMENT & PROTOTYPING ................ 129,547 129,547
108 0604134A COUNTER IMPROVISED-THREAT DEMONSTRATION, PROTOTYPE DEVELOP-
MENT, AND TESTING.
13,831 13,831
109 0604182A HYPERSONICS ............................................................................................................... 801,417 796,417
Lack of hypersonic prototyping coordination ........................................................... [–5,000]
111 0604403A FUTURE INTERCEPTOR ................................................................................................ 7,992 7,992
112 0604541A UNIFIED NETWORK TRANSPORT ................................................................................ 40,677 40,677
115 0305251A CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS FORCES AND FORCE SUPPORT ................................... 50,525 50,525
SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES ..................... 3,421,608 3,414,608
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION
118 0604201A AIRCRAFT AVIONICS .................................................................................................... 2,764 2,764
119 0604270A ELECTRONIC WARFARE DEVELOPMENT ................................................................... 62,426 62,426
121 0604601A INFANTRY SUPPORT WEAPONS .................................................................................. 91,574 91,574
122 0604604A MEDIUM TACTICAL VEHICLES .................................................................................... 8,523 8,523
123 0604611A JAVELIN ......................................................................................................................... 7,493 7,493
124 0604622A FAMILY OF HEAVY TACTICAL VEHICLES .................................................................. 24,792 24,792
125 0604633A AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL ................................................................................................ 3,511 3,511
126 0604642A LIGHT TACTICAL WHEELED VEHICLES ..................................................................... 1,976 1,976
127 0604645A ARMORED SYSTEMS MODERNIZATION (ASM)—ENG DEV ........................................ 135,488 135,488
128 0604710A NIGHT VISION SYSTEMS—ENG DEV ........................................................................... 61,445 61,445
129 0604713A COMBAT FEEDING, CLOTHING, AND EQUIPMENT ..................................................... 2,814 2,814
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00204 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6891
November 16, 2020
SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line
Program
Element
Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
130 0604715A NON-SYSTEM TRAINING DEVICES—ENG DEV ............................................................ 28,036 28,036
131 0604741A AIR DEFENSE COMMAND, CONTROL AND INTELLIGENCE—ENG DEV .................... 43,651 83,651
Joint Counter-UAS Office acceleration ..................................................................... [17,500]
Joint Counter-UAS Office SOCOM advanced capabilities ......................................... [7,500]
Joint Counter-UAS Office SOCOM demonstrations ................................................... [15,000]
132 0604742A CONSTRUCTIVE SIMULATION SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT ........................................ 10,150 10,150
133 0604746A AUTOMATIC TEST EQUIPMENT DEVELOPMENT ....................................................... 5,578 5,578
134 0604760A DISTRIBUTIVE INTERACTIVE SIMULATIONS (DIS)—ENG DEV ................................ 7,892 7,892
135 0604768A BRILLIANT ANTI-ARMOR SUBMUNITION (BAT) ......................................................... 24,975 24,975
136 0604780A COMBINED ARMS TACTICAL TRAINER (CATT) CORE ................................................ 3,568 3,568
137 0604798A BRIGADE ANALYSIS, INTEGRATION AND EVALUATION .......................................... 19,268 19,268
138 0604802A WEAPONS AND MUNITIONS—ENG DEV ....................................................................... 265,811 266,611
Increase NGSW soldier touchpoints .......................................................................... [800]
139 0604804A LOGISTICS AND ENGINEER EQUIPMENT—ENG DEV ................................................. 49,694 49,694
140 0604805A COMMAND, CONTROL, COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS—ENG DEV ............................. 11,079 11,079
141 0604807A MEDICAL MATERIEL/MEDICAL BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE EQUIPMENT—ENG DEV .. 49,870 49,870
142 0604808A LANDMINE WARFARE/BARRIER—ENG DEV ............................................................... 9,589 9,589
143 0604818A ARMY TACTICAL COMMAND & CONTROL HARDWARE & SOFTWARE ..................... 162,513 162,513
144 0604820A RADAR DEVELOPMENT ................................................................................................ 109,259 109,259
145 0604822A GENERAL FUND ENTERPRISE BUSINESS SYSTEM (GFEBS) ................................... 21,201 21,201
146 0604823A FIREFINDER .................................................................................................................. 20,008 20,008
147 0604827A SOLDIER SYSTEMS—WARRIOR DEM/VAL .................................................................. 6,534 6,534
148 0604852A SUITE OF SURVIVABILITY ENHANCEMENT SYSTEMS—EMD .................................. 82,459 129,459
Bradley and Stryker APS .......................................................................................... [47,000]
149 0604854A ARTILLERY SYSTEMS—EMD ....................................................................................... 11,611 11,611
150 0605013A INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT .......................................................... 142,678 147,678
Integrated data software pilot program .................................................................... [5,000]
151 0605018A INTEGRATED PERSONNEL AND PAY SYSTEM-ARMY (IPPS-A) ............................... 115,286 115,286
152 0605028A ARMORED MULTI-PURPOSE VEHICLE (AMPV) .......................................................... 96,594 96,594
154 0605030A JOINT TACTICAL NETWORK CENTER (JTNC) ............................................................. 16,264 16,264
155 0605031A JOINT TACTICAL NETWORK (JTN) .............................................................................. 31,696 31,696
157 0605033A GROUND-BASED OPERATIONAL SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM—EXPEDITIONARY
(GBOSS-E).
5,976 5,976
159 0605035A COMMON INFRARED COUNTERMEASURES (CIRCM) ................................................. 23,321 23,321
161 0605038A NUCLEAR BIOLOGICAL CHEMICAL RECONNAISSANCE VEHICLE (NBCRV) SEN-
SOR SUITE.
4,846 4,846
162 0605041A DEFENSIVE CYBER TOOL DEVELOPMENT ................................................................. 28,544 16,544
Army Cyber SU program ........................................................................................... [–12,000]
163 0605042A TACTICAL NETWORK RADIO SYSTEMS (LOW-TIER) ................................................. 28,178 28,178
164 0605047A CONTRACT WRITING SYSTEM ..................................................................................... 22,860 22,860
166 0605051A AIRCRAFT SURVIVABILITY DEVELOPMENT ............................................................. 35,893 35,893
167 0605052A INDIRECT FIRE PROTECTION CAPABILITY INC 2—BLOCK 1 ..................................... 235,770 187,970
Army-identified funding early to need ...................................................................... [–47,800]
168 0605053A GROUND ROBOTICS ....................................................................................................... 13,710 13,710
169 0605054A EMERGING TECHNOLOGY INITIATIVES ..................................................................... 294,739 294,739
170 0605145A MEDICAL PRODUCTS AND SUPPORT SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT ............................ 954 954
171 0605203A ARMY SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION ............................................... 150,201 150,201
172 0605205A SMALL UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLE (SUAV) (6.5) ................................................... 5,999 5,999
174 0605450A JOINT AIR-TO-GROUND MISSILE (JAGM) ................................................................... 8,891 8,891
175 0605457A ARMY INTEGRATED AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE (AIAMD) ..................................... 193,929 193,929
176 0605625A MANNED GROUND VEHICLE ......................................................................................... 327,732 247,732
OMFV program reset ................................................................................................. [–80,000]
177 0605766A NATIONAL CAPABILITIES INTEGRATION (MIP) ........................................................ 7,670 7,670
178 0605812A JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE (JLTV) ENGINEERING AND MANUFACTURING
DEVELOPMENT PH.
1,742 1,742
179 0605830A AVIATION GROUND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT ................................................................ 1,467 1,467
180 0303032A TROJAN—RH12 ............................................................................................................... 3,451 3,451
183 0304270A ELECTRONIC WARFARE DEVELOPMENT ................................................................... 55,855 55,855
SUBTOTAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION .......................................... 3,199,798 3,152,798
MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
185 0604256A THREAT SIMULATOR DEVELOPMENT ........................................................................ 14,515 14,515
186 0604258A TARGET SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT ............................................................................ 10,668 10,668
187 0604759A MAJOR T&E INVESTMENT ........................................................................................... 106,270 106,270
188 0605103A RAND ARROYO CENTER ............................................................................................... 13,481 13,481
189 0605301A ARMY KWAJALEIN ATOLL ........................................................................................... 231,824 231,824
190 0605326A CONCEPTS EXPERIMENTATION PROGRAM ................................................................ 54,898 54,898
192 0605601A ARMY TEST RANGES AND FACILITIES ...................................................................... 350,359 365,359
Program increase—Army directed energy T&E ........................................................ [15,000]
193 0605602A ARMY TECHNICAL TEST INSTRUMENTATION AND TARGETS ................................. 48,475 48,475
194 0605604A SURVIVABILITY/LETHALITY ANALYSIS .................................................................... 36,001 36,001
195 0605606A AIRCRAFT CERTIFICATION .......................................................................................... 2,736 2,736
196 0605702A METEOROLOGICAL SUPPORT TO RDT&E ACTIVITIES .............................................. 6,488 6,488
197 0605706A MATERIEL SYSTEMS ANALYSIS ................................................................................. 21,859 21,859
198 0605709A EXPLOITATION OF FOREIGN ITEMS ........................................................................... 7,936 7,936
199 0605712A SUPPORT OF OPERATIONAL TESTING ....................................................................... 54,470 54,470
200 0605716A ARMY EVALUATION CENTER ...................................................................................... 63,141 63,141
201 0605718A ARMY MODELING & SIM X-CMD COLLABORATION & INTEG .................................... 2,572 2,572
202 0605801A PROGRAMWIDE ACTIVITIES ........................................................................................ 87,472 87,472
203 0605803A TECHNICAL INFORMATION ACTIVITIES ..................................................................... 26,244 26,244
204 0605805A MUNITIONS STANDARDIZATION, EFFECTIVENESS AND SAFETY .......................... 40,133 40,133
205 0605857A ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY TECHNOLOGY MGMT SUPPORT .................................. 1,780 1,780
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00205 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6892 November 16, 2020
SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line
Program
Element
Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
206 0605898A ARMY DIRECT REPORT HEADQUARTERS—R&D - MHA ............................................ 55,045 55,045
208 0606002A RONALD REAGAN BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE TEST SITE ................................. 71,306 71,306
209 0606003A COUNTERINTEL AND HUMAN INTEL MODERNIZATION ............................................ 1,063 1,063
210 0606105A MEDICAL PROGRAM-WIDE ACTIVITIES ...................................................................... 19,891 19,891
211 0606942A ASSESSMENTS AND EVALUATIONS CYBER VULNERABILITIES ............................. 4,496 4,496
SUBTOTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT ........................................................................... 1,333,123 1,348,123
OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
214 0603778A MLRS PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM .............................................................. 10,157 10,157
216 0605024A ANTI-TAMPER TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT ..................................................................... 8,682 8,682
217 0607131A WEAPONS AND MUNITIONS PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMS ....................... 20,409 20,409
219 0607134A LONG RANGE PRECISION FIRES (LRPF) ..................................................................... 122,733 115,233
Excess funds due to second vendor dropped ............................................................... [–7,500]
221 0607136A BLACKHAWK PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM .................................................. 11,236 11,236
222 0607137A CHINOOK PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM ......................................................... 46,091 46,091
224 0607139A IMPROVED TURBINE ENGINE PROGRAM ................................................................... 249,257 249,257
225 0607142A AVIATION ROCKET SYSTEM PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT ...... 17,155 17,155
226 0607143A UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEM UNIVERSAL PRODUCTS ........................................ 7,743 7,743
227 0607145A APACHE FUTURE DEVELOPMENT ............................................................................... 77,177 77,177
228 0607150A INTEL CYBER DEVELOPMENT ..................................................................................... 14,652 14,652
229 0607312A ARMY OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT ...................................................... 35,851 35,851
230 0607665A FAMILY OF BIOMETRICS .............................................................................................. 1,324 1,324
231 0607865A PATRIOT PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT ........................................................................... 187,840 187,840
232 0203728A JOINT AUTOMATED DEEP OPERATION COORDINATION SYSTEM (JADOCS) .......... 44,691 44,691
233 0203735A COMBAT VEHICLE IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMS ......................................................... 268,919 268,919
234 0203743A 155MM SELF-PROPELLED HOWITZER IMPROVEMENTS ............................................ 427,254 427,254
235 0203744A AIRCRAFT MODIFICATIONS/PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMS ....................... 11,688 11,688
236 0203752A AIRCRAFT ENGINE COMPONENT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM .................................. 80 80
237 0203758A DIGITIZATION ................................................................................................................ 4,516 4,516
238 0203801A MISSILE/AIR DEFENSE PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM ................................. 1,288 1,288
239 0203802A OTHER MISSILE PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMS .......................................... 79,424 79,424
243 0205412A ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY TECHNOLOGY—OPERATIONAL SYSTEM DEV ........... 259 259
244 0205456A LOWER TIER AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE (AMD) SYSTEM ...................................... 166 166
245 0205778A GUIDED MULTIPLE-LAUNCH ROCKET SYSTEM (GMLRS) ......................................... 75,575 93,075
Qualification of second SRM source .......................................................................... [17,500]
246 0208053A JOINT TACTICAL GROUND SYSTEM ............................................................................ 9,510 9,510
249 0303140A INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY PROGRAM ........................................................ 29,270 29,270
250 0303141A GLOBAL COMBAT SUPPORT SYSTEM ......................................................................... 86,908 86,908
251 0303142A SATCOM GROUND ENVIRONMENT (SPACE) ................................................................ 18,684 18,684
256 0305179A INTEGRATED BROADCAST SERVICE (IBS) ................................................................. 467 467
257 0305204A TACTICAL UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLES ................................................................ 4,051 4,051
258 0305206A AIRBORNE RECONNAISSANCE SYSTEMS ................................................................... 13,283 13,283
259 0305208A DISTRIBUTED COMMON GROUND/SURFACE SYSTEMS ............................................. 47,204 47,204
264 0708045A END ITEM INDUSTRIAL PREPAREDNESS ACTIVITIES ............................................. 61,012 78,512
Functional fabrics manufacturing ............................................................................ [7,500]
Nanoscale materials manufacturing ......................................................................... [5,000]
Tungsten manufacturing for armanents ................................................................... [5,000]
999 9999999999 CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS .............................................................................................. 3,983 3,983
SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT ................................................. 1,998,539 2,026,039
SOFTWARE AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY PILOT PROGRAMS
267 0608041A DEFENSIVE CYBER—SOFTWARE PROTOTYPE DEVELOPMENT .............................. 46,445 46,445
SUBTOTAL SOFTWARE AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY PILOT PROGRAMS .................. 46,445 46,445
TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST & EVAL, ARMY .......................................... 12,587,343 12,710,343
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST & EVAL, NAVY
BASIC RESEARCH
1 0601103N UNIVERSITY RESEARCH INITIATIVES ....................................................................... 116,816 118,816
Defense University Research and Instrumentation Program .................................... [2,000]
2 0601152N IN-HOUSE LABORATORY INDEPENDENT RESEARCH ................................................ 19,113 19,113
3 0601153N DEFENSE RESEARCH SCIENCES ................................................................................. 467,158 480,158
Increase in basic research ......................................................................................... [10,000]
Predictive modeling for undersea vehicles ................................................................ [3,000]
SUBTOTAL BASIC RESEARCH ....................................................................................... 603,087 618,087
APPLIED RESEARCH
4 0602114N POWER PROJECTION APPLIED RESEARCH ................................................................ 17,792 17,792
5 0602123N FORCE PROTECTION APPLIED RESEARCH ................................................................ 122,281 140,281
Direct air capture and blue carbon removal technology program ............................. [8,000]
Electric propulsion for military craft and advanced planning hulls ......................... [2,000]
Expeditionary unmanned systems launch and recovery ........................................... [5,000]
Testbed for autonomous ship systems ....................................................................... [3,000]
6 0602131M MARINE CORPS LANDING FORCE TECHNOLOGY ....................................................... 50,623 53,623
Interdisciplinary cybersecurity research .................................................................. [3,000]
7 0602235N COMMON PICTURE APPLIED RESEARCH .................................................................... 48,001 48,001
8 0602236N WARFIGHTER SUSTAINMENT APPLIED RESEARCH ................................................. 67,765 74,765
Humanoid robotics research ...................................................................................... [4,000]
Social networks and computational social science ................................................... [3,000]
9 0602271N ELECTROMAGNETIC SYSTEMS APPLIED RESEARCH ............................................... 84,994 84,994
10 0602435N OCEAN WARFIGHTING ENVIRONMENT APPLIED RESEARCH .................................. 63,392 63,392
11 0602651M JOINT NON-LETHAL WEAPONS APPLIED RESEARCH ............................................... 6,343 6,343
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00206 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6893
November 16, 2020
SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line
Program
Element
Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
12 0602747N UNDERSEA WARFARE APPLIED RESEARCH .............................................................. 56,397 63,897
Navy and academia submarine partnerships ............................................................. [7,500]
13 0602750N FUTURE NAVAL CAPABILITIES APPLIED RESEARCH .............................................. 167,590 167,590
14 0602782N MINE AND EXPEDITIONARY WARFARE APPLIED RESEARCH ................................. 30,715 30,715
15 0602792N INNOVATIVE NAVAL PROTOTYPES (INP) APPLIED RESEARCH .............................. 160,537 167,837
Thermoplastic materials ........................................................................................... [7,300]
16 0602861N SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT—ONR FIELD ACITIVITIES ................ 76,745 76,745
SUBTOTAL APPLIED RESEARCH .................................................................................. 953,175 995,975
ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
17 0603123N FORCE PROTECTION ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY ........................................................ 24,410 24,410
18 0603271N ELECTROMAGNETIC SYSTEMS ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY ...................................... 8,008 8,008
19 0603640M USMC ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEMONSTRATION (ATD) ....................................... 219,045 222,045
Mission planning advanced technology demonstration ............................................. [3,000]
20 0603651M JOINT NON-LETHAL WEAPONS TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT ............................... 13,301 13,301
21 0603673N FUTURE NAVAL CAPABILITIES ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT ......... 246,054 246,054
22 0603680N MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM .............................................................. 60,122 60,122
23 0603729N WARFIGHTER PROTECTION ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY ........................................... 4,851 4,851
24 0603758N NAVY WARFIGHTING EXPERIMENTS AND DEMONSTRATIONS ............................... 40,709 40,709
25 0603782N MINE AND EXPEDITIONARY WARFARE ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY ........................ 1,948 1,948
26 0603801N INNOVATIVE NAVAL PROTOTYPES (INP) ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOP-
MENT.
141,948 141,948
SUBTOTAL ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT .............................................. 760,396 763,396
ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES
27 0603178N MEDIUM AND LARGE UNMANNED SURFACE VEHICLES (USVS) ............................. 464,042 0
Excess procurement ahead of satisfactory testing .................................................... [–464,042]
28 0603207N AIR/OCEAN TACTICAL APPLICATIONS ....................................................................... 35,386 35,386
29 0603216N AVIATION SURVIVABILITY .......................................................................................... 13,428 13,428
30 0603239N ISO NAVAL CONSTRUCTION FORCES .......................................................................... 2,350 2,350
31 0603251N AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS .................................................................................................... 418 418
32 0603254N ASW SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT ................................................................................... 15,719 15,719
33 0603261N TACTICAL AIRBORNE RECONNAISSANCE .................................................................. 3,411 3,411
34 0603382N ADVANCED COMBAT SYSTEMS TECHNOLOGY .......................................................... 70,218 56,118
Project 3416: HIJENKS insufficient schedule justification ....................................... [–7,000]
Project 3422: SHARC excess platforms ahead of satisfactory testing ........................ [–7,100]
35 0603502N SURFACE AND SHALLOW WATER MINE COUNTERMEASURES ................................ 52,358 24,158
Project 2989: Barracuda program delay ..................................................................... [–28,200]
36 0603506N SURFACE SHIP TORPEDO DEFENSE ........................................................................... 12,816 12,816
37 0603512N CARRIER SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT ........................................................................... 7,559 7,559
38 0603525N PILOT FISH .................................................................................................................... 358,757 358,757
39 0603527N RETRACT LARCH ........................................................................................................... 12,562 12,562
40 0603536N RETRACT JUNIPER ....................................................................................................... 148,000 148,000
41 0603542N RADIOLOGICAL CONTROL ............................................................................................ 778 778
42 0603553N SURFACE ASW ............................................................................................................... 1,161 1,161
43 0603561N ADVANCED SUBMARINE SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT ................................................... 185,356 195,356
Out-of-autoclave submarine technology development .............................................. [20,000]
Project 9710: EDMs early to need .............................................................................. [–10,000]
44 0603562N SUBMARINE TACTICAL WARFARE SYSTEMS ............................................................ 10,528 10,528
45 0603563N SHIP CONCEPT ADVANCED DESIGN ............................................................................ 126,396 63,296
Project 2196: Future surface combatant early to need .............................................. [–19,100]
Project 3161: Program increase for CBM+ initiative ................................................. [16,000]
Project 4044: Medium amphibious ship early to need ................................................ [–30,000]
Project 4045: Medium logistics ship early to need ..................................................... [–30,000]
46 0603564N SHIP PRELIMINARY DESIGN & FEASIBILITY STUDIES ............................................ 70,270 28,970
Project 0411: LSC preliminary design and CDD early to need ................................... [–41,300]
47 0603570N ADVANCED NUCLEAR POWER SYSTEMS .................................................................... 149,188 149,188
48 0603573N ADVANCED SURFACE MACHINERY SYSTEMS ........................................................... 38,449 238,449
Accelerate ITF to achieve full test capability in FY23 ............................................. [75,000]
Accelerate qualification of silicon carbide power modules ....................................... [10,000]
USV autonomy development ..................................................................................... [45,000]
USV engine and generator qualification testing ....................................................... [70,000]
49 0603576N CHALK EAGLE ............................................................................................................... 71,181 71,181
50 0603581N LITTORAL COMBAT SHIP (LCS) ................................................................................... 32,178 27,178
Project 3096: Available prior year funds .................................................................... [–5,000]
51 0603582N COMBAT SYSTEM INTEGRATION ................................................................................ 17,843 17,843
52 0603595N OHIO REPLACEMENT .................................................................................................... 317,196 317,196
53 0603596N LCS MISSION MODULES ............................................................................................... 67,875 32,875
Project 2550: LCS MCM MP outdated IMS and TEMP ............................................... [–20,000]
Project 2551: LCS ASW MP available prior year funds due to testing delays ............ [–15,000]
54 0603597N AUTOMATED TEST AND ANALYSIS ............................................................................ 4,797 4,797
55 0603599N FRIGATE DEVELOPMENT ............................................................................................. 82,309 82,309
56 0603609N CONVENTIONAL MUNITIONS ........................................................................................ 9,922 2,122
Project 0363: Insufficient justification ...................................................................... [–7,800]
57 0603635M MARINE CORPS GROUND COMBAT/SUPPORT SYSTEM ............................................. 189,603 189,603
58 0603654N JOINT SERVICE EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DEVELOPMENT ........................................ 43,084 43,084
59 0603713N OCEAN ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT .............................................. 6,346 6,346
60 0603721N ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION .................................................................................. 20,601 20,601
61 0603724N NAVY ENERGY PROGRAM ............................................................................................ 23,422 23,422
62 0603725N FACILITIES IMPROVEMENT ........................................................................................ 4,664 4,664
63 0603734N CHALK CORAL ............................................................................................................... 545,763 545,763
64 0603739N NAVY LOGISTIC PRODUCTIVITY ................................................................................. 3,884 3,884
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00207 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6894 November 16, 2020
SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line
Program
Element
Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
65 0603746N RETRACT MAPLE .......................................................................................................... 353,226 353,226
66 0603748N LINK PLUMERIA ............................................................................................................ 544,388 544,388
67 0603751N RETRACT ELM ............................................................................................................... 86,730 86,730
68 0603764M LINK EVERGREEN ......................................................................................................... 236,234 236,234
70 0603790N NATO RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ...................................................................... 6,880 6,880
71 0603795N LAND ATTACK TECHNOLOGY ...................................................................................... 10,578 10,578
72 0603851M JOINT NON-LETHAL WEAPONS TESTING ................................................................... 28,435 28,435
73 0603860N JOINT PRECISION APPROACH AND LANDING SYSTEMS—DEM/VAL ....................... 33,612 33,612
74 0603925N DIRECTED ENERGY AND ELECTRIC WEAPON SYSTEMS .......................................... 128,845 113,845
Project 3402: Excess engineering and sustainment support ....................................... [–15,000]
75 0604014N F/A –18 INFRARED SEARCH AND TRACK (IRST) ......................................................... 84,190 84,190
76 0604027N DIGITAL WARFARE OFFICE ......................................................................................... 54,699 54,699
77 0604028N SMALL AND MEDIUM UNMANNED UNDERSEA VEHICLES ....................................... 53,942 53,942
78 0604029N UNMANNED UNDERSEA VEHICLE CORE TECHNOLOGIES ........................................ 40,060 40,060
79 0604030N RAPID PROTOTYPING, EXPERIMENTATION AND DEMONSTRATION. ..................... 12,100 12,100
80 0604031N LARGE UNMANNED UNDERSEA VEHICLES ................................................................ 78,122 42,122
Project 2094: Excess procurement ahead of phase 1 testing ....................................... [–36,000]
81 0604112N GERALD R. FORD CLASS NUCLEAR AIRCRAFT CARRIER (CVN 78—80) .................... 107,895 107,895
82 0604126N LITTORAL AIRBORNE MCM .......................................................................................... 17,366 17,366
83 0604127N SURFACE MINE COUNTERMEASURES ........................................................................ 18,754 18,754
84 0604272N TACTICAL AIR DIRECTIONAL INFRARED COUNTERMEASURES (TADIRCM) ......... 59,776 59,776
86 0604292N FUTURE VERTICAL LIFT (MARITIME STRIKE) ......................................................... 5,097 5,097
87 0604320M RAPID TECHNOLOGY CAPABILITY PROTOTYPE ....................................................... 3,664 3,664
88 0604454N LX (R) .............................................................................................................................. 10,203 10,203
89 0604536N ADVANCED UNDERSEA PROTOTYPING ...................................................................... 115,858 95,858
Orca UUV testing delay and uncertified test strategy .............................................. [–10,000]
Snakehead UUV uncertified test strategy ................................................................. [–10,000]
90 0604636N COUNTER UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS (C-UAS) ............................................... 14,259 14,259
91 0604659N PRECISION STRIKE WEAPONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM ...................................... 1,102,387 1,045,387
Lack of hypersonic prototyping coordination ........................................................... [–5,000]
Project 3334: Excess Virginia-class CPS modification and installation costs ........... [–52,000]
92 0604707N SPACE AND ELECTRONIC WARFARE (SEW) ARCHITECTURE/ENGINEERING SUP-
PORT.
7,657 7,657
93 0604786N OFFENSIVE ANTI-SURFACE WARFARE WEAPON DEVELOPMENT .......................... 35,750 35,750
94 0303354N ASW SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT—MIP ......................................................................... 9,151 9,151
95 0304240M ADVANCED TACTICAL UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEM .......................................... 22,589 22,589
97 0304270N ELECTRONIC WARFARE DEVELOPMENT—MIP .......................................................... 809 809
SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES ..................... 6,503,074 5,926,532
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION
98 0603208N TRAINING SYSTEM AIRCRAFT .................................................................................... 4,332 4,332
99 0604212N OTHER HELO DEVELOPMENT ...................................................................................... 18,133 23,133
Program increase for Attack and Utility Replacement Aircraft .............................. [5,000]
100 0604214M AV–8B AIRCRAFT—ENG DEV ........................................................................................ 20,054 20,054
101 0604215N STANDARDS DEVELOPMENT ....................................................................................... 4,237 4,237
102 0604216N MULTI-MISSION HELICOPTER UPGRADE DEVELOPMENT ....................................... 27,340 27,340
104 0604221N P–3 MODERNIZATION PROGRAM .................................................................................. 606 606
105 0604230N WARFARE SUPPORT SYSTEM ...................................................................................... 9,065 9,065
106 0604231N TACTICAL COMMAND SYSTEM .................................................................................... 97,968 97,968
107 0604234N ADVANCED HAWKEYE .................................................................................................. 309,373 309,373
108 0604245M H–1 UPGRADES ............................................................................................................... 62,310 62,310
109 0604261N ACOUSTIC SEARCH SENSORS ...................................................................................... 47,182 47,182
110 0604262N V–22A ............................................................................................................................... 132,624 132,624
111 0604264N AIR CREW SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT ......................................................................... 21,445 21,445
112 0604269N EA–18 ............................................................................................................................... 106,134 106,134
113 0604270N ELECTRONIC WARFARE DEVELOPMENT ................................................................... 134,194 134,194
114 0604273M EXECUTIVE HELO DEVELOPMENT ............................................................................. 99,321 99,321
115 0604274N NEXT GENERATION JAMMER (NGJ) ............................................................................ 477,680 477,680
116 0604280N JOINT TACTICAL RADIO SYSTEM—NAVY (JTRS-NAVY) ........................................... 232,818 232,818
117 0604282N NEXT GENERATION JAMMER (NGJ) INCREMENT II .................................................. 170,039 170,039
118 0604307N SURFACE COMBATANT COMBAT SYSTEM ENGINEERING ........................................ 403,712 403,712
119 0604311N LPD–17 CLASS SYSTEMS INTEGRATION ..................................................................... 945 945
120 0604329N SMALL DIAMETER BOMB (SDB) ................................................................................... 62,488 62,488
121 0604366N STANDARD MISSILE IMPROVEMENTS ....................................................................... 386,225 386,225
122 0604373N AIRBORNE MCM ............................................................................................................. 10,909 10,909
123 0604378N NAVAL INTEGRATED FIRE CONTROL—COUNTER AIR SYSTEMS ENGINEERING .. 44,548 44,548
124 0604419N ADVANCED SENSORS APPLICATION PROGRAM (ASAP) ........................................... 13,673 13,673
125 0604501N ADVANCED ABOVE WATER SENSORS ......................................................................... 87,809 87,809
126 0604503N SSN–688 AND TRIDENT MODERNIZATION ................................................................... 93,097 93,097
127 0604504N AIR CONTROL ................................................................................................................ 38,863 38,863
128 0604512N SHIPBOARD AVIATION SYSTEMS ................................................................................ 9,593 9,593
129 0604518N COMBAT INFORMATION CENTER CONVERSION ......................................................... 12,718 12,718
130 0604522N AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE RADAR (AMDR) SYSTEM ............................................. 78,319 78,319
131 0604530N ADVANCED ARRESTING GEAR (AAG) ......................................................................... 65,834 65,834
132 0604558N NEW DESIGN SSN .......................................................................................................... 259,443 259,443
133 0604562N SUBMARINE TACTICAL WARFARE SYSTEM .............................................................. 63,878 58,878
AN/BYG–1 APB17 and APB19 testing delays .............................................................. [–5,000]
134 0604567N SHIP CONTRACT DESIGN/ LIVE FIRE T&E .................................................................. 51,853 66,753
Advanced degaussing DDG–51 retrofit and demonstration ........................................ [14,900]
135 0604574N NAVY TACTICAL COMPUTER RESOURCES ................................................................. 3,853 3,853
136 0604601N MINE DEVELOPMENT ................................................................................................... 92,607 92,607
137 0604610N LIGHTWEIGHT TORPEDO DEVELOPMENT .................................................................. 146,012 116,012
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00208 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6895
November 16, 2020
SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line
Program
Element
Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
Project 1412: HAAWC operational testing delays ...................................................... [–10,000]
Project 3418: Mk 54 Mod 2 contract delays ................................................................. [–20,000]
138 0604654N JOINT SERVICE EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DEVELOPMENT ........................................ 8,383 8,383
139 0604657M USMC GROUND COMBAT/SUPPORTING ARMS SYSTEMS—ENG DEV ....................... 33,784 33,784
140 0604703N PERSONNEL, TRAINING, SIMULATION, AND HUMAN FACTORS .............................. 8,599 8,599
141 0604727N JOINT STANDOFF WEAPON SYSTEMS ........................................................................ 73,744 73,744
142 0604755N SHIP SELF DEFENSE (DETECT & CONTROL) .............................................................. 157,490 157,490
143 0604756N SHIP SELF DEFENSE (ENGAGE: HARD KILL) ............................................................. 121,761 121,761
144 0604757N SHIP SELF DEFENSE (ENGAGE: SOFT KILL/EW) ....................................................... 89,373 89,373
145 0604761N INTELLIGENCE ENGINEERING .................................................................................... 15,716 15,716
146 0604771N MEDICAL DEVELOPMENT ............................................................................................ 2,120 2,120
147 0604777N NAVIGATION/ID SYSTEM .............................................................................................. 50,180 50,180
148 0604800M JOINT STRIKE FIGHTER (JSF)—EMD .......................................................................... 561 561
149 0604800N JOINT STRIKE FIGHTER (JSF)—EMD .......................................................................... 250 250
150 0604850N SSN(X) ............................................................................................................................. 1,000 1,000
151 0605013M INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT .......................................................... 974 974
152 0605013N INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT .......................................................... 356,173 356,173
153 0605024N ANTI-TAMPER TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT ..................................................................... 7,810 7,810
154 0605212M CH–53K RDTE .................................................................................................................. 406,406 406,406
155 0605215N MISSION PLANNING ...................................................................................................... 86,134 86,134
156 0605217N COMMON AVIONICS ....................................................................................................... 54,540 54,540
157 0605220N SHIP TO SHORE CONNECTOR (SSC) ............................................................................. 5,155 5,155
158 0605327N T-AO 205 CLASS .............................................................................................................. 5,148 5,148
159 0605414N UNMANNED CARRIER AVIATION (UCA) ...................................................................... 266,970 266,970
160 0605450M JOINT AIR-TO-GROUND MISSILE (JAGM) ................................................................... 12,713 12,713
161 0605500N MULTI-MISSION MARITIME AIRCRAFT (MMA) .......................................................... 24,424 24,424
162 0605504N MULTI-MISSION MARITIME (MMA) INCREMENT III .................................................. 182,870 182,870
163 0605611M MARINE CORPS ASSAULT VEHICLES SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRA-
TION.
41,775 41,775
164 0605813M JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE (JLTV) SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEM-
ONSTRATION.
2,541 2,541
165 0204202N DDG–1000 ......................................................................................................................... 208,448 208,448
169 0304785N TACTICAL CRYPTOLOGIC SYSTEMS ........................................................................... 111,434 111,434
170 0306250M CYBER OPERATIONS TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT ................................................ 26,173 26,173
SUBTOTAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION .......................................... 6,263,883 6,248,783
MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
171 0604256N THREAT SIMULATOR DEVELOPMENT ........................................................................ 22,075 22,075
172 0604258N TARGET SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT ............................................................................ 10,224 10,224
173 0604759N MAJOR T&E INVESTMENT ........................................................................................... 85,195 85,195
175 0605152N STUDIES AND ANALYSIS SUPPORT—NAVY ............................................................... 3,089 3,089
176 0605154N CENTER FOR NAVAL ANALYSES ................................................................................. 43,517 43,517
179 0605804N TECHNICAL INFORMATION SERVICES ....................................................................... 932 932
180 0605853N MANAGEMENT, TECHNICAL & INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT ..................................... 94,297 94,297
181 0605856N STRATEGIC TECHNICAL SUPPORT ............................................................................. 3,813 3,813
183 0605863N RDT&E SHIP AND AIRCRAFT SUPPORT ...................................................................... 104,822 104,822
184 0605864N TEST AND EVALUATION SUPPORT ............................................................................. 446,960 446,960
185 0605865N OPERATIONAL TEST AND EVALUATION CAPABILITY ............................................. 27,241 27,241
186 0605866N NAVY SPACE AND ELECTRONIC WARFARE (SEW) SUPPORT ................................... 15,787 15,787
187 0605867N SEW SURVEILLANCE/RECONNAISSANCE SUPPORT .................................................. 8,559 8,559
188 0605873M MARINE CORPS PROGRAM WIDE SUPPORT ............................................................... 42,749 42,749
189 0605898N MANAGEMENT HQ—R&D .............................................................................................. 41,094 41,094
190 0606355N WARFARE INNOVATION MANAGEMENT ..................................................................... 37,022 37,022
193 0305327N INSIDER THREAT .......................................................................................................... 2,310 2,310
194 0902498N MANAGEMENT HEADQUARTERS (DEPARTMENTAL SUPPORT ACTIVITIES) ......... 1,536 1,536
SUBTOTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT ........................................................................... 991,222 991,222
OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
199 0604227N HARPOON MODIFICATIONS .......................................................................................... 697 697
200 0604840M F–35 C2D2 ......................................................................................................................... 379,549 379,549
201 0604840N F–35 C2D2 ......................................................................................................................... 413,875 413,875
202 0607658N COOPERATIVE ENGAGEMENT CAPABILITY (CEC) ..................................................... 143,667 143,667
204 0101221N STRATEGIC SUB & WEAPONS SYSTEM SUPPORT ..................................................... 173,056 173,056
205 0101224N SSBN SECURITY TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM ................................................................. 45,970 45,970
206 0101226N SUBMARINE ACOUSTIC WARFARE DEVELOPMENT .................................................. 69,190 61,190
CRAW EDM (TI–2) early to need ............................................................................... [–8,000]
207 0101402N NAVY STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS ........................................................................ 42,277 42,277
208 0204136N F/A–18 SQUADRONS ........................................................................................................ 171,030 171,030
210 0204228N SURFACE SUPPORT ...................................................................................................... 33,482 33,482
211 0204229N TOMAHAWK AND TOMAHAWK MISSION PLANNING CENTER (TMPC) ..................... 200,308 200,308
212 0204311N INTEGRATED SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM ..................................................................... 102,975 152,975
Accelerate sensor and signal processing development .............................................. [25,000]
Program increase for spiral 1 TRAPS units .............................................................. [25,000]
213 0204313N SHIP-TOWED ARRAY SURVEILLANCE SYSTEMS ...................................................... 10,873 10,873
214 0204413N AMPHIBIOUS TACTICAL SUPPORT UNITS (DISPLACEMENT CRAFT) ..................... 1,713 6,713
Program increase for LCAC composite component manufacturing .......................... [5,000]
215 0204460M GROUND/AIR TASK ORIENTED RADAR (G/ATOR) ....................................................... 22,205 105,805
Program increase for G/ATOR and SM–6 stand-alone engagement analysis ............. [10,000]
Program increase for USMC G/ATOR and SM–6 demonstration ................................ [73,600]
216 0204571N CONSOLIDATED TRAINING SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT ............................................. 83,956 83,956
218 0204575N ELECTRONIC WARFARE (EW) READINESS SUPPORT ............................................... 56,791 56,791
219 0205601N HARM IMPROVEMENT .................................................................................................. 146,166 146,166
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00209 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6896 November 16, 2020
SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line
Program
Element
Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
221 0205620N SURFACE ASW COMBAT SYSTEM INTEGRATION ...................................................... 29,348 29,348
222 0205632N MK–48 ADCAP ................................................................................................................. 110,349 110,349
223 0205633N AVIATION IMPROVEMENTS ......................................................................................... 133,953 133,953
224 0205675N OPERATIONAL NUCLEAR POWER SYSTEMS .............................................................. 110,313 110,313
225 0206313M MARINE CORPS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS .......................................................... 207,662 207,662
226 0206335M COMMON AVIATION COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEM (CAC2S) ............................ 4,406 4,406
227 0206623M MARINE CORPS GROUND COMBAT/SUPPORTING ARMS SYSTEMS ......................... 61,381 61,381
228 0206624M MARINE CORPS COMBAT SERVICES SUPPORT .......................................................... 10,421 10,421
229 0206625M USMC INTELLIGENCE/ELECTRONIC WARFARE SYSTEMS (MIP) ............................. 29,977 29,977
230 0206629M AMPHIBIOUS ASSAULT VEHICLE ................................................................................ 6,469 6,469
231 0207161N TACTICAL AIM MISSILES ............................................................................................. 5,859 5,859
232 0207163N ADVANCED MEDIUM RANGE AIR-TO-AIR MISSILE (AMRAAM) ................................ 44,323 44,323
236 0303109N SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS (SPACE) .................................................................... 41,978 41,978
237 0303138N CONSOLIDATED AFLOAT NETWORK ENTERPRISE SERVICES (CANES) .................. 29,684 29,684
238 0303140N INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY PROGRAM ........................................................ 39,094 39,094
239 0305192N MILITARY INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM (MIP) ACTIVITIES ......................................... 6,154 6,154
240 0305204N TACTICAL UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLES ................................................................ 7,108 7,108
241 0305205N UAS INTEGRATION AND INTEROPERABILITY ........................................................... 62,098 62,098
242 0305208M DISTRIBUTED COMMON GROUND/SURFACE SYSTEMS ............................................. 21,500 21,500
244 0305220N MQ–4C TRITON ............................................................................................................... 11,120 11,120
245 0305231N MQ–8 UAV ........................................................................................................................ 28,968 28,968
246 0305232M RQ–11 UAV ....................................................................................................................... 537 537
247 0305234N SMALL (LEVEL 0) TACTICAL UAS (STUASL0) ............................................................ 8,773 8,773
248 0305239M RQ–21A ............................................................................................................................. 10,853 10,853
249 0305241N MULTI-INTELLIGENCE SENSOR DEVELOPMENT ...................................................... 60,413 60,413
250 0305242M UNMANNED AERIAL SYSTEMS (UAS) PAYLOADS (MIP) ........................................... 5,000 5,000
251 0305251N CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS FORCES AND FORCE SUPPORT ................................... 34,967 44,967
Cyber tool development ............................................................................................. [10,000]
252 0305421N RQ–4 MODERNIZATION .................................................................................................. 178,799 178,799
253 0307577N INTELLIGENCE MISSION DATA (IMD) ......................................................................... 2,120 2,120
254 0308601N MODELING AND SIMULATION SUPPORT .................................................................... 8,683 8,683
255 0702207N DEPOT MAINTENANCE (NON-IF) .................................................................................. 45,168 45,168
256 0708730N MARITIME TECHNOLOGY (MARITECH) ....................................................................... 6,697 6,697
257 1203109N SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS (SPACE) .................................................................... 70,056 70,056
999 9999999999 CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS .............................................................................................. 1,795,032 1,795,032
SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT ................................................. 5,327,043 5,467,643
SOFTWARE AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY PILOT PROGRAMS
258 0608013N RISK MANAGEMENT INFORMATION—SOFTWARE PILOT PROGRAM ...................... 14,300 14,300
259 0608231N MARITIME TACTICAL COMMAND AND CONTROL (MTC2)—SOFTWARE PILOT
PROGRAM.
10,868 10,868
SUBTOTAL SOFTWARE AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY PILOT PROGRAMS .................. 25,168 25,168
TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST & EVAL, NAVY .......................................... 21,427,048 21,036,806
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST & EVAL, AF
BASIC RESEARCH
1 0601102F DEFENSE RESEARCH SCIENCES ................................................................................. 315,348 325,348
Increase in basic research ......................................................................................... [10,000]
2 0601103F UNIVERSITY RESEARCH INITIATIVES ....................................................................... 161,861 161,861
3 0601108F HIGH ENERGY LASER RESEARCH INITIATIVES ........................................................ 15,085 15,085
SUBTOTAL BASIC RESEARCH ....................................................................................... 492,294 502,294
APPLIED RESEARCH
4 0602020F FUTURE AF CAPABILITIES APPLIED RESEARCH ..................................................... 100,000 100,000
5 0602102F MATERIALS ................................................................................................................... 140,781 160,281
High-energy synchotron x-ray program .................................................................... [5,000]
Materials maturation for high mach systems ........................................................... [5,000]
Metals Affordability Initiative .................................................................................. [5,000]
Qualification of additive manufacturing processes ................................................... [2,000]
Techniques to repair fasteners .................................................................................. [2,500]
6 0602201F AEROSPACE VEHICLE TECHNOLOGIES ...................................................................... 349,225 359,225
Hypersonic materials ................................................................................................ [10,000]
7 0602202F HUMAN EFFECTIVENESS APPLIED RESEARCH ........................................................ 115,222 115,222
9 0602204F AEROSPACE SENSORS .................................................................................................. 211,301 211,301
11 0602298F SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT— MAJOR HEADQUARTERS ACTIVI-
TIES.
8,926 8,926
12 0602602F CONVENTIONAL MUNITIONS ........................................................................................ 132,425 132,425
13 0602605F DIRECTED ENERGY TECHNOLOGY .............................................................................. 128,113 128,113
14 0602788F DOMINANT INFORMATION SCIENCES AND METHODS .............................................. 178,668 178,668
15 0602890F HIGH ENERGY LASER RESEARCH ............................................................................... 45,088 45,088
SUBTOTAL APPLIED RESEARCH .................................................................................. 1,409,749 1,439,249
ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
17 0603030F AF FOUNDATIONAL DEVELOPMENT/DEMOS ............................................................. 103,280 103,280
18 0603032F FUTURE AF INTEGRATED TECHNOLOGY DEMOS ..................................................... 157,619 107,619
Golden Horde too mature for science and technology prototype .............................. [–50,000]
19 0603033F NEXT GEN PLATFORM DEV/DEMO .............................................................................. 199,556 208,556
B–52 pylon fairings .................................................................................................... [3,000]
C–130 finlets ............................................................................................................... [3,000]
KC–135 aft body drag .................................................................................................. [3,000]
20 0603034F PERSISTENT KNOWLEDGE, AWARENESS, & C2 TECH ............................................... 102,276 102,276
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00210 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6897
November 16, 2020
SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line
Program
Element
Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
21 0603035F NEXT GEN EFFECTS DEV/DEMOS ................................................................................ 215,817 215,817
SUBTOTAL ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT .............................................. 778,548 737,548
ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES
38 0603260F INTELLIGENCE ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT ............................................................. 4,320 4,320
39 0603742F COMBAT IDENTIFICATION TECHNOLOGY .................................................................. 26,396 26,396
40 0603790F NATO RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ...................................................................... 3,647 3,647
41 0603851F INTERCONTINENTAL BALLISTIC MISSILE—DEM/VAL ............................................. 32,959 32,959
43 0604002F AIR FORCE WEATHER SERVICES RESEARCH ............................................................ 869 869
44 0604003F ADVANCED BATTLE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (ABMS) .............................................. 302,323 302,323
45 0604004F ADVANCED ENGINE DEVELOPMENT .......................................................................... 636,495 686,495
AETP program acceleration ...................................................................................... [50,000]
46 0604015F LONG RANGE STRIKE—BOMBER ................................................................................. 2,848,410 2,848,410
47 0604032F DIRECTED ENERGY PROTOTYPING ............................................................................ 20,964 25,964
Directed energy counter-Unmanned Aerial Systems (CUAS) .................................... [5,000]
48 0604033F HYPERSONICS PROTOTYPING ..................................................................................... 381,862 446,862
HAWC program increase ............................................................................................ [65,000]
50 0604257F ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY AND SENSORS .................................................................. 24,747 24,747
51 0604288F NATIONAL AIRBORNE OPS CENTER (NAOC) RECAP .................................................. 76,417 76,417
52 0604317F TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER ............................................................................................ 3,011 3,011
53 0604327F HARD AND DEEPLY BURIED TARGET DEFEAT SYSTEM (HDBTDS) PROGRAM ..... 52,921 52,921
54 0604414F CYBER RESILIENCY OF WEAPON SYSTEMS-ACS ...................................................... 69,783 69,783
55 0604776F DEPLOYMENT & DISTRIBUTION ENTERPRISE R&D ................................................. 25,835 25,835
56 0604858F TECH TRANSITION PROGRAM ..................................................................................... 219,252 455,252
Agile software development and operations .............................................................. [4,500]
Initial polar MILSATCOM capability ....................................................................... [46,000]
KC–135 vertical wipers ............................................................................................... [2,000]
KC–135 winglets ......................................................................................................... [10,000]
LCAAT program acceleration ................................................................................... [128,000]
Long-endurance UAS ................................................................................................. [33,500]
Rapid repair of high performance materials ............................................................. [6,000]
Small satellite acceleration ...................................................................................... [6,000]
57 0605230F GROUND BASED STRATEGIC DETERRENT ................................................................. 1,524,759 1,524,759
59 0207110F NEXT GENERATION AIR DOMINANCE ......................................................................... 1,044,089 1,044,089
60 0207455F THREE DIMENSIONAL LONG-RANGE RADAR (3DELRR) ............................................ 19,356 19,356
61 0207522F AIRBASE AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS (ABADS) ............................................................... 8,737 8,737
62 0208099F UNIFIED PLATFORM (UP) ............................................................................................. 5,990 5,990
63 0305236F COMMON DATA LINK EXECUTIVE AGENT (CDL EA) .................................................. 39,293 39,293
65 0305601F MISSION PARTNER ENVIRONMENTS .......................................................................... 11,430 11,430
66 0306250F CYBER OPERATIONS TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT ................................................ 259,823 259,823
67 0306415F ENABLED CYBER ACTIVITIES ..................................................................................... 10,560 10,560
68 0401310F C–32 EXECUTIVE TRANSPORT RECAPITALIZATION .................................................. 9,908 9,908
69 0901410F CONTRACTING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SYSTEM ............................................. 8,662 8,662
74 1206427F SPACE SYSTEMS PROTOTYPE TRANSITIONS (SSPT) ............................................... 8,787 8,787
77 1206730F SPACE SECURITY AND DEFENSE PROGRAM ............................................................. 56,311 56,311
SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES ..................... 7,737,916 8,093,916
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION
82 0604200F FUTURE ADVANCED WEAPON ANALYSIS & PROGRAMS .......................................... 25,161 25,161
83 0604201F PNT RESILIENCY, MODS, AND IMPROVEMENTS ....................................................... 38,564 38,564
84 0604222F NUCLEAR WEAPONS SUPPORT .................................................................................... 35,033 35,033
85 0604270F ELECTRONIC WARFARE DEVELOPMENT ................................................................... 2,098 2,098
86 0604281F TACTICAL DATA NETWORKS ENTERPRISE ............................................................... 131,909 131,909
87 0604287F PHYSICAL SECURITY EQUIPMENT ............................................................................. 6,752 6,752
88 0604329F SMALL DIAMETER BOMB (SDB)—EMD ........................................................................ 17,280 17,280
89 0604429F AIRBORNE ELECTRONIC ATTACK ............................................................................... 0 30,000
STiTCHES integration .............................................................................................. [30,000]
90 0604602F ARMAMENT/ORDNANCE DEVELOPMENT ................................................................... 23,076 23,076
91 0604604F SUBMUNITIONS ............................................................................................................. 3,091 3,091
92 0604617F AGILE COMBAT SUPPORT ............................................................................................ 20,609 20,609
93 0604618F JOINT DIRECT ATTACK MUNITION ............................................................................. 7,926 7,926
94 0604706F LIFE SUPPORT SYSTEMS ............................................................................................. 23,660 23,660
95 0604735F COMBAT TRAINING RANGES ........................................................................................ 8,898 8,898
96 0604800F F–35—EMD ....................................................................................................................... 5,423 5,423
97 0604932F LONG RANGE STANDOFF WEAPON ............................................................................. 474,430 474,430
98 0604933F ICBM FUZE MODERNIZATION ...................................................................................... 167,099 167,099
100 0605056F OPEN ARCHITECTURE MANAGEMENT ........................................................................ 30,547 30,547
102 0605223F ADVANCED PILOT TRAINING ....................................................................................... 248,669 254,669
SLATE/VR training ................................................................................................... [6,000]
103 0605229F COMBAT RESCUE HELICOPTER ................................................................................... 63,169 63,169
105 0101125F NUCLEAR WEAPONS MODERNIZATION ...................................................................... 9,683 9,683
106 0207171F F–15 EPAWSS .................................................................................................................. 170,679 170,679
107 0207328F STAND IN ATTACK WEAPON ........................................................................................ 160,438 160,438
108 0207701F FULL COMBAT MISSION TRAINING ............................................................................. 9,422 9,422
110 0305176F COMBAT SURVIVOR EVADER LOCATOR ..................................................................... 973 973
111 0401221F KC–46A TANKER SQUADRONS ...................................................................................... 106,262 106,262
113 0401319F VC–25B ............................................................................................................................. 800,889 800,889
114 0701212F AUTOMATED TEST SYSTEMS ...................................................................................... 10,673 10,673
115 0804772F TRAINING DEVELOPMENTS ......................................................................................... 4,479 4,479
116 0901299F AF A1 SYSTEMS ............................................................................................................. 8,467 8,467
SUBTOTAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION .......................................... 2,615,359 2,651,359
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00211 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6898 November 16, 2020
SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line
Program
Element
Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
131 0604256F THREAT SIMULATOR DEVELOPMENT ........................................................................ 57,725 57,725
132 0604759F MAJOR T&E INVESTMENT ........................................................................................... 208,680 223,680
Gulf Range telemetric modernization ....................................................................... [15,000]
133 0605101F RAND PROJECT AIR FORCE ......................................................................................... 35,803 35,803
135 0605712F INITIAL OPERATIONAL TEST & EVALUATION .......................................................... 13,557 13,557
136 0605807F TEST AND EVALUATION SUPPORT ............................................................................. 764,606 764,606
142 0605831F ACQ WORKFORCE- CAPABILITY INTEGRATION ......................................................... 1,362,038 1,362,038
143 0605832F ACQ WORKFORCE- ADVANCED PRGM TECHNOLOGY ................................................ 40,768 40,768
144 0605833F ACQ WORKFORCE- NUCLEAR SYSTEMS ..................................................................... 179,646 179,646
145 0605898F MANAGEMENT HQ—R&D .............................................................................................. 5,734 5,734
146 0605976F FACILITIES RESTORATION AND MODERNIZATION—TEST AND EVALUATION
SUPPORT.
70,985 70,985
147 0605978F FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT—TEST AND EVALUATION SUPPORT ........................... 29,880 29,880
148 0606017F REQUIREMENTS ANALYSIS AND MATURATION ........................................................ 63,381 63,381
149 0606398F MANAGEMENT HQ—T&E ............................................................................................... 5,785 5,785
150 0303255F COMMAND, CONTROL, COMMUNICATION, AND COMPUTERS (C4)—STRATCOM ...... 24,564 24,564
151 0308602F ENTEPRISE INFORMATION SERVICES (EIS) .............................................................. 9,883 2,383
Acq strat incompatible with AF digital mod strategy .............................................. [–7,500]
152 0702806F ACQUISITION AND MANAGEMENT SUPPORT ............................................................. 13,384 13,384
153 0804731F GENERAL SKILL TRAINING ......................................................................................... 1,262 1,262
155 1001004F INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES ...................................................................................... 3,599 3,599
SUBTOTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT ........................................................................... 2,891,280 2,898,780
OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
163 0604233F SPECIALIZED UNDERGRADUATE FLIGHT TRAINING ............................................... 8,777 8,777
164 0604776F DEPLOYMENT & DISTRIBUTION ENTERPRISE R&D ................................................. 499 499
165 0604840F F–35 C2D2 ......................................................................................................................... 785,336 785,336
166 0605018F AF INTEGRATED PERSONNEL AND PAY SYSTEM (AF-IPPS) ................................... 27,035 7,035
Poor agile development strategy ............................................................................... [–20,000]
167 0605024F ANTI-TAMPER TECHNOLOGY EXECUTIVE AGENCY .................................................. 50,508 50,508
168 0605117F FOREIGN MATERIEL ACQUISITION AND EXPLOITATION ......................................... 71,229 71,229
169 0605278F HC/MC–130 RECAP RDT&E .............................................................................................. 24,705 24,705
170 0606018F NC3 INTEGRATION ......................................................................................................... 26,356 26,356
172 0101113F B–52 SQUADRONS ........................................................................................................... 520,023 520,023
173 0101122F AIR-LAUNCHED CRUISE MISSILE (ALCM) .................................................................. 1,433 1,433
174 0101126F B–1B SQUADRONS .......................................................................................................... 15,766 26,566
USAF-requested transfer from APAF Lines 22, 24 ..................................................... [10,800]
175 0101127F B–2 SQUADRONS ............................................................................................................ 187,399 187,399
176 0101213F MINUTEMAN SQUADRONS ............................................................................................ 116,569 116,569
177 0101316F WORLDWIDE JOINT STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS ................................................ 27,235 27,235
178 0101324F INTEGRATED STRATEGIC PLANNING & ANALYSIS NETWORK ............................... 24,227 24,227
179 0101328F ICBM REENTRY VEHICLES ........................................................................................... 112,753 112,753
181 0102110F UH–1N REPLACEMENT PROGRAM ............................................................................... 44,464 44,464
182 0102326F REGION/SECTOR OPERATION CONTROL CENTER MODERNIZATION PROGRAM .... 5,929 5,929
183 0102412F NORTH WARNING SYSTEM (NWS) ................................................................................ 100 100
184 0205219F MQ–9 UAV ........................................................................................................................ 162,080 162,080
186 0207131F A–10 SQUADRONS ........................................................................................................... 24,535 24,535
187 0207133F F–16 SQUADRONS ........................................................................................................... 223,437 223,437
188 0207134F F–15E SQUADRONS ......................................................................................................... 298,908 298,908
189 0207136F MANNED DESTRUCTIVE SUPPRESSION ..................................................................... 14,960 14,960
190 0207138F F–22A SQUADRONS ........................................................................................................ 665,038 665,038
191 0207142F F–35 SQUADRONS ........................................................................................................... 132,229 132,229
192 0207146F F–15EX ............................................................................................................................. 159,761 159,761
193 0207161F TACTICAL AIM MISSILES ............................................................................................. 19,417 19,417
194 0207163F ADVANCED MEDIUM RANGE AIR-TO-AIR MISSILE (AMRAAM) ................................ 51,799 51,799
195 0207227F COMBAT RESCUE—PARARESCUE ................................................................................ 669 669
196 0207247F AF TENCAP .................................................................................................................... 21,644 21,644
197 0207249F PRECISION ATTACK SYSTEMS PROCUREMENT ........................................................ 9,261 9,261
198 0207253F COMPASS CALL ............................................................................................................. 15,854 15,854
199 0207268F AIRCRAFT ENGINE COMPONENT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM .................................. 95,896 95,896
200 0207325F JOINT AIR-TO-SURFACE STANDOFF MISSILE (JASSM) ............................................ 70,792 70,792
201 0207410F AIR & SPACE OPERATIONS CENTER (AOC) ................................................................. 51,187 51,187
202 0207412F CONTROL AND REPORTING CENTER (CRC) ................................................................ 16,041 16,041
203 0207417F AIRBORNE WARNING AND CONTROL SYSTEM (AWACS) ........................................... 138,303 138,303
204 0207418F AFSPECWAR—TACP ...................................................................................................... 4,223 4,223
206 0207431F COMBAT AIR INTELLIGENCE SYSTEM ACTIVITIES .................................................. 16,564 16,564
207 0207438F THEATER BATTLE MANAGEMENT (TBM) C4I ............................................................. 7,858 7,858
208 0207444F TACTICAL AIR CONTROL PARTY-MOD ....................................................................... 12,906 12,906
210 0207452F DCAPES .......................................................................................................................... 14,816 14,816
211 0207521F AIR FORCE CALIBRATION PROGRAMS ....................................................................... 1,970 1,970
212 0207573F NATIONAL TECHNICAL NUCLEAR FORENSICS .......................................................... 396 396
213 0207590F SEEK EAGLE .................................................................................................................. 29,680 29,680
214 0207601F USAF MODELING AND SIMULATION ........................................................................... 17,666 17,666
215 0207605F WARGAMING AND SIMULATION CENTERS ................................................................. 6,353 6,353
216 0207610F BATTLEFIELD ABN COMM NODE (BACN) .................................................................... 6,827 6,827
217 0207697F DISTRIBUTED TRAINING AND EXERCISES ................................................................ 3,390 3,390
218 0208006F MISSION PLANNING SYSTEMS .................................................................................... 91,768 91,768
219 0208007F TACTICAL DECEPTION ................................................................................................. 2,370 2,370
220 0208064F OPERATIONAL HQ—CYBER .......................................................................................... 5,527 5,527
221 0208087F DISTRIBUTED CYBER WARFARE OPERATIONS ......................................................... 68,279 68,279
222 0208088F AF DEFENSIVE CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS .............................................................. 15,165 15,165
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00212 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6899
November 16, 2020
SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line
Program
Element
Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
223 0208097F JOINT CYBER COMMAND AND CONTROL (JCC2) ......................................................... 38,480 38,480
224 0208099F UNIFIED PLATFORM (UP) ............................................................................................. 84,645 84,645
230 0301025F GEOBASE ........................................................................................................................ 2,767 2,767
231 0301112F NUCLEAR PLANNING AND EXECUTION SYSTEM (NPES) .......................................... 32,759 32,759
238 0301401F AIR FORCE SPACE AND CYBER NON-TRADITIONAL ISR FOR BATTLESPACE
AWARENESS.
2,904 2,904
239 0302015F E–4B NATIONAL AIRBORNE OPERATIONS CENTER (NAOC) ...................................... 3,468 3,468
240 0303131F MINIMUM ESSENTIAL EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK (MEECN) ........ 61,887 61,887
242 0303140F INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY PROGRAM ........................................................ 10,351 10,351
243 0303142F GLOBAL FORCE MANAGEMENT—DATA INITIATIVE ................................................. 1,346 1,346
246 0304260F AIRBORNE SIGINT ENTERPRISE ................................................................................. 128,110 128,110
247 0304310F COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .......................................................................... 4,042 4,042
251 0305020F CCMD INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ................................................ 1,649 1,649
252 0305022F ISR MODERNIZATION & AUTOMATION DVMT (IMAD) ............................................... 19,265 19,265
253 0305099F GLOBAL AIR TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT (GATM) .......................................................... 4,645 4,645
254 0305103F CYBER SECURITY INITIATIVE ..................................................................................... 384 384
255 0305111F WEATHER SERVICE ...................................................................................................... 23,640 23,640
256 0305114F AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL, APPROACH, AND LANDING SYSTEM (ATCALS) ............... 6,553 6,553
257 0305116F AERIAL TARGETS ......................................................................................................... 449 449
260 0305128F SECURITY AND INVESTIGATIVE ACTIVITIES ........................................................... 432 432
262 0305146F DEFENSE JOINT COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES ........................................... 4,890 4,890
264 0305179F INTEGRATED BROADCAST SERVICE (IBS) ................................................................. 8,864 8,864
265 0305202F DRAGON U–2 ................................................................................................................... 18,660 18,660
267 0305206F AIRBORNE RECONNAISSANCE SYSTEMS ................................................................... 121,512 121,512
268 0305207F MANNED RECONNAISSANCE SYSTEMS ...................................................................... 14,711 14,711
269 0305208F DISTRIBUTED COMMON GROUND/SURFACE SYSTEMS ............................................. 14,152 14,152
270 0305220F RQ–4 UAV ........................................................................................................................ 134,589 134,589
271 0305221F NETWORK-CENTRIC COLLABORATIVE TARGETING ................................................. 15,049 15,049
272 0305238F NATO AGS ....................................................................................................................... 36,731 36,731
273 0305240F SUPPORT TO DCGS ENTERPRISE ................................................................................ 33,547 33,547
274 0305600F INTERNATIONAL INTELLIGENCE TECHNOLOGY AND ARCHITECTURES ............... 13,635 17,315
PDI: Mission Partner Environment BICES-X Project 675898 ..................................... [3,680]
275 0305881F RAPID CYBER ACQUISITION ........................................................................................ 4,262 4,262
276 0305984F PERSONNEL RECOVERY COMMAND & CTRL (PRC2) .................................................. 2,207 2,207
277 0307577F INTELLIGENCE MISSION DATA (IMD) ......................................................................... 6,277 6,277
278 0401115F C–130 AIRLIFT SQUADRON ............................................................................................ 41,973 41,973
279 0401119F C–5 AIRLIFT SQUADRONS (IF) ...................................................................................... 32,560 32,560
280 0401130F C–17 AIRCRAFT (IF) ....................................................................................................... 9,991 12,991
C–17 microvanes ......................................................................................................... [3,000]
281 0401132F C–130J PROGRAM ........................................................................................................... 10,674 10,674
282 0401134F LARGE AIRCRAFT IR COUNTERMEASURES (LAIRCM) .............................................. 5,507 5,507
283 0401218F KC–135S ............................................................................................................................ 4,591 4,591
286 0401318F CV–22 ............................................................................................................................... 18,419 18,419
288 0408011F SPECIAL TACTICS / COMBAT CONTROL ...................................................................... 7,673 7,673
290 0708055F MAINTENANCE, REPAIR & OVERHAUL SYSTEM ....................................................... 24,513 24,513
291 0708610F LOGISTICS INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (LOGIT) .................................................... 35,225 15,225
Poor agile development strategy ............................................................................... [–20,000]
292 0708611F SUPPORT SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT .......................................................................... 11,838 11,838
293 0804743F OTHER FLIGHT TRAINING ........................................................................................... 1,332 1,332
295 0901202F JOINT PERSONNEL RECOVERY AGENCY .................................................................... 2,092 2,092
296 0901218F CIVILIAN COMPENSATION PROGRAM ......................................................................... 3,869 3,869
297 0901220F PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION ................................................................................... 1,584 1,584
298 0901226F AIR FORCE STUDIES AND ANALYSIS AGENCY .......................................................... 1,197 1,197
299 0901538F FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT .................. 7,006 7,006
300 0901554F DEFENSE ENTERPRISE ACNTNG AND MGT SYS (DEAMS) ....................................... 45,638 45,638
301 1201017F GLOBAL SENSOR INTEGRATED ON NETWORK (GSIN) .............................................. 1,889 1,889
302 1201921F SERVICE SUPPORT TO STRATCOM—SPACE ACTIVITIES ......................................... 993 993
303 1202140F SERVICE SUPPORT TO SPACECOM ACTIVITIES ........................................................ 8,999 8,999
314 1203400F SPACE SUPERIORITY INTELLIGENCE ........................................................................ 16,810 16,810
316 1203620F NATIONAL SPACE DEFENSE CENTER ......................................................................... 2,687 2,687
318 1203906F NCMC—TW/AA SYSTEM ................................................................................................. 6,990 6,990
999 9999999999 CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS .............................................................................................. 15,777,856 15,839,856
Air-to-air weapons development increase ................................................................. [62,000]
SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT ................................................. 21,466,680 21,506,160
TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST & EVAL, AF ............................................... 37,391,826 37,829,306
RDTE, SPACE FORCE
APPLIED RESEARCH
1 1206601SF SPACE TECHNOLOGY .................................................................................................... 130,874 133,874
Small satellite mission operations facility ............................................................... [3,000]
SUBTOTAL APPLIED RESEARCH .................................................................................. 130,874 133,874
ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES
2 1203164SF NAVSTAR GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (USER EQUIPMENT) (SPACE) .............. 390,704 370,704
MGUE program slip ................................................................................................... [–20,000]
3 1203710SF EO/IR WEATHER SYSTEMS ........................................................................................... 131,000 131,000
4 1206422SF WEATHER SYSTEM FOLLOW-ON ................................................................................. 83,384 83,384
5 1206425SF SPACE SITUATION AWARENESS SYSTEMS ................................................................ 33,359 33,359
6 1206427SF SPACE SYSTEMS PROTOTYPE TRANSITIONS (SSPT) ............................................... 142,808 142,808
7 1206438SF SPACE CONTROL TECHNOLOGY .................................................................................. 35,575 35,575
8 1206760SF PROTECTED TACTICAL ENTERPRISE SERVICE (PTES) ............................................ 114,390 114,390
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00213 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6900 November 16, 2020
SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line
Program
Element
Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
9 1206761SF PROTECTED TACTICAL SERVICE (PTS) ...................................................................... 205,178 205,178
10 1206855SF EVOLVED STRATEGIC SATCOM (ESS) ......................................................................... 71,395 71,395
11 1206857SF SPACE RAPID CAPABILITIES OFFICE ......................................................................... 103,518 103,518
SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES ..................... 1,311,311 1,291,311
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION
12 1203269SF GPS III FOLLOW-ON (GPS IIIF) ..................................................................................... 263,496 263,496
13 1203940SF SPACE SITUATION AWARENESS OPERATIONS .......................................................... 41,897 41,897
14 1206421SF COUNTERSPACE SYSTEMS .......................................................................................... 54,689 54,689
15 1206422SFZ WEATHER SYSTEM FOLLOW-ON ................................................................................. 2,526 2,526
16 1206425SFZ SPACE SITUATION AWARENESS SYSTEMS ................................................................ 173,074 173,074
17 1206431SF ADVANCED EHF MILSATCOM (SPACE) ....................................................................... 138,257 138,257
18 1206432SF POLAR MILSATCOM (SPACE) ....................................................................................... 190,235 190,235
19 1206442SF NEXT GENERATION OPIR ............................................................................................. 2,318,864 2,318,864
20 1206853SF NATIONAL SECURITY SPACE LAUNCH PROGRAM (SPACE)—EMD .......................... 560,978 590,978
NSSL Phase 3 integration activities program ........................................................... [30,000]
SUBTOTAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION .......................................... 3,744,016 3,774,016
MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
21 1206116SF SPACE TEST AND TRAINING RANGE DEVELOPMENT .............................................. 20,281 20,281
22 1206392SF ACQ WORKFORCE—SPACE & MISSILE SYSTEMS ....................................................... 183,930 183,930
23 1206398SF SPACE & MISSILE SYSTEMS CENTER—MHA ............................................................. 9,765 9,765
24 1206860SF ROCKET SYSTEMS LAUNCH PROGRAM (SPACE) ....................................................... 17,993 17,993
25 1206864SF SPACE TEST PROGRAM (STP) ...................................................................................... 26,541 26,541
SUBTOTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT ........................................................................... 258,510 258,510
OPERATIONAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT
26 1201017SF GLOBAL SENSOR INTEGRATED ON NETWORK (GSIN) .............................................. 3,708 3,708
27 1203001SF FAMILY OF ADVANCED BLOS TERMINALS (FAB-T) .................................................. 247,229 247,229
28 1203110SF SATELLITE CONTROL NETWORK (SPACE) ................................................................. 75,480 75,480
29 1203165SF NAVSTAR GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (SPACE AND CONTROL SEGMENTS) ... 1,984 1,984
30 1203173SF SPACE AND MISSILE TEST AND EVALUATION CENTER .......................................... 4,397 4,397
31 1203174SF SPACE INNOVATION, INTEGRATION AND RAPID TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT 44,746 44,746
32 1203182SF SPACELIFT RANGE SYSTEM (SPACE) ......................................................................... 11,020 11,020
33 1203265SF GPS III SPACE SEGMENT .............................................................................................. 10,777 10,777
34 1203873SF BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE RADARS .................................................................... 28,179 46,679
Cobra Dane service life extension ............................................................................. [18,500]
35 1203913SF NUDET DETECTION SYSTEM (SPACE) ........................................................................ 29,157 29,157
36 1203940SFZ SPACE SITUATION AWARENESS OPERATIONS .......................................................... 44,809 51,809
Commercial SSA ....................................................................................................... [7,000]
37 1206423SF GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM III—OPERATIONAL CONTROL SEGMENT ............. 481,999 416,999
Funds available prioritized to other space missions ................................................. [–65,000]
41 1206770SF ENTERPRISE GROUND SERVICES ............................................................................... 116,791 116,791
999 9999999999 CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS .............................................................................................. 3,632,866 3,632,866
SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT ................................................... 4,733,142 4,693,642
SOFTWARE AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY PILOT PROGRAMS
42 1203614SF JSPOC MISSION SYSTEM .............................................................................................. 149,742 149,742
SUBTOTAL SOFTWARE AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY PILOT PROGRAMS .................. 149,742 149,742
TOTAL RDTE, SPACE FORCE ......................................................................................... 10,327,595 10,301,095
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST & EVAL, DW
BASIC RESEARCH
1 0601000BR DTRA BASIC RESEARCH ............................................................................................... 14,617 14,617
2 0601101E DEFENSE RESEARCH SCIENCES ................................................................................. 479,958 479,958
3 0601110D8Z BASIC RESEARCH INITIATIVES ................................................................................... 35,565 72,565
DEPSCoR .................................................................................................................. [20,000]
Minerva Research initiative restore DWR cut .......................................................... [17,000]
4 0601117E BASIC OPERATIONAL MEDICAL RESEARCH SCIENCE .............................................. 53,730 58,730
Traumatic brain injury medical research ................................................................. [5,000]
5 0601120D8Z NATIONAL DEFENSE EDUCATION PROGRAM ............................................................ 100,241 100,241
6 0601228D8Z HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES/MINORITY INSTITU-
TIONS.
30,975 37,975
Aerospace education, research, and innovation activities ........................................ [2,000]
HBCU/Minority Institutions ...................................................................................... [5,000]
7 0601384BP CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE PROGRAM ................................................... 45,300 45,300
SUBTOTAL BASIC RESEARCH ....................................................................................... 760,386 809,386
APPLIED RESEARCH
8 0602000D8Z JOINT MUNITIONS TECHNOLOGY ................................................................................ 19,409 19,409
9 0602115E BIOMEDICAL TECHNOLOGY ......................................................................................... 107,568 107,568
11 0602230D8Z DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION ........................................................................ 35,000 35,000
12 0602234D8Z LINCOLN LABORATORY RESEARCH PROGRAM ......................................................... 41,080 41,080
13 0602251D8Z APPLIED RESEARCH FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF S&T PRIORITIES ..................... 60,722 60,722
14 0602303E INFORMATION & COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY .................................................. 435,920 435,920
15 0602383E BIOLOGICAL WARFARE DEFENSE ............................................................................... 26,950 26,950
16 0602384BP CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE PROGRAM ................................................... 201,807 201,807
17 0602668D8Z CYBER SECURITY RESEARCH ...................................................................................... 15,255 15,255
18 0602702E TACTICAL TECHNOLOGY .............................................................................................. 233,271 233,271
19 0602715E MATERIALS AND BIOLOGICAL TECHNOLOGY ........................................................... 250,107 290,107
Increase in emerging biotech research ...................................................................... [40,000]
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00214 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6901
November 16, 2020
SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line
Program
Element
Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
20 0602716E ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY ....................................................................................... 322,693 322,693
21 0602718BR COUNTER WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION APPLIED RESEARCH ...................... 174,571 174,571
22 0602751D8Z SOFTWARE ENGINEERING INSTITUTE (SEI) APPLIED RESEARCH ......................... 9,573 9,573
23 1160401BB SOF TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT ............................................................................. 42,464 42,464
SUBTOTAL APPLIED RESEARCH .................................................................................. 1,976,390 2,016,390
ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
24 0603000D8Z JOINT MUNITIONS ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY ........................................................... 22,920 22,920
25 0603121D8Z SO/LIC ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT ............................................................................. 4,914 4,914
26 0603122D8Z COMBATING TERRORISM TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT ................................................... 51,089 51,089
27 0603133D8Z FOREIGN COMPARATIVE TESTING ............................................................................. 25,183 25,183
29 0603160BR COUNTER WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVEL-
OPMENT.
366,659 366,659
30 0603176C ADVANCED CONCEPTS AND PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT .................................... 14,910 14,910
32 0603180C ADVANCED RESEARCH ................................................................................................. 18,687 18,687
33 0603225D8Z JOINT DOD-DOE MUNITIONS TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT ................................... 18,873 18,873
34 0603286E ADVANCED AEROSPACE SYSTEMS ............................................................................. 230,978 210,978
OpFires lack of transition pathway .......................................................................... [–20,000]
35 0603287E SPACE PROGRAMS AND TECHNOLOGY ....................................................................... 158,439 158,439
36 0603288D8Z ANALYTIC ASSESSMENTS ........................................................................................... 23,775 23,775
37 0603289D8Z ADVANCED INNOVATIVE ANALYSIS AND CONCEPTS ............................................... 36,524 36,524
38 0603291D8Z ADVANCED INNOVATIVE ANALYSIS AND CONCEPTS—MHA .................................... 14,703 14,703
39 0603294C COMMON KILL VEHICLE TECHNOLOGY ...................................................................... 11,058 11,058
40 0603338D8Z DEFENSE MODERNIZATION AND PROTOTYPING ...................................................... 133,375 126,375
Lack of hypersonic prototype coordination efforts ................................................... [–20,000]
Stratospheric balloon research ................................................................................. [13,000]
42 0603342D8Z DEFENSE INNOVATION UNIT (DIU) ............................................................................. 26,141 26,141
43 0603375D8Z TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION ......................................................................................... 27,709 27,709
44 0603384BP CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE PROGRAM—ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT 188,001 188,001
45 0603527D8Z RETRACT LARCH ........................................................................................................... 130,283 130,283
46 0603618D8Z JOINT ELECTRONIC ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY ......................................................... 15,164 15,164
47 0603648D8Z JOINT CAPABILITY TECHNOLOGY DEMONSTRATIONS ............................................ 85,452 85,452
48 0603662D8Z NETWORKED COMMUNICATIONS CAPABILITIES ...................................................... 5,882 5,882
49 0603680D8Z DEFENSE-WIDE MANUFACTURING SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM ......... 93,817 98,817
Rapid prototyping using digital manufacturing ....................................................... [5,000]
50 0603680S MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM .............................................................. 40,025 55,025
Defense supply chain technologies ............................................................................ [5,000]
Steel performance initiative ..................................................................................... [10,000]
52 0603712S GENERIC LOGISTICS R&D TECHNOLOGY DEMONSTRATIONS ................................. 10,235 10,235
53 0603716D8Z STRATEGIC ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH PROGRAM ............................................. 53,862 53,862
54 0603720S MICROELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT AND SUPPORT ..................... 124,049 124,049
55 0603727D8Z JOINT WARFIGHTING PROGRAM ................................................................................. 3,871 3,871
56 0603739E ADVANCED ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGIES ............................................................... 95,864 95,864
57 0603760E COMMAND, CONTROL AND COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS ........................................ 221,724 221,724
58 0603766E NETWORK-CENTRIC WARFARE TECHNOLOGY ........................................................... 661,158 651,158
Lack of coordination ................................................................................................. [–10,000]
59 0603767E SENSOR TECHNOLOGY ................................................................................................. 200,220 200,220
60 0603769D8Z DISTRIBUTED LEARNING ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT ................... 6,765 6,765
61 0603781D8Z SOFTWARE ENGINEERING INSTITUTE ....................................................................... 12,598 12,598
64 0603924D8Z HIGH ENERGY LASER ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM ................................... 105,410 105,410
65 0603941D8Z TEST & EVALUATION SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY ....................................................... 187,065 187,065
67 0604055D8Z OPERATIONAL ENERGY CAPABILITY IMPROVEMENT ............................................. 0 65,000
Restoration of funds .................................................................................................. [65,000]
70 1160402BB SOF ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT ........................................................ 89,072 89,072
71 1206310SDA SPACE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ................... 72,422 72,422
SUBTOTAL ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT .............................................. 3,588,876 3,636,876
ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES
72 0603161D8Z NUCLEAR AND CONVENTIONAL PHYSICAL SECURITY EQUIPMENT RDT&E
ADC&P.
32,636 32,636
73 0603600D8Z WALKOFF ....................................................................................................................... 106,529 106,529
75 0603851D8Z ENVIRONMENTAL SECURITY TECHNICAL CERTIFICATION PROGRAM .................. 61,345 76,345
Joint Storage Program .............................................................................................. [15,000]
76 0603881C BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE TERMINAL DEFENSE SEGMENT ............................ 412,627 412,627
77 0603882C BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE MIDCOURSE DEFENSE SEGMENT .......................... 1,004,305 1,004,305
78 0603884BP CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE PROGRAM—DEM/VAL ............................... 76,167 76,167
79 0603884C BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE SENSORS ................................................................... 281,957 281,957
80 0603890C BMD ENABLING PROGRAMS ........................................................................................ 599,380 599,380
81 0603891C SPECIAL PROGRAMS—MDA ......................................................................................... 420,216 420,216
82 0603892C AEGIS BMD ..................................................................................................................... 814,936 814,936
83 0603896C BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE COMMAND AND CONTROL, BATTLE MANAGE-
MENT AND COMMUNICATI.
593,353 593,353
84 0603898C BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE JOINT WARFIGHTER SUPPORT .............................. 49,560 49,560
85 0603904C MISSILE DEFENSE INTEGRATION & OPERATIONS CENTER (MDIOC) ..................... 55,356 55,356
86 0603906C REGARDING TRENCH .................................................................................................... 11,863 11,863
87 0603907C SEA BASED X-BAND RADAR (SBX) .............................................................................. 118,318 118,318
88 0603913C ISRAELI COOPERATIVE PROGRAMS ........................................................................... 300,000 300,000
89 0603914C BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE TEST .......................................................................... 378,302 378,302
90 0603915C BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE TARGETS .................................................................. 536,133 536,133
92 0603923D8Z COALITION WARFARE .................................................................................................. 10,129 10,129
93 0604011D8Z NEXT GENERATION INFORMATION COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (5G) ........... 449,000 449,000
94 0604016D8Z DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CORROSION PROGRAM ................................................ 3,325 3,325
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00215 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6902 November 16, 2020
SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line
Program
Element
Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
95 0604115C TECHNOLOGY MATURATION INITIATIVES ................................................................ 67,389 67,389
98 0604181C HYPERSONIC DEFENSE ................................................................................................ 206,832 206,832
99 0604250D8Z ADVANCED INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGIES ................................................................. 730,508 630,508
Program decrease ...................................................................................................... [–100,000]
100 0604294D8Z TRUSTED & ASSURED MICROELECTRONICS ............................................................. 489,076 489,076
101 0604331D8Z RAPID PROTOTYPING PROGRAM ................................................................................ 102,023 82,023
Lack of hypersonic prototype coordination efforts ................................................... [–20,000]
102 0604341D8Z DEFENSE INNOVATION UNIT (DIU) PROTOTYPING ................................................... 13,255 13,255
103 0604400D8Z DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (DOD) UNMANNED SYSTEM COMMON DEVELOP-
MENT.
2,787 2,787
105 0604672C HOMELAND DEFENSE RADAR—HAWAII (HDR-H) ...................................................... 0 162,000
Continue radar development ..................................................................................... [162,000]
107 0604682D8Z WARGAMING AND SUPPORT FOR STRATEGIC ANALYSIS (SSA) ............................. 3,469 3,469
109 0604826J JOINT C5 CAPABILITY DEVELOPMENT, INTEGRATION AND INTEROPERABILITY
ASSESSMENTS.
19,190 19,190
110 0604873C LONG RANGE DISCRIMINATION RADAR (LRDR) ........................................................ 137,256 137,256
111 0604874C IMPROVED HOMELAND DEFENSE INTERCEPTORS ................................................... 664,138 354,138
Contract award delay ................................................................................................ [–310,000]
112 0604876C BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE TERMINAL DEFENSE SEGMENT TEST .................. 7,768 7,768
113 0604878C AEGIS BMD TEST .......................................................................................................... 170,880 170,880
114 0604879C BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE SENSOR TEST ........................................................... 76,456 76,456
115 0604880C LAND-BASED SM–3 (LBSM3) ......................................................................................... 56,628 133,428
PDI: Guam Defense System—systems engineering ................................................... [76,800]
116 0604887C BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE MIDCOURSE SEGMENT TEST .................................. 67,071 67,071
118 0300206R ENTERPRISE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SYSTEMS ............................................. 2,198 2,198
119 0303191D8Z JOINT ELECTROMAGNETIC TECHNOLOGY (JET) PROGRAM .................................... 997 997
120 0305103C CYBER SECURITY INITIATIVE ..................................................................................... 1,148 1,148
121 1206410SDA SPACE TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT AND PROTOTYPING ..................................... 215,994 325,994
Execution of HBTSS by MDA .................................................................................... [–20,000]
Space-based target custody layer .............................................................................. [130,000]
122 1206893C SPACE TRACKING & SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM .......................................................... 34,144 34,144
123 1206895C BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEM SPACE PROGRAMS ................................... 32,068 152,068
Hypersonic and Ballistic Tracking Space Sensor (HBTSS) ....................................... [120,000]
SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES ..................... 9,416,712 9,470,512
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION
124 0604161D8Z NUCLEAR AND CONVENTIONAL PHYSICAL SECURITY EQUIPMENT RDT&E SDD 7,173 7,173
126 0604384BP CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE PROGRAM—EMD ........................................ 319,976 322,976
Stryker NBCRV sensor suite upgrade ....................................................................... [3,000]
127 0604771D8Z JOINT TACTICAL INFORMATION DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM (JTIDS) ......................... 54,985 54,985
128 0605000BR COUNTER WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT ............. 15,650 15,650
129 0605013BL INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT .......................................................... 1,441 1,441
130 0605021SE HOMELAND PERSONNEL SECURITY INITIATIVE ...................................................... 7,287 7,287
131 0605022D8Z DEFENSE EXPORTABILITY PROGRAM ....................................................................... 12,928 12,928
132 0605027D8Z OUSD(C) IT DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES ................................................................... 10,259 10,259
133 0605070S DOD ENTERPRISE SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT AND DEMONSTRATION ................... 1,377 1,377
134 0605075D8Z CMO POLICY AND INTEGRATION ................................................................................. 1,648 1,648
135 0605080S DEFENSE AGENCY INITIATIVES (DAI)—FINANCIAL SYSTEM ................................. 20,537 20,537
136 0605090S DEFENSE RETIRED AND ANNUITANT PAY SYSTEM (DRAS) ................................... 1,638 1,638
137 0605141BR MISSION ASSURANCE RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (MARMS) ............................... 5,500 5,500
138 0605210D8Z DEFENSE-WIDE ELECTRONIC PROCUREMENT CAPABILITIES ................................ 8,279 8,279
139 0605294D8Z TRUSTED & ASSURED MICROELECTRONICS ............................................................. 107,585 107,585
140 0605772D8Z NUCLEAR COMMAND, CONTROL, & COMMUNICATIONS ............................................ 3,685 3,685
143 0305304D8Z DOD ENTERPRISE ENERGY INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (EEIM) ........................ 3,275 3,275
144 0305310D8Z CWMD SYSTEMS: SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT AND DEMONSTRATION ....................... 20,585 20,585
SUBTOTAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION .......................................... 603,808 606,808
MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
145 0603829J JOINT CAPABILITY EXPERIMENTATION ................................................................... 11,239 11,239
146 0604774D8Z DEFENSE READINESS REPORTING SYSTEM (DRRS) ................................................ 9,793 9,793
147 0604875D8Z JOINT SYSTEMS ARCHITECTURE DEVELOPMENT .................................................... 8,497 8,497
148 0604940D8Z CENTRAL TEST AND EVALUATION INVESTMENT DEVELOPMENT (CTEIP) .......... 422,451 452,451
Joint Counter-UAS Office assessment infrastructure ............................................... [15,000]
Telemetry range extension wave glider relay ........................................................... [15,000]
149 0604942D8Z ASSESSMENTS AND EVALUATIONS ........................................................................... 18,379 18,379
150 0605001E MISSION SUPPORT ........................................................................................................ 74,334 74,334
151 0605100D8Z JOINT MISSION ENVIRONMENT TEST CAPABILITY (JMETC) .................................. 79,046 79,046
153 0605126J JOINT INTEGRATED AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE ORGANIZATION (JIAMDO) ....... 50,255 50,255
155 0605142D8Z SYSTEMS ENGINEERING .............................................................................................. 49,376 49,376
156 0605151D8Z STUDIES AND ANALYSIS SUPPORT—OSD .................................................................. 5,777 7,777
National Academies of Science study on comparison of talent programs ................. [2,000]
157 0605161D8Z NUCLEAR MATTERS-PHYSICAL SECURITY ............................................................... 16,552 16,552
158 0605170D8Z SUPPORT TO NETWORKS AND INFORMATION INTEGRATION ................................. 9,582 9,582
159 0605200D8Z GENERAL SUPPORT TO USD (INTELLIGENCE) .......................................................... 1,940 1,940
160 0605384BP CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE PROGRAM ................................................... 122,951 122,951
167 0605790D8Z SMALL BUSINESS INNOVATION RESEARCH (SBIR)/ SMALL BUSINESS TECH-
NOLOGY TRANSFER.
3,582 3,582
168 0605797D8Z MAINTAINING TECHNOLOGY ADVANTAGE ................................................................ 29,566 29,566
169 0605798D8Z DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY ANALYSIS ............................................................................ 29,059 29,059
170 0605801KA DEFENSE TECHNICAL INFORMATION CENTER (DTIC) ............................................. 59,369 9,369
Insufficient progress on data sharing and open repositories ..................................... [–50,000]
171 0605803SE R&D IN SUPPORT OF DOD ENLISTMENT, TESTING AND EVALUATION .................. 29,420 29,420
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00216 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6903
November 16, 2020
SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line
Program
Element
Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
172 0605804D8Z DEVELOPMENT TEST AND EVALUATION .................................................................. 27,198 27,198
173 0605898E MANAGEMENT HQ—R&D .............................................................................................. 13,434 13,434
174 0605998KA MANAGEMENT HQ—DEFENSE TECHNICAL INFORMATION CENTER (DTIC) ........... 2,837 2,837
175 0606100D8Z BUDGET AND PROGRAM ASSESSMENTS .................................................................... 13,173 13,173
176 0606225D8Z ODNA TECHNOLOGY AND RESOURCE ANALYSIS ...................................................... 3,200 3,200
177 0606589D8W DEFENSE DIGITAL SERVICE (DDS) DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT ............................... 999 999
180 0203345D8Z DEFENSE OPERATIONS SECURITY INITIATIVE (DOSI) ............................................ 3,099 3,099
181 0204571J JOINT STAFF ANALYTICAL SUPPORT ....................................................................... 3,058 3,058
182 0208045K C4I INTEROPERABILITY ............................................................................................... 59,813 59,813
185 0303140SE INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY PROGRAM ........................................................ 1,112 1,112
186 0303166J SUPPORT TO INFORMATION OPERATIONS (IO) CAPABILITIES ............................... 545 545
187 0303260D8Z DEFENSE MILITARY DECEPTION PROGRAM OFFICE (DMDPO) ............................... 1,036 1,036
188 0305172K COMBINED ADVANCED APPLICATIONS ...................................................................... 30,824 30,824
190 0305208K DISTRIBUTED COMMON GROUND/SURFACE SYSTEMS ............................................. 3,048 3,048
194 0804768J COCOM EXERCISE ENGAGEMENT AND TRAINING TRANSFORMATION (CE2T2)—
NON-MHA.
31,125 31,125
195 0808709SE DEFENSE EQUAL OPPORTUNITY MANAGEMENT INSTITUTE (DEOMI) ................... 100 100
196 0901598C MANAGEMENT HQ—MDA .............................................................................................. 26,902 26,902
197 0903235K JOINT SERVICE PROVIDER (JSP) ................................................................................ 3,138 3,138
999 9999999999 CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS .............................................................................................. 41,583 41,583
SUBTOTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT ........................................................................... 1,297,392 1,279,392
OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
199 0604130V ENTERPRISE SECURITY SYSTEM (ESS) ..................................................................... 14,378 14,378
200 0604532K JOINT ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE ............................................................................. 132,058 132,058
201 0605127T REGIONAL INTERNATIONAL OUTREACH (RIO) AND PARTNERSHIP FOR PEACE
INFORMATION MANA.
1,986 1,986
202 0605147T OVERSEAS HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE SHARED INFORMATION SYSTEM
(OHASIS).
316 316
203 0607210D8Z INDUSTRIAL BASE ANALYSIS AND SUSTAINMENT SUPPORT ................................ 9,151 70,151
Advanced machine tool research ............................................................................... [20,000]
Cold spray manufacturing technologies .................................................................... [5,000]
Domestic organic LED manufacturing ...................................................................... [5,000]
Implementation of radar supplier resiliency plan ..................................................... [5,000]
Manufacturing for reuse of NdFeB magnets .............................................................. [6,000]
Submarine industrial base workforce training pipeline ............................................ [20,000]
204 0607310D8Z CWMD SYSTEMS: OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT ................................... 19,082 19,082
205 0607327T GLOBAL THEATER SECURITY COOPERATION MANAGEMENT INFORMATION
SYSTEMS (G-TSCMIS).
3,992 3,992
206 0607384BP CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE (OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOP-
MENT).
39,530 39,530
207 0208043J PLANNING AND DECISION AID SYSTEM (PDAS) ........................................................ 3,039 3,039
212 0302019K DEFENSE INFO INFRASTRUCTURE ENGINEERING AND INTEGRATION ................. 16,324 16,324
213 0303126K LONG-HAUL COMMUNICATIONS—DCS ........................................................................ 11,884 11,884
214 0303131K MINIMUM ESSENTIAL EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK (MEECN) ........ 5,560 5,560
215 0303136G KEY MANAGEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE (KMI) ........................................................... 73,356 73,356
216 0303140D8Z INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY PROGRAM ........................................................ 46,577 66,577
Workforce transformation cyber initiative pilot program ........................................ [20,000]
217 0303140G INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY PROGRAM ........................................................ 356,713 356,713
218 0303140K INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY PROGRAM ........................................................ 8,922 18,922
Execution of orchestration pilot ............................................................................... [10,000]
219 0303150K GLOBAL COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEM ............................................................. 3,695 3,695
220 0303153K DEFENSE SPECTRUM ORGANIZATION ....................................................................... 20,113 20,113
223 0303228K JOINT REGIONAL SECURITY STACKS (JRSS) ............................................................ 9,728 9,242
JRSS SIPR funding ................................................................................................... [–486]
231 0305128V SECURITY AND INVESTIGATIVE ACTIVITIES ........................................................... 5,700 5,700
235 0305186D8Z POLICY R&D PROGRAMS .............................................................................................. 7,144 7,144
236 0305199D8Z NET CENTRICITY ........................................................................................................... 21,793 21,793
238 0305208BB DISTRIBUTED COMMON GROUND/SURFACE SYSTEMS ............................................. 6,066 6,066
245 0305387D8Z HOMELAND DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER PROGRAM ................................... 2,190 2,190
252 0708012K LOGISTICS SUPPORT ACTIVITIES ............................................................................... 1,654 1,654
253 0708012S PACIFIC DISASTER CENTERS ...................................................................................... 1,785 1,785
254 0708047S DEFENSE PROPERTY ACCOUNTABILITY SYSTEM .................................................... 7,301 7,301
256 1105219BB MQ–9 UAV ........................................................................................................................ 21,265 21,265
258 1160403BB AVIATION SYSTEMS ..................................................................................................... 230,812 230,812
259 1160405BB INTELLIGENCE SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT ................................................................ 19,558 19,558
260 1160408BB OPERATIONAL ENHANCEMENTS ................................................................................. 136,041 136,041
261 1160431BB WARRIOR SYSTEMS ...................................................................................................... 59,511 58,311
MMP-Light unexecutable, transfer to man-pack ...................................................... [–1,200]
262 1160432BB SPECIAL PROGRAMS .................................................................................................... 10,500 10,500
263 1160434BB UNMANNED ISR ............................................................................................................. 19,154 19,154
264 1160480BB SOF TACTICAL VEHICLES ............................................................................................ 9,263 9,263
265 1160483BB MARITIME SYSTEMS .................................................................................................... 59,882 59,882
266 1160489BB GLOBAL VIDEO SURVEILLANCE ACTIVITIES ............................................................ 4,606 4,606
267 1160490BB OPERATIONAL ENHANCEMENTS INTELLIGENCE ..................................................... 11,612 11,612
268 1203610K TELEPORT PROGRAM ................................................................................................... 3,239 3,239
999 9999999999 CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS .............................................................................................. 4,746,466 4,746,466
SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT ................................................. 6,161,946 6,251,260
SOFTWARE AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY PILOT PROGRAMS
269 0608197V NATIONAL BACKGROUND INVESTIGATION SERVICES—SOFTWARE PILOT PRO-
GRAM.
121,676 121,676
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00217 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6904 November 16, 2020
SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line
Program
Element
Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
270 0608648D8Z ACQUISITION VISIBILITY—SOFTWARE PILOT PROGRAM ........................................ 16,848 16,848
271 0303150K GLOBAL COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEM ............................................................. 86,750 86,750
272 0308588D8Z ALGORITHMIC WARFARE CROSS FUNCTIONAL TEAMS—SOFTWARE PILOT PRO-
GRAM.
250,107 250,107
SUBTOTAL SOFTWARE AND DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY PILOT PROGRAMS .................. 475,381 475,381
TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST & EVAL, DW .............................................. 24,280,891 24,546,005
OPERATIONAL TEST & EVAL, DEFENSE
MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
1 0605118OTE OPERATIONAL TEST AND EVALUATION .................................................................... 100,021 100,021
2 0605131OTE LIVE FIRE TEST AND EVALUATION ........................................................................... 70,933 70,933
3 0605814OTE OPERATIONAL TEST ACTIVITIES AND ANALYSES ................................................... 39,136 66,136
Advanced satellite navigation receiver ..................................................................... [5,000]
Joint Test and Evaluation DWR funding restoration ............................................... [22,000]
SUBTOTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT ........................................................................... 210,090 237,090
TOTAL OPERATIONAL TEST & EVAL, DEFENSE .......................................................... 210,090 237,090
TOTAL RDT&E ................................................................................................................ 106,224,793 106,660,645
SEC. 4202. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND
EVALUATION FOR OVERSEAS CON-
TINGENCY OPERATIONS.
SEC. 4202. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION
FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line
Program
Element
Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST & EVAL, ARMY
APPLIED RESEARCH
16 0602145A NEXT GENERATION COMBAT VEHICLE TECHNOLOGY ............................................ 2,000 2,000
SUBTOTAL APPLIED RESEARCH ................................................................................. 2,000 2,000
ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES
80 0603327A AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS ENGINEERING ........................................... 500 500
114 0604785A INTEGRATED BASE DEFENSE (BUDGET ACTIVITY 4) ............................................. 2,020 2,020
SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES ................... 2,520 2,520
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION
131 0604741A AIR DEFENSE COMMAND, CONTROL AND INTELLIGENCE—ENG DEV .................. 27,000 27,000
159 0605035A COMMON INFRARED COUNTERMEASURES (CIRCM) ................................................ 2,300 2,300
166 0605051A AIRCRAFT SURVIVABILITY DEVELOPMENT ........................................................... 64,625 64,625
183 0304270A ELECTRONIC WARFARE DEVELOPMENT .................................................................. 3,900 3,900
SUBTOTAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION ........................................ 97,825 97,825
MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
198 0605709A EXPLOITATION OF FOREIGN ITEMS ......................................................................... 1,000 1,000
209 0606003A COUNTERINTEL AND HUMAN INTEL MODERNIZATION .......................................... 4,137 4,137
SUBTOTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT .......................................................................... 5,137 5,137
OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
239 0203802A OTHER MISSILE PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMS ......................................... 2,300 2,300
248 0303028A SECURITY AND INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES ........................................................... 23,367 23,367
257 0305204A TACTICAL UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLES .............................................................. 34,100 34,100
258 0305206A AIRBORNE RECONNAISSANCE SYSTEMS ................................................................. 15,575 15,575
SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT ............................................... 75,342 75,342
TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST & EVAL, ARMY ........................................ 182,824 182,824
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST & EVAL, NAVY
ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES
39 0603527N RETRACT LARCH ......................................................................................................... 36,500 36,500
58 0603654N JOINT SERVICE EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DEVELOPMENT ...................................... 14,461 14,461
63 0603734N CHALK CORAL .............................................................................................................. 3,000 3,000
71 0603795N LAND ATTACK TECHNOLOGY ..................................................................................... 1,457 1,457
SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES ................... 55,418 55,418
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION
142 0604755N SHIP SELF DEFENSE (DETECT & CONTROL) ............................................................ 1,144 1,144
SUBTOTAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION ........................................ 1,144 1,144
OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
229 0206625M USMC INTELLIGENCE/ELECTRONIC WARFARE SYSTEMS (MIP) ........................... 3,000 3,000
SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT ............................................... 3,000 3,000
TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST & EVAL, NAVY ......................................... 59,562 59,562
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST & EVAL, AF
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00218 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6905
November 16, 2020
SEC. 4202. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION
FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line
Program
Element
Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES
65 0305601F MISSION PARTNER ENVIRONMENTS ........................................................................ 6,500
EDI: Mission Partner Environment (MPE) .............................................................. [6,500]
SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES ................... 6,500
OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
185 0205671F JOINT COUNTER RCIED ELECTRONIC WARFARE .................................................... 4,080 4,080
228 0208288F INTEL DATA APPLICATIONS ...................................................................................... 1,224 1,224
SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT ............................................... 5,304 5,304
TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST & EVAL, AF ............................................. 5,304 11,804
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST & EVAL, DW
APPLIED RESEARCH
10 0602134BR COUNTER IMPROVISED-THREAT ADVANCED STUDIES .......................................... 3,699 3,699
SUBTOTAL APPLIED RESEARCH ................................................................................. 3,699 3,699
ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
26 0603122D8Z COMBATING TERRORISM TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT ................................................. 19,288 19,288
28 0603134BR COUNTER IMPROVISED-THREAT SIMULATION ....................................................... 3,861 3,861
SUBTOTAL ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT ............................................. 23,149 23,149
ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES
97 0604134BR COUNTER IMPROVISED-THREAT DEMONSTRATION, PROTOTYPE DEVELOP-
MENT, AND TESTING.
19,931 19,931
SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES ................... 19,931 19,931
9999999999 CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS ............................................................................................ 24,057 24,057
OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
260 1160408BB OPERATIONAL ENHANCEMENTS ............................................................................... 1,186 1,186
261 1160431BB WARRIOR SYSTEMS .................................................................................................... 5,796 5,796
263 1160434BB UNMANNED ISR ........................................................................................................... 5,000 5,000
SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT ............................................... 36,039 36,039
TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST & EVAL, DW ............................................ 82,818 82,818
TOTAL RDT&E .............................................................................................................. 330,508 337,008
TITLE XLIII—OPERATION AND
MAINTENANCE
SEC. 4301. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
SEC. 4301. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
OPERATING FORCES
020 MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES .............................................................................................................. 159,834 159,834
030 ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE .................................................................................................................... 663,751 663,751
040 THEATER LEVEL ASSETS ........................................................................................................................ 956,477 956,477
050 LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT ................................................................................................... 1,157,635 1,167,935
Joint Counter-UAS IOC acceleration ..................................................................................................... [10,300]
060 AVIATION ASSETS ..................................................................................................................................... 1,453,024 1,453,024
070 FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS SUPPORT .......................................................................................... 4,713,660 4,713,660
080 LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS ..................................................................................................... 404,161 404,161
090 LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE .................................................................................................... 1,413,359 1,413,359
100 BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT .................................................................................................................. 8,220,093 8,346,093
Child Development Center playground equipment and furniture increases .......................................... [79,000]
Child Youth Service improvements ....................................................................................................... [47,000]
110 FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION ........................................................ 3,581,071 3,815,531
FSRM increase ....................................................................................................................................... [62,360]
MDTF EUCOM and INDOPACOM FSRM ............................................................................................... [126,800]
Revitalization of Army deployment infrastructure ............................................................................... [45,300]
120 MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL HEADQUARTERS .......................................................................... 411,844 411,844
160 US AFRICA COMMAND ............................................................................................................................... 239,387 341,887
AFRICOM force protection upgrades ..................................................................................................... [2,500]
AFRICOM ISR improvements ................................................................................................................ [64,000]
AFRICOM UFR CASEVAC improvements ............................................................................................. [36,000]
170 US EUROPEAN COMMAND ......................................................................................................................... 160,761 160,761
180 US SOUTHERN COMMAND ......................................................................................................................... 197,826 197,826
190 US FORCES KOREA .................................................................................................................................... 65,152 65,152
200 CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES—CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS ...................................................................... 430,109 435,109
Additional access and operations support ............................................................................................. [5,000]
210 CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES—CYBERSECURITY ....................................................................................... 464,117 464,117
SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES ............................................................................................................... 24,692,261 25,170,521
MOBILIZATION
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00219 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6906 November 16, 2020
SEC. 4301. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
220 STRATEGIC MOBILITY .............................................................................................................................. 402,236 402,236
230 ARMY PREPOSITIONED STOCKS .............................................................................................................. 324,306 324,306
240 INDUSTRIAL PREPAREDNESS ................................................................................................................. 3,653 3,653
SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION ........................................................................................................................ 730,195 730,195
TRAINING AND RECRUITING
250 OFFICER ACQUISITION ............................................................................................................................. 165,142 165,142
260 RECRUIT TRAINING .................................................................................................................................. 76,509 76,509
270 ONE STATION UNIT TRAINING ................................................................................................................. 88,523 88,523
280 SENIOR RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS .................................................................................... 535,578 535,578
290 SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING ............................................................................................................... 981,436 981,436
300 FLIGHT TRAINING ..................................................................................................................................... 1,204,768 1,204,768
310 PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION ........................................................................................ 215,195 215,195
320 TRAINING SUPPORT .................................................................................................................................. 575,232 575,232
330 RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING ............................................................................................................. 722,612 722,612
340 EXAMINING ................................................................................................................................................ 185,522 185,522
350 OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY EDUCATION .............................................................................................. 221,503 221,503
360 CIVILIAN EDUCATION AND TRAINING .................................................................................................... 154,651 154,651
370 JUNIOR RESERVE OFFICER TRAINING CORPS ...................................................................................... 173,286 173,286
SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING ................................................................................................. 5,299,957 5,299,957
ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
390 SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION .......................................................................................................... 491,926 466,926
Historical underexecution ..................................................................................................................... [–25,000]
400 CENTRAL SUPPLY ACTIVITIES ............................................................................................................... 812,613 812,613
410 LOGISTIC SUPPORT ACTIVITIES ............................................................................................................. 676,178 676,178
420 AMMUNITION MANAGEMENT ................................................................................................................... 437,774 437,774
430 ADMINISTRATION ..................................................................................................................................... 438,048 438,048
440 SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS ........................................................................................................... 1,638,872 1,638,872
450 MANPOWER MANAGEMENT ...................................................................................................................... 300,046 300,046
460 OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT ................................................................................................................. 701,103 700,103
Historical underexecution ..................................................................................................................... [–4,000]
Servicewomen’s commemorative partnerships ...................................................................................... [3,000]
470 OTHER SERVICE SUPPORT ....................................................................................................................... 1,887,133 1,887,133
480 ARMY CLAIMS ACTIVITIES ...................................................................................................................... 195,291 195,291
490 REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT ................................................................................................................. 229,537 229,537
500 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND AUDIT READINESS ............................................................................ 306,370 306,370
510 INTERNATIONAL MILITARY HEADQUARTERS ...................................................................................... 373,030 373,030
520 MISC. SUPPORT OF OTHER NATIONS ...................................................................................................... 32,719 32,719
9999 CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS ........................................................................................................................... 1,069,915 1,069,915
SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES ............................................................................................. 9,590,555 9,564,555
UNDISTRIBUTED
999 UNDISTRIBUTED ....................................................................................................................................... 0 –458,901
COVID-related ops/training slowdown ................................................................................................... [–185,801]
Excessive standard price for fuel ........................................................................................................... [–135,400]
Foreign currency adjustments ............................................................................................................... [–137,700]
SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED ..................................................................................................................... 0 –458,901
TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY ........................................................................................... 40,312,968 40,306,327
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY RES
OPERATING FORCES
010 MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES .............................................................................................................. 10,784 10,784
020 ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE .................................................................................................................... 530,425 530,425
030 THEATER LEVEL ASSETS ........................................................................................................................ 123,737 123,737
040 LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT ................................................................................................... 589,582 589,582
050 AVIATION ASSETS ..................................................................................................................................... 89,332 89,332
060 FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS SUPPORT .......................................................................................... 387,545 387,545
070 LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS ..................................................................................................... 97,569 97,569
080 LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE .................................................................................................... 43,148 43,148
090 BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT .................................................................................................................. 587,098 587,098
100 FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION ........................................................ 327,180 332,440
FSRM increase ....................................................................................................................................... [5,260]
110 MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL HEADQUARTERS .......................................................................... 28,783 28,783
120 CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES—CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS ...................................................................... 2,745 2,745
130 CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES—CYBERSECURITY ....................................................................................... 7,438 7,438
SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES ............................................................................................................... 2,825,366 2,830,626
ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
140 SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION .......................................................................................................... 15,530 15,530
150 ADMINISTRATION ..................................................................................................................................... 17,761 17,761
160 SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS ........................................................................................................... 14,256 14,256
170 MANPOWER MANAGEMENT ...................................................................................................................... 6,564 6,564
180 RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING ............................................................................................................. 55,240 55,240
SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES ................................................................................................. 109,351 109,351
UNDISTRIBUTED
999 UNDISTRIBUTED ....................................................................................................................................... 0 –16,699
COVID-related ops/training slowdown ................................................................................................... [–11,999]
Excessive standard price for fuel ........................................................................................................... [–4,700]
SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED ..................................................................................................................... 0 –16,699
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00220 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6907
November 16, 2020
SEC. 4301. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY RES ................................................................................... 2,934,717 2,923,278
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARNG
OPERATING FORCES
010 MANEUVER UNITS ..................................................................................................................................... 769,449 769,449
020 MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES .............................................................................................................. 204,604 204,604
030 ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE .................................................................................................................... 812,072 812,072
040 THEATER LEVEL ASSETS ........................................................................................................................ 103,650 103,650
050 LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT ................................................................................................... 32,485 32,485
060 AVIATION ASSETS ..................................................................................................................................... 1,011,142 1,011,142
070 FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS SUPPORT .......................................................................................... 712,881 712,881
080 LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS ..................................................................................................... 47,732 47,732
090 LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE .................................................................................................... 265,408 265,408
100 BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT .................................................................................................................. 1,106,704 1,106,704
110 FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION ........................................................ 876,032 887,252
FSRM increase ....................................................................................................................................... [11,220]
120 MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL HEADQUARTERS .......................................................................... 1,050,257 1,050,257
130 CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES—CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS ...................................................................... 7,998 10,998
Pilot program for National Guard cybersecurity .................................................................................. [3,000]
140 CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES—CYBERSECURITY ....................................................................................... 7,756 7,756
SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES ............................................................................................................... 7,008,170 7,022,390
ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
150 SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION .......................................................................................................... 8,018 8,018
160 ADMINISTRATION ..................................................................................................................................... 74,309 74,309
170 SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS ........................................................................................................... 66,140 66,140
180 MANPOWER MANAGEMENT ...................................................................................................................... 9,087 9,087
190 OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT ................................................................................................................. 251,714 251,714
200 REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT ................................................................................................................. 2,576 2,576
SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES ................................................................................................. 411,844 411,844
UNDISTRIBUTED
999 UNDISTRIBUTED ....................................................................................................................................... 0 –74,172
COVID-related ops/training slowdown ................................................................................................... [–36,372]
Excessive standard price for fuel ........................................................................................................... [–37,800]
SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED ..................................................................................................................... 0 –74,172
TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARNG ........................................................................................... 7,420,014 7,360,062
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
OPERATING FORCES
010 MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT OPERATIONS .......................................................................................... 5,738,746 5,738,746
020 FLEET AIR TRAINING ............................................................................................................................... 2,213,673 2,213,673
030 AVIATION TECHNICAL DATA & ENGINEERING SERVICES ................................................................... 57,144 57,144
040 AIR OPERATIONS AND SAFETY SUPPORT ............................................................................................. 171,949 171,949
050 AIR SYSTEMS SUPPORT ........................................................................................................................... 838,767 838,767
060 AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE ........................................................................................................... 1,459,447 1,459,447
070 AIRCRAFT DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT ............................................................................................ 57,789 57,789
080 AVIATION LOGISTICS ................................................................................................................................ 1,264,665 1,264,665
100 SHIP OPERATIONS SUPPORT & TRAINING ............................................................................................. 1,117,067 1,117,067
110 SHIP DEPOT MAINTENANCE .................................................................................................................... 7,859,104 7,859,104
120 SHIP DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT ...................................................................................................... 2,262,196 2,262,196
130 COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS AND ELECTRONIC WARFARE .................................................................. 1,521,360 1,521,360
140 SPACE SYSTEMS AND SURVEILLANCE .................................................................................................. 274,087 274,087
150 WARFARE TACTICS ................................................................................................................................... 741,609 741,609
160 OPERATIONAL METEOROLOGY AND OCEANOGRAPHY ......................................................................... 401,382 401,382
170 COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES ..................................................................................................................... 1,546,273 1,546,273
180 EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE AND DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT ...................................................... 177,951 177,951
190 COMBATANT COMMANDERS CORE OPERATIONS .................................................................................. 61,484 66,484
PDI: Asia-Pacific Regional Initiative .................................................................................................... [5,000]
200 COMBATANT COMMANDERS DIRECT MISSION SUPPORT ..................................................................... 102,330 110,630
PDI: Joint Task Force Indo-Pacific (SOCPAC) ...................................................................................... [6,300]
PDI: Singapore CTIF fusion center ........................................................................................................ [2,000]
210 MILITARY INFORMATION SUPPORT OPERATIONS ............................................................................... 8,810 26,510
PDI: Countering Chinese malign influence in Indo-Pacific ................................................................... [17,700]
220 CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES ........................................................................................................................ 567,496 567,496
230 FLEET BALLISTIC MISSILE ..................................................................................................................... 1,428,102 1,428,102
240 WEAPONS MAINTENANCE ........................................................................................................................ 995,762 995,762
250 OTHER WEAPON SYSTEMS SUPPORT ..................................................................................................... 524,008 524,008
260 ENTERPRISE INFORMATION .................................................................................................................... 1,229,056 1,229,056
270 SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND MODERNIZATION ........................................................................ 3,453,099 3,453,099
280 BASE OPERATING SUPPORT .................................................................................................................... 4,627,966 4,627,966
SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES ............................................................................................................... 40,701,322 40,732,322
MOBILIZATION
290 SHIP PREPOSITIONING AND SURGE ........................................................................................................ 849,993 849,993
300 READY RESERVE FORCE .......................................................................................................................... 436,029 436,029
310 SHIP ACTIVATIONS/INACTIVATIONS ...................................................................................................... 286,416 286,416
320 EXPEDITIONARY HEALTH SERVICES SYSTEMS ................................................................................... 99,402 111,002
USNS Mercy SLEP ................................................................................................................................ [11,600]
330 COAST GUARD SUPPORT .......................................................................................................................... 25,235 25,235
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00221 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6908 November 16, 2020
SEC. 4301. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION ........................................................................................................................ 1,697,075 1,708,675
TRAINING AND RECRUITING
340 OFFICER ACQUISITION ............................................................................................................................. 186,117 186,117
350 RECRUIT TRAINING .................................................................................................................................. 13,206 13,206
360 RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS .................................................................................................. 163,683 163,683
370 SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING ............................................................................................................... 947,841 947,841
380 PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION ........................................................................................ 367,647 367,647
390 TRAINING SUPPORT .................................................................................................................................. 254,928 254,928
400 RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING ............................................................................................................. 206,305 206,305
410 OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY EDUCATION .............................................................................................. 103,799 103,799
420 CIVILIAN EDUCATION AND TRAINING .................................................................................................... 66,060 66,060
430 JUNIOR ROTC ............................................................................................................................................. 56,276 56,276
SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING ................................................................................................. 2,365,862 2,365,862
ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
440 ADMINISTRATION ..................................................................................................................................... 1,249,410 1,249,410
450 CIVILIAN MANPOWER AND PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT ...................................................................... 189,625 189,625
460 MILITARY MANPOWER AND PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT .................................................................... 499,904 499,904
470 MEDICAL ACTIVITIES ............................................................................................................................... 196,747 196,747
480 SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION .......................................................................................................... 165,708 165,708
500 PLANNING, ENGINEERING, AND PROGRAM SUPPORT .......................................................................... 519,716 524,716
Energy Security Programs Office .......................................................................................................... [5,000]
510 ACQUISITION, LOGISTICS, AND OVERSIGHT .......................................................................................... 751,184 751,184
520 INVESTIGATIVE AND SECURITY SERVICES ........................................................................................... 747,519 747,519
9999 CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS ........................................................................................................................... 608,670 608,670
SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES ................................................................................................. 4,928,483 4,933,483
UNDISTRIBUTED
999 UNDISTRIBUTED ....................................................................................................................................... 0 –629,787
COVID-related ops/training slowdown ................................................................................................... [–54,987]
Excessive standard price for fuel ........................................................................................................... [–526,100]
Foreign currency adjustments ............................................................................................................... [–48,700]
SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED ..................................................................................................................... 0 –629,787
TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY ........................................................................................... 49,692,742 49,110,555
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS
OPERATING FORCES
010 OPERATIONAL FORCES ............................................................................................................................ 941,143 941,143
020 FIELD LOGISTICS ...................................................................................................................................... 1,277,798 1,277,798
030 DEPOT MAINTENANCE .............................................................................................................................. 206,907 206,907
040 MARITIME PREPOSITIONING ................................................................................................................... 103,614 103,614
050 CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES ........................................................................................................................ 215,974 215,974
060 SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION ............................................................................. 938,063 938,063
070 BASE OPERATING SUPPORT .................................................................................................................... 2,264,680 2,264,680
SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES ............................................................................................................... 5,948,179 5,948,179
TRAINING AND RECRUITING
080 RECRUIT TRAINING .................................................................................................................................. 20,751 20,751
090 OFFICER ACQUISITION ............................................................................................................................. 1,193 1,193
100 SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING ............................................................................................................... 110,149 110,149
110 PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION ........................................................................................ 69,509 69,509
120 TRAINING SUPPORT .................................................................................................................................. 412,613 412,613
130 RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING ............................................................................................................. 215,464 215,464
140 OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY EDUCATION .............................................................................................. 33,719 33,719
150 JUNIOR ROTC ............................................................................................................................................. 25,784 25,784
SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING ................................................................................................. 889,182 889,182
ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
160 SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION .......................................................................................................... 32,005 32,005
170 ADMINISTRATION ..................................................................................................................................... 399,363 399,363
9999 CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS ........................................................................................................................... 59,878 59,878
SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES ................................................................................................. 491,246 491,246
UNDISTRIBUTED
999 UNDISTRIBUTED ....................................................................................................................................... 0 –28,257
COVID-related ops/training slowdown ................................................................................................... [–7,457]
Excessive standard price for fuel ........................................................................................................... [–7,300]
Foreign currency adjustments ............................................................................................................... [–13,500]
SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED ..................................................................................................................... 0 –28,257
TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS .......................................................................... 7,328,607 7,300,350
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY RES
OPERATING FORCES
010 MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT OPERATIONS .......................................................................................... 635,070 635,070
020 INTERMEDIATE MAINTENANCE .............................................................................................................. 8,713 8,713
030 AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE ........................................................................................................... 105,088 105,088
040 AIRCRAFT DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT ............................................................................................ 398 398
050 AVIATION LOGISTICS ................................................................................................................................ 27,284 27,284
070 COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS ..................................................................................................................... 17,894 17,894
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00222 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6909
November 16, 2020
SEC. 4301. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
080 COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES ..................................................................................................................... 132,862 132,862
090 CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES ........................................................................................................................ 453 453
100 ENTERPRISE INFORMATION .................................................................................................................... 26,073 26,073
110 SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND MODERNIZATION ........................................................................ 48,762 48,762
120 BASE OPERATING SUPPORT .................................................................................................................... 103,580 103,580
SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES ............................................................................................................... 1,106,177 1,106,177
ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
130 ADMINISTRATION ..................................................................................................................................... 1,927 1,927
140 MILITARY MANPOWER AND PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT .................................................................... 15,895 15,895
150 ACQUISITION AND PROGRAM MANAGEMENT ........................................................................................ 3,047 3,047
SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES ................................................................................................. 20,869 20,869
UNDISTRIBUTED
999 UNDISTRIBUTED ....................................................................................................................................... 0 –30,938
COVID-related ops/training slowdown ................................................................................................... [–6,438]
Excessive standard price for fuel ........................................................................................................... [–24,500]
SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED ..................................................................................................................... 0 –30,938
TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY RES ................................................................................... 1,127,046 1,096,108
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MC RESERVE
OPERATING FORCES
010 OPERATING FORCES ................................................................................................................................. 104,616 104,616
020 DEPOT MAINTENANCE .............................................................................................................................. 17,053 17,053
030 SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND MODERNIZATION ........................................................................ 41,412 41,412
040 BASE OPERATING SUPPORT .................................................................................................................... 107,773 107,773
SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES ............................................................................................................... 270,854 270,854
ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
050 ADMINISTRATION ..................................................................................................................................... 13,802 13,802
SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES ................................................................................................. 13,802 13,802
UNDISTRIBUTED
999 UNDISTRIBUTED ....................................................................................................................................... 0 –1,246
COVID-related ops/training slowdown ................................................................................................... [–1,046]
Excessive standard price for fuel ........................................................................................................... [–200]
SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED ..................................................................................................................... 0 –1,246
TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MC RESERVE .............................................................................. 284,656 283,410
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE
OPERATING FORCES
010 PRIMARY COMBAT FORCES ..................................................................................................................... 731,511 733,211
Premature reduction of A–10 squadrons ................................................................................................ [1,700]
020 COMBAT ENHANCEMENT FORCES ........................................................................................................... 1,275,485 1,275,485
030 AIR OPERATIONS TRAINING (OJT, MAINTAIN SKILLS) ........................................................................ 1,437,095 1,449,495
Premature reduction of A–10 squadrons ................................................................................................ [12,400]
050 FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION ........................................................ 3,241,216 3,343,016
FSRM increase ....................................................................................................................................... [101,800]
060 CYBERSPACE SUSTAINMENT .................................................................................................................. 235,816 235,816
070 CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND SYSTEM SUPPORT .............................................................. 1,508,342 1,477,897
Transfer to OCO ..................................................................................................................................... [–30,445]
080 FLYING HOUR PROGRAM .......................................................................................................................... 4,458,457 4,564,157
KC–10 tanker divestment reversal ......................................................................................................... [16,200]
KC–135 tanker divestment reversal ........................................................................................................ [36,600]
Premature reduction of A–10 squadrons ................................................................................................ [52,900]
090 BASE SUPPORT .......................................................................................................................................... 7,497,288 7,497,288
100 GLOBAL C3I AND EARLY WARNING ......................................................................................................... 849,842 880,642
PDI: Mission Partner Environment implementation ............................................................................ [30,800]
110 OTHER COMBAT OPS SPT PROGRAMS .................................................................................................... 1,067,055 1,067,055
120 CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES ........................................................................................................................ 698,579 698,579
150 SPACE CONTROL SYSTEMS ...................................................................................................................... 34,194 34,194
160 US NORTHCOM/NORAD .............................................................................................................................. 204,268 204,268
170 US STRATCOM ............................................................................................................................................ 526,809 526,809
180 US CYBERCOM ............................................................................................................................................ 314,524 356,224
Additional access and operations support ............................................................................................. [25,000]
Hunt Forward missions .......................................................................................................................... [13,800]
Secure the DODIN .................................................................................................................................. [2,900]
190 US CENTCOM .............................................................................................................................................. 186,116 186,116
200 US SOCOM ................................................................................................................................................... 9,881 9,881
210 US TRANSCOM ........................................................................................................................................... 1,046 1,046
230 USSPACECOM ............................................................................................................................................. 249,022 249,022
9999 CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS ........................................................................................................................... 1,289,339 1,289,339
SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES ............................................................................................................... 25,815,885 26,079,540
MOBILIZATION
240 AIRLIFT OPERATIONS .............................................................................................................................. 1,350,031 1,350,031
250 MOBILIZATION PREPAREDNESS ............................................................................................................. 647,168 647,168
SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION ........................................................................................................................ 1,997,199 1,997,199
TRAINING AND RECRUITING
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00223 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6910 November 16, 2020
SEC. 4301. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
260 OFFICER ACQUISITION ............................................................................................................................. 142,548 142,548
270 RECRUIT TRAINING .................................................................................................................................. 25,720 25,720
280 RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS (ROTC) ...................................................................................... 128,295 128,295
290 SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING ............................................................................................................... 417,335 417,335
300 FLIGHT TRAINING ..................................................................................................................................... 615,033 615,033
310 PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION ........................................................................................ 298,795 298,795
320 TRAINING SUPPORT .................................................................................................................................. 85,844 85,844
330 RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING ............................................................................................................. 155,065 135,065
Ahead of need ......................................................................................................................................... [–20,000]
340 EXAMINING ................................................................................................................................................ 4,474 4,474
350 OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY EDUCATION .............................................................................................. 219,349 219,349
360 CIVILIAN EDUCATION AND TRAINING .................................................................................................... 361,570 361,570
370 JUNIOR ROTC ............................................................................................................................................. 72,126 72,126
SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING ................................................................................................. 2,526,154 2,506,154
ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
380 LOGISTICS OPERATIONS .......................................................................................................................... 672,426 672,426
390 TECHNICAL SUPPORT ACTIVITIES ......................................................................................................... 145,130 145,130
400 ADMINISTRATION ..................................................................................................................................... 851,251 851,251
410 SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS ........................................................................................................... 28,554 28,554
420 OTHER SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES .......................................................................................................... 1,188,414 1,188,414
430 CIVIL AIR PATROL .................................................................................................................................... 28,772 28,772
450 INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT ...................................................................................................................... 158,803 158,803
9999 CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS ........................................................................................................................... 1,338,009 1,338,009
SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES ................................................................................................. 4,411,359 4,411,359
UNDISTRIBUTED
999 UNDISTRIBUTED ....................................................................................................................................... 0 –765,956
COVID-related ops/training slowdown ................................................................................................... [–89,856]
COVID-related throughput carryover adjustment ................................................................................. [–75,800]
Excessive standard price for fuel ........................................................................................................... [–560,200]
Foreign currency adjustments ............................................................................................................... [–40,100]
SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED ..................................................................................................................... 0 –765,956
TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE .................................................................................. 34,750,597 34,228,296
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, SPACE FORCE
OPERATING FORCES
020 GLOBAL C3I & EARLY WARNING .............................................................................................................. 276,109 276,109
030 SPACE LAUNCH OPERATIONS .................................................................................................................. 177,056 177,056
040 SPACE OPERATIONS ................................................................................................................................. 475,338 475,338
050 EDUCATION & TRAINING .......................................................................................................................... 18,660 18,660
060 SPECIAL PROGRAMS ................................................................................................................................. 137,315 137,315
070 DEPOT MAINTENANCE .............................................................................................................................. 250,324 250,324
080 CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS & SYSTEM SUPPORT ..................................................................................... 1,063,969 1,063,969
SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES ............................................................................................................... 2,398,771 2,398,771
ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE WIDE ACTIVITIES
090 ADMINISTRATION ..................................................................................................................................... 132,523 132,523
SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE WIDE ACTIVITIES ............................................................. 132,523 132,523
UNDISTRIBUTED
999 UNDISTRIBUTED ....................................................................................................................................... 0 –400
Excessive standard price for fuel ........................................................................................................... [–400]
SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED ..................................................................................................................... 0 –400
TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, SPACE FORCE ............................................................................ 2,531,294 2,530,894
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AF RESERVE
OPERATING FORCES
010 PRIMARY COMBAT FORCES ..................................................................................................................... 1,782,016 1,782,016
020 MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS ............................................................................................................ 215,209 215,209
030 DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE .................................................................................... 453,896 509,096
KC–10 tanker divestment reversal ......................................................................................................... [48,400]
KC–135 tanker divestment reversal ........................................................................................................ [3,400]
Premature reduction of A–10 squadrons ................................................................................................ [3,400]
040 FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION ........................................................ 103,414 107,614
FSRM increase ....................................................................................................................................... [4,200]
050 CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND SYSTEM SUPPORT .............................................................. 224,977 224,977
060 BASE SUPPORT .......................................................................................................................................... 452,468 452,468
070 CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES ........................................................................................................................ 2,259 2,259
SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES ............................................................................................................... 3,234,239 3,293,639
ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES
080 ADMINISTRATION ..................................................................................................................................... 74,258 74,258
090 RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING ............................................................................................................. 23,121 18,121
Ahead of need ......................................................................................................................................... [–5,000]
100 MILITARY MANPOWER AND PERS MGMT (ARPC) .................................................................................. 12,006 12,006
110 OTHER PERS SUPPORT (DISABILITY COMP) .......................................................................................... 6,165 6,165
120 AUDIOVISUAL ............................................................................................................................................ 495 495
SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES ............................................................. 116,045 111,045
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00224 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6911
November 16, 2020
SEC. 4301. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
UNDISTRIBUTED
999 UNDISTRIBUTED ....................................................................................................................................... 0 –73,163
COVID-related ops/training slowdown ................................................................................................... [–10,863]
Excessive standard price for fuel ........................................................................................................... [–62,300]
SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED ..................................................................................................................... 0 –73,163
TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AF RESERVE ............................................................................... 3,350,284 3,331,521
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ANG
OPERATING FORCES
010 AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS ........................................................................................................................... 2,476,205 2,476,205
020 MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS ............................................................................................................ 611,325 611,325
030 DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE .................................................................................... 1,138,919 1,138,919
040 FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION ........................................................ 323,605 332,505
FSRM increase ....................................................................................................................................... [8,900]
050 CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND SYSTEM SUPPORT .............................................................. 1,100,828 1,100,828
060 BASE SUPPORT .......................................................................................................................................... 962,438 962,438
070 CYBERSPACE SUSTAINMENT .................................................................................................................. 27,028 27,028
080 CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES ........................................................................................................................ 16,380 19,380
Pilot program for National Guard cybersecurity .................................................................................. [3,000]
SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES ............................................................................................................... 6,656,728 6,668,628
ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES
090 ADMINISTRATION ..................................................................................................................................... 48,218 48,218
100 RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING ............................................................................................................. 48,696 33,696
Ahead of need ......................................................................................................................................... [–15,000]
SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES ............................................................. 96,914 81,914
UNDISTRIBUTED
999 UNDISTRIBUTED ....................................................................................................................................... 0 –122,052
COVID-related ops/training slowdown ................................................................................................... [–15,852]
Excessive standard price for fuel ........................................................................................................... [–106,200]
SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED ..................................................................................................................... 0 –122,052
TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ANG ............................................................................................. 6,753,642 6,628,490
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE
OPERATING FORCES
010 JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF .......................................................................................................................... 439,111 439,111
020 JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF—CE2T2 ............................................................................................................. 535,728 535,728
030 JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF—CYBER ........................................................................................................... 24,728 24,728
040 SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND COMBAT DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES ......................................... 1,069,971 1,072,971
SOCOM Syria exfiltration reconsitution ............................................................................................... [3,000]
050 SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES ............................................................. 9,800 9,800
060 SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND INTELLIGENCE ............................................................................... 561,907 561,907
070 SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND MAINTENANCE ............................................................................... 685,097 707,097
Airborne ISR restoration ....................................................................................................................... [22,000]
080 SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND MANAGEMENT/OPERATIONAL HEADQUARTERS ........................ 158,971 158,971
090 SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND OPERATIONAL SUPPORT ............................................................... 1,062,748 1,062,748
100 SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND THEATER FORCES .......................................................................... 2,598,385 2,599,685
Airborne ISR restoration ....................................................................................................................... [1,300]
SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES ............................................................................................................... 7,146,446 7,172,746
TRAINING AND RECRUITING
120 DEFENSE ACQUISITION UNIVERSITY ..................................................................................................... 162,963 162,963
130 JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF .......................................................................................................................... 95,684 95,684
140 PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION ........................................................................................ 33,301 33,301
SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING ................................................................................................. 291,948 291,948
ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
160 CIVIL MILITARY PROGRAMS ................................................................................................................... 147,993 179,893
Innovative Readiness Training .............................................................................................................. [16,900]
STARBASE ............................................................................................................................................ [15,000]
180 DEFENSE CONTRACT AUDIT AGENCY ..................................................................................................... 604,835 604,835
190 DEFENSE CONTRACT AUDIT AGENCY—CYBER ...................................................................................... 3,282 3,282
210 DEFENSE CONTRACT MANAGEMENT AGENCY ...................................................................................... 1,370,681 1,427,081
DWR restore activities .......................................................................................................................... [56,400]
220 DEFENSE CONTRACT MANAGEMENT AGENCY—CYBER ....................................................................... 22,532 22,532
230 DEFENSE COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY AGENCY ............................................................. 949,008 952,008
DWR restore: Congressional oversight .................................................................................................. [3,000]
250 DEFENSE COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY AGENCY—CYBER .............................................. 9,577 9,577
260 DEFENSE HUMAN RESOURCES ACTIVITY .............................................................................................. 799,952 799,952
270 DEFENSE HUMAN RESOURCES ACTIVITY—CYBER ............................................................................... 20,806 20,806
280 DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS AGENCY ......................................................................................... 1,883,190 1,923,190
Secure the DODIN .................................................................................................................................. [40,000]
290 DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS AGENCY—CYBER .......................................................................... 582,639 577,939
JRSS SIPR funding ............................................................................................................................... [–4,700]
330 DEFENSE LEGAL SERVICES AGENCY ..................................................................................................... 37,637 37,637
340 DEFENSE LOGISTICS AGENCY ................................................................................................................. 382,084 385,684
DWR restore: blankets for homeless ...................................................................................................... [3,600]
350 DEFENSE MEDIA ACTIVITY ..................................................................................................................... 196,997 196,997
360 DEFENSE PERSONNEL ACCOUNTING AGENCY ...................................................................................... 129,225 129,225
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00225 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6912 November 16, 2020
SEC. 4301. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
370 DEFENSE SECURITY COOPERATION AGENCY ........................................................................................ 598,559 598,559
Defense Institute for International Legal Studies ................................................................................ [2,000]
Institute for Security Governance ......................................................................................................... [–2,000]
PDI: Maritime Security Initiative INDOPACOM UFR .......................................................................... [163,000]
PDI: Transfer from Sec. 333 to Maritime Security Initiative ................................................................ [–163,000]
400 DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY SECURITY ADMINISTRATION ........................................................................ 38,432 38,432
410 DEFENSE THREAT REDUCTION AGENCY ................................................................................................ 591,780 591,780
430 DEFENSE THREAT REDUCTION AGENCY—CYBER ................................................................................. 24,635 24,635
440 DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EDUCATION ACTIVITY ............................................................................. 2,941,429 3,012,929
DWR restore: maintain student-teacher ratios in DODEA schools ....................................................... [1,500]
Impact Aid for children with severe disabilities ................................................................................... [20,000]
Impact Aid for schools with military dependent students .................................................................... [50,000]
450 MISSILE DEFENSE AGENCY ..................................................................................................................... 505,858 505,858
480 OFFICE OF ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT ...................................................................................................... 40,272 90,272
Defense Community Infrastruture Program infusion ............................................................................ [50,000]
490 OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE ............................................................................................ 1,540,446 1,613,946
AI National Security Commission ......................................................................................................... [2,500]
Bien Hoa dioxin cleanup ........................................................................................................................ [15,000]
Black Start ERREs ................................................................................................................................ [2,000]
CDC PFAS health assessment ............................................................................................................... [10,000]
Commission on Confederate symbols and displays ................................................................................ [2,000]
Cooperative program for Vietnam personnel MIA ................................................................................. [2,000]
DWR restore: Congressional background investigations ....................................................................... [–3,000]
Energy performance contracts .............................................................................................................. [10,000]
ESOH personnel in ASD(S) .................................................................................................................... [2,000]
FY20 NDAA Sec. 575 interstate spousal licensing .................................................................................. [4,000]
National Cyber Director independent study .......................................................................................... [2,000]
REPI ...................................................................................................................................................... [25,000]
500 OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE—CYBER ............................................................................. 51,630 51,630
510 SPACE DEVELOPMENT AGENCY .............................................................................................................. 48,166 48,166
530 WASHINGTON HEADQUARTERS SERVICES ............................................................................................ 340,291 343,291
DWR restore: support to commissions ................................................................................................... [3,000]
9999 CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS ........................................................................................................................... 17,348,749 17,348,749
SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES ............................................................................................. 31,210,685 31,538,885
UNDISTRIBUTED
999 UNDISTRIBUTED ....................................................................................................................................... 0 –172,839
COVID-related ops/training slowdown ................................................................................................... [–129,339]
Excessive standard price for fuel ........................................................................................................... [–14,800]
Foreign currency adjustments ............................................................................................................... [–28,700]
SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED ..................................................................................................................... 0 –172,839
TOTAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE ...................................................................... 38,649,079 38,830,740
MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
US COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE ARMED FORCES, DEFENSE
010 US COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE ARMED FORCES, DEFENSE ............................................................ 15,211 15,211
SUBTOTAL US COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE ARMED FORCES, DEFENSE ............................................ 15,211 15,211
TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS ............................................................................................ 15,211 15,211
MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
OVERSEAS HUMANITARIAN, DISASTER AND CIVIC AID
010 OVERSEAS HUMANITARIAN, DISASTER AND CIVIC AID ...................................................................... 109,900 109,900
SUBTOTAL OVERSEAS HUMANITARIAN, DISASTER AND CIVIC AID ...................................................... 109,900 109,900
TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS ............................................................................................ 109,900 109,900
MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION
010 COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION ....................................................................................................... 238,490 288,490
DWR restore: Biological Threat Reduction Program ............................................................................ [50,000]
SUBTOTAL COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION .................................................................................... 238,490 288,490
TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS ............................................................................................ 238,490 288,490
MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
ACQUISITION WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT
010 ACQ WORKFORCE DEV FD ........................................................................................................................ 58,181 156,680
DWR restore OSD-level acquisition workforce activities ...................................................................... [98,499]
SUBTOTAL ACQUISITION WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT ......................................................................... 58,181 156,680
TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS ............................................................................................ 58,181 156,680
MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, ARMY
050 ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, ARMY ............................................................................................... 207,518 207,518
SUBTOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, ARMY .............................................................................. 207,518 207,518
TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS ............................................................................................ 207,518 207,518
MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00226 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6913
November 16, 2020
SEC. 4301. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, NAVY
060 ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, NAVY ............................................................................................... 335,932 335,932
SUBTOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, NAVY ............................................................................... 335,932 335,932
TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS ............................................................................................ 335,932 335,932
MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, AIR FORCE
070 ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, AIR FORCE ...................................................................................... 303,926 303,926
SUBTOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, AIR FORCE ..................................................................... 303,926 303,926
TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS ............................................................................................ 303,926 303,926
MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, DEFENSE
080 ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, DEFENSE ......................................................................................... 9,105 9,105
SUBTOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, DEFENSE ........................................................................ 9,105 9,105
TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS ............................................................................................ 9,105 9,105
MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION FORMERLY USED SITES
090 ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION FORMERLY USED SITES ................................................................ 216,587 216,587
SUBTOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION FORMERLY USED SITES ................................................. 216,587 216,587
TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS ............................................................................................ 216,587 216,587
TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE ...................................................................................................... 196,630,496 195,573,380
SEC. 4302. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FOR
OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPER-
ATIONS.
SEC. 4302. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
OPERATING FORCES
010 MANEUVER UNITS ..................................................................................................................................... 4,114,001 4,114,001
030 ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE .................................................................................................................... 32,811 32,811
040 THEATER LEVEL ASSETS ........................................................................................................................ 2,542,760 2,545,410
EDI: Support to deterrent activities ..................................................................................................... [2,650]
050 LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT ................................................................................................... 162,557 162,557
060 AVIATION ASSETS ..................................................................................................................................... 204,396 204,396
070 FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS SUPPORT .......................................................................................... 5,716,734 5,721,224
EDI: Support to deterrent activities PE 0202218A .................................................................................. [1,490]
EDI: Support to deterrent activities PE 1001010A .................................................................................. [3,000]
080 LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS ..................................................................................................... 180,048 180,048
090 LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE .................................................................................................... 81,125 81,125
100 BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT .................................................................................................................. 219,029 219,029
110 FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION ........................................................ 301,017 301,017
130 ADDITIONAL ACTIVITIES ......................................................................................................................... 966,649 966,649
140 COMMANDER’S EMERGENCY RESPONSE PROGRAM ............................................................................. 2,500 2,000
Hero payments funded by ASFF ............................................................................................................ [–500]
150 RESET ......................................................................................................................................................... 403,796 403,796
160 US AFRICA COMMAND ............................................................................................................................... 100,422 100,422
170 US EUROPEAN COMMAND ......................................................................................................................... 120,043 144,143
EDI: Continuity of operations support .................................................................................................. [2,100]
EDI: Modernizing Mission Partner Environment (MPE) ....................................................................... [22,000]
200 CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES—CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS ...................................................................... 98,461 98,461
210 CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES—CYBERSECURITY ....................................................................................... 21,256 21,256
SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES ............................................................................................................... 15,267,605 15,298,345
MOBILIZATION
230 ARMY PREPOSITIONED STOCKS .............................................................................................................. 103,052 103,052
SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION ........................................................................................................................ 103,052 103,052
TRAINING AND RECRUITING
290 SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING ............................................................................................................... 89,943 89,943
320 TRAINING SUPPORT .................................................................................................................................. 2,550 2,550
SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING ................................................................................................. 92,493 92,493
ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
390 SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION .......................................................................................................... 521,090 521,090
400 CENTRAL SUPPLY ACTIVITIES ............................................................................................................... 43,897 43,897
410 LOGISTIC SUPPORT ACTIVITIES ............................................................................................................. 68,423 68,423
420 AMMUNITION MANAGEMENT ................................................................................................................... 29,162 29,162
440 SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS ........................................................................................................... 11,447 11,447
470 OTHER SERVICE SUPPORT ....................................................................................................................... 5,839 5,839
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00227 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6914 November 16, 2020
SEC. 4302. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
490 REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT ................................................................................................................. 48,782 48,782
510 INTERNATIONAL MILITARY HEADQUARTERS ...................................................................................... 50,000 50,000
9999 CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS ........................................................................................................................... 895,964 895,964
SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES ............................................................................................. 1,674,604 1,674,604
TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY ........................................................................................... 17,137,754 17,168,494
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY RES
OPERATING FORCES
020 ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE .................................................................................................................... 17,193 17,193
060 FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS SUPPORT .......................................................................................... 440 440
090 BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT .................................................................................................................. 15,766 15,766
SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES ............................................................................................................... 33,399 33,399
TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY RES ................................................................................... 33,399 33,399
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARNG
OPERATING FORCES
010 MANEUVER UNITS ..................................................................................................................................... 25,746 25,746
020 MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES .............................................................................................................. 40 40
030 ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE .................................................................................................................... 983 983
040 THEATER LEVEL ASSETS ........................................................................................................................ 22 22
060 AVIATION ASSETS ..................................................................................................................................... 20,624 20,624
070 FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS SUPPORT .......................................................................................... 7,914 7,914
100 BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT .................................................................................................................. 24,417 24,417
SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES ............................................................................................................... 79,746 79,746
ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
170 SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS ........................................................................................................... 46 46
SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES ................................................................................................. 46 46
TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARNG ........................................................................................... 79,792 79,792
AFGHANISTAN SECURITY FORCES FUND
AFGHAN NATIONAL ARMY
010 SUSTAINMENT ........................................................................................................................................... 1,065,932 1,065,932
020 INFRASTRUCTURE .................................................................................................................................... 64,501 64,501
030 EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION ...................................................................................................... 47,854 47,854
040 TRAINING AND OPERATIONS ................................................................................................................... 56,780 56,780
SUBTOTAL AFGHAN NATIONAL ARMY ...................................................................................................... 1,235,067 1,235,067
AFGHAN NATIONAL POLICE
050 SUSTAINMENT ........................................................................................................................................... 434,500 434,500
060 INFRASTRUCTURE .................................................................................................................................... 448 448
070 EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION ...................................................................................................... 108,231 108,231
080 TRAINING AND OPERATIONS ................................................................................................................... 58,993 58,993
SUBTOTAL AFGHAN NATIONAL POLICE ................................................................................................... 602,172 602,172
AFGHAN AIR FORCE
090 SUSTAINMENT ........................................................................................................................................... 534,102 534,102
100 INFRASTRUCTURE .................................................................................................................................... 9,532 9,532
110 EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION ...................................................................................................... 58,487 58,487
120 TRAINING AND OPERATIONS ................................................................................................................... 233,803 233,803
SUBTOTAL AFGHAN AIR FORCE ............................................................................................................... 835,924 835,924
AFGHAN SPECIAL SECURITY FORCES
130 SUSTAINMENT ........................................................................................................................................... 680,024 680,024
140 INFRASTRUCTURE .................................................................................................................................... 2,532 2,532
150 EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION ...................................................................................................... 486,808 486,808
160 TRAINING AND OPERATIONS ................................................................................................................... 173,085 173,085
SUBTOTAL AFGHAN SPECIAL SECURITY FORCES ................................................................................... 1,342,449 1,342,449
TOTAL AFGHANISTAN SECURITY FORCES FUND .................................................................................... 4,015,612 4,015,612
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
OPERATING FORCES
010 MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT OPERATIONS .......................................................................................... 382,062 382,062
030 AVIATION TECHNICAL DATA & ENGINEERING SERVICES ................................................................... 832 832
040 AIR OPERATIONS AND SAFETY SUPPORT ............................................................................................. 17,840 17,840
050 AIR SYSTEMS SUPPORT ........................................................................................................................... 210,692 210,692
060 AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE ........................................................................................................... 170,580 170,580
070 AIRCRAFT DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT ............................................................................................ 5,854 5,854
080 AVIATION LOGISTICS ................................................................................................................................ 33,707 33,707
090 MISSION AND OTHER SHIP OPERATIONS ............................................................................................... 5,817,696 5,817,696
100 SHIP OPERATIONS SUPPORT & TRAINING ............................................................................................. 20,741 20,741
110 SHIP DEPOT MAINTENANCE .................................................................................................................... 2,072,470 2,072,470
130 COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS AND ELECTRONIC WARFARE .................................................................. 59,254 59,254
140 SPACE SYSTEMS AND SURVEILLANCE .................................................................................................. 18,000 18,000
150 WARFARE TACTICS ................................................................................................................................... 17,324 17,324
160 OPERATIONAL METEOROLOGY AND OCEANOGRAPHY ......................................................................... 22,581 22,581
170 COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES ..................................................................................................................... 772,441 772,441
180 EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE AND DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT ...................................................... 5,788 5,788
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00228 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6915
November 16, 2020
SEC. 4302. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
200 COMBATANT COMMANDERS DIRECT MISSION SUPPORT ..................................................................... 24,800 24,800
220 CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES ........................................................................................................................ 369 369
240 WEAPONS MAINTENANCE ........................................................................................................................ 567,247 567,247
250 OTHER WEAPON SYSTEMS SUPPORT ..................................................................................................... 12,571 12,571
270 SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND MODERNIZATION ........................................................................ 70,041 70,041
280 BASE OPERATING SUPPORT .................................................................................................................... 218,792 218,792
SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES ............................................................................................................... 10,521,682 10,521,682
MOBILIZATION
320 EXPEDITIONARY HEALTH SERVICES SYSTEMS ................................................................................... 22,589 22,589
SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION ........................................................................................................................ 22,589 22,589
TRAINING AND RECRUITING
370 SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING ............................................................................................................... 53,204 53,204
SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING ................................................................................................. 53,204 53,204
ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
440 ADMINISTRATION ..................................................................................................................................... 9,983 9,983
460 MILITARY MANPOWER AND PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT .................................................................... 7,805 7,805
480 SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION .......................................................................................................... 72,097 72,097
510 ACQUISITION, LOGISTICS, AND OVERSIGHT .......................................................................................... 11,354 11,354
520 INVESTIGATIVE AND SECURITY SERVICES ........................................................................................... 1,591 1,591
SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES ................................................................................................. 102,830 102,830
TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY ........................................................................................... 10,700,305 10,700,305
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS
OPERATING FORCES
010 OPERATIONAL FORCES ............................................................................................................................ 727,989 745,489
EDI: Globally Integrated Exercise 20–4/Austere Challenge 21.3 ............................................................. [10,000]
EDI: Marine European training program ............................................................................................... [7,500]
020 FIELD LOGISTICS ...................................................................................................................................... 195,001 195,001
030 DEPOT MAINTENANCE .............................................................................................................................. 55,183 55,183
050 CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES ........................................................................................................................ 10,000 10,000
070 BASE OPERATING SUPPORT .................................................................................................................... 24,569 24,569
SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES ............................................................................................................... 1,012,742 1,030,242
TRAINING AND RECRUITING
120 TRAINING SUPPORT .................................................................................................................................. 28,458 28,458
SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING ................................................................................................. 28,458 28,458
ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
160 SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION .......................................................................................................... 61,400 61,400
SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES ................................................................................................. 61,400 61,400
TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS .......................................................................... 1,102,600 1,120,100
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY RES
OPERATING FORCES
020 INTERMEDIATE MAINTENANCE .............................................................................................................. 522 522
030 AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE ........................................................................................................... 11,861 11,861
080 COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES ..................................................................................................................... 9,109 9,109
SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES ............................................................................................................... 21,492 21,492
TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY RES ................................................................................... 21,492 21,492
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MC RESERVE
OPERATING FORCES
010 OPERATING FORCES ................................................................................................................................. 7,627 7,627
040 BASE OPERATING SUPPORT .................................................................................................................... 1,080 1,080
SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES ............................................................................................................... 8,707 8,707
TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MC RESERVE .............................................................................. 8,707 8,707
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE
OPERATING FORCES
010 PRIMARY COMBAT FORCES ..................................................................................................................... 125,551 125,551
020 COMBAT ENHANCEMENT FORCES ........................................................................................................... 916,538 916,538
030 AIR OPERATIONS TRAINING (OJT, MAINTAIN SKILLS) ........................................................................ 93,970 93,970
040 DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE .................................................................................... 3,528,059 3,528,059
050 FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION ........................................................ 147,264 147,264
060 CYBERSPACE SUSTAINMENT .................................................................................................................. 10,842 10,842
070 CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND SYSTEM SUPPORT .............................................................. 7,187,100 7,217,545
Transfer from base ................................................................................................................................. [30,445]
080 FLYING HOUR PROGRAM .......................................................................................................................... 2,031,548 2,031,548
090 BASE SUPPORT .......................................................................................................................................... 1,540,444 1,540,444
100 GLOBAL C3I AND EARLY WARNING ......................................................................................................... 13,709 13,709
110 OTHER COMBAT OPS SPT PROGRAMS .................................................................................................... 345,800 345,800
120 CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES ........................................................................................................................ 17,936 17,936
130 TACTICAL INTEL AND OTHER SPECIAL ACTIVITIES ............................................................................ 36,820 36,820
140 LAUNCH FACILITIES ................................................................................................................................. 70 70
150 SPACE CONTROL SYSTEMS ...................................................................................................................... 1,450 1,450
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00229 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6916 November 16, 2020
SEC. 4302. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
160 US NORTHCOM/NORAD .............................................................................................................................. 725 725
170 US STRATCOM ............................................................................................................................................ 856 856
180 US CYBERCOM ............................................................................................................................................ 35,189 35,189
190 US CENTCOM .............................................................................................................................................. 126,934 126,934
SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES ............................................................................................................... 16,160,805 16,191,250
MOBILIZATION
240 AIRLIFT OPERATIONS .............................................................................................................................. 1,271,439 1,271,439
250 MOBILIZATION PREPAREDNESS ............................................................................................................. 120,866 120,866
SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION ........................................................................................................................ 1,392,305 1,392,305
TRAINING AND RECRUITING
260 OFFICER ACQUISITION ............................................................................................................................. 200 200
270 RECRUIT TRAINING .................................................................................................................................. 352 352
290 SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING ............................................................................................................... 27,010 27,010
300 FLIGHT TRAINING ..................................................................................................................................... 844 844
310 PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION ........................................................................................ 1,199 1,199
320 TRAINING SUPPORT .................................................................................................................................. 1,320 1,320
SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING ................................................................................................. 30,925 30,925
ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
380 LOGISTICS OPERATIONS .......................................................................................................................... 164,701 164,701
390 TECHNICAL SUPPORT ACTIVITIES ......................................................................................................... 11,782 11,782
400 ADMINISTRATION ..................................................................................................................................... 3,886 3,886
410 SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS ........................................................................................................... 355 355
420 OTHER SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES .......................................................................................................... 100,831 85,831
OSC-I transition to normalized security cooperation ........................................................................... [–15,000]
450 INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT ...................................................................................................................... 29,928 29,928
9999 CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS ........................................................................................................................... 34,502 34,502
SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES ................................................................................................. 345,985 330,985
TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE .................................................................................. 17,930,020 17,945,465
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, SPACE FORCE
OPERATING FORCES
020 GLOBAL C3I & EARLY WARNING .............................................................................................................. 227 227
030 SPACE LAUNCH OPERATIONS .................................................................................................................. 321 321
040 SPACE OPERATIONS ................................................................................................................................. 15,135 15,135
070 DEPOT MAINTENANCE .............................................................................................................................. 18,268 18,268
080 CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS & SYSTEM SUPPORT ..................................................................................... 43,164 43,164
SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES ............................................................................................................... 77,115 77,115
TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, SPACE FORCE ............................................................................ 77,115 77,115
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AF RESERVE
OPERATING FORCES
030 DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE .................................................................................... 24,408 24,408
060 BASE SUPPORT .......................................................................................................................................... 5,682 5,682
SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES ............................................................................................................... 30,090 30,090
TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AF RESERVE ............................................................................... 30,090 30,090
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ANG
OPERATING FORCES
020 MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS ............................................................................................................ 3,739 3,739
030 DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE .................................................................................... 61,862 61,862
050 CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND SYSTEM SUPPORT .............................................................. 97,108 97,108
060 BASE SUPPORT .......................................................................................................................................... 12,933 12,933
SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES ............................................................................................................... 175,642 175,642
TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ANG ............................................................................................. 175,642 175,642
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE
OPERATING FORCES
010 JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF .......................................................................................................................... 3,799 3,799
020 JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF—CE2T2 ............................................................................................................. 6,634 6,634
040 SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND COMBAT DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES ......................................... 898,024 898,024
060 SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND INTELLIGENCE ............................................................................... 1,244,553 1,244,553
070 SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND MAINTENANCE ............................................................................... 354,951 381,951
Airborne ISR restoration ....................................................................................................................... [27,000]
090 SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND OPERATIONAL SUPPORT ............................................................... 104,535 104,535
100 SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND THEATER FORCES .......................................................................... 757,744 757,744
SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES ............................................................................................................... 3,370,240 3,397,240
ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
180 DEFENSE CONTRACT AUDIT AGENCY ..................................................................................................... 1,247 1,247
210 DEFENSE CONTRACT MANAGEMENT AGENCY ...................................................................................... 21,723 21,723
280 DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS AGENCY ......................................................................................... 56,256 56,256
290 DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS AGENCY—CYBER .......................................................................... 3,524 3,524
330 DEFENSE LEGAL SERVICES AGENCY ..................................................................................................... 156,373 156,373
350 DEFENSE MEDIA ACTIVITY ..................................................................................................................... 3,555 3,555
370 DEFENSE SECURITY COOPERATION AGENCY ........................................................................................ 1,557,763 1,880,263
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00230 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6917
November 16, 2020
SEC. 4302. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
Transfer from CTEF for Iraq train and equip requirements .................................................................. [322,500]
410 DEFENSE THREAT REDUCTION AGENCY ................................................................................................ 297,486 297,486
490 OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE ............................................................................................ 16,984 16,984
530 WASHINGTON HEADQUARTERS SERVICES ............................................................................................ 1,997 1,997
9999 CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS ........................................................................................................................... 535,106 535,106
SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES ............................................................................................. 2,652,014 2,974,514
TOTAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE ...................................................................... 6,022,254 6,371,754
TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE ...................................................................................................... 57,334,782 57,747,967
TITLE XLIV—MILITARY PERSONNEL
SEC. 4401. MILITARY PERSONNEL.
SEC. 4401. MILITARY PERSONNEL
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
MILITARY PERSONNEL
MILITARY PERSONNEL APPROPRIATIONS
MILITARY PERSONNEL APPROPRIATIONS .......................................................................................................... 150,524,104 147,976,014
COVID related endstrength decreases ........................................................................................................................ [–755,000]
Foreign currency adjustments, Air Force ................................................................................................................. [–81,800]
Foreign currency adjustments, Army ........................................................................................................................ [–44,400]
Foreign currency adjustments, Marine Corps ............................................................................................................ [–13,900]
Foreign currency adjustments, Navy ......................................................................................................................... [–41,300]
Military personnel historical underexecution ........................................................................................................... [–1,611,690]
SUBTOTAL MILITARY PERSONNEL APPROPRIATIONS ......................................................................................... 150,524,104 147,976,014
MEDICARE-ELIGIBLE RETIREE HEALTH FUND CONTRIBUTIONS
MEDICARE-ELIGIBLE RETIREE HEALTH FUND CONTRIBUTIONS ..................................................................... 8,372,741 8,372,741
SUBTOTAL MEDICARE-ELIGIBLE RETIREE HEALTH FUND CONTRIBUTIONS .................................................... 8,372,741 8,372,741
TOTAL MILITARY PERSONNEL ................................................................................................................................ 158,896,845 156,348,755
SEC. 4402. MILITARY PERSONNEL FOR OVERSEAS
CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.
SEC. 4402. MILITARY PERSONNEL FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
MILITARY PERSONNEL
MILITARY PERSONNEL APPROPRIATIONS
MILITARY PERSONNEL APPROPRIATIONS .......................................................................................................... 4,602,593 4,602,593
SUBTOTAL MILITARY PERSONNEL APPROPRIATIONS ......................................................................................... 4,602,593 4,602,593
TOTAL MILITARY PERSONNEL ................................................................................................................................ 4,602,593 4,602,593
TITLE XLV—OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS
SEC. 4501. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS.
SEC. 4501. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
WORKING CAPITAL FUND
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, ARMY
010 INDUSTRIAL OPERATIONS .............................................................................................................................. 32,551 5,551
One-time COVID-related carryover decrease ................................................................................................ [–27,000]
020 SUPPLY MANAGEMENT—ARMY ..................................................................................................................... 24,166 1,166
One-time COVID-related carryover decrease ................................................................................................ [–23,000]
SUBTOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, ARMY .................................................................................................. 56,717 6,717
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, AIR FORCE
020 SUPPLIES AND MATERIALS ........................................................................................................................... 95,712 5,712
Air Force cash corpus for energy optimization ............................................................................................ [10,000]
One-time COVID-related carryover decrease ................................................................................................ [–100,000]
SUBTOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, AIR FORCE ......................................................................................... 191,424 101,424
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DEFENSE-WIDE
020 SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT—DEF ............................................................................................................. 49,821 49,821
SUBTOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DEFENSE-WIDE ................................................................................. 49,821 49,821
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00231 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6918 November 16, 2020
SEC. 4501. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DECA
010 WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DECA .................................................................................................................... 1,146,660 1,146,660
SUBTOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DECA .................................................................................................. 1,146,660 1,146,660
TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND .................................................................................................................... 1,444,622 1,304,622
CHEM AGENTS & MUNITIONS DESTRUCTION
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE
1 CHEM DEMILITARIZATION—O&M ................................................................................................................... 106,691 106,691
SUBTOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE ...................................................................................................... 106,691 106,691
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION
2 CHEM DEMILITARIZATION—RDT&E .............................................................................................................. 782,193 782,193
SUBTOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION ............................................................... 782,193 782,193
PROCUREMENT
3 CHEM DEMILITARIZATION—PROC ................................................................................................................. 616 616
SUBTOTAL PROCUREMENT .............................................................................................................................. 616 616
TOTAL CHEM AGENTS & MUNITIONS DESTRUCTION .................................................................................... 889,500 889,500
DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEF
DRUG INTRDCTN
010 COUNTER-NARCOTICS SUPPORT .................................................................................................................... 546,203 562,003
PDI: Joint Interagency Task Force—West Project 3309 ............................................................................... [13,000]
PDI: Joint Interagency Task Force—West Project 9202 ............................................................................... [2,800]
SUBTOTAL DRUG INTRDCTN ............................................................................................................................ 546,203 562,003
DRUG DEMAND REDUCTION PROGRAM
020 DRUG DEMAND REDUCTION PROGRAM ......................................................................................................... 123,704 123,704
SUBTOTAL DRUG DEMAND REDUCTION PROGRAM ....................................................................................... 123,704 123,704
NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-DRUG PROGRAM
030 NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-DRUG PROGRAM ............................................................................................ 94,211 94,211
SUBTOTAL NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-DRUG PROGRAM .......................................................................... 94,211 94,211
NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-DRUG SCHOOLS
040 NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-DRUG SCHOOLS .............................................................................................. 5,511 5,511
SUBTOTAL NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-DRUG SCHOOLS ............................................................................ 5,511 5,511
TOTAL DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEF ....................................................................... 769,629 785,429
OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
010 OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL .......................................................................................................... 368,279 368,279
030 OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL—CYBER ........................................................................................... 1,204 1,204
040 OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL .......................................................................................................... 1,098 1,098
050 OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL .......................................................................................................... 858 858
SUBTOTAL OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL ........................................................................................ 371,439 371,439
TOTAL OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL .............................................................................................. 371,439 371,439
DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE
010 IN-HOUSE CARE ................................................................................................................................................ 9,560,564 9,560,564
020 PRIVATE SECTOR CARE .................................................................................................................................. 15,841,887 15,841,887
030 CONSOLIDATED HEALTH SUPPORT ............................................................................................................... 1,338,269 1,338,269
040 INFORMATION MANAGEMENT ........................................................................................................................ 2,039,910 2,039,910
050 MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES ............................................................................................................................. 330,627 330,627
060 EDUCATION AND TRAINING ............................................................................................................................ 315,691 315,691
070 BASE OPERATIONS/COMMUNICATIONS ......................................................................................................... 1,922,605 1,927,605
National Disaster Medical System pilot program ........................................................................................ [5,000]
SUBTOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE ...................................................................................................... 31,349,553 31,354,553
RDT&E
080 R&D RESEARCH ................................................................................................................................................ 8,913 8,913
090 R&D EXPLORATRY DEVELOPMENT ............................................................................................................... 73,984 73,984
100 R&D ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT .................................................................................................................... 225,602 225,602
110 R&D DEMONSTRATION/VALIDATION ............................................................................................................. 132,331 132,331
120 R&D ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT .............................................................................................................. 55,748 55,748
130 R&D MANAGEMENT AND SUPPORT ............................................................................................................... 48,672 48,672
140 R&D CAPABILITIES ENHANCEMENT .............................................................................................................. 17,215 17,215
SUBTOTAL RDT&E ............................................................................................................................................. 562,465 562,465
PROCUREMENT
150 PROC INITIAL OUTFITTING ............................................................................................................................. 22,932 22,932
160 PROC REPLACEMENT & MODERNIZATION .................................................................................................... 215,618 215,618
170 PROC MILITARY HEALTH SYSTEM—DESKTOP TO DATACENTER .............................................................. 70,872 70,872
180 PROC DOD HEALTHCARE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM MODERNIZATION ........................................................ 308,504 308,504
SUBTOTAL PROCUREMENT .............................................................................................................................. 617,926 617,926
SOFTWARE & DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY PILOT PROGRAMS
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00232 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6919
November 16, 2020
SEC. 4501. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
190 SOFTWARE & DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY PILOT PROGRAMS ........................................................................... 160,428 160,428
SUBTOTAL SOFTWARE & DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY PILOT PROGRAMS .......................................................... 160,428 160,428
TOTAL DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM .............................................................................................................. 32,690,372 32,695,372
TOTAL OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS .................................................................................................................... 36,711,765 36,592,565
SEC. 4502. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS FOR OVER-
SEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.
SEC. 4502. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Line Item
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
WORKING CAPITAL FUND
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, ARMY
020 SUPPLY MANAGEMENT—ARMY ..................................................................................................................... 20,090 20,090
SUBTOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, ARMY .................................................................................................. 20,090 20,090
TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND .................................................................................................................... 20,090 20,090
OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
010 OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL .......................................................................................................... 24,069 24,069
SUBTOTAL OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL ........................................................................................ 24,069 24,069
TOTAL OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL .............................................................................................. 24,069 24,069
DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE
010 IN-HOUSE CARE ................................................................................................................................................ 65,072 65,072
020 PRIVATE SECTOR CARE .................................................................................................................................. 296,828 296,828
030 CONSOLIDATED HEALTH SUPPORT ............................................................................................................... 3,198 3,198
SUBTOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE ...................................................................................................... 365,098 365,098
TOTAL DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM .............................................................................................................. 365,098 365,098
COUNTER ISIS TRAIN AND EQUIP FUND (CTEF)
COUNTER ISIS TRAIN AND EQUIP FUND (CTEF)
010 IRAQ ................................................................................................................................................................... 645,000 322,500
Transfer traditional BPC activities to DSCA ............................................................................................... [–322,500]
020 SYRIA ................................................................................................................................................................. 200,000 200,000
SUBTOTAL COUNTER ISIS TRAIN AND EQUIP FUND (CTEF) ......................................................................... 845,000 522,500
TOTAL COUNTER ISIS TRAIN AND EQUIP FUND (CTEF) ................................................................................ 845,000 522,500
TOTAL OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS .................................................................................................................... 1,254,257 931,757
TITLE XLVI—MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
SEC. 4601. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION.
SEC. 4601. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Account State/Country and Installation Project Title
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
ARMY
Alaska
Army Fort Wainwright Child Development Center ....................................................... 0 55,000
Army Fort Wainwright Unaccompanied Enlisted Personnel Housing ........................... 0 59,000
Arizona
Army Yuma Proving Ground Ready Building ........................................................................ 14,000 14,000
California
Army Military Ocean Terminal Con-
cord
Ammunition Holding Facility ................................................. 0 46,000
Colorado
Army Fort Carson Physical Fitness Facility ........................................................ 28,000 28,000
Florida
Army JIATF-S Operations Center Planning & Design ................................................................... 0 8,000
Georgia
Army Fort Gillem Forensic Laboratory ................................................................ 71,000 71,000
Army Fort Gordon Adv Individual Training Barracks Cplx, Ph3 ........................... 80,000 80,000
Hawaii
Army Aliamanu Military Reservation Child Development Center—School Age .................................. 0 71,000
Army Schofield Barracks Child Development Center ....................................................... 0 39,000
Army Wheeler Army Air Field Aircraft Maintenance Hangar .................................................. 89,000 89,000
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00233 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6920 November 16, 2020
SEC. 4601. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Account State/Country and Installation Project Title
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
Italy
Army Casmera Renato Dal Din Access Control Point ............................................................... 0 10,200
Louisiana
Army Fort Polk Information Systems Facility ................................................. 25,000 25,000
Oklahoma
Army McAlester AAP Ammunition Demolition Shop ................................................. 35,000 35,000
Pennsylvania
Army Carlisle Barracks General Instruction Building (Inc 2) ........................................ 38,000 8,000
South Carolina
Army Fort Jackson Trainee Barracks Complex 3, Ph2 ............................................ 0 7,000
Virginia
Army Humphreys Engineer Center Training Support Facility ....................................................... 51,000 51,000
Worldwide Unspecified
Army Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Planning and Design ................................................................ 129,436 59,436
Army Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Host Nation Support ................................................................ 39,000 39,000
Army Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Unspecified Minor Construction .............................................. 50,900 74,900
SUBTOTAL ARMY ................................................................................................................................................ 650,336 869,536
NAVY
Bahrain Island
Navy SW Asia Ship to Shore Utility Services ................................................. 68,340 68,340
California
Navy Camp Pendleton Combat Water Survival Training Facility ............................... 0 25,200
Navy Camp Pendleton Warehouse Consolidation and Modernization .......................... 0 21,800
Navy Camp Pendleton I MEF Consolidated Information Center (INC) ........................ 37,000 37,000
Navy Camp Pendleton 1st MARDIV Operations Complex ............................................ 68,530 68,530
Navy Lemoore F–35C Simulator Facility & Electrical Upgrade ...................... 59,150 59,150
Navy Lemoore F–35C Hangar 6 Phase 2 (Mod 3/4) ............................................. 128,070 53,000
Navy Point Mugu Directed Energy Test Facility ................................................. 0 26,700
Navy Port Hueneme Combat Vehicle Maintenance Facilities .................................. 0 43,500
Navy San Diego Pier 6 Replacement .................................................................. 128,500 63,500
Navy Seal Beach Magazines ................................................................................ 0 46,800
Navy Twentynine Palms Wastewater Treatment Plant .................................................. 76,500 76,500
Greece
Navy Souda Bay Communication Center ............................................................ 50,180 50,180
Guam
Navy Andersen Air Force Base Ordnance Operations Admin .................................................... 21,280 21,280
Navy Joint Region Marianas DAR Road Strengthening ........................................................ 70,760 70,760
Navy Joint Region Marianas DAR Bridge Improvements ...................................................... 40,180 40,180
Navy Joint Region Marianas Central Fuel Station ................................................................ 35,950 17,950
Navy Joint Region Marianas Distribution Warehouse ........................................................... 77,930 77,930
Navy Joint Region Marianas Combined EOD Facility ........................................................... 37,600 37,600
Navy Joint Region Marianas Bachelor Enlisted Quarters (Inc) ............................................. 80,000 10,000
Navy Joint Region Marianas Joint Communication Upgrade ................................................ 166,000 26,000
Navy Joint Region Marianas Base Warehouse ....................................................................... 55,410 55,410
Navy Joint Region Marianas Individual Combat Skills Training .......................................... 17,430 17,430
Navy Joint Region Marianas Central Issue Facility .............................................................. 45,290 45,290
Hawaii
Navy Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam Waterfront Improvements Wharves S8–S10 .............................. 65,910 65,910
Navy Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam Waterfront Improve, Wharves S1,S11–13,S20–21 ........................ 48,990 48,990
Honduras
Navy Comalapa Long Range Maritime Patrol Aircraft Hangar and Ramp ....... 0 28,000
Japan
Navy Yokosuka Pier 5 (Berths 2 and 3) (Inc) ...................................................... 74,692 44,692
Maine
Navy Kittery Multi-Mission Drydock #1 Exten., Ph 1 (Inc) ........................... 160,000 160,000
Navy NCTAMS LANT Detachment
Cutler
Perimeter Security .................................................................. 0 26,100
Nevada
Navy Fallon Range Training Complex, Phase 1 ............................................ 29,040 29,040
North Carolina
Navy Camp Lejeune II MEF Operations Center Replacement (Inc) .......................... 20,000 20,000
Navy Cherry Point Fitness Center Replacement and Training Pool ...................... 0 51,900
Spain
Navy Rota MH–60R Squadron Support Facilities ...................................... 60,110 60,110
Virginia
Navy Norfolk Sub Logistics Support ............................................................. 0 9,400
Navy Norfolk MH60 & CMV–22B Corrosion Control & Paint Facility ............ 17,671 17,671
Navy Norfolk E–2D Training Facility ............................................................ 30,400 30,400
Worldwide Unspecified
Navy Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Unspecified Minor Construction .............................................. 38,983 38,983
Navy Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Planning & Design ................................................................... 165,710 165,710
SUBTOTAL NAVY ................................................................................................................................................. 1,975,606 1,856,936
AIR FORCE
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00234 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6921
November 16, 2020
SEC. 4601. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Account State/Country and Installation Project Title
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
Colorado
Air Force Schriever Air Force Base Consolidated Space Operations Facility, (Inc 2) ...................... 88,000 88,000
Air Force United States Air Force Acad-
emy
Cadet Preparatory School Dormitory ...................................... 0 49,000
Guam
Air Force Joint Region Marianas Stand Off Weapons Complex, MSA 2 ........................................ 56,000 56,000
Mariana Islands
Air Force Tinian Fuel Tanks With Pipeline & Hydrant Sys, (Inc 2) .................... 7,000 7,000
Air Force Tinian Airfield Development Phase 1, (Inc 2) ...................................... 20,000 20,000
Air Force Tinian Parking Apron, (Inc 2) ............................................................. 15,000 15,000
Montana
Air Force Malmstrom Air Force Base Weapons Storage & Maintenance Facility, (Inc 2) ................... 25,000 25,000
New Jersey
Air Force Joint Base McGuire-Dix-
Lakehurst
Munitions Storage Area ........................................................... 22,000 22,000
Qatar
Air Force Al Udeid Cargo Marshalling Yard ........................................................... 26,000 26,000
South Dakota
Air Force Ellsworth Air Force Base B–21 2–Bay LO Restoration Facility ........................................ 0 10,000
Texas
Air Force Joint Base San Antonio BMT Recruit Dormitory 8, (Inc 2) ............................................ 36,000 36,000
Air Force Joint Base San Antonio T-X ADAL Ground Based Trng Sys Sim .................................. 19,500 19,500
Utah
Air Force Hill Air Force Base GBSD Organic Software Sustainment Center .......................... 0 20,000
Air Force Hill Air Force Base GBSD Mission Integration Facility, (Inc 2) ............................. 68,000 68,000
Virginia
Air Force Joint Base Langley-Eustis Access Control Point Main Gate With Land Acq ..................... 19,500 19,500
Worldwide Unspecified
Air Force Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Cost to Complete ..................................................................... 0 29,422
Air Force Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Planning & Design ................................................................... 296,532 116,532
Air Force Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Unspecified Minor Construction .............................................. 68,600 68,600
SUBTOTAL AIR FORCE ....................................................................................................................................... 767,132 695,554
DEFENSE-WIDE
Alabama
Defense-Wide Anniston Army Depot Demilitarization Facility ........................................................ 18,000 18,000
Alaska
Defense-Wide Fort Greely Communications Center .......................................................... 48,000 48,000
Albama
Defense-Wide Fort Rucker Construct 10mw Generation & Microgrid ................................. 0 24,000
Arizona
Defense-Wide Fort Huachuca Laboratory Building ................................................................ 33,728 33,728
Defense-Wide Yuma SOF Hangar ............................................................................. 49,500 49,500
Arkansas
Defense-Wide Fort Smith Air National Guard
Base
PV Arrays and Battery Storage ............................................... 0 2,600
California
Defense-Wide Beale Air Force Base Bulk Fuel Tank ........................................................................ 22,800 22,800
Colorado
Defense-Wide Fort Carson SOF Tactical Equipment Maintenance Facility ...................... 15,600 15,600
CONUS Unspecified
Defense-Wide CONUS Unspecified Training Target Structure ....................................................... 14,400 14,400
Florida
Defense-Wide Hurlburt Field SOF Special Tactics Ops Facility (23 STS) .............................. 44,810 44,810
Defense-Wide Hurlburt Field SOF Combat Aircraft Parking Apron-North ............................ 38,310 38,310
Georgia
Defense-Wide Fort Benning Construct 4.8mw Generation & Microgrid ................................ 0 17,000
Germany
Defense-Wide Rhine Ordnance Barracks Medical Center Replacement (Inc 9) ........................................ 200,000 0
Japan
Defense-Wide Def Fuel Support Point Tsurumi Fuel Wharf ............................................................................... 49,500 49,500
Defense-Wide Yokosuka Kinnick High School (Inc) ....................................................... 30,000 0
Kentucky
Defense-Wide Fort Knox Van Voorhis Elementary School .............................................. 69,310 69,310
Maryland
Defense-Wide Bethesda Naval Hospital MEDCEN Addition/Alteration (Inc 4) ...................................... 180,000 50,000
Defense-Wide Fort Meade NSAW Recapitalize Building #3 (Inc) ...................................... 250,000 250,000
Mississippi
Defense-Wide MTA Camp Shelby Construct 10mw Generation Plant and Microgrid System ....... 0 30,000
Missouri
Defense-Wide Fort Leonard Wood Hospital Replacement (Inc 3) ................................................... 40,000 40,000
Defense-Wide St Louis Next NGA West (N2W) Complex Phase 2 (Inc) .......................... 119,000 60,000
New Mexico
Defense-Wide Kirtland Air Force Base Administrative Building .......................................................... 46,600 46,600
North Carolina
Defense-Wide Fort Bragg SOTF Chilled Water Upgrade ................................................... 0 6,100
Defense-Wide Fort Bragg SOF Military Working Dog Facility ........................................ 17,700 17,700
Defense-Wide Fort Bragg SOF Group Headquarters ......................................................... 53,100 53,100
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00235 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6922 November 16, 2020
SEC. 4601. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Account State/Country and Installation Project Title
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
Defense-Wide Fort Bragg SOF Operations Facility .......................................................... 43,000 43,000
Ohio
Defense-Wide Wright-Patterson Air Force
Base
Intelligence Facility Central Utility Plant ............................. 0 35,000
Defense-Wide Wright-Patterson Air Force
Base
Hydrant Fuel System ............................................................... 23,500 23,500
Tennessee
Defense-Wide Memphis International Airport PV Arrays and Battery Storage ............................................... 0 4,780
Texas
Defense-Wide Fort Hood Fuel Facilities ......................................................................... 32,700 32,700
Virginia
Defense-Wide Joint Expeditionary Base Little
Creek—Story
SOF DCS Operations Fac. and Command Center ..................... 54,500 54,500
Defense-Wide Joint Expeditionary Base Little
Creek—Story
SOF NSWG–2 NSWTG CSS Facilities ...................................... 58,000 58,000
Washington
Defense-Wide Joint Base Lewis-McChord Fuel Facilities (Lewis North) .................................................. 10,900 10,900
Defense-Wide Joint Base Lewis-McChord Fuel Facilities (Lewis Main) .................................................... 10,900 10,900
Defense-Wide Manchester Bulk Fuel Storage Tanks Phase 1 ............................................ 82,000 82,000
Washington DC
Defense-Wide Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling DIA HQ Cooling Towers and Cond Pumps ................................ 0 1,963
Defense-Wide Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling Industrial Controls System Modernization ............................. 0 8,749
Defense-Wide Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling PV Carports ............................................................................. 0 25,221
Worldwide Unspecified
Defense-Wide Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Unspecified Minor Construction .............................................. 8,000 8,000
Defense-Wide Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Planning and Design ................................................................ 27,746 27,746
Defense-Wide Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Unspecified Minor Construction .............................................. 4,922 4,922
Defense-Wide Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Unspecified Minor Construction .............................................. 17,698 17,698
Defense-Wide Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Unspecified Minor Construction .............................................. 20,000 20,000
Defense-Wide Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Energy Resilience and Conserv. Invest. Prog. ......................... 142,500 142,500
Defense-Wide Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Unspecified Minor Construction .............................................. 3,000 3,000
Defense-Wide Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Planning and Design ................................................................ 10,647 10,647
Defense-Wide Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
ERCIP Design .......................................................................... 14,250 14,250
Defense-Wide Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Planning and Design ................................................................ 10,303 10,303
Defense-Wide Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Exercise Related Minor Construction ...................................... 5,840 5,840
Defense-Wide Various Worldwide Locations Planning and Design ................................................................ 32,624 32,624
Defense-Wide Various Worldwide Locations Unspecified Minor Construction .............................................. 9,726 9,726
Defense-Wide Various Worldwide Locations Planning and Design ................................................................ 64,406 64,406
Worlwide Unspecified
Defense-Wide Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Planning & Design—Military Installation Resiliency ............. 0 50,000
Defense-Wide Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Planning & Design—Pacific Deterrence Initiative .................. 0 15,000
SUBTOTAL DEFENSE-WIDE ................................................................................................................................ 2,027,520 1,828,933
ARMY NATIONAL GUARD
Arizona
Army Na-
tional Guard
Tucson National Guard Readiness Center ............................................ 18,100 18,100
Arkansas
Army Na-
tional Guard
Fort Chaffee National Guard Readiness Center ............................................ 0 15,000
California
Army Na-
tional Guard
Bakersfield National Guard Vehicle Maintenance Shop ............................. 0 9,300
Colorado
Army Na-
tional Guard
Peterson Air Force Base National Guard Readiness Center ............................................ 15,000 15,000
Indiana
Army Na-
tional Guard
Shelbyville National Guard/Reserve Center Building Add/Al ..................... 12,000 12,000
Kentucky
Army Na-
tional Guard
Frankfort National Guard/Reserve Center Building ................................. 15,000 15,000
Mississippi
Army Na-
tional Guard
Brandon National Guard Vehicle Maintenance Shop ............................. 10,400 10,400
Nebraska
Army Na-
tional Guard
North Platte National Guard Vehicle Maintenance Shop ............................. 9,300 9,300
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00236 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6923
November 16, 2020
SEC. 4601. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Account State/Country and Installation Project Title
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
New Jersey
Army Na-
tional Guard
Joint Base McGuire-Dix-
Lakehurst
National Guard Readiness Center ............................................ 15,000 15,000
Ohio
Army Na-
tional Guard
Columbus National Guard Readiness Center ............................................ 15,000 15,000
Oklahoma
Army Na-
tional Guard
Ardmore National Guard Vehicle Maintenance Shop ............................. 0 9,800
Oregon
Army Na-
tional Guard
Hermiston Enlisted Barracks, Transient Training .................................... 0 15,735
Army Na-
tional Guard
Hermiston Enlisted Barracks, Transient Training .................................... 9,300 9,300
Puerto Rico
Army Na-
tional Guard
Fort Allen National Guard Readiness Center ............................................ 37,000 37,000
South Carolina
Army Na-
tional Guard
Joint Base Charleston National Guard Readiness Center ............................................ 15,000 15,000
Tennessee
Army Na-
tional Guard
Mcminnville National Guard Readiness Center ............................................ 11,200 11,200
Texas
Army Na-
tional Guard
Fort Worth National Guard Vehicle Maintenance Shop ............................. 7,800 7,800
Army Na-
tional Guard
Fort Worth Aircraft Maintenance Hangar Addition/Alt ............................. 6,000 6,000
Utah
Army Na-
tional Guard
Nephi National Guard Readiness Center ............................................ 12,000 12,000
Virgin Islands
Army Na-
tional Guard
St. Croix Army Aviation Support Facility (AASF) ................................ 28,000 28,000
Army Na-
tional Guard
St. Croix CST Ready Building ................................................................. 11,400 11,400
Wisconsin
Army Na-
tional Guard
Appleton National Guard Readiness Center Add/Alt ............................... 11,600 11,600
Worldwide Unspecified
Army Na-
tional Guard
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Unspecified Minor Construction .............................................. 32,744 32,744
Army Na-
tional Guard
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Planning and Design ................................................................ 29,593 29,593
SUBTOTAL ARMY NATIONAL GUARD ................................................................................................................ 321,437 371,272
AIR NATIONAL GUARD
Alabama
Air National
Guard
Montgomery Regional Airport Base Supply Complex ............................................................... 0 12,000
Air National
Guard
Montgomery Regional Airport F–35 Simulator Facility ........................................................... 11,600 11,600
Guam
Air National
Guard
Joint Region Marianas Space Control Facility #5 ........................................................ 20,000 20,000
Maryland
Air National
Guard
Joint Base Andrews F–16 Mission Training Center .................................................. 9,400 9,400
North Dakota
Air National
Guard
Hector International Airport Consolidated RPA Operations Facility .................................... 0 17,500
Texas
Air National
Guard
Joint Base San Antonio F–16 Mission Training Center .................................................. 10,800 10,800
Worldwide Unspecified
Air National
Guard
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Unspecified Minor Construction .............................................. 9,000 9,000
Air National
Guard
Various Worldwide Locations Planning and Design ................................................................ 3,414 3,414
SUBTOTAL AIR NATIONAL GUARD .................................................................................................................... 64,214 93,714
ARMY RESERVE
Florida
Army Reserve Gainesville ECS TEMF/Warehouse ............................................................. 36,000 36,000
Massachusetts
Army Reserve Devens Reserve Forces Training
Area
Automated Multipurpose Machine Gun Range ........................ 8,700 8,700
North Carolina
Army Reserve Asheville Army Reserve Center/Land ...................................................... 24,000 24,000
Wisconsin
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00237 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6924 November 16, 2020
SEC. 4601. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Account State/Country and Installation Project Title
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
Army Reserve Fort McCoy Transient Training Barracks ................................................... 0 2,500
Army Reserve Fort McCoy Scout Reconnaissance Range ................................................... 14,600 14,600
Worldwide Unspecified
Army Reserve Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Unspecified Minor Construction .............................................. 3,819 3,819
Army Reserve Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Planning and Design ................................................................ 1,218 1,218
SUBTOTAL ARMY RESERVE ............................................................................................................................... 88,337 90,837
NAVY RESERVE
Maryland
Navy Reserve Reisterstown Reserve Training Center, Camp Fretterd, MD ......................... 39,500 39,500
Minnesota
Navy Reserve NOSC Minneapolis Joint Reserve Intel Center ....................................................... 0 12,800
Utah
Navy Reserve Hill Air Force Base Naval Operational Support Center ........................................... 25,010 25,010
Worldwide Unspecified
Navy Reserve Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
MCNR Planning & Design ........................................................ 3,485 3,485
Navy Reserve Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
MCNR Minor Construction ...................................................... 3,000 3,000
SUBTOTAL NAVY RESERVE ................................................................................................................................ 70,995 83,795
AIR FORCE RESERVE
Texas
Air Force Re-
serve
Fort Worth F–35 Squadron Ops / Aircraft Maintenance Unit ...................... 0 25,000
Air Force Re-
serve
Fort Worth F–35A Simulator Facility ........................................................ 14,200 14,200
Worldwide Unspecified
Air Force Re-
serve
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Planning & Design ................................................................... 3,270 3,270
Air Force Re-
serve
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Unspecified Minor Construction .............................................. 5,647 5,647
SUBTOTAL AIR FORCE RESERVE ...................................................................................................................... 23,117 48,117
NATO SECURITY INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Worldwide Unspecified
NATO Secu-
rity Invest-
ment Pro-
gram
NATO Security Investment Pro-
gram
NATO Security Investment Program ...................................... 173,030 173,030
SUBTOTAL NATO SECURITY INVESTMENT PROGRAM .................................................................................... 173,030 173,030
TOTAL MILITARY CONSTRUCTION ................................................................................................................... 6,161,724 6,111,724
FAMILY HOUSING
CONSTRUCTION, ARMY
Italy
Construction,
Army
Vicenza Family Housing New Construction .......................................... 84,100 84,100
Kwajalein
Construction,
Army
Kwajalein Atoll Family Housing Replacement Construction ............................ 32,000 32,000
Worldwide Unspecified
Construction,
Army
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Family Housing P & D ............................................................. 3,300 3,300
SUBTOTAL CONSTRUCTION, ARMY ................................................................................................................... 119,400 119,400
O&M, ARMY
Worldwide Unspecified
O&M, Army Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Management ............................................................................ 39,716 39,716
O&M, Army Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Services .................................................................................... 8,135 8,135
O&M, Army Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Furnishings .............................................................................. 18,004 18,004
O&M, Army Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Miscellaneous .......................................................................... 526 526
O&M, Army Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Maintenance ............................................................................ 97,789 70,789
O&M, Army Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Utilities ................................................................................... 41,183 41,183
O&M, Army Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Leasing .................................................................................... 123,841 123,841
O&M, Army Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Housing Privitization Support ................................................. 37,948 64,948
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00238 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6925
November 16, 2020
SEC. 4601. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Account State/Country and Installation Project Title
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
SUBTOTAL O&M, ARMY ...................................................................................................................................... 367,142 367,142
CONSTRUCTION, NAVY AND MARINE CORPS
Worldwide Unspecified
Construction,
Navy and
Marine
Corps
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
USMC DPRI/Guam Planning and Design ................................. 2,726 2,726
Construction,
Navy and
Marine
Corps
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Construction Improvements .................................................... 37,043 37,043
Construction,
Navy and
Marine
Corps
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Planning & Design ................................................................... 3,128 3,128
SUBTOTAL CONSTRUCTION, NAVY AND MARINE CORPS ................................................................................ 42,897 42,897
O&M, NAVY AND MARINE CORPS
Worldwide Unspecified
O&M, Navy
and Marine
Corps
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Utilities ................................................................................... 58,429 58,429
O&M, Navy
and Marine
Corps
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Furnishings .............................................................................. 17,977 17,977
O&M, Navy
and Marine
Corps
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Management ............................................................................ 51,006 51,006
O&M, Navy
and Marine
Corps
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Miscellaneous .......................................................................... 350 350
O&M, Navy
and Marine
Corps
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Services .................................................................................... 16,743 16,743
O&M, Navy
and Marine
Corps
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Leasing .................................................................................... 62,658 62,658
O&M, Navy
and Marine
Corps
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Maintenance ............................................................................ 85,630 85,630
O&M, Navy
and Marine
Corps
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Housing Privatization Support ................................................ 53,700 78,700
SUBTOTAL O&M, NAVY AND MARINE CORPS ................................................................................................... 346,493 371,493
CONSTRUCTION, AIR FORCE
Worldwide Unspecified
Construction,
Air Force
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Construction Improvements .................................................... 94,245 94,245
Construction,
Air Force
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Planning & Design ................................................................... 2,969 2,969
SUBTOTAL CONSTRUCTION, AIR FORCE .......................................................................................................... 97,214 97,214
O&M, AIR FORCE
Worldwide Unspecified
O&M, Air
Force
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Housing Privatization .............................................................. 23,175 48,175
O&M, Air
Force
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Utilities ................................................................................... 43,173 43,173
O&M, Air
Force
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Management ............................................................................ 64,732 64,732
O&M, Air
Force
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Services .................................................................................... 7,968 7,968
O&M, Air
Force
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Furnishings .............................................................................. 25,805 25,805
O&M, Air
Force
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Miscellaneous .......................................................................... 2,184 2,184
O&M, Air
Force
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Leasing .................................................................................... 9,318 9,318
O&M, Air
Force
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Maintenance ............................................................................ 140,666 140,666
SUBTOTAL O&M, AIR FORCE ............................................................................................................................. 317,021 342,021
O&M, DEFENSE-WIDE
Worldwide Unspecified
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00239 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6926 November 16, 2020
SEC. 4601. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Account State/Country and Installation Project Title
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
O&M, Defense-
Wide
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Utilities ................................................................................... 4,100 4,100
O&M, Defense-
Wide
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Furnishings .............................................................................. 82 82
O&M, Defense-
Wide
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Utilities ................................................................................... 13 13
O&M, Defense-
Wide
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Leasing .................................................................................... 12,996 12,996
O&M, Defense-
Wide
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Maintenance ............................................................................ 32 32
O&M, Defense-
Wide
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Furnishings .............................................................................. 645 645
O&M, Defense-
Wide
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Leasing .................................................................................... 36,860 36,860
SUBTOTAL O&M, DEFENSE-WIDE ...................................................................................................................... 54,728 54,728
IMPROVEMENT FUND
Worldwide Unspecified
Improvement
Fund
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Administrative Expenses—FHIF .............................................. 5,897 5,897
SUBTOTAL IMPROVEMENT FUND ..................................................................................................................... 5,897 5,897
UNACCMP HSG IMPROVEMENT FUND
Worldwide Unspecified
Unaccmp HSG
Improve-
ment Fund
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Administrative Expenses—UHIF ............................................. 600 600
SUBTOTAL UNACCMP HSG IMPROVEMENT FUND ........................................................................................... 600 600
TOTAL FAMILY HOUSING ................................................................................................................................... 1,351,392 1,401,392
DEFENSE BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE
ARMY BRAC
Worldwide Unspecified
Army BRAC Base Realignment & Closure,
Army
Base Realignment and Closure ................................................ 66,060 66,060
SUBTOTAL ARMY BRAC ...................................................................................................................................... 66,060 66,060
NAVY BRAC
Worldwide Unspecified
Navy BRAC Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Base Realignment & Closure .................................................... 125,165 125,165
SUBTOTAL NAVY BRAC ...................................................................................................................................... 125,165 125,165
AIR FORCE BRAC
Worldwide Unspecified
Air Force
BRAC
Unspecified Worldwide Loca-
tions
Dod BRAC Activities—Air Force ............................................. 109,222 109,222
SUBTOTAL AIR FORCE BRAC ............................................................................................................................. 109,222 109,222
TOTAL DEFENSE BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE ................................................................................... 300,447 300,447
TOTAL MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, FAMILY HOUSING, AND BRAC ................................................................ 7,813,563 7,813,563
SEC. 4602. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION FOR OVER-
SEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.
SEC. 4602. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Account State or Country and Installation Project Title
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
ARMY
Worldwide Unspecified
Army Unspecified Worldwide Locations EDI: Planning and Design ......................................................... 11,903 11,903
Army Unspecified Worldwide Locations EDI: Minor Construction ........................................................... 3,970 3,970
SUBTOTAL ARMY ................................................................................................................................................... 15,873 15,873
NAVY
Spain
Navy Rota EDI: Expeditionary Maintenance Facility ................................ 27,470 27,470
Navy Rota EDI: EOD Boat Shop ................................................................. 31,760 31,760
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00240 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6927
November 16, 2020
SEC. 4602. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Account State or Country and Installation Project Title
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
Worldwide Unspecified
Navy Unspecified Worldwide Locations Planning & Design ..................................................................... 10,790 10,790
SUBTOTAL NAVY .................................................................................................................................................... 70,020 70,020
AIR FORCE
Germany
Air Force Ramstein EDI: Rapid Airfield Damage Repair Storage ............................. 36,345 36,345
Air Force Spangdahlem AB EDI: Rapid Airfield Damage Repair Storage ............................. 25,824 25,824
Romania
Air Force Campia Turzii EDI: Dangerous Cargo Pad ........................................................ 11,000 11,000
Air Force Campia Turzii EDI: POL Increase Capacity ...................................................... 32,000 32,000
Air Force Campia Turzii EDI: ECAOS DABS-FEV Storage Complex ............................... 68,000 68,000
Air Force Campia Turzii EDI: Parking Apron .................................................................. 19,500 19,500
Worldwide Unspecified
Air Force Unspecified Worldwide Locations EDI: Unspecified Minor Military Construction ......................... 16,400 16,400
Air Force Various Worldwide Locations EDI: Planning & Design ............................................................ 54,800 54,800
SUBTOTAL AIR FORCE .......................................................................................................................................... 263,869 263,869
TOTAL MILITARY CONSTRUCTION ...................................................................................................................... 349,762 349,762
TOTAL MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, FAMILY HOUSING, AND BRAC ................................................................... 349,762 349,762
TITLE XLVII—DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS
SEC. 4701. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL
SECURITY PROGRAMS.
SEC. 4701. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Program
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
Discretionary Summary by Appropriation
Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies
Appropriation Summary:
Energy Programs
Nuclear energy ............................................................................................................................................. 137,800 137,800
Atomic Energy Defense Activities
National Nuclear Security Administration:
Federal Salaries and Expenses ............................................................................................................... 454,000 454,000
Weapons activities ................................................................................................................................. 15,602,000 15,602,000
Defense nuclear nonproliferation ........................................................................................................... 2,031,000 2,031,000
Naval reactors ........................................................................................................................................ 1,684,000 1,684,000
Total, National Nuclear Security Administration ..................................................................................................... 19,771,000 19,771,000
Defense environmental cleanup ................................................................................................................... 4,983,608 5,083,608
Other defense activities ................................................................................................................................ 1,054,727 904,727
Total, Atomic Energy Defense Activities ................................................................................................................... 25,809,335 25,759,335
Total, Discretionary Funding .................................................................................................................................... 25,947,135 25,897,135
Nuclear Energy
Idaho sitewide safeguards and security .................................................................................................................... 137,800 137,800
Total, Nuclear Energy ............................................................................................................................................... 137,800 137,800
National Nuclear Security Administration
Federal Salaries and Expenses
Program direction .................................................................................................................................................... 454,000 454,000
Weapons Activities
Stockpile management
Stockpile major modernization
B61 Life extension program .......................................................................................................................... 815,710 815,710
W76 Life extension program ......................................................................................................................... 0 0
W76–2 Modification program ......................................................................................................................... 0 0
W88 Alteration program ............................................................................................................................... 256,922 256,922
W80–4 Life extension program ...................................................................................................................... 1,000,314 1,000,314
W87–1 Modification Program (formerly IW1) ................................................................................................ 541,000 541,000
W93 ............................................................................................................................................................... 53,000 53,000
Total, Stockpile major modernization ....................................................................................................................... 2,666,946 2,666,946
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00241 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6928 November 16, 2020
SEC. 4701. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Program
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
Stockpile sustainment ....................................................................................................................................... 998,357 998,357
Weapons dismantlement and disposition ........................................................................................................... 50,000 50,000
Production operations ........................................................................................................................................ 568,941 568,941
Total, Stockpile management .................................................................................................................................... 4,284,244 4,284,244
Production modernization
Primary capability modernization
Plutonium modernization
Los Alamos plutonium modernization
Los Alamos Plutonium Operations .................................................................................................. 610,599 610,599
21–D–512, Plutonium Pit Production Project, LANL ........................................................................ 226,000 226,000
Subtotal, Los Alamos plutonium modernization ....................................................................................................... 836,599 836,599
Savannah River plutonium modernization
Savannah River plutonium operations ............................................................................................. 200,000 200,000
21–D–511, Savannah River Plutonium Processing Facility, SRS ...................................................... 241,896 241,896
Subtotal, Savannah River plutonium modernization ................................................................................................ 441,896 441,896
Enterprise Plutonium Support ............................................................................................................... 90,782 90,782
Total, Plutonium Modernization ............................................................................................................................... 1,369,277 1,369,277
High Explosives & Energetics ....................................................................................................................... 67,370 67,370
Total, Primary capability modernization .................................................................................................................. 1,436,647 1,436,647
Secondary Capability Modernization ................................................................................................................. 457,004 457,004
Tritium and Domestic Uranium Enrichment ..................................................................................................... 457,112 457,112
Non-Nuclear Capability Modernization .............................................................................................................. 107,137 107,137
Total, Production modernization .............................................................................................................................. 2,457,900 2,457,900
Stockpile research, technology, and engineering
Assessment science ............................................................................................................................................. 773,111 773,111
Engineering and integrated assessments ........................................................................................................... 337,404 337,404
Intertial confinement fusion .............................................................................................................................. 554,725 554,725
Advanced simulation and computing ................................................................................................................. 732,014 732,014
Weapon technology and manufacturing maturation .......................................................................................... 297,965 297,965
Academic programs ............................................................................................................................................ 86,912 86,912
Total, Stockpile research, technology, and engineering ............................................................................................ 2,782,131 2,782,131
Infrastructure and operations
Operating
Operations of facilities ................................................................................................................................. 1,014,000 1,014,000
Safety and Environmental Operations ......................................................................................................... 165,354 165,354
Maintenance and Repair of Facilities .......................................................................................................... 792,000 792,000
Recapitalization
Infrastructure and Safety ...................................................................................................................... 670,000 670,000
Capabilities Based Investments ............................................................................................................. 149,117 149,117
Planning for Programmatic Construction (Pre-CD–1) ............................................................................ 84,787 84,787
Subtotal, Recapitalization ........................................................................................................................................ 903,904 903,904
Total, Operating ....................................................................................................................................................... 2,875,258 2,875,258
I&O: Construction
Programmatic
21–D–510, HE Synthesis, Formulation, and Production Facility, PX ..................................................... 31,000 31,000
18–D–690, Lithium Processing Facility, Y–12 .......................................................................................... 109,405 109,405
18–D–650, Tritium Finishing Facility, SRS ............................................................................................. 27,000 27,000
18–D–620, Exascale Computing Facility Modernization Project, LLNL .................................................. 29,200 29,200
17–D–640, U1a Complex Enhancements Project, NNSS ........................................................................... 160,600 160,600
15–D–302, TA–55 Reinvestment Project—Phase 3, LANL ......................................................................... 30,000 30,000
15–D–301, HE Science & Engineering Facility, PX .................................................................................. 43,000 43,000
07–D–220-04, Transuranic Liquid Waste Facility, LANL ......................................................................... 36,687 36,687
06–D–141, Uranium Processing Facility, Y–12 ......................................................................................... 750,000 750,000
04–D–125, Chemistry and Metallurgy Research Replacement Project, LANL ......................................... 169,427 169,427
Total, Programmatic ................................................................................................................................................. 1,386,319 1,386,319
Mission enabling
19–D–670, 138kV Power Transmission System Replacement, NNSS ........................................................ 59,000 59,000
15–D–612, Emergency Operations Center, LLNL ..................................................................................... 27,000 27,000
15–D–611, Emergency Operations Center, SNL ........................................................................................ 36,000 36,000
Total, Mission enabling ............................................................................................................................................. 122,000 122,000
Total, I&O construction ............................................................................................................................................ 1,508,319 1,508,319
Total, Infrastructure and operations ........................................................................................................................ 4,383,577 4,383,577
Secure transportation asset
Operations and equipment .................................................................................................................................. 266,390 266,390
Program direction .............................................................................................................................................. 123,684 123,684
Total, Secure transportation asset ............................................................................................................................ 390,074 390,074
Defense nuclear security
Operations and maintenance .............................................................................................................................. 815,895 815,895
Security improvements program ........................................................................................................................ 0 0
Construction:
17–D–710, West end protected area reduction project, Y–12 ........................................................................... 11,000 11,000
Subtotal, construction .............................................................................................................................................. 11,000 11,000
Total, Defense nuclear security ................................................................................................................................ 826,895 826,895
Information technology and cybersecurity ............................................................................................................... 375,511 375,511
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00242 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6929
November 16, 2020
SEC. 4701. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Program
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
Legacy contractor pensions ...................................................................................................................................... 101,668 101,668
Total, Weapons activities .......................................................................................................................................... 16,056,000 16,056,000
Adjustments
Use of prior year balances .................................................................................................................................. 0 0
Total, Adjustments .................................................................................................................................................... 0 0
Total, Weapons Activities .......................................................................................................................................... 15,602,000 15,602,000
Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation
Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation Programs
Material management and minimization
Conversion (formerly HEU Reactor Conversion) .......................................................................................... 170,000 170,000
Nuclear material removal ............................................................................................................................ 40,000 40,000
Material disposition ..................................................................................................................................... 190,711 190,711
Laboratory and partnership support ............................................................................................................ 0 0
Total, Material management & minimization ........................................................................................................... 400,711 400,711
Global material security .................................................................................................................................... 0
International nuclear security ..................................................................................................................... 66,391 66,391
Domestic radiological security .................................................................................................................... 101,000 101,000
International radiological security .............................................................................................................. 73,340 73,340
Nuclear smuggling detection and deterrence ............................................................................................... 159,749 159,749
Total, Global material security ................................................................................................................................. 400,480 400,480
Nonproliferation and arms control ..................................................................................................................... 138,708 138,708
National Technical Nuclear Forensics R&D ....................................................................................................... 40,000 40,000
Defense nuclear nonproliferation R&D
Proliferation detection ................................................................................................................................. 235,220 235,220
Nonproliferation Stewardship program .................................................................................................. 59,900 59,900
Nuclear detonation detection ....................................................................................................................... 236,531 236,531
Nonproliferation fuels development ............................................................................................................. 0 0
Total, Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation R&D .......................................................................................................... 531,651 531,651
Nonproliferation construction
U. S. Construction:
18–D–150 Surplus Plutonium Disposition Project ................................................................................... 148,589 148,589
99–D–143, Mixed Oxide (MOX) Fuel Fabrication Facility, SRS ............................................................... 0 0
Total, U. S. Construction: .......................................................................................................................................... 148,589 148,589
Total, Nonproliferation construction ........................................................................................................................ 148,589 148,589
Total, Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation Programs .................................................................................................. 1,660,139 1,660,139
Legacy contractor pensions ..................................................................................................................................... 14,348 14,348
Nuclear counterterrorism and incident response program
Emergency Operations ....................................................................................................................................... 36,000 36,000
Counterterrorism and Counterproliferation ....................................................................................................... 341,513 341,513
Total, Nuclear counterterrorism and incident response program ............................................................................ 377,513 377,513
Subtotal, Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation ............................................................................................................. 2,052,000 2,052,000
Adjustments
Use of prior year balances .................................................................................................................................. –21,000 –21,000
Total, Adjustments .................................................................................................................................................... –21,000 –21,000
Total, Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation .................................................................................................................. 2,031,000 2,031,000
Naval Reactors
Naval reactors development ..................................................................................................................................... 590,306 590,306
Columbia-Class reactor systems development ......................................................................................................... 64,700 64,700
S8G Prototype refueling ........................................................................................................................................... 135,000 135,000
Naval reactors operations and infrastructure .......................................................................................................... 506,294 506,294
Program direction .................................................................................................................................................... 53,700 53,700
Construction:
21–D–530 KL Steam and Condensate Upgrades .................................................................................................... 4,000 4,000
14–D–901, Spent fuel handling recapitalization project, NRF ............................................................................. 330,000 330,000
Total, Construction ................................................................................................................................................... 334,000 334,000
Transfer to NE—Advanced Test Reactor (non-add) .................................................................................................. 0 0
Total, Naval Reactors ............................................................................................................................................... 1,684,000 1,684,000
TOTAL, National Nuclear Security Administration .................................................................................................. 19,771,000 19,771,000
Defense Environmental Cleanup
Closure sites administration .............................................................................................................................. 4,987 4,987
Richland:
River corridor and other cleanup operations ..................................................................................................... 54,949 54,949
Central plateau remediation .............................................................................................................................. 498,335 498,335
Richland community and regulatory support .................................................................................................... 2,500 2,500
18–D–404 Modification of Waste Encapsulation and Storage Facility ................................................................ 0 0
Total, Richland ......................................................................................................................................................... 555,784 555,784
Office of River Protection:
Waste Treatment Immobilization Plant Commissioning ................................................................................... 50,000 50,000
Rad liquid tank waste stabilization and disposition .......................................................................................... 597,757 597,757
Construction:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00243 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6930 November 16, 2020
SEC. 4701. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Program
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
18–D–16 Waste treatment and immobilization plant—LBL/Direct feed LAW ......................................... 609,924 609,924
15–D–409 Low activity waste pretreatment system, ORP ....................................................................... 0 0
01–D–16 D, High-level waste facility ....................................................................................................... 0 0
01–D–16 E, Pretreatment Facility ........................................................................................................... 0 0
Total, Construction ................................................................................................................................................... 609,924 609,924
ORP Low-level waste offsite disposal ................................................................................................................. 0 0
Total, Office of River Protection ............................................................................................................................... 1,257,681 1,257,681
Idaho National Laboratory:
Idaho cleanup and waste disposition .................................................................................................................. 257,554 257,554
ID Excess facilities R&D .................................................................................................................................... 0 0
Idaho community and regulatory support .......................................................................................................... 2,400 2,400
Total, Idaho National Laboratory ............................................................................................................................. 259,954 259,954
NNSA sites and Nevada off-sites
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory ........................................................................................................ 1,764 1,764
LLNL Excess facilities R&D ............................................................................................................................... 0 0
Separations Process Research Unit .................................................................................................................... 15,000 15,000
Nevada Test Site ................................................................................................................................................ 60,737 60,737
Sandia National Laboratories ............................................................................................................................ 4,860 4,860
Los Alamos National Laboratory ....................................................................................................................... 120,000 220,000
Execute achievable scope of work ................................................................................................................ (100,000)
Total, NNSA sites and Nevada off-sites ..................................................................................................................... 202,361 302,361
Oak Ridge Reservation:
OR Nuclear facility D & D .................................................................................................................................. 109,077 109,077
U233 Disposition Program .................................................................................................................................. 45,000 45,000
OR cleanup and waste disposition ...................................................................................................................... 58,000 58,000
Construction:
17–D–401 On-site waste disposal facility ....................................................................................................... 22,380 22,380
14–D–403 Outfall 200 Mercury Treatment Facility ........................................................................................ 20,500 20,500
Subtotal, Construction: ............................................................................................................................................. 42,880 42,880
OR community & regulatory support ................................................................................................................. 4,930 4,930
OR technology development and deployment .................................................................................................... 3,000 3,000
Total, Oak Ridge Reservation ................................................................................................................................... 262,887 262,887
Savannah River Site:
Savannah River risk management operations ................................................................................................... 455,122 455,122
SR community and regulatory support .............................................................................................................. 4,989 4,989
Radioactive liquid tank waste:
Construction:
20-D–402 Advanced Manufacturing Collaborative Facility (AMC) ................................................................ 25,000 25,000
20-D–401 Saltstone Disposal Unit #10, 11, 12 .................................................................................................. 0 0
19–D–701 SR Security system replacement ................................................................................................... 0 0
18–D–402,Saltstone disposal unit #8/9 ............................................................................................................ 65,500 65,500
17–D–402—Saltstone Disposal Unit #7 ........................................................................................................... 10,716 10,716
05–D–405 Salt waste processing facility, SRS ............................................................................................... 0 0
Total, Construction, Radioactive liquid tank waste .................................................................................................. 101,216 101,216
Radioactive liquid tank waste stabilization ...................................................................................................... 970,332 970,332
Total, Savannah River Site ....................................................................................................................................... 1,531,659 1,531,659
Waste Isolation Pilot Plant
Waste Isolation Pilot Plant ................................................................................................................................ 323,260 323,260
Construction:
15–D–411 Safety significant confinement ventilation system, WIPP ............................................................ 0 0
15–D–412 Exhaust shaft, WIPP ...................................................................................................................... 50,000 50,000
21–D–401 Hoisting Capability Project ........................................................................................................... 10,000 10,000
Total, Construction ................................................................................................................................................... 60,000 60,000
Total, Waste Isolation Pilot Plant ............................................................................................................................. 383,260 383,260
Program direction—Defense Environment Cleanup ................................................................................................. 275,285 275,285
Program support—Defense Environment Cleanup ................................................................................................... 12,979 12,979
Safeguards and Security—Defense Environment Cleanup ....................................................................................... 320,771 320,771
Technology development and deployment ............................................................................................................... 25,000 25,000
Use of prior year balances ........................................................................................................................................ 0 0
Subtotal, Defense environmental cleanup ................................................................................................................ 5,092,608 5,192,608
Rescission:
Rescission of prior year balances ....................................................................................................................... –109,000 –109,000
TOTAL, Defense Environmental Cleanup ................................................................................................................. 4,983,608 5,083,608
Other Defense Activities
Environment, health, safety and security
Environment, health, safety and security mission support ............................................................................... 134,320 134,320
Program direction .............................................................................................................................................. 75,368 75,368
Total, Environment, health, safety and security ....................................................................................................... 209,688 209,688
Independent enterprise assessments
Enterprise assessments ...................................................................................................................................... 26,949 26,949
Program direction—Office of Enterprise Assessments ....................................................................................... 54,635 54,635
Total, Office of Enterprise Assessments .................................................................................................................... 81,584 81,584
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00244 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6931
November 16, 2020
SEC. 4701. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS
(In Thousands of Dollars)
Program
FY 2021
Request
Senate
Authorized
Specialized security activities ................................................................................................................................. 258,411 258,411
Office of Legacy Management
Legacy management activities—defense ............................................................................................................ 293,873 143,873
Maintain current program administration .................................................................................................. (–150,000)
Program direction .............................................................................................................................................. 23,120 23,120
Total, Office of Legacy Management ......................................................................................................................... 316,993 166,993
Defense related administrative support ................................................................................................................... 183,789 183,789
Office of hearings and appeals .................................................................................................................................. 4,262 4,262
Subtotal, Other defense activities ............................................................................................................................. 1,054,727 904,727
Use of prior year balances ........................................................................................................................................ 0 0
Total, Other Defense Activities ................................................................................................................................. 1,054,727 904,727
DIVISION E—ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS
TITLE LI—PROCUREMENT
Subtitle B—Army Programs
SEC. 5111. REPORT ON CH–47F CHINOOK BLOCK–
II UPGRADE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense, in consultation
with the Secretary of the Army, shall submit
to the congressional defense committees a
report that includes the following elements:
(1) An analysis of the warfighting capa-
bility currently delivered by the Block I and
Block II configurations of H–47 Chinook heli-
copters.
(2) An analysis of the feasibility and advis-
ability of delaying or terminating the CH–
47F Chinook Block-II upgrade.
(3) A plan to ensure that warfighter capa-
bility is not negatively affected by the delay
or termination of the CH–47F Chinook Block-
II upgrade.
(b) FORM.—The report required under sub-
section (a) shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may include a classified annex.
Subtitle C—Navy Programs
SEC. 5121. LIMITATION ON ALTERATION OF NAVY
FLEET MIX.
(a) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1) the United States shipbuilding and sup-
porting vendor base constitute a national se-
curity imperative that is unique and must be
protected;
(2) a healthy and efficient industrial base
continues to be a fundamental driver for
achieving and sustaining a successful ship-
building procurement strategy;
(3) without consistent and continuous com-
mitment to steady and predictable acquisi-
tion profiles, the industrial base will strug-
gle and some elements may not survive; and
(4) proposed reductions in the future-years
defense program to the DDG–51 Destroyer
procurement profile without a clear transi-
tion to procurement of the next Large Sur-
face Combatant would adversely affect the
shipbuilding industrial base and long-term
strategic objectives of the Navy.
(b) LIMITATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the Navy
may not deviate from the 2016 Navy Force
Structure Assessment to implement the re-
sults of a new force structure assessment or
new annual long-range plan for construction
of naval vessels that would reduce the re-
quirement for Large Surface Combatants to
fewer than 104 such vessels until the date on
which the Secretary of the Navy submits to
the congressional defense committees the
certification under paragraph (2) and the re-
port under subsection (c).
(2) CERTIFICATION.—The certification re-
ferred to in paragraph (1) is a certification,
in writing, that each of the following condi-
tions have been satisfied:
(A) The large surface combatant ship-
building industrial base and supporting ven-
dor base would not significantly deteriorate
due to a reduced procurement profile.
(B) The Navy can mitigate the reduction in
anti-air and ballistic missile defense capa-
bilities due to having a reduced number of
DDG–51 Destroyers with the advanced AN/
SPY–6 radar in the next three decades.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the
congressional defense committees a report
that includes—
(1) a description of likely detrimental im-
pacts to the large surface combatant indus-
trial base and the Navy’s plan to mitigate
any such impacts if the fiscal year 2021 fu-
ture-years defense program were imple-
mented as proposed;
(2) a review of the benefits to the Navy
fleet of the new AN/SPY–6 radar to be de-
ployed aboard Flight III variant DDG–51 De-
stroyers, which are currently under con-
struction, as well as an analysis of impacts
to the fleet’s warfighting capabilities, should
the number of such destroyers be reduced;
and
(3) a plan to fully implement section 131 of
the National Defense Authorization for Fis-
cal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92), including
subsystem prototyping efforts and funding
by fiscal year.
TITLE LII—RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT,
TEST, AND EVALUATION
Subtitle B—Program Requirements,
Restrictions, and Limitations
SEC. 5211. IMPORTANCE OF HISTORICALLY
BLACK COLLEGES AND UNIVER-
SITIES AND MINORITY-SERVING IN-
STITUTIONS.
(a) INCREASE.—Funds authorized to be ap-
propriated in Research, Development, Test,
and Evaluation, Defense-wide, PE
0601228D8Z, section 4201, for Basic Research,
Historically Black Colleges and Universities/
Minority Institutions, Line 006, are hereby
increased by $14,025,000.
(b) OFFSET.—Funding in section 4101 for
Other Procurement, Army, for Automated
Data Processing Equipment, Line 112, is
hereby reduced by $14,025,000.
Subtitle C—Sustainable Chemistry
SEC. 5221. NATIONAL COORDINATING ENTITY
FOR SUSTAINABLE CHEMISTRY.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—Not later than 180
days after the date of enactment of this
title, the Director of the Office of Science
and Technology Policy shall convene an
interagency entity (referred to in this title
as the ‘‘Entity’’) under the National Science
and Technology Council with the responsi-
bility to coordinate Federal programs and
activities in support of sustainable chem-
istry, including those described in sections
ll3 and ll4.
(b) COORDINATION WITH EXISTING GROUPS.—
In convening the Entity, the Director of the
Office of Science and Technology Policy
shall consider overlap and possible coordina-
tion with existing committees, subcommit-
tees, or other groups of the National Science
and Technology Council, such as—
(1) the Committee on Environment;
(2) the Committee on Technology;
(3) the Committee on Science; or
(4) related groups or subcommittees.
(c) CO-CHAIRS.—The Entity shall be co-
chaired by the Director of the Office of
Science and Technology Policy and a rep-
resentative from the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency, the National Institute of
Standards and Technology, the National
Science Foundation, or the Department of
Energy, as selected by the Director of the Of-
fice of Science and Technology Policy.
(d) AGENCY PARTICIPATION.—The Entity
shall include representatives, including sub-
ject matter experts, from the Environmental
Protection Agency, the National Institute of
Standards and Technology, the National
Science Foundation, the Department of En-
ergy, the Department of Agriculture, the De-
partment of Defense, the National Institutes
of Health, the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention, the Food and Drug Adminis-
tration, and other related Federal agencies,
as appropriate.
(e) TERMINATION.—The Entity shall termi-
nate on the date that is 10 years after the
date of enactment of this title.
SEC. 5222. STRATEGIC PLAN FOR SUSTAINABLE
CHEMISTRY.
(a) STRATEGIC PLAN.—Not later than 2
years after the date of enactment of this
title, the Entity shall—
(1) consult with relevant stakeholders, in-
cluding representatives from industry, aca-
demia, national labs, the Federal Govern-
ment, and international entities, to develop
and update, as needed, a consensus definition
of ‘‘sustainable chemistry’’ to guide the ac-
tivities under this title;
(2) develop a working framework of at-
tributes characterizing and metrics for as-
sessing sustainable chemistry, as described
in subsection (b);
(3) assess the state of sustainable chem-
istry in the United States as a key bench-
mark from which progress under the activi-
ties described in this title can be measured,
including assessing key sectors of the United
States economy, key technology platforms,
commercial priorities, and barriers to inno-
vation;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00245 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6932 November 16, 2020
(4) coordinate and support Federal re-
search, development, demonstration, tech-
nology transfer, commercialization, edu-
cation, and training efforts in sustainable
chemistry, including budget coordination
and support for public-private partnerships,
as appropriate;
(5) identify any Federal regulatory barriers
to, and opportunities for, Federal agencies
facilitating the development of incentives
for development, consideration and use of
sustainable chemistry processes and prod-
ucts;
(6) identify major scientific challenges,
roadblocks, or hurdles to transformational
progress in improving the sustainability of
the chemical sciences; and
(7) review, identify, and make effort to
eliminate duplicative Federal funding and
duplicative Federal research in sustainable
chemistry.
(b) CHARACTERIZING AND ASSESSING SUS-
TAINABLE CHEMISTRY.—The Entity shall de-
velop a working framework of attributes
characterizing and metrics for assessing sus-
tainable chemistry for the purposes of car-
rying out the title. In developing this frame-
work, the Entity shall—
(1) seek advice and input from stake-
holders as described in subsection (c);
(2) consider existing definitions of, or
frameworks characterizing and metrics for
assessing, sustainable chemistry already in
use at Federal agencies;
(3) consider existing definitions of, or
frameworks characterizing and metrics for
assessing, sustainable chemistry already in
use by international organizations of which
the United States is a member, such as the
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development; and
(4) consider any other appropriate existing
definitions of, or frameworks characterizing
and metrics for assessing, sustainable chem-
istry.
(c) CONSULTATION.—In carrying out the du-
ties described in subsections (a) and (b), the
Entity shall consult with stakeholders quali-
fied to provide advice and information to
guide Federal activities related to sustain-
able chemistry through workshops, requests
for information, or other mechanisms as nec-
essary. The stakeholders shall include rep-
resentatives from—
(1) business and industry (including trade
associations and small- and medium-sized
enterprises from across the value chain);
(2) the scientific community (including the
National Academies of Sciences, Engineer-
ing, and Medicine, scientific professional so-
cieties, national labs, and academia);
(3) the defense community;
(4) State, tribal, and local governments, in-
cluding nonregulatory State or regional sus-
tainable chemistry programs, as appropriate;
(5) nongovernmental organizations; and
(6) other appropriate organizations.
(d) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Entity shall submit a report to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works,
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation, and the Committee on Ap-
propriations of the Senate, and the Com-
mittee on Science, Space, and Technology,
the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
and the Committee on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives. In addition to the
elements described in subsections (a) and (b),
the report shall include—
(A) a summary of federally funded, sustain-
able chemistry research, development, dem-
onstration, technology transfer, commer-
cialization, education, and training activi-
ties;
(B) a summary of the financial resources
allocated to sustainable chemistry initia-
tives by each participating agency;
(C) an assessment of the current state of
sustainable chemistry in the United States,
including the role that Federal agencies are
playing in supporting it;
(D) an analysis of the progress made to-
ward achieving the goals and priorities of
this Act, and recommendations for future
program activities;
(E) an evaluation of steps taken and future
strategies to avoid duplication of efforts,
streamline interagency coordination, facili-
tate information sharing, and spread best
practices among participating agencies; and
(F) an evaluation of duplicative Federal
funding and duplicative Federal research in
sustainable chemistry, efforts undertaken by
the Entity to eliminate duplicative funding
and research, and recommendations on how
to achieve these goals.
(2) SUBMISSION TO GAO.—The Entity shall
also submit the report described in para-
graph (1) to the Comptroller General of the
United States for consideration in future
Congressional inquiries.
(3) ADDITIONAL REPORTS.—The Entity shall
submit a report to Congress and the Comp-
troller General of the United States that in-
corporates the information described in sub-
paragraphs (A), (B), (D), (E), and (F) of para-
graph (1) every 3 years, commencing after
the initial report is submitted until the En-
tity terminates.
SEC. 5223. AGENCY ACTIVITIES IN SUPPORT OF
SUSTAINABLE CHEMISTRY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The agencies partici-
pating in the Entity shall carry out activi-
ties in support of sustainable chemistry, as
appropriate to the specific mission and pro-
grams of each agency.
(b) ACTIVITIES.—The activities described in
subsection (a) shall—
(1) incorporate sustainable chemistry into
existing research, development, demonstra-
tion, technology transfer, commercializa-
tion, education, and training programs, that
the agency determines to be relevant, in-
cluding consideration of—
(A) merit-based competitive grants to indi-
vidual investigators and teams of investiga-
tors, including, to the extent practicable,
early career investigators for research and
development;
(B) grants to fund collaborative research
and development partnerships among univer-
sities, industry, and nonprofit organizations;
(C) coordination of sustainable chemistry
research, development, demonstration, and
technology transfer conducted at Federal
laboratories and agencies;
(D) incentive prize competitions and chal-
lenges in coordination with such existing
Federal agency programs; and
(E) grants, loans, and loan guarantees to
aid in the technology transfer and commer-
cialization of sustainable chemicals, mate-
rials, processes, and products;
(2) collect and disseminate information on
sustainable chemistry research, develop-
ment, technology transfer, and commer-
cialization, including information on accom-
plishments and best practices;
(3) expand the education and training of
students at appropriate levels of education,
professional scientists and engineers, and
other professionals involved in all aspects of
sustainable chemistry and engineering ap-
propriate to that level of education and
training, including through—
(A) partnerships with industry as described
in section ll4;
(B) support for the integration of sustain-
able chemistry principles into chemistry and
chemical engineering curriculum and re-
search training, as appropriate to that level
of education and training; and
(C) support for integration of sustainable
chemistry principles into existing or new
professional development opportunities for
professionals including teachers, faculty,
and individuals involved in laboratory re-
search (product development, materials spec-
ification and testing, life cycle analysis, and
management);
(4) as relevant to an agency’s programs, ex-
amine methods by which the Federal agen-
cies, in collaboration and consultation with
the National Institute of Standards and
Technology, may facilitate the development
or recognition of validated, standardized
tools for performing sustainability assess-
ments of chemistry processes or products;
(5) through programs identified by an agen-
cy, support (including through technical as-
sistance, participation, financial support,
communications tools, awards, or other
forms of support) outreach and dissemina-
tion of sustainable chemistry advances such
as non-Federal symposia, forums, con-
ferences, and publications in collaboration
with, as appropriate, industry, academia, sci-
entific and professional societies, and other
relevant groups;
(6) provide for public input and outreach to
be integrated into the activities described in
this section by the convening of public dis-
cussions, through mechanisms such as public
meetings, consensus conferences, and edu-
cational events, as appropriate;
(7) within each agency, develop or adapt
metrics to track the outputs and outcomes
of the programs supported by that agency;
and
(8) incentivize or recognize actions that ad-
vance sustainable chemistry products, proc-
esses, or initiatives, including through the
establishment of a nationally recognized
awards program through the Environmental
Protection Agency to identify, publicize, and
celebrate innovations in sustainable chem-
istry and chemical technologies.
(c) LIMITATIONS .—Financial support pro-
vided under this section shall—
(1) be available only for pre-competitive
activities; and
(2) not be used to promote the sale of a spe-
cific product, process, or technology, or to
disparage a specific product, process, or
technology.
SEC. 5224. PARTNERSHIPS IN SUSTAINABLE
CHEMISTRY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The agencies partici-
pating in the Entity may facilitate and sup-
port, through financial, technical, or other
assistance, the creation of partnerships be-
tween institutions of higher education, non-
governmental organizations, consortia, or
companies across the value chain in the
chemical industry, including small- and me-
dium-sized enterprises, to—
(1) create collaborative sustainable chem-
istry research, development, demonstration,
technology transfer, and commercialization
programs; and
(2) train students and retrain professional
scientists, engineers, and others involved in
materials specification on the use of sustain-
able chemistry concepts and strategies by
methods, including—
(A) developing or recognizing curricular
materials and courses for undergraduate and
graduate levels and for the professional de-
velopment of scientists, engineers, and oth-
ers involved in materials specification; and
(B) publicizing the availability of profes-
sional development courses in sustainable
chemistry and recruiting professionals to
pursue such courses.
(b) PRIVATE SECTOR PARTICIPATION.—To be
eligible for support under this section, a
partnership in sustainable chemistry shall
include at least one private sector organiza-
tion.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00246 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6933
November 16, 2020
(c) SELECTION OF PARTNERSHIPS.—In select-
ing partnerships for support under this sec-
tion, the agencies participating in the Entity
shall also consider the extent to which the
applicants are willing and able to dem-
onstrate evidence of support for, and com-
mitment to, the goals outlined in the stra-
tegic plan and report described in section
ll2.
(d) PROHIBITED USE OF FUNDS.—Financial
support provided under this section may not
be used—
(1) to support or expand a regulatory chem-
ical management program at an imple-
menting agency under a State law;
(2) to construct or renovate a building or
structure; or
(3) to promote the sale of a specific prod-
uct, process, or technology, or to disparage a
specific product, process, or technology.
SEC. 5225. PRIORITIZATION.
In carrying out this Act, the Entity shall
focus its support for sustainable chemistry
activities on those that achieve, to the high-
est extent practicable, the goals outlined in
the title.
SEC. 5226. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
Nothing in this title shall be construed to
alter or amend any State law or action with
regard to sustainable chemistry, as defined
by the State.
SEC. 5227. MAJOR MULTI-USER RESEARCH FACIL-
ITY PROJECT.
Section 110 of the American Innovation
and Competitiveness Act (42 U.S.C. 1862s–2) is
amended by striking (g)(2) and inserting the
following:
‘‘(2) MAJOR MULTI-USER RESEARCH FACILITY
PROJECT.—The term ‘major multi-user re-
search facility project’ means a science and
engineering facility project that exceeds
$100,000,000 in total construction, acquisi-
tion, or upgrade costs to the Foundation.’’.
Subtitle D—Cyber Workforce Matters
SEC. 5231. IMPROVING NATIONAL INITIATIVE
FOR CYBERSECURITY EDUCATION.
(a) PROGRAM IMPROVEMENTS GENERALLY.—
Subsection (a) of section 401 of the Cyberse-
curity Enhancement Act of 2014 (15 U.S.C.
7451) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (5), by striking ‘‘; and’’ and
inserting a semicolon;
(2) by redesignating paragraph (6) as para-
graph (10); and
(3) by inserting after paragraph (5) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(6) supporting efforts to identify cyberse-
curity workforce skill gaps in public and pri-
vate sectors;
‘‘(7) facilitating Federal programs to ad-
vance cybersecurity education, training, and
workforce;
‘‘(8) in coordination with the Department
of Defense and the Department of Homeland
Security, considering any specific needs of
the cybersecurity workforce of critical infra-
structure, to include cyber physical systems
and control systems;
‘‘(9) advising the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget, as needed in, de-
veloping metrics to measure the effective-
ness and effect of programs and initiatives to
advance the cybersecurity workforce; and’’.
(b) STRATEGIC PLAN.—Subsection (c) of
such section is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘The Director’’ and insert-
ing the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Director’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) REQUIREMENT.—The strategic plan de-
veloped and implemented under paragraph
(1) shall include an indication of how the Di-
rector will carry out this section.’’.
(c) CYBERSECURITY CAREER PATHWAYS.—
(1) IDENTIFICATION OF MULTIPLE CYBERSECU-
RITY CAREER PATHWAYS.—In carrying out
subsection (a) of such section and not later
than 540 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Director of the National In-
stitute of Standards and Technology shall, in
coordination with the Secretary of Defense,
the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the
Director of the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment, use a consultative process with other
Federal agencies, academia, and industry to
identify multiple career pathways for cyber-
security work roles that can be used in the
private and public sectors.
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—The Director shall en-
sure that the multiple cybersecurity career
pathways identified under paragraph (1) indi-
cate the knowledge, skills, and abilities, in-
cluding relevant education, training, appren-
ticeships, certifications, and other experi-
ences, that—
(A) align with employers’ cybersecurity
skill needs, including proficiency level re-
quirements, for its workforce; and
(B) prepare an individual to be successful
in entering or advancing in a cybersecurity
career.
(3) EXCHANGE PROGRAM.—Consistent with
requirements under chapter 37 of title 5,
United States Code, the Director of the Na-
tional Institute of Standards and Tech-
nology, in coordination with the Director of
the Office of Personnel Management, may es-
tablish a voluntary program for the ex-
change of employees engaged in one of the
cybersecurity work roles identified in the
National Initiative for Cybersecurity Edu-
cation (NICE) Cybersecurity Workforce
Framework (NIST Special Publication 800–
181), or successor framework, between the
National Institute of Standards and Tech-
nology and private sector institutions, in-
cluding a nonpublic or commercial business,
a research institution, or an institution of
higher education, as the Director of the Na-
tional Institute of Standards and Technology
considers feasible.
(d) PROFICIENCY TO PERFORM CYBERSECU-
RITY TASKS.—Not later than 540 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director of the National Institute of Stand-
ards and Technology shall, in coordination
with the Secretary of Defense and the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security—
(1) in carrying out subsection (a) of such
section, assess the scope and sufficiency of
efforts to measure a learner’s capability to
perform specific tasks found in the National
Initiative for Cybersecurity Education
(NICE) Cybersecurity Workforce Framework
(NIST Special Publication 800–181) at all pro-
ficiency levels; and
(2) submit to Congress a report—
(A) on the findings of the Director with re-
spect to the assessment carried out under
paragraph (1); and
(B) with recommendations for effective
methods for measuring the cybersecurity
proficiency of learners.
(e) CYBERSECURITY METRICS.—Such section
is further amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(e) CYBERSECURITY METRICS.—In carrying
out subsection (a), the Director of the Office
of Management and Budget may seek input
from the Director of the National Institute
of Standards and Technology, in coordina-
tion with the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity, the Office of Personnel Management,
and such agencies as the Director of the Na-
tional Institute of Standards and Technology
considers relevant, shall develop repeatable
measures and reliable metrics for measuring
and evaluating Federally funded cybersecu-
rity workforce programs and initiatives
based on the outcomes of such programs and
initiatives.’’.
(f) REGIONAL ALLIANCES AND MULTISTAKE-
HOLDER PARTNERSHIPS.—Such section is fur-
ther amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(f) REGIONAL ALLIANCES AND MULTISTAKE-
HOLDER PARTNERSHIPS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Pursuant to section
2(b)(4) of the National Institute of Standards
and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 272(b)(4)), the
Director shall establish cooperative agree-
ments between the National Initiative for
Cybersecurity Education (NICE) of the Insti-
tute and regional alliances or partnerships
for cybersecurity education and workforce.
‘‘(2) AGREEMENTS.—The cooperative agree-
ments established under paragraph (1) shall
advance the goals of the National Initiative
for Cybersecurity Education Cybersecurity
Workforce Framework (NIST Special Publi-
cation 800–181), or successor framework, by
facilitating local and regional partnerships—
‘‘(A) to identify the workforce needs of the
local economy and classify such workforce in
accordance with such framework;
‘‘(B) to identify the education, training,
apprenticeship, and other opportunities
available in the local economy; and
‘‘(C) to support opportunities to meet the
needs of the local economy.
‘‘(3) FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE.—
‘‘(A) FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AUTHORIZED.—
The Director may award financial assistance
to a regional alliance or partnership with
whom the Director enters into a cooperative
agreement under paragraph (1) in order to
assist the regional alliance or partnership in
carrying out the term of the cooperative
agreement.
‘‘(B) AMOUNT OF ASSISTANCE.—The aggre-
gate amount of financial assistance awarded
under subparagraph (A) per cooperative
agreement shall not exceed $200,000.
‘‘(C) MATCHING REQUIREMENT.—The Direc-
tor may not award financial assistance to a
regional alliance or partnership under sub-
paragraph (A) unless the regional alliance or
partnership agrees that, with respect to the
costs to be incurred by the regional alliance
or partnership in carrying out the coopera-
tive agreement for which the assistance was
awarded, the regional alliance or partnership
will make available (directly or through do-
nations from public or private entities) non-
Federal contributions in an amount equal to
50 percent of Federal funds provided under
the award.
‘‘(4) APPLICATION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A regional alliance or
partnership seeking to enter into a coopera-
tive agreement under paragraph (1) and re-
ceive financial assistance under paragraph
(3) shall submit to the Director an applica-
tion therefore at such time, in such manner,
and containing such information as the Di-
rector may require.
‘‘(B) REQUIREMENTS.—Each application
submitted under subparagraph (A) shall in-
clude the following:
‘‘(i)(I) A plan to establish (or identification
of, if it already exists) a multistakeholder
workforce partnership that includes—
‘‘(aa) at least one institution of higher edu-
cation or nonprofit training organization;
and
‘‘(bb) at least one local employer or owner
or operator of critical infrastructure.
‘‘(II) Participation from Federal Cyber
Scholarships for Service organizations, ad-
vanced technological education programs, el-
ementary and secondary schools, training
and certification providers, State and local
governments, economic development organi-
zations, or other community organizations is
encouraged.
‘‘(ii) A description of how the workforce
partnership would identify the workforce
needs of the local economy.
‘‘(iii) A description of how the multistake-
holder workforce partnership would leverage
the programs and objectives of the National
Initiative for Cybersecurity Education, such
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00247 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6934 November 16, 2020
as the Cybersecurity Workforce Framework
and the strategic plan of such initiative.
‘‘(iv) A description of how employers in the
community will be recruited to support in-
ternships, externships, apprenticeships, or
cooperative education programs in conjunc-
tion with providers of education and train-
ing. Inclusion of programs that seek to in-
clude women, minorities, or veterans is en-
couraged.
‘‘(v) A definition of the metrics that will be
used to measure the success of the efforts of
the regional alliance or partnership under
the agreement.
‘‘(C) PRIORITY CONSIDERATION.—In awarding
financial assistance under paragraph (3)(A),
the Director shall give priority consideration
to a regional alliance or partnership that in-
cludes an institution of higher education
which receives an award under the Federal
Cyber Scholarship for Service program lo-
cated in the State or region of the regional
alliance or partnership.
‘‘(5) AUDITS.—Each cooperative agreement
for which financial assistance is awarded
under paragraph (3) shall be subject to audit
requirements under part 200 of title 2, Code
of Federal Regulations (relating to uniform
administrative requirements, cost principles,
and audit requirements for Federal awards),
or successor regulation.
‘‘(6) REPORTS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Upon completion of a
cooperative agreement under paragraph (1),
the regional alliance or partnership that par-
ticipated in the agreement shall submit to
the Director a report on the activities of the
regional alliance or partnership under the
agreement, which may include training and
education outcomes.
‘‘(B) CONTENTS.—Each report submitted
under subparagraph (A) by a regional alli-
ance or partnership shall include the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(i) An assessment of efforts made by the
regional alliance or partnership to carry out
paragraph (2).
‘‘(ii) The metrics used by the regional alli-
ance or partnership to measure the success
of the efforts of the regional alliance or part-
nership under the cooperative agreement.’’.
(g) TRANSFER OF SECTION.—
(1) TRANSFER.—Such section is transferred
to the end of title III of such Act and redes-
ignated as section 303.
(2) REPEAL.—Title IV of such Act is re-
pealed.
(3) CLERICAL.—The table of contents in sec-
tion 1(b) of such Act is amended—
(A) by striking the items relating to title
IV and section 401; and
(B) by inserting after the item relating to
section 302 the following:
‘‘Sec. 303. National cybersecurity awareness
and education program.’’.
(4) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(A) Section 302(3) of the Federal Cybersecu-
rity Workforce Assessment Act of 2015 (Pub-
lic Law 114–113) is amended by striking
‘‘under section 401 of the Cybersecurity En-
hancement Act of 2014 (15 U.S.C. 7451)’’ and
inserting ‘‘under section 303 of the Cyberse-
curity Enhancement Act of 2014 (Public Law
113–274)’’.
(B) Section 2(c)(3) of the NIST Small Busi-
ness Cybersecurity Act (Public Law 115–236)
is amended by striking ‘‘under section 401 of
the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2014
(15 U.S.C. 7451)’’ and inserting ‘‘under section
303 of the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of
2014 (Public Law 113–274)’’.
(C) Section 302(f) of the Cybersecurity En-
hancement Act of 2014 (15 U.S.C. 7442(f)) is
amended by striking ‘‘under section 401’’ and
inserting ‘‘under section 303’’.
SEC. 5232. DEVELOPMENT OF STANDARDS AND
GUIDELINES FOR IMPROVING CY-
BERSECURITY WORKFORCE OF FED-
ERAL AGENCIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 20(a) of the Na-
tional Institute of Standards and Technology
Act (15 U.S.C. 278g–3(a)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘; and’’ and
inserting a semicolon;
(2) in paragraph (4), by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(5) identify and develop standards and
guidelines for improving the cybersecurity
workforce for an agency as part of the Na-
tional Initiative for Cybersecurity Education
(NICE) Cybersecurity Workforce Framework
(NIST Special Publication 800–181), or suc-
cessor framework.’’.
(b) PUBLICATION OF STANDARDS AND GUIDE-
LINES ON CYBERSECURITY AWARENESS.—Not
later than 3 years after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act and pursuant to section 20
of the National Institute of Standards and
Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278g–3), the Direc-
tor of the National Institute of Standards
and Technology shall publish standards and
guidelines for improving cybersecurity
awareness of employees and contractors of
Federal agencies.
SEC. 5233. MODIFICATIONS TO FEDERAL CYBER
SCHOLARSHIP-FOR-SERVICE PRO-
GRAM.
Section 302 of the Cybersecurity Enhance-
ment Act of 2014 (15 U.S.C. 7442) is amended—
(1) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘informa-
tion technology’’ and inserting ‘‘information
technology and cybersecurity’’;
(B) by amending paragraph (3) to read as
follows:
‘‘(3) prioritize the placement of scholarship
recipients fulfilling the post-award employ-
ment obligation under this section to ensure
that—
‘‘(A) not less than 70 percent of such recipi-
ents are placed in an executive agency (as
defined in section 105 of title 5, United States
Code);
‘‘(B) not more than 10 percent of such re-
cipients are placed as educators in the field
of cybersecurity at qualified institutions of
higher education that provide scholarships
under this section; and
‘‘(C) not more than 20 percent of such re-
cipients are placed in positions described in
paragraphs (2) through (5) of subsection (d);
and’’; and
(C) in paragraph (4), in the matter pre-
ceding subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘, in-
cluding by seeking to provide awards in co-
ordination with other relevant agencies for
summer cybersecurity camp or other experi-
ences, including teacher training, in each of
the 50 States,’’ after ‘‘cybersecurity edu-
cation’’;
(2) in subsection (d)—
(A) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘or’’ at
the end;
(B) in paragraph (5), by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘; or’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(6) as provided by subsection (b)(3)(B), a
qualified institution of higher education.’’;
and
(3) in subsection (m)—
(A) in paragraph (1), in the matter pre-
ceding subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘cyber’’
and inserting ‘‘cybersecurity’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘cyber’’
and inserting ‘‘cybersecurity’’.
SEC. 5234. MODIFICATIONS TO FEDERAL CYBER
SCHOLARSHIP-FOR-SERVICE PRO-
GRAM.
Section 302 of the Cybersecurity Enhance-
ment Act of 2014 (15 U.S.C. 7442) is amended—
(1) in subsection (f)—
(A) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘; and’’
and inserting a semicolon; and
(B) by striking paragraph (5) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(5) enter into an agreement accepting and
acknowledging the post award employment
obligations, pursuant to section (d);
‘‘(6) accept and acknowledge the conditions
of support under section (g); and
‘‘(7) accept all terms and conditions of a
scholarship under this section.’’;
(2) in subsection (g)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘the Of-
fice of Personnel Management, in coordina-
tion with the National Science Foundation,
and’’ before ‘‘the qualified institution’’;
(B) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘; or’’
and inserting a semicolon; and
(ii) by striking subparagraph (E) and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(E) fails to maintain or fulfill any of the
post-graduation or post-award obligations or
requirements of the individual; or
‘‘(F) fails to fulfill the requirements of
paragraph (1).’’;
(3) in subsection (h)(2), by inserting ‘‘and
the Director of the Office of Personnel Man-
agement’’ after ‘‘Foundation’’;
(4) in subsection (k)(1)(A), by striking ‘‘and
the Director’’ and all that follows and insert-
ing ‘‘, the Director of the National Science
Foundation, and the Director of the Office of
Personnel Management of the amounts owed;
and’’; and
(5) in subsection (m)(2), by striking ‘‘once
every 3 years’’ and all that follows and in-
serting ‘‘once every 2 years, to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation and the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity and Governmental Affairs of the Sen-
ate and the Committee on Science, Space,
and Technology and the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform of the House of Represent-
atives a report, including—’’
(A) ‘‘the results of the evaluation under
paragraph (1);’’
(B) ‘‘the disparity in any reporting be-
tween scholarship recipients and their re-
spective institutions of higher education;
and’’
(C) ‘‘any recent statistics regarding the
size, composition, and educational require-
ments of the Federal cyber workforce.’’
SEC. 5235. CYBERSECURITY IN PROGRAMS OF
THE NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDA-
TION.
(a) COMPUTER SCIENCE AND CYBERSECURITY
EDUCATION RESEARCH.—Section 310 of the
American Innovation and Competitiveness
Act (42 U.S.C. 1862s–7) is amended—
(1) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘and cy-
bersecurity’’ after ‘‘computer science’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘; and’’
and inserting a semicolon;
(ii) in subparagraph (D), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(iii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(E) tools and models for the integration
of cybersecurity and other interdisciplinary
efforts into computer science education and
computational thinking at secondary and
postsecondary levels of education.’’; and
(2) in subsection (c), by inserting ‘‘, cyber-
security,’’ after ‘‘computing’’.
(b) SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION.—
Section 3(j)(9) of the Scientific and Ad-
vanced-Technology Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C.
1862i(j)(9)) is amended by inserting ‘‘and cy-
bersecurity’’ after ‘‘computer science’’.
(c) LOW-INCOME SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM.—
Section 414(d) of the American Competitive-
ness and Workforce Improvement Act of 1998
(42 U.S.C. 1869c) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘or com-
puter science’’ and inserting ‘‘computer
science, or cybersecurity’’; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00248 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6935
November 16, 2020
(2) in paragraph (2)(A)(iii), by inserting
‘‘cybersecurity,’’ after ‘‘computer science,’’.
(d) SCHOLARSHIPS AND GRADUATE FELLOW-
SHIPS.—The Director of the National Science
Foundation shall ensure that students pur-
suing master’s degrees and doctoral degrees
in fields relating to cybersecurity are consid-
ered as applicants for scholarships and grad-
uate fellowships under the Graduate Re-
search Fellowship Program under section 10
of the National Science Foundation Act of
1950 (42 U.S.C. 1869).
(e) PRESIDENTIAL AWARDS FOR TEACHING
EXCELLENCE.—The Director of the National
Science Foundation shall ensure that edu-
cators and mentors in fields relating to cy-
bersecurity can be considered for—
(1) Presidential Awards for Excellence in
Mathematics and Science Teaching made
under section 117 of the National Science
Foundation Authorization Act of 1988 (42
U.S.C. 1881b); and
(2) Presidential Awards for Excellence in
STEM Mentoring administered under section
307 of the American Innovation and Competi-
tiveness Act (42 U.S.C. 1862s–6).
SEC. 5236. CYBERSECURITY IN STEM PROGRAMS
OF THE NATIONAL AERONAUTICS
AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION.
In carrying out any STEM education pro-
gram of the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration (referred to in this section as
‘‘NASA’’), including a program of the Office
of STEM Engagement, the Administrator of
NASA shall, to the maximum extent prac-
ticable, encourage the inclusion of cyberse-
curity education opportunities in such pro-
gram.
SEC. 5237. CYBERSECURITY IN DEPARTMENT OF
TRANSPORTATION PROGRAMS.
(a) UNIVERSITY TRANSPORTATION CENTERS
PROGRAM.—Section 5505 of title 49, United
States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(2)(C), by inserting ‘‘in
the matters described in subparagraphs (A)
through (G) of section 6503(c)(1)’’ after
‘‘transportation leaders’’; and
(2) in subsection (c)(3)(E)—
(A) by inserting ‘‘, including the cybersecu-
rity implications of technologies relating to
connected vehicles, connected infrastruc-
ture, and autonomous vehicles’’ after ‘‘au-
tonomous vehicles’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘The Secretary’’ and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—A regional university
transportation center receiving a grant
under this paragraph shall carry out re-
search focusing on 1 or more of the matters
described in subparagraphs (A) through (G)
of section 6503(c)(1).
‘‘(ii) FOCUSED OBJECTIVES.—The Sec-
retary’’.
(b) TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH AND DEVEL-
OPMENT 5-YEAR STRATEGIC PLAN.—Section
6503(c)(1) of title 49, United States Code, is
amended—
(1) in subparagraph (E), by striking ‘‘and’’
at the end;
(2) in subparagraph (F), by inserting ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon at the end; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(G) reducing transportation cybersecurity
risks;’’.
SEC. 5238. NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY CHAL-
LENGES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title II of the Cybersecu-
rity Enhancement Act of 2014 (15 U.S.C. 7431
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘SEC. 205. NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY CHAL-
LENGES.
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF NATIONAL CYBERSE-
CURITY CHALLENGES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—To achieve high-priority
breakthroughs in cybersecurity by 2028, the
Secretary of Commerce shall establish the
following national cybersecurity challenges:
‘‘(A) ECONOMICS OF A CYBER ATTACK.—
Building more resilient systems that meas-
urably and exponentially raise adversary
costs of carrying out common cyber attacks.
‘‘(B) CYBER TRAINING.—
‘‘(i) Empowering the people of the United
States with an appropriate and measurably
sufficient level of digital literacy to make
safe and secure decisions online.
‘‘(ii) Developing a cybersecurity workforce
with measurable skills to protect and main-
tain information systems.
‘‘(C) EMERGING TECHNOLOGY.—Advancing
cybersecurity efforts in response to emerg-
ing technology, such as artificial intel-
ligence, quantum science, and next genera-
tion communications technologies.
‘‘(D) REIMAGINING DIGITAL IDENTITY.—Main-
taining a high sense of usability while im-
proving the security and safety of online ac-
tivity of individuals in the United States.
‘‘(E) FEDERAL AGENCY RESILIENCE.—Reduc-
ing cybersecurity risks to Federal networks
and systems, and improving the response of
Federal agencies to cybersecurity incidents
on such networks and systems.
‘‘(2) COORDINATION.—In establishing the
challenges under paragraph (1), the Sec-
retary shall coordinate with the Secretary of
Homeland Security on the challenges under
subparagraphs (B) and (E) of such paragraph.
‘‘(b) PURSUIT OF NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY
CHALLENGES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this sec-
tion, the Secretary, acting through the
Under Secretary of Commerce for Standards
and Technology, shall commence efforts to
pursue the national cybersecurity challenges
established under subsection (a).
‘‘(2) COMPETITIONS.—The efforts required
by paragraph (1) shall include carrying out
programs to award prizes, including cash and
noncash prizes, competitively pursuant to
the authorities and processes established
under section 24 of the Stevenson-Wydler
Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C.
3719) or any other applicable provision of
law.
‘‘(3) ADDITIONAL AUTHORITIES.—In carrying
out paragraph (1), the Secretary may enter
into and perform such other transactions as
the Secretary considers necessary and on
such terms as the Secretary considers appro-
priate.
‘‘(4) COORDINATION.—In pursuing national
cybersecurity challenges under paragraph
(1), the Secretary shall coordinate with the
following:
‘‘(A) The Director of the National Science
Foundation.
‘‘(B) The Secretary of Homeland Security.
‘‘(C) The Director of the Defense Advanced
Research Projects Agency.
‘‘(D) The Director of the Office of Science
and Technology Policy.
‘‘(E) The Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget.
‘‘(F) The Administrator of the General
Services Administration.
‘‘(G) The Federal Trade Commission.
‘‘(H) The heads of such other Federal agen-
cies as the Secretary of Commerce considers
appropriate for purposes of this section.
‘‘(5) SOLICITATION OF ACCEPTANCE OF
FUNDS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Pursuant to section 24
of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innova-
tion Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719), the Sec-
retary shall request and accept funds from
other Federal agencies, State, United States
territory, local, or tribal government agen-
cies, private sector for-profit entities, and
nonprofit entities to support efforts to pur-
sue a national cybersecurity challenge under
this section.
‘‘(B) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
subparagraph (A) shall be construed to re-
quire any person or entity to provide funds
or otherwise participate in an effort or com-
petition under this section.
‘‘(c) RECOMMENDATIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In carrying out this sec-
tion, the Secretary of Commerce shall des-
ignate an advisory council to seek rec-
ommendations.
‘‘(2) ELEMENTS.—The recommendations re-
quired by paragraph (1) shall include the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(A) A scope for efforts carried out under
subsection (b).
‘‘(B) Metrics to assess submissions for
prizes under competitions carried out under
subsection (b) as the submissions pertain to
the national cybersecurity challenges estab-
lished under subsection (a).
‘‘(3) NO ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION.—The
Secretary may not provide any additional
compensation, except for travel expenses, to
a member of the advisory council designated
under paragraph (1) for participation in the
advisory council.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section
201(a)(1) of such Act is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (J), by striking ‘‘; and’’
and inserting a semicolon;
(2) by redesignating subparagraph (K) as
subparagraph (L); and
(3) by inserting after subparagraph (J) the
following:
‘‘(K) implementation of section 205 through
research and development on the topics iden-
tified under subsection (a) of such section;
and’’.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1(b) of such Act is
amended by inserting after the item relating
to section 204 the following:
‘‘Sec. 205. National Cybersecurity Chal-
lenges.’’.
SEC. 5239. INTERNET OF THINGS.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COMMISSION.—The term ‘‘Commission’’
means the Federal Communications Com-
mission.
(2) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Commerce.
(3) STEERING COMMITTEE.—The term ‘‘steer-
ing committee’’ means the steering com-
mittee established under subsection
(b)(5)(A).
(4) WORKING GROUP.—The term ‘‘working
group’’ means the working group convened
under subsection (b)(1).
(b) FEDERAL WORKING GROUP.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall con-
vene a working group of Federal stake-
holders for the purpose of providing rec-
ommendations and a report to Congress re-
lating to the aspects of the Internet of
Things described in paragraph (2).
(2) DUTIES.—The working group shall—
(A) identify any Federal regulations, stat-
utes, grant practices, budgetary or jurisdic-
tional challenges, and other sector-specific
policies that are inhibiting, or could inhibit,
the development or deployment of the Inter-
net of Things;
(B) consider policies or programs that en-
courage and improve coordination among
Federal agencies that have responsibilities
that are relevant to the objectives of this
section;
(C) consider any findings or recommenda-
tions made by the steering committee and,
where appropriate, act to implement those
recommendations;
(D) examine—
(i) how Federal agencies can benefit from
utilizing the Internet of Things;
(ii) the use of Internet of Things tech-
nology by Federal agencies as of the date on
which the working group performs the exam-
ination;
(iii) the preparedness and ability of Fed-
eral agencies to adopt Internet of Things
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00249 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6936 November 16, 2020
technology as of the date on which the work-
ing group performs the examination and in
the future; and
(iv) any additional security measures that
Federal agencies may need to take to—
(I) safely and securely use the Internet of
Things, including measures that ensure the
security of critical infrastructure; and
(II) enhance the resiliency of Federal sys-
tems against cyber threats to the Internet of
Things; and
(E) in carrying out the examinations re-
quired under subclauses (I) and (II) of sub-
paragraph (D)(iv), ensure to the maximum
extent possible the coordination of the cur-
rent and future activities of the Federal Gov-
ernment relating to security with respect to
the Internet of Things.
(3) AGENCY REPRESENTATIVES.—In con-
vening the working group under paragraph
(1), the Secretary shall have discretion to ap-
point representatives from Federal agencies
and departments as appropriate and shall
specifically consider seeking representation
from—
(A) the Department of Commerce, includ-
ing—
(i) the National Telecommunications and
Information Administration;
(ii) the National Institute of Standards and
Technology; and
(iii) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration;
(B) the Department of Transportation;
(C) the Department of Homeland Security;
(D) the Office of Management and Budget;
(E) the National Science Foundation;
(F) the Commission;
(G) the Federal Trade Commission;
(H) the Office of Science and Technology
Policy;
(I) the Department of Energy; and
(J) the Federal Energy Regulatory Com-
mission.
(4) NONGOVERNMENTAL STAKEHOLDERS.—The
working group shall consult with nongovern-
mental stakeholders with expertise relating
to the Internet of Things, including—
(A) the steering committee;
(B) information and communications tech-
nology manufacturers, suppliers, service pro-
viders, and vendors;
(C) subject matter experts representing in-
dustrial sectors other than the technology
sector that can benefit from the Internet of
Things, including the transportation, en-
ergy, agriculture, and health care sectors;
(D) small, medium, and large businesses;
(E) think tanks and academia;
(F) nonprofit organizations and consumer
groups;
(G) security experts;
(H) rural stakeholders; and
(I) other stakeholders with relevant exper-
tise, as determined by the Secretary.
(5) STEERING COMMITTEE.—
(A) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
within the Department of Commerce a steer-
ing committee to advise the working group.
(B) DUTIES.—The steering committee shall
advise the working group with respect to—
(i) the identification of any Federal regula-
tions, statutes, grant practices, programs,
budgetary or jurisdictional challenges, and
other sector-specific policies that are inhib-
iting, or could inhibit, the development of
the Internet of Things;
(ii) situations in which the use of the
Internet of Things is likely to deliver signifi-
cant and scalable economic and societal ben-
efits to the United States, including benefits
from or to—
(I) smart traffic and transit technologies;
(II) augmented logistics and supply chains;
(III) sustainable infrastructure;
(IV) precision agriculture;
(V) environmental monitoring;
(VI) public safety; and
(VII) health care;
(iii) whether adequate spectrum is avail-
able to support the growing Internet of
Things and what legal or regulatory barriers
may exist to providing any spectrum needed
in the future;
(iv) policies, programs, or multi-stake-
holder activities that—
(I) promote or are related to the privacy of
individuals who use or are affected by the
Internet of Things;
(II) may enhance the security of the Inter-
net of Things, including the security of crit-
ical infrastructure;
(III) may protect users of the Internet of
Things; and
(IV) may encourage coordination among
Federal agencies with jurisdiction over the
Internet of Things;
(v) the opportunities and challenges associ-
ated with the use of Internet of Things tech-
nology by small businesses; and
(vi) any international proceeding, inter-
national negotiation, or other international
matter affecting the Internet of Things to
which the United States is or should be a
party.
(C) MEMBERSHIP.—The Secretary shall ap-
point to the steering committee members
representing a wide range of stakeholders
outside of the Federal Government with ex-
pertise relating to the Internet of Things, in-
cluding—
(i) information and communications tech-
nology manufacturers, suppliers, service pro-
viders, and vendors;
(ii) subject matter experts representing in-
dustrial sectors other than the technology
sector that can benefit from the Internet of
Things, including the transportation, en-
ergy, agriculture, and health care sectors;
(iii) small, medium, and large businesses;
(iv) think tanks and academia;
(v) nonprofit organizations and consumer
groups;
(vi) security experts;
(vii) rural stakeholders; and
(viii) other stakeholders with relevant ex-
pertise, as determined by the Secretary.
(D) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, the steer-
ing committee shall submit to the working
group a report that includes any findings or
recommendations of the steering committee.
(E) INDEPENDENT ADVICE.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The steering committee
shall set the agenda of the steering com-
mittee in carrying out the duties of the
steering committee under subparagraph (B).
(ii) SUGGESTIONS.—The working group may
suggest topics or items for the steering com-
mittee to study, and the steering committee
shall take those suggestions into consider-
ation in carrying out the duties of the steer-
ing committee.
(iii) REPORT.—The steering committee
shall ensure that the report submitted under
subparagraph (D) is the result of the inde-
pendent judgment of the steering committee.
(F) NO COMPENSATION FOR MEMBERS.—A
member of the steering committee shall
serve without compensation.
(G) TERMINATION.—The steering committee
shall terminate on the date on which the
working group submits the report under
paragraph (6).
(6) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 18 months
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
working group shall submit to Congress a re-
port that includes—
(i) the findings and recommendations of
the working group with respect to the duties
of the working group under paragraph (2);
(ii) the report submitted by the steering
committee under paragraph (5)(D), as the re-
port was received by the working group;
(iii) recommendations for action or reasons
for inaction, as applicable, with respect to
each recommendation made by the steering
committee in the report submitted under
paragraph (5)(D); and
(iv) an accounting of any progress made by
Federal agencies to implement recommenda-
tions made by the working group or the
steering committee.
(B) COPY OF REPORT.—The working group
shall submit a copy of the report described in
subparagraph (A) to—
(i) the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation and the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate;
(ii) the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives; and
(iii) any other committee of Congress,
upon request to the working group.
(c) ASSESSING SPECTRUM NEEDS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission, in con-
sultation with the National Telecommuni-
cations and Information Administration,
shall issue a notice of inquiry seeking public
comment on the current, as of the date of en-
actment of this Act, and future spectrum
needs to enable better connectivity relating
to the Internet of Things.
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—In issuing the notice of
inquiry under paragraph (1), the Commission
shall seek comments that consider and
evaluate—
(A) whether adequate spectrum is avail-
able, or is planned for allocation, for com-
mercial wireless services that could support
the growing Internet of Things;
(B) if adequate spectrum is not available
for the purposes described in subparagraph
(A), how to ensure that adequate spectrum is
available for increased demand with respect
to the Internet of Things;
(C) what regulatory barriers may exist to
providing any needed spectrum that would
support uses relating to the Internet of
Things; and
(D) what the role of unlicensed and li-
censed spectrum is and will be in the growth
of the Internet of Things.
(3) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Com-
mission shall submit to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation of
the Senate and the Committee on Energy
and Commerce of the House of Representa-
tives a report summarizing the comments
submitted in response to the notice of in-
quiry issued under paragraph (1).
Subtitle E—Plans, Reports, and Other
Matters
SEC. 5241. REPORT ON DEPARTMENT OF DE-
FENSE STRATEGY ON ARTIFICIAL IN-
TELLIGENCE STANDARDS.
(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to
Congress a report on the role of the Depart-
ment of Defense in the development of artifi-
cial intelligence standards.
(b) CONTENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall include an assessment of
each of the following:
(1) The need for the Department of Defense
to develop an artificial intelligence stand-
ards strategy.
(2) Any efforts to date on the development
of such a strategy.
(3) The ways in which an artificial intel-
ligence standards strategy will improve the
national security.
(4) How the Secretary intends to collabo-
rate with—
(A) the Director of the National Institute
of Standards and Technology;
(B) the Secretary of Homeland Security;
(C) the intelligence community;
(D) the Secretary of State;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00250 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6937
November 16, 2020
(E) representatives of private industry,
specifically representatives of the defense in-
dustrial base; and
(F) representatives of any other agencies,
entities, organizations, or persons the Sec-
retary considers appropriate.
SEC. 5242. STUDY ON ESTABLISHMENT OF
ENERGETICS PROGRAM OFFICE.
The Under Secretary of Defense for Re-
search and Engineering shall conduct a
study to assess the feasibility and advis-
ability of establishing a program office to
coordinate energetics research and to ensure
a robust and sustained energetics material
enterprise.
SEC. 5243. DEEPFAKE REPORT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) DIGITAL CONTENT FORGERY.—The term
‘‘digital content forgery’’ means the use of
emerging technologies, including artificial
intelligence and machine learning tech-
niques, to fabricate or manipulate audio, vis-
ual, or text content with the intent to mis-
lead.
(2) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Homeland Security.
(b) REPORTS ON DIGITAL CONTENT FORGERY
TECHNOLOGY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, and annu-
ally thereafter for 5 years, the Secretary,
acting through the Under Secretary for
Science and Technology, shall produce a re-
port on the state of digital content forgery
technology.
(2) CONTENTS.—Each report produced under
paragraph (1) shall include—
(A) an assessment of the underlying tech-
nologies used to create or propagate digital
content forgeries, including the evolution of
such technologies;
(B) a description of the types of digital
content forgeries, including those used to
commit fraud, cause harm, or violate civil
rights recognized under Federal law;
(C) an assessment of how foreign govern-
ments, and the proxies and networks thereof,
use, or could use, digital content forgeries to
harm national security;
(D) an assessment of how non-govern-
mental entities in the United States use, or
could use, digital content forgeries;
(E) an assessment of the uses, applications,
dangers, and benefits of deep learning tech-
nologies used to generate high fidelity artifi-
cial content of events that did not occur, in-
cluding the impact on individuals;
(F) an analysis of the methods used to de-
termine whether content is genuinely cre-
ated by a human or through digital content
forgery technology and an assessment of any
effective heuristics used to make such a de-
termination, as well as recommendations on
how to identify and address suspect content
and elements to provide warnings to users of
the content;
(G) a description of the technological
counter-measures that are, or could be, used
to address concerns with digital content for-
gery technology; and
(H) any additional information the Sec-
retary determines appropriate.
(3) CONSULTATION AND PUBLIC HEARINGS.—In
producing each report required under para-
graph (1), the Secretary may—
(A) consult with any other agency of the
Federal Government that the Secretary con-
siders necessary; and
(B) conduct public hearings to gather, or
otherwise allow interested parties an oppor-
tunity to present, information and advice
relevant to the production of the report.
(4) FORM OF REPORT.—Each report required
under paragraph (1) shall be produced in un-
classified form, but may contain a classified
annex.
(5) APPLICABILITY OF FOIA.—Nothing in this
section, or in a report produced under this
section, shall be construed to allow the dis-
closure of information or a record that is ex-
empt from public disclosure under section
552 of title 5, United States Code (commonly
known as the ‘‘Freedom of Information
Act’’).
(6) APPLICABILITY OF THE PAPERWORK RE-
DUCTION ACT.—Subchapter I of chapter 35 of
title 44, United States Code (commonly
known as the ‘‘Paperwork Reduction Act’’),
shall not apply to this section.
SEC. 5244. CISA DIRECTOR.
Subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 5,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) in section 5313, by inserting after the
item relating to ‘‘Administrator of the
Transportation Security Administration’’
the following:
‘‘Director, Cybersecurity and Infrastructure
Security Agency.’’; and
(2) in section 5314, by striking the item re-
lating to ‘‘Director, Cybersecurity and Infra-
structure Security Agency.’’.
SEC. 5245. AGENCY REVIEW.
(a) REQUIREMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE RE-
VIEW.—In order to strengthen the Cybersecu-
rity and Infrastructure Security Agency, the
Secretary of Homeland Security shall con-
duct a comprehensive review of the ability of
the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Secu-
rity Agency to fulfill—
(1) the missions of the Cybersecurity and
Infrastructure Security Agency; and
(2) the recommendations detailed in the re-
port issued by the Cyberspace Solarium
Commission under section 1652(k) of the
John S. McCain National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law
115–232).
(b) ELEMENTS OF REVIEW.—The review con-
ducted under subsection (a) shall include the
following elements:
(1) An assessment of how additional budget
resources could be used by the Cybersecurity
and Infrastructure Security Agency for
projects and programs that—
(A) support the national risk management
mission;
(B) support public and private-sector cy-
bersecurity;
(C) promote public-private integration; and
(D) provide situational awareness of cyber-
security threats.
(2) A comprehensive force structure assess-
ment of the Cybersecurity and Infrastruc-
ture Security Agency including—
(A) a determination of the appropriate size
and composition of personnel to accomplish
the mission of the Cybersecurity and Infra-
structure Security Agency, as well as the
recommendations detailed in the report
issued by the Cyberspace Solarium Commis-
sion under section 1652(k) of the John S.
McCain National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232);
(B) an assessment of whether existing per-
sonnel are appropriately matched to the
prioritization of threats in the cyber domain
and risks in critical infrastructure;
(C) an assessment of whether the Cyberse-
curity and Infrastructure Security Agency
has the appropriate personnel and resources
to—
(i) perform risk assessments, threat hunt-
ing, incident response to support both pri-
vate and public cybersecurity;
(ii) carry out the responsibilities of the Cy-
bersecurity and Infrastructure Security
Agency related to the security of Federal in-
formation and Federal information systems;
and
(iii) carry out the critical infrastructure
responsibilities of the Cybersecurity and In-
frastructure Security Agency, including na-
tional risk management; and
(D) an assessment of whether current
structure, personnel, and resources of re-
gional field offices are sufficient in fulfilling
agency responsibilities and mission require-
ments.
(c) SUBMISSION OF REVIEW.—Not later than
1 year after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security
shall submit a report to Congress detailing
the results of the assessments required under
subsection (b), including recommendations
to address any identified gaps.
SEC. 5246. GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
REVIEW.
(a) REVIEW.—The Administrator of the
General Services Administration shall—
(1) conduct a review of current Cybersecu-
rity and Infrastructure Security Agency fa-
cilities and assess the suitability of such fa-
cilities to fully support current and pro-
jected mission requirements nationally and
regionally; and
(2) make recommendations regarding re-
sources needed to procure or build a new fa-
cility or augment existing facilities to en-
sure sufficient size and accommodations to
fully support current and projected mission
requirements, including the integration of
personnel from the private sector and other
departments and agencies.
(b) SUBMISSION OF REVIEW.—Not later than
1 year after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Administrator of the General Serv-
ices Administration shall submit the review
required under subsection (a) to—
(1) the President;
(2) the Secretary of Homeland Security;
and
(3) to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs of the Senate
and the Committee on Homeland Security of
the House of Representatives.
TITLE LIII—OPERATION AND
MAINTENANCE
Subtitle C—Logistics and Sustainment
SEC. 5331. USE OF COST SAVINGS REALIZED
FROM INTERGOVERNMENTAL SERV-
ICES AGREEMENTS FOR INSTALLA-
TION-SUPPORT SERVICES.
(a) REQUIREMENT.—Section 2679 of title 10,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e)
as subsections (e) and (f), respectively; and
(2) by inserting after subsection (c) the fol-
lowing new subsection (d):
‘‘(d) USE OF COST SAVINGS REALIZED.—(1)
With respect to a fiscal year in which cost
savings are realized as a result of entering
into an intergovernmental support agree-
ment under this section for a military instal-
lation, the Secretary concerned shall make
not less than 25 percent of the amount of
such savings available for use by the com-
mander of the installation solely for
sustainment restoration and modernization
requirements that have been approved by the
major subordinate command or equivalent
component.
‘‘(2) Not less frequently than annually, the
Secretary concerned shall certify to the con-
gressional defense committee the amount of
the cost savings achieved, the source and
type of intergovernmental support agree-
ment that achieved the savings, and the
manner in which those savings were de-
ployed, disaggregated by installation.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply with respect
to fiscal year 2021 and each subsequent fiscal
year.
Subtitle D—Reports
SEC. 5351. REPORT ON NON-PERMISSIVE, GLOBAL
POSITIONING SYSTEM DENIED AIR-
FIELD CAPABILITIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than February
1, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit
to the congressional defense committees a
report assessing the ability of each combat-
ant command to conduct all-weather, day-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00251 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6938 November 16, 2020
night airfield operations in a non-permissive,
global positioning system denied environ-
ment.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report required under
subsection (a) shall include, at a minimum,
the following:
(1) An assessment of current air traffic
control and landing systems at existing air-
fields and contingency airfields.
(2) An assessment of the ability of each
combatant command to conduct all-weather,
day-night airfield flight operations in a non-
permissive, global positioning system denied
environment at existing and contingency
airfields, including aircraft tracking and pre-
cision landing.
(3) An assessment of the ability of each
combatant command to rapidly set up and
conduct operations at alternate airfields, in-
cluding the ability to receive and deploy
forces in a non-permissive, global posi-
tioning system denied environment.
(4) A list of backup systems in place or pre-
positioned to be able to reconstitute oper-
ations after an attack.
Subtitle E—Other Matters
SEC. 5371. INCREASE OF AMOUNTS AVAILABLE
TO MARINE CORPS FOR BASE OPER-
ATIONS AND SUPPORT.
(a) INCREASE OF BASE OPERATIONS AND SUP-
PORT.—The amount authorized to be appro-
priated for fiscal year 2021 for operation and
maintenance for the Marine Corps, is hereby
increased by $47,600,000, with the amount of
the increase to be available for base oper-
ations and support (SAG BSS1).
(b) OFFSETS.—
(1) OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.—The
amount authorized to be appropriated for fis-
cal year 2021 for operation and maintenance
for the Marine Corps, is hereby reduced by
$4,700,000, with the amount of the reduction
to be derived from SAG 1A1A.
(2) MODIFICATION KIT PROCUREMENT.—The
amount authorized to be appropriated for fis-
cal year 2021 for procurement for the Marine
Corps, is hereby reduced by $3,100,000, with
the amount of the reduction to be derived
from Line 7, Modification Kits.
(3) DIRECT SUPPORT MUNITION PROCURE-
MENT.—The amount authorized to be appro-
priated for fiscal year 2021 for procurement
and ammunition for the Marine Corps, is
hereby reduced by $39,800,000, with the
amount of the reduction to be derived from
Line 17, Direct Support Munitions.
SEC. 5372. MODERNIZATION OF CONGRESSIONAL
REPORTS PROCESS.
(a) INCREASE IN O&M, DEFENSE-WIDE AC-
TIVITIES.—The amount authorized to be ap-
propriated for fiscal year 2021 by section 301
is hereby increased by $2,000,000, with the
amount of the increase to be available for
operation and maintenance, Defense-wide ac-
tivities, for SAG 4GTN Office of the Sec-
retary of Defense for modernization of the
congressional reports process.
(b) OFFSET.—The amount authorized to be
appropriated for fiscal year 2021 by section
301 is hereby decreased by $2,000,000, with the
amount of the decrease to be applied against
amounts available for operation and mainte-
nance, Army, for SAG 421 for Servicewide
Transportation for historical underexecu-
tion.
TITLE LV—MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY
Subtitle C—General Service Authorities
SEC. 5516. REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION OF
RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE COMP-
TROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED
STATES ON RECRUITMENT AND RE-
TENTION OF FEMALE MEMBERS OF
THE ARMED FORCES.
Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
Defense shall submit to the Committees on
Armed Services of the Senate and the House
of Representatives a report setting forth a
comprehensive plan to implement and ac-
complish the recommendations for the De-
partment of Defense in keeping with the May
2020 report of the Government Account-
ability Office titled ‘‘Female Active-Duty
Personnel: Guidance and Plans Needed for
Recruitment and Retention Efforts’’, namely
the recommendations as follows:
(1) The Secretary of Defense must ensure
that the Under Secretary of Defense for Per-
sonnel and Readiness provides guidance to
each of the Armed Forces to develop plans,
with clearly defined goals, performance
measures, and timeframes, to guide and
monitor the efforts in connection with the
recruitment and retention of female mem-
bers.
(2) Each Secretary of a military depart-
ment must develop a plan, with clearly de-
fined goals, performance measures, and time-
frames, to guide and monitor the efforts of
each Armed Force under the jurisdiction of
such Secretary in connection with the re-
cruitment and retention of female members
in such Armed Force.
Subtitle F—Decorations and Awards
SEC. 5551. REPORT ON REGULATIONS AND PRO-
CEDURES TO IMPLEMENT PRO-
GRAMS ON AWARD OF MEDALS OR
COMMENDATIONS TO HANDLERS OF
MILITARY WORKING DOGS.
Not later than 90 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of De-
fense shall submit to the Committees on
Armed Services of the Senate and the House
of Representatives a report on the regula-
tions and other procedures prescribed by the
Secretaries of the military departments in
order to implement and carry out the pro-
grams of the military departments on the
award of medals or other commendations to
handlers of military working dogs required
by section 582 of the John S. McCain Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232; 132 Stat. 1787;
10 U.S.C. 1121 note prec.).
Subtitle G—Defense Dependents’ Education
and Military Family Readiness Matters
PART II—MILITARY FAMILY READINESS
MATTERS
SEC. 5571. INDEPENDENT STUDY AND REPORT ON
MILITARY SPOUSE UNDEREMPLOY-
MENT.
(a) INDEPENDENT STUDY.—Not later than 30
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall seek to
enter into a contract with a Federally fund-
ed research and development center to con-
duct a study on underemployment among
military spouses. The study shall consider,
at a minimum, the following:
(1) The prevalence of unemployment and
underemployment among military spouses,
including differences by Armed Force, re-
gion, State, education level, and income
level.
(2) The causes of unemployment and under-
employment among military spouses.
(3) The differences in unemployment and
underemployment between military spouses
and civilians.
(4) Barriers to small business ownership
and entrepreneurship faced by military
spouses.
(b) SUBMITTAL TO DOD.—Not later than 240
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Federally funded research and de-
velopment center with which the Secretary
contracts pursuant to subsection (a) shall
submit to the Secretary a report containing
the results of the study conducted pursuant
to that subsection.
(c) TRANSMITTAL TO CONGRESS.—Not later
than 270 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Secretary shall transmit to
the appropriate committees of Congress the
report under subsection (b), without change.
(d) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS
DEFINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘appro-
priate committees of Congress’’ means the
following—
(1) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions, the Committee on Small Business
and Entrepreneurship, and Committee on
Appropriations of the Senate; and
(2) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Education and Labor, the
Committee on Small Business, and Com-
mittee on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives.
Subtitle H—Other Matters
SEC. 5586. QUESTIONS REGARDING RACISM,
ANTI-SEMITISM, AND SUPREMACISM
IN WORKPLACE SURVEYS ADMINIS-
TERED BY THE SECRETARY OF DE-
FENSE.
Section 593 of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public
Law 116–92) is amended—
(1) by inserting ‘‘(a) QUESTIONS REQUIRED.—
’’ before ‘‘The Secretary’’;
(2) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘, racist,
anti-Semitic, or supremacist’’ after ‘‘extrem-
ist’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(b) REPORT.—Not later than March 1, 2021,
the Secretary shall submit to Congress a re-
port including—
‘‘(1) the text of the questions included in
surveys under subsection (a); and
‘‘(2) which surveys include such ques-
tions.’’.
SEC. 5587. BRIEFING ON THE IMPLEMENTATION
OF REQUIREMENTS ON CONNEC-
TIONS OF RETIRING AND SEPA-
RATING MEMBERS OF THE ARMED
FORCES WITH COMMUNITY-BASED
ORGANIZATIONS AND RELATED EN-
TITIES.
Not later than 90 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of De-
fense shall brief Congress on the current sta-
tus of the implementation of the require-
ments of section 570F of the National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020
(Public Law 116–92; 133 Stat. 1401; 10 U.S.C.
1142 note), relating to connections of retiring
and separating members of the Armed Forces
with community-based organizations and re-
lated entities.
SEC. 5590. PILOT PROGRAMS ON REMOTE PROVI-
SION BY NATIONAL GUARD TO
STATE GOVERNMENTS AND NA-
TIONAL GUARDS OF OTHER STATES
OF CYBERSECURITY TECHNICAL AS-
SISTANCE IN TRAINING, PREPARA-
TION, AND RESPONSE TO CYBER IN-
CIDENTS.
(a) INEFFECTIVENESS OF SECTION 590.—Sec-
tion 590 shall have no force or effect.
(b) PILOT PROGRAMS AUTHORIZED.—The
Secretary of the Army and the Secretary of
the Air Force may each, in coordination
with the Secretary of Homeland Security
and in consultation with the Chief of the Na-
tional Guard Bureau, conduct a pilot pro-
gram to assess the feasibility and advis-
ability of the development of a capability
within the National Guard through which a
National Guard of a State remotely provides
State governments and National Guards of
other States (whether or not in the same
Armed Force as the providing National
Guard) with cybersecurity technical assist-
ance in training, preparation, and response
to cyber incidents. If such Secretary elects
to conduct such a pilot program, such Sec-
retary shall be known as an ‘‘administering
Secretary’’ for purposes of this section, and
any reference in this section to ‘‘the pilot
program’’ shall be treated as a reference to
the pilot program conducted by such Sec-
retary.
(c) ASSESSMENT PRIOR TO COMMENCE-
MENT.—For purposes of evaluating existing
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00252 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6939
November 16, 2020
platforms, technologies, and capabilities
under subsection (d), and for establishing eli-
gibility and participation requirements
under subsection (d), for purposes of the pilot
program, an administering Secretary, in con-
sultation with the Chief of the National
Guard Bureau, shall, prior to commencing
the pilot program—
(1) conduct an assessment of—
(A) existing cyber response capacities of
the Army National Guard or Air National
Guard, as applicable, in each State; and
(B) any existing platform, technology, or
capability of a National Guard that provides
the capability described in subsection (b);
and
(2) determine whether a platform, tech-
nology, or capability described in paragraph
(1)(B) is suitable for expansion for purposes
of the pilot program.
(d) ELEMENTS.—A pilot program under sub-
section (b) shall include the following:
(1) A technical capability that enables the
National Guard of a State to remotely pro-
vide cybersecurity technical assistance to
State governments and National Guards of
other States, without the need to deploy out-
side its home State.
(2) Policies, processes, procedures, and au-
thorities for use of such a capability, includ-
ing with respect to the following:
(A) The roles and responsibilities of both
requesting and deploying State governments
and National Guards with respect to such
technical assistance, taking into account the
matters specified in subsection (g).
(B) Necessary updates to the Defense Cyber
Incident Coordinating Procedure, or any
other applicable Department of Defense in-
struction, for purposes of implementing the
capability.
(C) Program management and governance
structures for deployment and maintenance
of the capability.
(D) Security when performing remote sup-
port, including such in matters such as au-
thentication and remote sensing.
(3) The conduct, in coordination with the
Chief of the National Guard Bureau and the
Secretary of Homeland Security and in con-
sultation with the Director of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, other Federal agen-
cies, and appropriate non-Federal entities, of
at least one exercise to demonstrate the ca-
pability, which exercise shall include the fol-
lowing:
(A) Participation of not fewer than two
State governments and their National
Guards.
(B) Circumstances designed to test and
validate the policies, processes, procedures,
and authorities developed pursuant to para-
graph (2).
(C) An after action review of the exercise.
(e) USE OF EXISTING TECHNOLOGY.—An ad-
ministering Secretary may use an existing
platform, technology, or capability to pro-
vide the capability described in subsection
(b) under the pilot program.
(f) ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION REQUIRE-
MENTS.—An administering Secretary shall,
in consultation with the Chief of the Na-
tional Guard Bureau, establish requirements
with respect to eligibility and participation
of State governments and their National
Guards in the pilot program.
(g) CONSTRUCTION WITH CERTAIN CURRENT
AUTHORITIES.—
(1) COMMAND AUTHORITIES.—Nothing in a
pilot program under subsection (b) may be
construed as affecting or altering the com-
mand authorities otherwise applicable to
any unit of the National Guard unit partici-
pating in the pilot program.
(2) EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ASSISTANCE
COMPACT.—Nothing in a pilot program may
be construed as affecting or altering any cur-
rent agreement under the Emergency Man-
agement Assistance Compact, or any other
State agreements, or as determinative of the
future content of any such agreement.
(h) EVALUATION METRICS.—An admin-
istering Secretary shall, in consultation
with the Chief of the National Guard Bureau
and the Secretary of Homeland Security, es-
tablish metrics to evaluate the effectiveness
of the pilot program.
(i) TERM.—A pilot program under sub-
section (b) shall terminate on the date that
is three years after the date of the com-
mencement of the pilot program.
(j) REPORTS.—
(1) INITIAL REPORT.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the commencement of
the pilot program, the administering Sec-
retary, in coordination with the Secretary of
Homeland Security, shall submit to the ap-
propriate committees of Congress a report
setting forth a description of the pilot pro-
gram and such other matters in connection
with the pilot program as the Secretary con-
siders appropriate.
(2) FINAL REPORT.—Not later than 180 days
after the termination of the pilot program,
the administering Secretary, in coordination
with the Secretary of Homeland Security,
shall submit to the appropriate committees
of Congress a report on the pilot program.
The report shall include the following:
(A) A description of the pilot program, in-
cluding any partnerships entered into by the
Chief of the National Guard Bureau under
the pilot program.
(B) A summary of the assessment per-
formed prior to the commencement of the
pilot program in accordance with subsection
(c).
(C) A summary of the evaluation metrics
established in accordance with subsection
(h).
(D) An assessment of the effectiveness of
the pilot program, and of the capability de-
scribed in subsection (b) under the pilot pro-
gram.
(E) A description of costs associated with
the implementation and conduct of the pilot
program.
(F) A recommendation as to the termi-
nation or extension of the pilot program, or
the making of the pilot program permanent
with an expansion nationwide.
(G) An estimate of the costs of making the
pilot program permanent and expanding it
nationwide in accordance with the rec-
ommendation in subparagraph (F).
(H) Such recommendations for legislative
or administrative action as the Secretary
considers appropriate in light of the pilot
program.
(3) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS
DEFINED.—In this subsection, the term ‘‘ap-
propriate committees of Congress’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Homeland Security of the
House of Representatives.
(k) STATE DEFINED.—In this section, the
term ‘‘State’’ means each of the several
States, the District of Columbia, the Com-
monwealth of Puerto Rico, American Samoa,
Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, and
the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
Islands.
TITLE LVII—HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS
Subtitle A—TRICARE and Other Health Care
Provisions
SEC. 5707. PILOT PROGRAM ON RECEIPT OF NON-
GENERIC PRESCRIPTION MAINTE-
NANCE MEDICATIONS UNDER
TRICARE PHARMACY BENEFITS PRO-
GRAM.
The reference in section 707(c) to section
1074g(a)(9)(C)(i) of title 10, United States
Code, is deemed to be a reference to section
1074g(a)(9)(C)(ii) of title 10, United States
Code.
Subtitle B—Health Care Administration
SEC. 5723. AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY OF DE-
FENSE TO WAIVE REQUIREMENTS
DURING NATIONAL EMERGENCIES
FOR PURPOSES OF PROVISION OF
HEALTH CARE.
Section 723 and the amendments made by
that section shall have no force or effect.
Subtitle C—Reports and Other Matters
SEC. 5741. STUDY AND REPORT ON SURGE CAPAC-
ITY OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
TO ESTABLISH NEGATIVE AIR ROOM
CONTAINMENT SYSTEMS IN MILI-
TARY MEDICAL TREATMENT FACILI-
TIES.
(a) STUDY.—The Director of the Defense
Health Agency shall conduct a study on the
use, scalability, and military requirements
for commercial off the shelf negative air
pressure room containment systems in order
to improve pandemic preparedness at mili-
tary medical treatment facilities worldwide,
to include an assessment of whether such
systems would improve the readiness of the
Department of Defense to expand capability
and capacity to evaluate and treat patients
at such facilities during a pandemic.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director of the Defense Health Agency shall
submit to the Committees on Armed Serv-
ices of the Senate and the House of Rep-
resentatives a report on the findings of the
study conducted under subsection (a).
TITLE LVIII—ACQUISITION POLICY, AC-
QUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RE-
LATED MATTERS
Subtitle A—Industrial Base Matters
SEC. 5801. REPORT ON USE OF DOMESTIC NON-
AVAILABILITY DETERMINATIONS.
Not later than September 30, 2021, and an-
nually thereafter, the Secretary of Defense
shall submit a report to congressional de-
fense committees—
(1) describing in detail the use of any waiv-
er or exception to the requirements of sec-
tion 2533a of title 10, United States Code, re-
lating to domestic nonavailability deter-
minations;
(2) providing reasoning for the use of each
such waiver or exception; and
(3) providing an assessment of the impact
on the use of such waivers or exceptions due
to the COVID–19 pandemic and associated
challenges with investments in domestic
sources.
SEC. 5802. REPORT ON THE EFFECT OF THE DE-
FENSE MANUFACTURING COMMU-
NITIES SUPPORT PROGRAM ON THE
DEFENSE SUPPLY CHAIN.
Not later than September 30, 2021, the Sec-
retary of Defense shall submit to Congress a
report evaluating the effect of the Defense
Manufacturing Communities Support Pro-
gram on the defense supply chain. The eval-
uation should consider the program’s effect
on—
(1) the diversification of the supply chain;
(2) procurement costs; and
(3) efficient procurement processes.
SEC. 5803. IMPROVING IMPLEMENTATION OF
POLICY PERTAINING TO THE NA-
TIONAL TECHNOLOGY AND INDUS-
TRIAL BASE.
Section 803(d)(2) is deemed amended as fol-
lows:
(1) Subparagraph (A) of such section is
deemed to read as follows:
‘‘(A) analysis of the national security im-
pacts, cost, and benefits to the United States
and allies of the inclusion of such additional
member nation in the national technology
and industrial base, including criticality to
program and mission accomplishment;’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00253 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6940 November 16, 2020
(2) In the stem of subparagraph (B) of such
section, ‘‘costs,’’ is deemed to be read ‘‘im-
pacts, costs,’’.
(3) In clause (ii) of subparagraph (B) of
such section ‘‘base;’’ is deemed to read ‘‘base,
including costs to reconstitute capability
should such capability be lost to competi-
tion;’’.
SEC. 5808. ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS PER-
TAINING TO PRINTED CIRCUIT
BOARDS.
Section 808 is deemed to include at the end
the following:
‘‘(h) SENSE OF CONGRESS ON MITIGATING
RISKS OF RELIANCE ON CERTAIN SOURCES OF
SUPPLY AND MANUFACTURING FOR PRINTED
CIRCUIT BOARDS.—It is the sense of Congress
that—
‘‘(1) the Department of Defense must take
steps to reduce and mitigate risks of reliance
on certain sources of supply and manufac-
turing for printed circuit boards; and
‘‘(2) the provisions of this section are in-
tended to augment, rather than reduce or su-
persede, current efforts to reduce and miti-
gate such risks.’’.
SEC. 5812. MISCELLANEOUS LIMITATIONS ON
THE PROCUREMENT OF GOODS
OTHER THAN UNITED STATES
GOODS.
Notwithstanding the amendments made by
section 812—
(1) the subparagraph (A) proposed to be in-
cluded in subsection (a)(2) of section 2534 of
title 10, United States Code, shall not be in-
cluded;
(2) subsection (b) of such section is deemed
to read as follows:
‘‘(b) MANUFACTURER IN THE NATIONAL TECH-
NOLOGY AND INDUSTRIAL BASE.—A manufac-
turer meets the requirements of this sub-
section if the manufacturer is part of the na-
tional technology and industrial base.’’; and
(3) the amendment to subsection (h) of
such section is deemed to insert the fol-
lowing: ‘‘subsection (a)(2)’’.
Subtitle C—Amendments to General Con-
tracting Authorities, Procedures, and Limi-
tations
SEC. 5841. WAIVERS OF CERTAIN CONDITIONS
FOR PROGRESS PAYMENTS UNDER
CERTAIN CONTRACTS DURING THE
COVID–19 NATIONAL EMERGENCY.
During the national emergency declared
under the National Emergencies Act (50
U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) with respect to the
coronavirus disease 2019 (commonly referred
to as ‘‘COVID–19’’), the Secretary of Defense
may waive section 2307(e)(2) of title 10,
United States Code, with respect to progress
payments for any undefinitized contract.
Subtitle E—Small Business Matters
SEC. 5871. OFFICE OF SMALL BUSINESS AND DIS-
ADVANTAGED BUSINESS UTILIZA-
TION.
Section 15(k) of the Small Business Act (15
U.S.C. 644(k)) is amended, in the matter pre-
ceding paragraph (1)—
(1) by inserting after the first sentence the
following: ‘‘If the Government Account-
ability Office has determined that a Federal
agency is not in compliance with all of the
requirements under this subsection, the Fed-
eral agency shall, not later than 120 days
after that determination or 120 days after
the date of enactment of this sentence,
whichever is later, submit to the Committee
on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of
the Senate and the Committee on Small
Business of the House of Representatives a
report that includes the reasons why the
Federal agency is not in compliance and the
specific actions that the Federal agency will
take to comply with the requirements under
this subsection.’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘The management of each
such office’’ and inserting ‘‘The management
of each Office of Small Business and Dis-
advantaged Business Utilization’’.
SEC. 5872. ELIGIBILITY OF THE COMMONWEALTH
OF THE NORTHERN MARIANA IS-
LANDS FOR CERTAIN SMALL BUSI-
NESS ADMINISTRATION PROGRAMS.
The Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 631 et
seq.) is amended—
(1) in section 21(a) (15 U.S.C. 648(a))—
(A) in paragraph (1), by inserting before
‘‘The Administration shall require’’ the fol-
lowing new sentence: ‘‘The previous sentence
shall not apply to an applicant that has its
principal office located in the Common-
wealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.’’;
and
(B) in paragraph (4)(C)(ix), by striking
‘‘and American Samoa’’ and inserting
‘‘American Samoa, and the Commonwealth
of the Northern Mariana Islands’’; and
(2) in section 34(a)(9) (15 U.S.C. 657d(a)(9)),
by striking ‘‘and American Samoa’’ and in-
serting ‘‘American Samoa, and the Common-
wealth of the Northern Mariana Islands’’.
SEC. 5873. DISASTER DECLARATION IN RURAL
AREAS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 7(b) of the Small
Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(b)) is amended by
inserting after paragraph (15) the following:
‘‘(16) DISASTER DECLARATION IN RURAL
AREAS.—
‘‘(A) DEFINITIONS.—In this paragraph—
‘‘(i) the term ‘rural area’ means an area
with a population of less than 200,000 outside
an urbanized area; and
‘‘(ii) the term ‘significant damage’ means,
with respect to property, uninsured losses of
not less than 40 percent of the estimated fair
replacement value or pre-disaster fair mar-
ket value of the damaged property, which-
ever is lower.
‘‘(B) DISASTER DECLARATION.—Notwith-
standing section 123.3(a) of title 13, Code of
Federal Regulations, or any successor regu-
lation, the Administrator may declare a dis-
aster in a rural area for which a major dis-
aster was declared by the President under
section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42
U.S.C. 5170) if—
‘‘(i) the Governor of the State in which the
rural area is located requests such a declara-
tion; and
‘‘(ii) any home, small business concern,
private nonprofit organization, or small agri-
cultural cooperative has incurred significant
damage in the rural area.
‘‘(C) SBA REPORT.—Not later than 120 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, and
every year thereafter, the Administrator
shall submit to the Committee on Small
Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate
and the Committee on Small Business of the
House of Representatives a report on, with
respect to the 1-year period preceding sub-
mission of the report—
‘‘(i) any economic injury that resulted
from a major disaster declared by the Presi-
dent under section 401 of the Robert T. Staf-
ford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assist-
ance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170) in a rural area;
‘‘(ii) each request for assistance made by
the Governor of a State under subparagraph
(B)(i) and the response of the Administrator,
including the timeline for each response; and
‘‘(iii) any regulatory changes that will im-
pact the ability of communities in rural
areas to obtain disaster assistance under this
subsection.’’.
(b) REGULATIONS.—Not later than 120 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Administrator of the Small Business Admin-
istration shall issue regulations to carry out
the amendment made by subsection (a).
(c) GAO REPORT.—
(1) DEFINITION OF RURAL AREA.—In this sub-
section, the term ‘‘rural area’’ means an area
with a population of less than 200,000 outside
an urbanized area.
(2) REPORT.—Not later than 120 days after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Comp-
troller General of the United States shall
submit to the Committee on Small Business
and Entrepreneurship of the Senate and the
Committee on Small Business of the House
of Representatives a report on—
(A) any unique challenges that commu-
nities in rural areas face compared to com-
munities in metropolitan areas when seeking
to obtain disaster assistance under section
7(b) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C.
636(b)); and
(B) legislative recommendations for im-
proving access to disaster assistance for
communities in rural areas.
SEC. 5874. TEMPORARY EXTENSION FOR 8(A) PAR-
TICIPANTS.
The Administrator of the Small Business
Administration shall allow a small business
concern (as defined in section 3 of the Small
Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632)) participating in
the program established under section 8(a) of
the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(a)) on
the date of enactment of this section to ex-
tend such participation by a period of 1 year.
SEC. 5875. MAXIMUM AWARD PRICE FOR SOLE
SOURCE MANUFACTURING CON-
TRACTS.
The Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 631 et
seq.) is amended—
(1) in section 8 (15 U.S.C. 637)—
(A) in subsection (a)(1)(D)(i)(II), by strik-
ing ‘‘$5,000,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$7,000,000’’;
and
(B) in subsection (m)—
(i) in paragraph (7)(B)(i), by striking
‘‘$6,500,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$7,000,000’’; and
(ii) in paragraph (8)(B)(i), by striking
‘‘$6,500,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$7,000,000’’;
(2) in section 31(c)(2)(A)(ii)(I) (15 U.S.C.
657a(c)(2)(A)(ii)(I)), by striking ‘‘$5,000,000’’
and inserting ‘‘$7,000,000’’; and
(3) in section 36(a)(2)(A) (15 U.S.C.
657f(a)(2)(A)), by striking ‘‘$5,000,000’’ and in-
serting ‘‘$7,000,000’’.
SEC. 5876. ANNUAL REPORTS REGARDING THE
SBIR PROGRAM OF THE DEPART-
MENT OF DEFENSE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
(1) the term ‘‘SBIR’’ has the meaning given
the term in section 9(e)(4) of the Small Busi-
ness Act (15 U.S.C. 638(e)(4)); and
(2) the term ‘‘Secretary’’ means the Sec-
retary of Defense.
(b) REPORTS REQUIRED.—Not later than 90
days after the date of enactment of this Act,
and not later than 120 days after the end of
each fiscal year that begins after that date
of enactment, the Secretary, after consulta-
tion with the Secretary of each branch of the
Armed Forces, shall submit, through the
Under Secretary of Defense for Research and
Engineering, to Congress a report that ad-
dresses—
(1) the ways in which the Secretary, as of
the date on which the report is submitted, is
using incentives to Department of Defense
program managers under section 9(y)(6)(B) of
the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C.
638(y)(6)(B)) to increase the number of Phase
II SBIR contracts awarded by the Secretary
that lead to technology transition into pro-
grams of record or fielded systems, which
shall include the judgment of the Secretary
regarding the potential effect of providing
monetary incentives to those officers for
that purpose;
(2) the extent to which the Department of
Defense has developed simplified and stand-
ardized procedures and model contracts
throughout the agency for Phase I, Phase II,
and Phase III SBIR awards, as required
under section 9(hh)(2)(A)(i) of the Small
Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(hh)(2)(A)(i));
(3) with respect to each report submitted
under this section after the submission of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00254 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6941
November 16, 2020
the first such report, the extent to which any
incentives described in this section and im-
plemented by the Secretary have resulted in
an increased number of Phase II contracts
under the SBIR program of the Department
of Defense leading to technology transition
into programs of record or fielded systems;
(4) the extent to which Phase I, Phase II,
and Phase III projects under the SBIR pro-
gram of the Department of Defense align
with the modernization priorities of the De-
partment, including with respect to artifi-
cial intelligence, biotechnology, autonomy,
cybersecurity, directed energy, fully
networked command, control, and commu-
nication systems, microelectronics, quantum
science, hypersonics, and space; and
(5) any other action taken, and proposed to
be taken, to increase the number of Depart-
ment of Defense Phase II SBIR contracts
leading to technology transition into pro-
grams of record or fielded systems.
SEC. 5877. SMALL BUSINESS LOANS FOR NON-
PROFIT CHILD CARE PROVIDERS.
Section 3(a) of the Small Business Act (15
U.S.C. 632(a)) is amended by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘(10) NONPROFIT CHILD CARE PROVIDERS.—
‘‘(A) DEFINITION.—In this paragraph, the
term ‘covered nonprofit child care provider’
means an organization—
‘‘(i) that—
‘‘(I) is in compliance with licensing re-
quirements for child care providers of the
State in which the organization is located;
‘‘(II) is described in section 501(c)(3) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt
from tax under section 501(a) of such Code;
and
‘‘(III) is primarily engaged in providing
child care for children from birth to compul-
sory school age;
‘‘(ii) for which each employee and regular
volunteer complies with the criminal back-
ground check requirements under section
658H(b) of the Child Care and Development
Block Grant Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 9858f(b));
and
‘‘(iii) that may—
‘‘(I) provide care for school-age children
outside of school hours or outside of the
school year; or
‘‘(II) offer preschool or prekindergarten
educational programs.
‘‘(B) ELIGIBILITY FOR LOAN PROGRAMS.—
Notwithstanding any other provision of this
subsection, a covered nonprofit child care
provider shall be deemed to be a small busi-
ness concern for purposes of any program
under this Act or the Small Business Invest-
ment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 661 et seq.) under
which—
‘‘(i) the Administrator may make loans to
small business concerns;
‘‘(ii) the Administrator may guarantee
timely payment of loans to small business
concerns; or
‘‘(iii) the recipient of a loan made or guar-
anteed by the Administrator may make
loans to small business concerns.’’.
Subtitle G—Other Matters
SEC. 5891. LISTING OF OTHER TRANSACTION AU-
THORITY CONSORTIA.
Beginning not later than 90 days after the
date of the enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary of Defense shall maintain on the gov-
ernment-wide point of entry for contracting
opportunities, Beta.SAM.gov (or any suc-
cessor system), a list of the consortia used
by the Department of Defense to announce
or otherwise make available contracting op-
portunities using other transaction author-
ity (OTA).
SEC. 5892. REPORT RECOMMENDING DISPOSI-
TION OF NOTES TO CERTAIN SEC-
TIONS OF TITLE 10, UNITED STATES
CODE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than March 31,
2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit
to the congressional defense committees a
report recommending the disposition of pro-
visions of law found in the notes to the fol-
lowing sections of title 10, United States
Code:
(1) Section 2313.
(2) Section 2364.
(3) Section 2432.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report required under
subsection (a) shall include—
(1) for each provision of law included as a
note to a section listed in such subsection, a
recommendation whether such provision—
(A) should be repealed because the provi-
sion is no longer operative or is otherwise
obsolete;
(B) should be codified as a section to title
10, United States Code, because the section
has, and is anticipated to continue to have in
the future, significant relevance; or
(C) should remain as a note to such sec-
tion; and
(2) any legislative proposals appropriate to
improve the intent and effect of the sections
listed in such subsection.
(c) TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.—(1) Section
2362(a) of title 10, United States Code, is
amended by striking ‘‘Assistant Secretary of
Defense for Research and Engineering’’ both
places it appears and inserting ‘‘Under Sec-
retary of Defense for Research and Engineer-
ing’’.
(2) Section 804(c) of the Bob Stump Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2003 (Public Law 107–314; 10 U.S.C. 2302
note) is amended by striking ‘‘The Assistant
Secretary of Defense for Command, Control,
Communications, and Intelligence, in con-
sultation with the Under Secretary of De-
fense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logis-
tics,’’ and inserting ‘‘The Under Secretary of
Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment’’.
SEC. 5893. APPLICABILITY OF REPORTING RE-
QUIREMENT RELATED TO NOTIONAL
MILESTONES AND STANDARD
TIMELINES FOR FOREIGN MILITARY
SALES.
Section 887 of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public
Law 115 –91; 22 U.S.C. 2761 note) is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (c) as sub-
section (d); and
(2) by inserting after subsection (b) the fol-
lowing new subsection:
‘‘(c) APPLICABILITY.—The reporting re-
quirements under this section apply only to
foreign military sales processes within the
Department of Defense.’’.
SEC. 5894. ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS RE-
LATED TO MITIGATING RISKS RE-
LATED TO FOREIGN OWNERSHIP,
CONTROL, OR INFLUENCE OF DE-
PARTMENT OF DEFENSE CONTRAC-
TORS AND SUBCONTRACTORS.
(a) COMPLIANCE ASSESSMENT.—Subpara-
graph (A) of paragraph (2) of section 847(b) of
the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92) is
amended by adding at the end the following
new clause:
‘‘(v) A requirement for the Secretary to re-
quire reports and conduct examinations on a
periodic basis of covered contractors and
subcontractors in order to assess compliance
with the requirements of this section.’’.
(b) ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR RESPON-
SIBILITY DETERMINATIONS.—Subparagraph (B)
of such paragraph is amended—
(1) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘; and’’ and
inserting a semicolon;
(2) by redesignating clause (iii) as clause
(iv); and
(3) by inserting after clause (ii) the fol-
lowing new clause:
‘‘(iii) procedures for appropriately respond-
ing to changes in contractor or subcon-
tractor beneficial ownership status based on
changes in disclosures of their beneficial
ownership relating to whether they are
under FOCI and based on the reports and ex-
aminations required by subparagraph (A)(v);
and’’.
(c) TIMELINES AND MILESTONES FOR IMPLE-
MENTATION.—
(1) IMPLEMENTATION PLAN.—Not later than
60 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall pro-
vide to the congressional defense committees
a plan and schedule for implementation of
the requirements of section 847 of the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92), including—
(A) a timeline for issuance of regulations,
development of training for appropriate offi-
cials, and development of systems for report-
ing of beneficial ownership and FOCI by con-
tractors and subcontractors;
(B) designation of officials and organiza-
tions responsible for execution; and
(C) interim milestones to be met in imple-
menting the plan.
(2) REVISION OF REGULATIONS, DIRECTIVES,
GUIDANCE, TRAINING, AND POLICIES.—Not later
than 180 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall re-
vise relevant directives, guidance, training,
and policies, including revising the Defense
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
as needed, to fully implement section 847 of
the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92), as
amended by this section.
TITLE LIX—DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Subtitle D—Organization and Management of
Other Department of Defense Offices and
Elements
SEC. 5951. COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE
UNITED STATES REPORT ON
VULNERABILITIES OF THE DEPART-
MENT OF DEFENSE RESULTING
FROM OFFSHORE TECHNICAL SUP-
PORT CALL CENTERS.
(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Comptroller General of the United
States shall submit to the Committees on
Armed Services of the Senate and the House
of Representatives a report on
vulnerabilities in connection with the provi-
sion of services by offshore technical support
call centers to the Department of Defense.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall include the following:
(1) A description and assessment of the lo-
cation of all offshore technical support call
centers.
(2) A description and assessment of the
types of information shared by the Depart-
ment with foreign nationals at offshore tech-
nical support call centers.
(3) An assessment of the extent to which
access to such information by foreign na-
tionals creates vulnerabilities to the infor-
mation technology network of the Depart-
ment.
(c) OFFSHORE TECHNICAL SUPPORT CALL
CENTER DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘offshore technical support call center’’
means a call center that—
(1) is physically located outside the United
States;
(2) employs individuals who are foreign na-
tionals; and
(3) may be contacted by personnel of the
Department to provide technical support re-
lating to technology used by the Depart-
ment.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00255 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6942 November 16, 2020
TITLE LX—GENERAL PROVISIONS
Subtitle A—Financial Matters
SEC. 6001. UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
(COMPTROLLER) REPORTS ON IM-
PROVING THE BUDGET JUSTIFICA-
TION AND RELATED MATERIALS OF
THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
(a) REPORTS REQUIRED.—Not later than
April 1 of each of 2021 through 2025, the
Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller)
shall submit to the congressional defense
committees a report on improving the fol-
lowing:
(1) Modernization of covered materials, in-
cluding the following:
(A) Updating the format of such materials
in order to account for significant improve-
ments in document management and data
visualization.
(B) Expanding the scope and quality of
data included in such materials.
(2) Streamlining of the production of cov-
ered materials within the Department of De-
fense.
(3) Transmission of covered materials to
Congress.
(4) Availability of adequate resources and
capabilities to permit the Department to in-
tegrate changes to covered materials to-
gether with its submittal of current covered
materials.
(5) Promotion of the flow between the De-
partment and the congressional defense com-
mittees of other information required by
Congress for its oversight of budgeting for
the Department and the future-years defense
programs.
(b) COVERED MATERIALS DEFINED.—In this
section, the term ‘‘covered materials’’ means
the following:
(1) Materials submitted in support of the
budget of the President for a fiscal year
under section 1105(a) of title 31, United
States Code.
(2) Materials submitted in connection with
the future-years defense program for a fiscal
year under section 221 of title 10, United
States Code.
SEC. 6002. REPORT ON FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET
REQUEST REQUIREMENTS IN CON-
NECTION WITH AIR FORCE OPER-
ATIONS IN THE ARCTIC.
The Secretary of the Air Force shall sub-
mit to the congressional defense commit-
tees, not later than 30 days after submission
of the budget justification documents sub-
mitted to Congress in support of the budget
of the President for fiscal year 2022 (as sub-
mitted pursuant to section 1105 of title 31,
United States Code), a report that includes
the following:
(1) A description of the manner in which
amounts requested for the Air Force in the
budget for fiscal year 2022 support Air Force
operations in the Arctic.
(2) A list of the procurement initiatives
and research, development, test, and evalua-
tion initiatives funded by that budget that
are primarily intended to enhance the abil-
ity of the Air Force to deploy to or operate
in the Arctic region, or to defend the north-
ern approach to the United States homeland.
(3) An assessment of the adequacy of the
infrastructure of Air Force installations in
Alaska and in the States along the northern
border of the continental United States to
support deployments to and operations in
the Arctic region, including an assessment of
runways, fuel lines, and aircraft mainte-
nance capacity for purposes of such support.
SEC. 6003. PROVIDING INFORMATION TO STATES
REGARDING UNDELIVERED SAVINGS
BONDS.
Section 3105 of title 31, United States Code,
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(f)(1) Notwithstanding any other law to
the contrary, the Secretary shall provide
each State, as digital or other electronically
searchable forms become available (includ-
ing digital images), with sufficient informa-
tion to identify the registered owner of any
applicable savings bond with a registration
address that is within such State, including
the serial number of the bond, the name and
registered address of such owner, and any
registered beneficiaries.
‘‘(2) The Secretary shall prescribe such reg-
ulations or other guidance as may be nec-
essary to carry out the purposes of this sub-
section, including rules to—
‘‘(A) protect the privacy of the owners of
applicable savings bonds;
‘‘(B) ensure that any information provided
to a State under this subsection shall be
used solely to locate such owners and assist
them in redeeming such bonds with the
United States Treasury; and
‘‘(C) ensure that owners of applicable sav-
ings bonds seeking to redeem such bonds
with the United States Treasury are able to
do so in an expeditious manner.
‘‘(3) Not later than 12 months after the
date of enactment of this subsection, and an-
nually thereafter, the Secretary shall submit
to the Committee on Appropriations and the
Committee on Finance of the Senate a report
assessing all efforts to satisfy the require-
ment under paragraph (1).
‘‘(4) For purposes of this subsection, the
term ‘applicable savings bond’ means a ma-
tured and unredeemed savings bond.’’.
Subtitle E—Miscellaneous Authorities and
Limitations
SEC. 6046. CONDITIONS FOR PERMANENTLY BAS-
ING UNITED STATES EQUIPMENT OR
ADDITIONAL MILITARY UNITS IN
HOST COUNTRIES WITH AT-RISK
VENDORS IN 5G OR 6G NETWORKS.
(a) INEFFECTIVENESS OF SECTION 1046.—Sec-
tion 1046 shall have no force or effect.
(b) IN GENERAL.—Prior to a decision for
basing a major weapon system or an addi-
tional military unit comparable to or larger
than a battalion, squadron, or naval combat-
ant for permanent basing to a host nation
with at-risk 5th generation (5G) or sixth gen-
eration (6G) wireless network equipment,
software, and services, including the use of
telecommunications equipment, software,
and services provided by vendors such as
Huawei and ZTE, where United States mili-
tary personnel and their families will be di-
rectly connected or subscribers to networks
that include such at-risk equipment, soft-
ware, and services in their official duties or
in the conduct of personal affairs, the Sec-
retary of Defense shall provide a certifi-
cation to Congress that includes—
(1) an acknowledgment by the host nation
of the risk posed by the network architec-
ture;
(2) a description of steps being taken by
the host nation to mitigate any potential
risks to the weapon systems, military units,
or personnel, and the Department of De-
fense’s assessment of those efforts;
(3) a description of steps being taken by
the United States Government to mitigate
any potential risks to the weapon systems,
military units, or personnel; and
(4) a description of any defense mutual
agreements between the host nation and the
United States intended to allay the costs of
risk mitigation posed by the at-risk infra-
structure.
(c) APPLICABILITY.—The conditions in sub-
section (b) apply to the permanent long-term
stationing of equipment and personnel, and
do not apply to short-term deployments or
rotational presence to military installations
outside the United States in connection with
exercises, dynamic force employment, con-
tingency operations, or combat operations.
(d) REPORT.—Not later than one year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the con-
gressional defense committees a report that
contains an assessment of—
(1) the risk to personnel, equipment, and
operations of the Department of Defense in
host countries posed by the current or in-
tended use by such countries of 5G or 6G
telecommunications architecture provided
by at-risk vendors; and
(2) measures required to mitigate the risk
described in paragraph (1), including the
merit and feasibility of the relocation of cer-
tain personnel or equipment of the Depart-
ment to another location without the pres-
ence of 5G or 6G telecommunications archi-
tecture provided by at-risk vendors.
(e) FORM.—The report required by sub-
section (c) shall be submitted in a classified
form with an unclassified summary.
SEC. 6047. ANTIDISCRIMINATION.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be
cited as the ‘‘Elijah E. Cummings Federal
Employee Antidiscrimination Act of 2020’’.
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—Section 102 of the
Notification and Federal Employee Anti-
discrimination and Retaliation Act of 2002 (5
U.S.C. 2301 note) is amended—
(1) by striking paragraph (4) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(4) accountability in the enforcement of
the rights of Federal employees is furthered
when Federal agencies agree to take appro-
priate disciplinary action against Federal
employees who are found to have inten-
tionally committed discriminatory (includ-
ing retaliatory) acts;’’; and
(2) in paragraph (5)(A)—
(A) by striking ‘‘nor is accountability’’ and
inserting ‘‘accountability is not’’; and
(B) by inserting ‘‘for what, by law, the
agency is responsible’’ after ‘‘under this
Act’’.
(c) NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.—Section
202 of the Notification and Federal Employee
Antidiscrimination and Retaliation Act of
2002 (5 U.S.C. 2301 note) is amended by adding
at the end the following:
‘‘(d) NOTIFICATION OF FINAL AGENCY AC-
TION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date on which an event described in
paragraph (2) occurs with respect to a find-
ing of discrimination (including retaliation),
the head of the Federal agency subject to the
finding shall provide notice—
‘‘(A) on the public internet website of the
agency, in a clear and prominent location
linked directly from the home page of that
website;
‘‘(B) stating that a finding of discrimina-
tion (including retaliation) has been made;
and
‘‘(C) which shall remain posted for not less
than 1 year.
‘‘(2) EVENTS DESCRIBED.—An event de-
scribed in this paragraph is any of the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(A) All appeals of a final action by a Fed-
eral agency involving a finding of discrimi-
nation (including retaliation) prohibited by
a provision of law covered by paragraph (1)
or (2) of section 201(a) have been exhausted.
‘‘(B) All appeals of a final decision by the
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
involving a finding of discrimination (includ-
ing if the finding included a finding of retal-
iation) prohibited by a provision of law cov-
ered by paragraph (1) or (2) of section 201(a)
have been exhausted.
‘‘(C) A court of jurisdiction issues a final
judgment involving a finding of discrimina-
tion (including retaliation) prohibited by a
provision of law covered by paragraph (1) or
(2) of section 201(a).
‘‘(3) CONTENTS.—A notification provided
under paragraph (1) with respect to a finding
of discrimination (including retaliation)
shall—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00256 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6943
November 16, 2020
‘‘(A) identify the date on which the finding
was made, the date on which each discrimi-
natory act occurred, and the law violated by
each such discriminatory act; and
‘‘(B) advise Federal employees of the rights
and protections available under the provi-
sions of law covered by paragraphs (1) and (2)
of section 201(a).’’.
(d) REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) ELECTRONIC FORMAT REQUIREMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 203(a) of the Noti-
fication and Federal Employee Antidiscrimi-
nation and Retaliation Act of 2002 (5 U.S.C.
2301 note) is amended, in the matter pre-
ceding paragraph (1)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘Homeland Security and’’
before ‘‘Governmental Affairs’’;
(ii) by striking ‘‘on Government Reform’’
and inserting ‘‘on Oversight and Reform’’;
(iii) by inserting ‘‘any Member of Congress
(upon request to the agency),’’ before ‘‘the
Equal Employment Opportunity Commis-
sion’’; and
(iv) by inserting ‘‘(in an electronic format
prescribed by the Director of the Office of
Personnel Management),’’ after ‘‘an annual
report’’.
(B) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by subparagraph (A)(iii) shall take ef-
fect on the date that is 1 year after the date
of enactment of this Act.
(C) TRANSITION PERIOD.—Notwithstanding
the requirements of section 203(a) of the No-
tification and Federal Employee Anti-
discrimination and Retaliation Act of 2002 (5
U.S.C. 2301 note), the report required under
such section 203(a) may be submitted in an
electronic format, as prescribed by the Di-
rector of the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment, during the period beginning on the
date of enactment of this Act and ending on
the effective date in subparagraph (B).
(2) REPORTING REQUIREMENT FOR DISCIPLI-
NARY ACTION.—Section 203 of the Notification
and Federal Employee Antidiscrimination
and Retaliation Act of 2002 (5 U.S.C. 2301
note) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(c) DISCIPLINARY ACTION REPORT.—Not
later than 120 days after the date on which a
Federal agency takes final action, or a Fed-
eral agency receives a final decision issued
by the Equal Employment Opportunity Com-
mission, involving a finding of discrimina-
tion (including retaliation) in violation of a
provision of law covered by paragraph (1) or
(2) of section 201(a), as applicable, the appli-
cable Federal agency shall submit to the
Commission a report stating—
‘‘(1) whether disciplinary action has been
proposed against a Federal employee as a re-
sult of the violation; and
‘‘(2) the reasons for any disciplinary action
proposed under paragraph (1).’’.
(e) DATA TO BE POSTED BY EMPLOYING FED-
ERAL AGENCIES.—Section 301(b) of the Notifi-
cation and Federal Employee Antidiscrimi-
nation and Retaliation Act of 2002 (5 U.S.C.
2301 note) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (9)—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘and’’
at the end;
(B) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking the
period at the end and inserting ‘‘, and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(C) with respect to each finding described
in subparagraph (A)—
‘‘(i) the date of the finding,
‘‘(ii) the affected Federal agency,
‘‘(iii) the law violated, and
‘‘(iv) whether a decision has been made re-
garding disciplinary action as a result of the
finding.’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(11) Data regarding each class action com-
plaint filed against the agency alleging dis-
crimination (including retaliation), includ-
ing—
‘‘(A) information regarding the date on
which each complaint was filed,
‘‘(B) a general summary of the allegations
alleged in the complaint,
‘‘(C) an estimate of the total number of
plaintiffs joined in the complaint, if known,
‘‘(D) the current status of the complaint,
including whether the class has been cer-
tified, and
‘‘(E) the case numbers for the civil actions
in which discrimination (including retalia-
tion) has been found.’’.
(f) DATA TO BE POSTED BY THE EQUAL EM-
PLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION.—Sec-
tion 302(b) of the Notification and Federal
Employee Antidiscrimination and Retalia-
tion Act of 2002 (5 U.S.C. 2301 note) is amend-
ed by striking ‘‘(10)’’ and inserting ‘‘(11)’’.
(g) NOTIFICATION AND FEDERAL EMPLOYEE
ANTIDISCRIMINATION AND RETALIATION ACT OF
2002 AMENDMENTS.—
(1) NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.—Title II of
the Notification and Federal Employee Anti-
discrimination and Retaliation Act of 2002 (5
U.S.C. 2301 note) is amended by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘SEC. 207. COMPLAINT TRACKING.
‘‘Not later than 1 year after the date of en-
actment of the Elijah E. Cummings Federal
Employee Antidiscrimination Act of 2019,
each Federal agency shall establish a system
to track each complaint of discrimination
arising under section 2302(b)(1) of title 5,
United States Code, and adjudicated through
the Equal Employment Opportunity process
from the filing of a complaint with the Fed-
eral agency to resolution of the complaint,
including whether a decision has been made
regarding disciplinary action as the result of
a finding of discrimination.
‘‘SEC. 208. NOTATION IN PERSONNEL RECORD.
‘‘If a Federal agency takes an adverse ac-
tion covered under section 7512 of title 5,
United States Code, against a Federal em-
ployee for an act of discrimination (includ-
ing retaliation) prohibited by a provision of
law covered by paragraph (1) or (2) of section
201(a), the agency shall, after all appeals re-
lating to that action have been exhausted,
include a notation of the adverse action and
the reason for the action in the personnel
record of the employee.’’.
(2) PROCESSING AND REFERRAL.—The Notifi-
cation and Federal Employee Antidiscrimi-
nation and Retaliation Act of 2002 (5 U.S.C.
2301 note) is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘TITLE IV—PROCESSING AND REFERRAL
‘‘SEC. 401. PROCESSING AND RESOLUTION OF
COMPLAINTS.
‘‘Each Federal agency shall—
‘‘(1) be responsible for the fair and impar-
tial processing and resolution of complaints
of employment discrimination (including re-
taliation) prohibited by a provision of law
covered by paragraph (1) or (2) of section
201(a); and
‘‘(2) establish a model Equal Employment
Opportunity Program that—
‘‘(A) is not under the control, either struc-
turally or practically, of the agency’s Office
of Human Capital or Office of the General
Counsel (or the equivalent);
‘‘(B) is devoid of internal conflicts of inter-
est and ensures fairness and inclusiveness
within the agency; and
‘‘(C) ensures the efficient and fair resolu-
tion of complaints alleging discrimination
(including retaliation).
‘‘SEC. 402. NO LIMITATION ON ADVICE OR COUN-
SEL.
‘‘Nothing in this title shall prevent a Fed-
eral agency or a subcomponent of a Federal
agency, or the Department of Justice, from
providing advice or counsel to employees of
that agency (or subcomponent, as applicable)
in the resolution of a complaint.
‘‘SEC. 403. HEAD OF PROGRAM SUPERVISED BY
HEAD OF AGENCY.
‘‘The head of each Federal agency’s Equal
Employment Opportunity Program shall re-
port directly to the head of the agency.
‘‘SEC. 404. REFERRALS OF FINDINGS OF DIS-
CRIMINATION.
‘‘(a) EEOC FINDINGS OF DISCRIMINATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the date on which the Equal Employ-
ment Opportunity Commission (referred to
in this section as the ‘Commission’) receives,
or should have received, a Federal agency re-
port required under section 203(c), the Com-
mission may refer the matter to which the
report relates to the Office of Special Coun-
sel if the Commission determines that the
Federal agency did not take appropriate ac-
tion with respect to the finding that is the
subject of the report.
‘‘(2) NOTIFICATIONS.—The Commission
shall—
‘‘(A) notify the applicable Federal agency
if the Commission refers a matter to the Of-
fice of Special Counsel under paragraph (1);
and
‘‘(B) with respect to a fiscal year, include
in the Annual Report of the Federal Work-
force of the Commission covering that fiscal
year—
‘‘(i) the number of referrals made under
paragraph (1) during that fiscal year; and
‘‘(ii) a brief summary of each referral de-
scribed in clause (i).
‘‘(b) REFERRALS TO SPECIAL COUNSEL.—The
Office of Special Counsel shall accept and re-
view a referral from the Commission under
subsection (a)(1) for purposes of pursuing dis-
ciplinary action under the authority of the
Office against a Federal employee who com-
mits an act of discrimination (including re-
taliation).
‘‘(c) NOTIFICATION.—The Office of Special
Counsel shall notify the Commission and the
applicable Federal agency in a case in
which—
‘‘(1) the Office of Special Counsel pursues
disciplinary action under subsection (b); and
‘‘(2) the Federal agency imposes some form
of disciplinary action against a Federal em-
ployee who commits an act of discrimination
(including retaliation).
‘‘(d) SPECIAL COUNSEL APPROVAL.—A Fed-
eral agency may not take disciplinary action
against a Federal employee for an alleged
act of discrimination (including retaliation)
referred by the Commission under this sec-
tion, except in accordance with the require-
ments of section 1214(f) of title 5, United
States Code.’’.
(3) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—The table of
contents in section 1(b) of the Notification
and Federal Employee Antidiscrimination
and Retaliation Act of 2002 (5 U.S.C. 2301
note) is amended—
(A) by inserting after the item relating to
section 206 the following:
‘‘Sec. 207. Complaint tracking.
‘‘Sec. 208. Notation in personnel record.’’;
and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘TITLE IV—PROCESSING AND REFERRAL
‘‘Sec. 401. Processing and resolution of com-
plaints.
‘‘Sec. 402. No limitation on advice or coun-
sel.
‘‘Sec. 403. Head of Program supervised by
head of agency.
‘‘Sec. 404. Referrals of findings of discrimi-
nation.’’.
(h) NONDISCLOSURE AGREEMENT LIMITA-
TION.—Section 2302(b)(13) of title 5, United
States Code, is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘agreement does not’’ and
inserting the following: ‘‘agreement—
‘‘(A) does not’’;
(2) in subparagraph (A), as so designated,
by inserting ‘‘or the Office of Special Coun-
sel’’ after ‘‘Inspector General’’; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00257 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6944 November 16, 2020
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(B) prohibits or restricts an employee or
applicant for employment from disclosing to
Congress, the Special Counsel, the Inspector
General of an agency, or any other agency
component responsible for internal inves-
tigation or review any information that re-
lates to any violation of any law, rule, or
regulation, or mismanagement, a gross
waste of funds, an abuse of authority, or a
substantial and specific danger to public
health or safety, or any other whistleblower
protection; or’’.
Subtitle F—Studies and Reports
SEC. 6061. MARITIME SECURITY AND DOMAIN
AWARENESS.
(a) PROGRESS REPORT ON MARITIME SECU-
RITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense, in coordination
with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of
the Department in which the Coast Guard is
operating, and the heads of other appropriate
Federal agencies, shall submit to the con-
gressional defense committees a report on
the steps taken since December 20, 2019, to
make further use of the following mecha-
nisms to combat IUU fishing:
(A) Inclusion of counter-IUU fishing in ex-
isting shiprider agreements to which the
United States is a party.
(B) Entry into shiprider agreements that
include counter-IUU fishing with priority
flag states and countries in priority regions
with which the United States does not al-
ready have such agreements.
(C) Inclusion of counter-IUU fishing in the
mission of the Combined Maritime Forces.
(D) Inclusion of counter-IUU fishing exer-
cises in the annual at-sea exercises con-
ducted by the Department of Defense, in co-
ordination with the United States Coast
Guard.
(E) Development of partnerships similar to
the Oceania Maritime Security Initiative
and the Africa Maritime Law Enforcement
Partnership in other priority regions.
(2) ELEMENT.—The report required by para-
graph (1) shall include a description of spe-
cific steps taken by the Secretary of the
Navy with respect to each mechanism de-
scribed in paragraph (1), including a detailed
description of any security cooperation en-
gagement undertaken to combat IUU fishing
by such mechanisms and resulting coordina-
tion between the Department of the Navy
and the Coast Guard.
(b) ASSESSMENT OF SERVICE COORDINATION
ON MARITIME DOMAIN AWARENESS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of the Navy shall enter into an
agreement with the Secretary of the depart-
ment in which the Coast Guard is operating,
in consultation with the Secretary of Com-
merce, to assess the available commercial
solutions for collecting, sharing, and dis-
seminating among United States maritime
services and partner countries maritime do-
main awareness information relating to ille-
gal maritime activities, including IUU fish-
ing.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The assessment carried out
pursuant to an agreement under paragraph
(1) shall—
(A) build on the ongoing Coast Guard as-
sessment related to autonomous vehicles;
(B) consider appropriate commercially and
academically available technological solu-
tions; and
(C) consider any limitation related to af-
fordability, exportability, maintenance, and
sustainment requirements and any other fac-
tor that may constrain the suitability of
such solutions for use in a joint and com-
bined environment, including the potential
provision of such solutions to one or more
partner countries.
(3) SUBMITTAL TO CONGRESS.—Not later
than one year after entering into an agree-
ment under paragraph (1), the Secretary of
the Navy shall submit to the Committee on
Armed Services, the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation, and the
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate
and the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Natural Resources, the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture, and the Committee on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives the assess-
ment prepared in accordance with the agree-
ment.
(c) REPORT ON USE OF FISHING FLEETS BY
FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of the Office of Naval Intel-
ligence shall submit to the Committee on
Armed Services, the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation, and the
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate
and the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Natural Resources, the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture, and the Committee on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives a report on
the use by governments of foreign countries
of distant-water fishing fleets as extensions
of the official maritime security forces of
such countries.
(2) ELEMENT.—The report required by para-
graph (1) shall include the following:
(A) An analysis of the manner in which
fishing fleets are leveraged in support of the
naval operations and policies of foreign
countries more generally.
(B) A consideration of—
(i) threats posed, on a country-by-country
basis, to the fishing vessels and other vessels
of the United States and partner countries;
(ii) risks to Navy and Coast Guard oper-
ations of the United States, and the naval
and coast guard operations of partner coun-
tries; and
(iii) the broader challenge to the interests
of the United States and partner countries.
(3) FORM.—The report required by para-
graph (1) shall be in unclassified form, but
may include a classified annex.
(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section, any term
that is also used in the Maritime SAFE Act
(Public Law 116–92) shall have the meaning
given such term in that Act.
SEC. 6062. REPORT ON PANDEMIC PREPARED-
NESS AND PLANNING OF THE NAVY.
Not later than 120 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
the Navy shall submit to the congressional
defense committees a report containing a de-
scription of the plans of the Navy to prepare
for and respond to future pandemics, includ-
ing future outbreaks of the Coronavirus Dis-
ease 2019 (COVID–19). The report shall in-
clude a written description of plans, includ-
ing any necessary corresponding budgetary
actions, for the following:
(1) Efforts to prevent and mitigate the im-
pacts of future pandemics at both private
and public shipyards, and to protect the
health and safety of both military personnel
and civilian workers at such shipyards.
(2) Protocol and mitigation strategies once
an outbreak of a highly contagious illness
occurs aboard a Navy vessel while underway.
(3) Development and adoption of tech-
nologies and protocols to prevent and miti-
gate the spread of future pandemics aboard
Navy ships and among Navy personnel, in-
cluding technologies and protocols in con-
nection with the following:
(A) Artificial intelligence and data-driven
infectious disease modeling and interven-
tions.
(B) Shipboard airflow management and dis-
infectant technologies.
(C) Personal protective equipment, sen-
sors, and diagnostic systems.
(D) Minimally crewed and autonomous sup-
ply vehicles.
SEC. 6063. STUDY AND REPORT ON THE AFFORD-
ABILITY OF INSULIN.
The Secretary of Health and Human Serv-
ices, acting through the Assistant Secretary
for Planning and Evaluation, shall—
(1) conduct a study that examines, for each
type or classification of diabetes (including
type 1 diabetes, type 2 diabetes, gestational
diabetes, and other conditions causing reli-
ance on insulin), the effect of the afford-
ability of insulin on—
(A) adherence to insulin prescriptions;
(B) rates of diabetic ketoacidosis;
(C) downstream impacts of insulin adher-
ence, including rates of dialysis treatment
and end-stage renal disease;
(D) spending by Federal health programs
on acute episodes that could have been
averted by adhering to an insulin prescrip-
tion; and
(E) other factors, as appropriate, to under-
stand the impacts of insulin affordability on
health outcomes, Federal Government
spending (including under the Medicare pro-
gram under title XVIII of the Social Secu-
rity Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.) and the Med-
icaid program under title XIX of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.)), and in-
sured and uninsured individuals with diabe-
tes; and
(2) not later than 2 years after the date of
enactment of this Act, submit to Congress a
report on the study conducted under para-
graph (1).
Subtitle G—Other Matters
SEC. 6081. MODIFICATION TO FIRST DIVISION
MONUMENT.
(a) AUTHORIZATION.—The Society of the
First Infantry Division may make modifica-
tions to the First Division Monument lo-
cated on Federal land in President’s Park in
the District of Columbia to honor the dead of
the First Infantry Division, United States
Forces, in—
(1) Operation Desert Storm;
(2) Operation Iraqi Freedom and New
Dawn; and
(3) Operation Enduring Freedom.
(b) MODIFICATIONS.—Modifications to the
First Division Monument may include con-
struction of additional plaques and stone
plinths on which to put plaques.
(c) APPLICABILITY OF COMMEMORATIVE
WORKS ACT.—Chapter 89 of title 40, United
States Code (commonly known as the ‘‘Com-
memorative Works Act’’), shall apply to the
design and placement of the commemorative
elements authorized by this section, except
that subsections (b) and (c) of section 8903
shall not apply.
(d) COLLABORATION.—The First Infantry Di-
vision of the Department of the Army shall
collaborate with the Secretary of Defense to
provide to the Society of the First Infantry
Division the list of names to be added to the
First Division Monument in accordance with
subsection (a).
(e) FUNDING.—Federal funds may not be
used for modifications of the First Division
Monument authorized by this section.
SEC. 6082. ESTIMATE OF DAMAGES FROM FED-
ERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMIS-
SION ORDER 20–48.
Section 1083 is deemed to include at the
end the following:
‘‘(d) DISTRIBUTION OF ESTIMATE.—As soon
as practicable after submitting an estimate
as described in paragraph (1) of subsection
(a) and making the certification described in
paragraph (2) of such subsection, the Sec-
retary shall make such estimate available to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00258 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6945
November 16, 2020
any licensee operating under the order and
authorization described in such subsection.
‘‘(e) AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
TO SEEK RECOVERY OF COSTS.—The Secretary
of Defense may work directly with any li-
censee (or any future assignee, successor, or
purchaser) affected by the Order and Author-
ization adopted by the Federal Communica-
tions Commission on April 19, 2020 (FCC 20–
48) to seek recovery of costs incurred by the
Department of Defense as a result of the ef-
fect of such order and authorization.
‘‘(f) REIMBURSEMENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall es-
tablish and facilitate a process for any li-
censee (or any future assignee, successor, or
purchaser) subject to the authorization and
order described in subsection (a) to provide
reimbursement to the Department of De-
fense, only to the extent provided in appro-
priations Acts, for the covered costs and eli-
gible reimbursable costs submitted and cer-
tified to the congressional defense commit-
tees under such subsection.
‘‘(2) USE OF FUNDS.—The Secretary shall
use any funds received under this subsection,
to the extent and in such amounts as are
provided in advance in appropriations Acts,
for covered costs described in subsection (b)
and the range of eligible reimbursable costs
identified under subsection (a)(1).
‘‘(3) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after
the date on which the Secretary establishes
the process required by paragraph (1), the
Secretary shall submit to the congressional
defense committees a report on such process.
‘‘(g) GOOD FAITH.—The execution of the re-
sponsibilities of this section by the Depart-
ment of Defense shall be considered to be
good faith actions pursuant to paragraph 104
of the Order and Authorization (FCC 20–48)
described in subsection (a).’’.
SEC. 6083. DIESEL EMISSIONS REDUCTION.
(a) REAUTHORIZATION OF DIESEL EMISSIONS
REDUCTION PROGRAM.—Section 797(a) of the
Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16137(a))
is amended by striking ‘‘2016’’ and inserting
‘‘2024’’.
(b) RECOGNIZING DIFFERENCES IN DIESEL
VEHICLE, ENGINE, EQUIPMENT, AND FLEET
USE.—
(1) NATIONAL GRANT, REBATE, AND LOAN PRO-
GRAMS.—Section 792(c)(4)(D) of the Energy
Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16132(c)(4)(D)) is
amended by inserting ‘‘, recognizing dif-
ferences in typical vehicle, engine, equip-
ment, and fleet use throughout the United
States’’ before the semicolon.
(2) STATE GRANT, REBATE, AND LOAN PRO-
GRAMS.—Section 793(b)(1) of the Energy Pol-
icy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16133(b)(1)) is
amended—
(A) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘;
and’’ and inserting a semicolon; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(D) the recognition, for purposes of imple-
menting this section, of differences in typ-
ical vehicle, engine, equipment, and fleet use
throughout the United States, including ex-
pected useful life; and’’.
(c) REALLOCATION OF UNUSED STATE
FUNDS.—Section 793(c)(2)(C) of the Energy
Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16133(c)(2)(C)) is
amended beginning in the matter preceding
clause (i) by striking ‘‘to each remaining’’
and all that follows through ‘‘this para-
graph’’ in clause (ii) and inserting ‘‘to carry
out section 792’’.
SEC. 6084. UTILIZING SIGNIFICANT EMISSIONS
WITH INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGIES.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be
cited as the ‘‘Utilizing Significant Emissions
with Innovative Technologies Act’’ or the
‘‘USE IT Act’’.
(b) RESEARCH, INVESTIGATION, TRAINING,
AND OTHER ACTIVITIES.—Section 103 of the
Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7403) is amended—
(1) in subsection (c)(3), in the first sentence
of the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by
striking ‘‘percursors’’ and inserting ‘‘precur-
sors’’; and
(2) in subsection (g)—
(A) by redesignating paragraphs (1)
through (4) as subparagraphs (A) through
(D), respectively, and indenting appro-
priately;
(B) in the undesignated matter following
subparagraph (D) (as so redesignated)—
(i) in the second sentence, by striking ‘‘The
Administrator’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(5) COORDINATION AND AVOIDANCE OF DUPLI-
CATION.—The Administrator’’; and
(ii) in the first sentence, by striking
‘‘Nothing’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(4) EFFECT OF SUBSECTION.—Nothing’’;
(C) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A) (as so redesignated)—
(i) in the third sentence, by striking ‘‘Such
program’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(3) PROGRAM INCLUSIONS.—The program
under this subsection’’;
(ii) in the second sentence—
(I) by inserting ‘‘States, institutions of
higher education,’’ after ‘‘scientists,’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘Such strategies and tech-
nologies shall be developed’’ and inserting
the following:
‘‘(2) PARTICIPATION REQUIREMENT.—Such
strategies and technologies described in
paragraph (1) shall be developed’’; and
(iii) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘In
carrying out’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In carrying out’’; and
(D) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(6) CERTAIN CARBON DIOXIDE ACTIVITIES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In carrying out para-
graph (3)(A) with respect to carbon dioxide,
the Administrator shall carry out the activi-
ties described in each of subparagraphs (B),
(C), (D), and (E).
‘‘(B) DIRECT AIR CAPTURE RESEARCH.—
‘‘(i) DEFINITIONS.—In this subparagraph:
‘‘(I) BOARD.—The term ‘Board’ means the
Direct Air Capture Technology Advisory
Board established by clause (iii)(I).
‘‘(II) DILUTE.—The term ‘dilute’ means a
concentration of less than 1 percent by vol-
ume.
‘‘(III) DIRECT AIR CAPTURE.—
‘‘(aa) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘direct air
capture’, with respect to a facility, tech-
nology, or system, means that the facility,
technology, or system uses carbon capture
equipment to capture carbon dioxide directly
from the air.
‘‘(bb) EXCLUSION.—The term ‘direct air cap-
ture’ does not include any facility, tech-
nology, or system that captures carbon diox-
ide—
‘‘(AA) that is deliberately released from a
naturally occurring subsurface spring; or
‘‘(BB) using natural photosynthesis.
‘‘(IV) INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY.—The term
‘intellectual property’ means—
‘‘(aa) an invention that is patentable under
title 35, United States Code; and
‘‘(bb) any patent on an invention described
in item (aa).
‘‘(ii) TECHNOLOGY PRIZES.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of the USE IT
Act, the Administrator, in consultation with
the Secretary of Energy, shall establish a
program to provide, and shall provide, finan-
cial awards on a competitive basis for direct
air capture from media in which the con-
centration of carbon dioxide is dilute.
‘‘(II) DUTIES.—In carrying out this clause,
the Administrator shall—
‘‘(aa) subject to subclause (III), develop
specific requirements for—
‘‘(AA) the competition process; and
‘‘(BB) the demonstration of performance of
approved projects;
‘‘(bb) offer financial awards for a project
designed—
‘‘(AA) to the maximum extent practicable,
to capture more than 10,000 tons of carbon di-
oxide per year; and
‘‘(BB) to operate in a manner that would
be commercially viable in the foreseeable fu-
ture (as determined by the Board); and
‘‘(cc) to the maximum extent practicable,
make financial awards to geographically di-
verse projects, including at least—
‘‘(AA) 1 project in a coastal State; and
‘‘(BB) 1 project in a rural State.
‘‘(III) PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.—In carrying
out subclause (II)(aa), the Administrator
shall—
‘‘(aa) provide notice of and, for a period of
not less than 60 days, an opportunity for pub-
lic comment on, any draft or proposed
version of the requirements described in sub-
clause (II)(aa); and
‘‘(bb) take into account public comments
received in developing the final version of
those requirements.
‘‘(iii) DIRECT AIR CAPTURE TECHNOLOGY AD-
VISORY BOARD.—
‘‘(I) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
an advisory board to be known as the ‘Direct
Air Capture Technology Advisory Board’.
‘‘(II) COMPOSITION.—The Board shall be
composed of 9 members appointed by the Ad-
ministrator, who shall provide expertise in—
‘‘(aa) climate science;
‘‘(bb) physics;
‘‘(cc) chemistry;
‘‘(dd) biology;
‘‘(ee) engineering;
‘‘(ff) economics;
‘‘(gg) business management; and
‘‘(hh) such other disciplines as the Admin-
istrator determines to be necessary to
achieve the purposes of this subparagraph.
‘‘(III) TERM; VACANCIES.—
‘‘(aa) TERM.—A member of the Board shall
serve for a term of 6 years.
‘‘(bb) VACANCIES.—A vacancy on the
Board—
‘‘(AA) shall not affect the powers of the
Board; and
‘‘(BB) shall be filled in the same manner as
the original appointment was made.
‘‘(IV) INITIAL MEETING.—Not later than 30
days after the date on which all members of
the Board have been appointed, the Board
shall hold the initial meeting of the Board.
‘‘(V) MEETINGS.—The Board shall meet at
the call of the Chairperson or on the request
of the Administrator.
‘‘(VI) QUORUM.—A majority of the members
of the Board shall constitute a quorum, but
a lesser number of members may hold hear-
ings.
‘‘(VII) CHAIRPERSON AND VICE CHAIR-
PERSON.—The Board shall select a Chair-
person and Vice Chairperson from among the
members of the Board.
‘‘(VIII) COMPENSATION.—Each member of
the Board may be compensated at not to ex-
ceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate
of basic pay in effect for a position at level
V of the Executive Schedule under section
5316 of title 5, United States Code, for each
day during which the member is engaged in
the actual performance of the duties of the
Board.
‘‘(IX) DUTIES.—The Board shall advise the
Administrator on carrying out the duties of
the Administrator under this subparagraph.
‘‘(X) FACA.—The Federal Advisory Com-
mittee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall apply to the
Board.
‘‘(iv) INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—As a condition of receiv-
ing a financial award under this subpara-
graph, an applicant shall agree to vest the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00259 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6946 November 16, 2020
intellectual property of the applicant de-
rived from the technology in 1 or more enti-
ties that are incorporated in the United
States.
‘‘(II) RESERVATION OF LICENSE.—The United
States—
‘‘(aa) may reserve a nonexclusive, non-
transferable, irrevocable, paid-up license, to
have practiced for or on behalf of the United
States, in connection with any intellectual
property described in subclause (I); but
‘‘(bb) shall not, in the exercise of a license
reserved under item (aa), publicly disclose
proprietary information relating to the li-
cense.
‘‘(III) TRANSFER OF TITLE.—Title to any in-
tellectual property described in subclause (I)
shall not be transferred or passed, except to
an entity that is incorporated in the United
States, until the expiration of the first pat-
ent obtained in connection with the intellec-
tual property.
‘‘(v) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—Of the amounts author-
ized to be appropriated for the Environ-
mental Protection Agency, $35,000,000 shall
be available to carry out this subparagraph,
to remain available until expended.
‘‘(II) REQUIREMENT.—Research carried out
using amounts made available under sub-
clause (I) may not duplicate research funded
by the Department of Energy.
‘‘(vi) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.—The
Board and all authority provided under this
subparagraph shall terminate not later than
10 years after the date of enactment of the
USE IT Act.
‘‘(C) CARBON DIOXIDE UTILIZATION RE-
SEARCH.—
‘‘(i) DEFINITION OF CARBON DIOXIDE UTILIZA-
TION.—In this subparagraph, the term ‘car-
bon dioxide utilization’ refers to tech-
nologies or approaches that lead to the use
of carbon dioxide—
‘‘(I) through the fixation of carbon dioxide
through photosynthesis or chemosynthesis,
such as through the growing of algae or bac-
teria;
‘‘(II) through the chemical conversion of
carbon dioxide to a material or chemical
compound in which the carbon dioxide is se-
curely stored; or
‘‘(III) through the use of carbon dioxide for
any other purpose for which a commercial
market exists, as determined by the Admin-
istrator.
‘‘(ii) PROGRAM.—The Administrator, in
consultation with the Secretary of Energy,
shall carry out a research and development
program for carbon dioxide utilization to
promote existing and new technologies that
transform carbon dioxide generated by in-
dustrial processes into a product of commer-
cial value, or as an input to products of com-
mercial value.
‘‘(iii) TECHNICAL AND FINANCIAL ASSIST-
ANCE.—Not later than 2 years after the date
of enactment of the USE IT Act, in carrying
out this subsection, the Administrator, in
consultation with the Secretary of Energy,
shall support research and infrastructure ac-
tivities relating to carbon dioxide utilization
by providing technical assistance and finan-
cial assistance in accordance with clause
(iv).
‘‘(iv) ELIGIBILITY.—To be eligible to receive
technical assistance and financial assistance
under clause (iii), a carbon dioxide utiliza-
tion project shall—
‘‘(I) have access to an emissions stream
generated by a stationary source within the
United States that is capable of supplying
not less than 250 metric tons per day of car-
bon dioxide for research;
‘‘(II) have access to adequate space for a
laboratory and equipment for testing small-
scale carbon dioxide utilization technologies,
with onsite access to larger test bays for
scale-up; and
‘‘(III) have existing partnerships with in-
stitutions of higher education, private com-
panies, States, or other government entities.
‘‘(v) COORDINATION.—In supporting carbon
dioxide utilization projects under this para-
graph, the Administrator shall consult with
the Secretary of Energy, and, as appropriate,
with the head of any other relevant Federal
agency, States, the private sector, and insti-
tutions of higher education to develop meth-
ods and technologies to account for the car-
bon dioxide emissions avoided by the carbon
dioxide utilization projects.
‘‘(vi) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—Of the amounts author-
ized to be appropriated for the Environ-
mental Protection Agency, $50,000,000 shall
be available to carry out this subparagraph,
to remain available until expended.
‘‘(II) REQUIREMENT.—Research carried out
using amounts made available under sub-
clause (I) may not duplicate research funded
by the Department of Energy.
‘‘(D) DEEP SALINE FORMATION REPORT.—
‘‘(i) DEFINITION OF DEEP SALINE FORMA-
TION.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—In this subparagraph, the
term ‘deep saline formation’ means a forma-
tion of subsurface geographically extensive
sedimentary rock layers saturated with
waters or brines that have a high total dis-
solved solids content and that are below the
depth where carbon dioxide can exist in the
formation as a supercritical fluid.
‘‘(II) CLARIFICATION.—In this subparagraph,
the term ‘deep saline formation’ does not in-
clude oil and gas reservoirs.
‘‘(ii) REPORT.—In consultation with the
Secretary of Energy, and, as appropriate,
with the head of any other relevant Federal
agency and relevant stakeholders, not later
than 1 year after the date of enactment of
the USE IT Act, the Administrator shall pre-
pare, submit to Congress, and make publicly
available a report that includes—
‘‘(I) a comprehensive identification of po-
tential risks and benefits to project devel-
opers associated with increased storage of
carbon dioxide captured from stationary
sources in deep saline formations, using ex-
isting research;
‘‘(II) recommendations, if any, for man-
aging the potential risks identified under
subclause (I), including potential risks
unique to public land; and
‘‘(III) recommendations, if any, for Federal
legislation or other policy changes to miti-
gate any potential risks identified under sub-
clause (I).
‘‘(E) REPORT ON CARBON DIOXIDE NON-
REGULATORY STRATEGIES AND TECH-
NOLOGIES.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Not less frequently than
once every 2 years, the Administrator shall
submit to the Committee on Environment
and Public Works of the Senate and the
Committee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives a report that de-
scribes—
‘‘(I) the recipients of assistance under sub-
paragraphs (B) and (C); and
‘‘(II) a plan for supporting additional non-
regulatory strategies and technologies that
could significantly prevent carbon dioxide
emissions or reduce carbon dioxide levels in
the air, in conjunction with other Federal
agencies.
‘‘(ii) INCLUSIONS.—The plan submitted
under clause (i) shall include—
‘‘(I) a methodology for evaluating and
ranking technologies based on the ability of
the technologies to cost effectively reduce
carbon dioxide emissions or carbon dioxide
levels in the air; and
‘‘(II) a description of any nonair-related
environmental or energy considerations re-
garding the technologies.
‘‘(F) GAO REPORT.—The Comptroller Gen-
eral of the United States shall submit to
Congress a report that—
‘‘(i) identifies all Federal grant programs
in which a purpose of a grant under the pro-
gram is to perform research on carbon cap-
ture and utilization technologies, including
direct air capture technologies; and
‘‘(ii) examines the extent to which the Fed-
eral grant programs identified pursuant to
clause (i) overlap or are duplicative.’’.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Ad-
ministrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency (referred to in this section as the
‘‘Administrator’’) shall submit to Congress a
report describing how funds appropriated to
the Administrator during the 5 most recent
fiscal years have been used to carry out sec-
tion 103 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7403),
including a description of—
(1) the amount of funds used to carry out
specific provisions of that section; and
(2) the practices used by the Administrator
to differentiate funding used to carry out
that section, as compared to funding used to
carry out other provisions of law.
(d) INCLUSION OF CARBON CAPTURE INFRA-
STRUCTURE PROJECTS.—Section 41001(6) of the
FAST Act (42 U.S.C. 4370m(6)) is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (A)—
(A) in the matter preceding clause (i), by
inserting ‘‘carbon capture,’’ after ‘‘manufac-
turing,’’;
(B) in clause (i)(III), by striking ‘‘or’’ at
the end;
(C) by redesignating clause (ii) as clause
(iii); and
(D) by inserting after clause (i) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(ii) is covered by a programmatic plan or
environmental review developed for the pri-
mary purpose of facilitating development of
carbon dioxide pipelines; or’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(C) INCLUSION.—For purposes of subpara-
graph (A), construction of infrastructure for
carbon capture includes construction of—
‘‘(i) any facility, technology, or system
that captures, utilizes, or sequesters carbon
dioxide emissions, including projects for di-
rect air capture (as defined in paragraph
(6)(B)(i) of section 103(g) of the Clean Air Act
(42 U.S.C. 7403(g)); and
‘‘(ii) carbon dioxide pipelines.’’.
(e) DEVELOPMENT OF CARBON CAPTURE, UTI-
LIZATION, AND SEQUESTRATION REPORT, PER-
MITTING GUIDANCE, AND REGIONAL PERMIT-
TING TASK FORCE.—
(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
(A) CARBON CAPTURE, UTILIZATION, AND SE-
QUESTRATION PROJECTS.—The term ‘‘carbon
capture, utilization, and sequestration
projects’’ includes projects for direct air cap-
ture (as defined in paragraph (6)(B)(i) of sec-
tion 103(g) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C.
7403(g))).
(B) EFFICIENT, ORDERLY, AND RESPON-
SIBLE.—The term ‘‘efficient, orderly, and re-
sponsible’’ means, with respect to develop-
ment or the permitting process for carbon
capture, utilization, and sequestration
projects and carbon dioxide pipelines, a proc-
ess that is completed in an expeditious man-
ner while maintaining environmental,
health, and safety protections.
(2) REPORT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Chair of the Council on Environmental Qual-
ity (referred to in this section as the
‘‘Chair’’), in consultation with the Adminis-
trator of the Environmental Protection
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00260 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6947
November 16, 2020
Agency, the Secretary of Energy, the Sec-
retary of the Interior, the Executive Direc-
tor of the Federal Permitting Improvement
Council, and the head of any other relevant
Federal agency (as determined by the Presi-
dent), shall prepare a report that—
(i) compiles all existing relevant Federal
permitting and review information and re-
sources for project applicants, agencies, and
other stakeholders interested in the deploy-
ment of carbon capture, utilization, and se-
questration projects and carbon dioxide pipe-
lines, including—
(I) the appropriate points of interaction
with Federal agencies;
(II) clarification of the permitting respon-
sibilities and authorities among Federal
agencies; and
(III) best practices and templates for per-
mitting;
(ii) inventories current or emerging activi-
ties that transform captured carbon dioxide
into a product of commercial value, or as an
input to products of commercial value;
(iii) inventories existing initiatives and re-
cent publications that analyze or identify
priority carbon dioxide pipelines needed to
enable efficient, orderly, and responsible de-
velopment of carbon capture, utilization, and
sequestration projects at increased scale;
(iv) identifies gaps in the current Federal
regulatory framework for the deployment of
carbon capture, utilization, and sequestra-
tion projects and carbon dioxide pipelines;
and
(v) identifies Federal financing mecha-
nisms available to project developers.
(B) SUBMISSION; PUBLICATION.—The Chair
shall—
(i) submit the report under subparagraph
(A) to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works of the Senate and the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives; and
(ii) as soon as practicable, make the report
publicly available.
(3) GUIDANCE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—After submission of the
report under paragraph (2)(B), but not later
than 1 year after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Chair shall submit guidance
consistent with that report to all relevant
Federal agencies that—
(i) facilitates reviews associated with the
deployment of carbon capture, utilization,
and sequestration projects and carbon diox-
ide pipelines; and
(ii) supports the efficient, orderly, and re-
sponsible development of carbon capture,
utilization, and sequestration projects and
carbon dioxide pipelines.
(B) REQUIREMENTS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The guidance under sub-
paragraph (A) shall address requirements
under—
(I) the National Environmental Policy Act
of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.);
(II) the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.);
(III) the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et
seq.);
(IV) the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C.
300f et seq.);
(V) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16
U.S.C. 1531 et seq.);
(VI) division A of subtitle III of title 54,
United States Code (formerly known as the
‘‘National Historic Preservation Act’’);
(VII) the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (16
U.S.C. 703 et seq.);
(VIII) the Act of June 8, 1940 (16 U.S.C. 668
et seq.) (commonly known as the ‘‘Bald and
Golden Eagle Protection Act’’); and
(IX) any other Federal law that the Chair
determines to be appropriate.
(ii) ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEWS.—The guid-
ance under subparagraph (A) shall include di-
rection to States and other interested par-
ties for the development of programmatic
environmental reviews under the National
Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C.
4321 et seq.) for carbon capture, utilization,
and sequestration projects and carbon diox-
ide pipelines.
(iii) PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT.—The guidance
under subparagraph (A) shall be subject to
the public notice, comment, and solicitation
of information procedures under section
1506.6 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations
(or a successor regulation).
(C) SUBMISSION; PUBLICATION.—The Chair
shall—
(i) submit the guidance under subpara-
graph (A) to the Committee on Environment
and Public Works of the Senate and the
Committee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives; and
(ii) as soon as practicable, make the guid-
ance publicly available.
(D) EVALUATION.—The Chair shall—
(i) periodically evaluate the reports of the
task forces under paragraph (4)(E) and, as
necessary, revise the guidance under sub-
paragraph (A); and
(ii) each year, submit to the Committee on
Environment and Public Works of the Sen-
ate, the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives, and
relevant Federal agencies a report that de-
scribes any recommendations for legislation,
rules, revisions to rules, or other policies
that would address the issues identified by
the task forces under paragraph (4)(E).
(4) TASK FORCE.—
(A) ESTABLISHMENT.—Not later than 18
months after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Chair shall establish not less than 2
task forces, which shall each cover a dif-
ferent geographical area with differing de-
mographic, land use, or geological issues—
(i) to identify permitting and other chal-
lenges and successes that permitting au-
thorities and project developers and opera-
tors face; and
(ii) to improve the performance of the per-
mitting process and regional coordination
for the purpose of promoting the efficient,
orderly, and responsible development of car-
bon capture, utilization, and sequestration
projects and carbon dioxide pipelines.
(B) MEMBERS AND SELECTION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Chair shall—
(I) develop criteria for the selection of
members to each task force; and
(II) select members for each task force in
accordance with subclause (I) and clause (ii).
(ii) MEMBERS.—Each task force—
(I) shall include not less than 1 representa-
tive of each of—
(aa) the Environmental Protection Agency;
(bb) the Department of Energy;
(cc) the Department of the Interior;
(dd) any other Federal agency the Chair
determines to be appropriate;
(ee) any State that requests participation
in the geographical area covered by the task
force;
(ff) developers or operators of carbon cap-
ture, utilization, and sequestration projects
or carbon dioxide pipelines; and
(gg) nongovernmental membership organi-
zations, the primary mission of which con-
cerns protection of the environment; and
(II) at the request of a Tribal or local gov-
ernment, may include a representative of—
(aa) not less than 1 local government in
the geographical area covered by the task
force; and
(bb) not less than 1 Tribal government in
the geographical area covered by the task
force.
(C) MEETINGS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Each task force shall meet
not less than twice each year.
(ii) JOINT MEETING.—To the maximum ex-
tent practicable, the task forces shall meet
collectively not less than once each year.
(D) DUTIES.—Each task force shall—
(i) inventory existing or potential Federal
and State approaches to facilitate reviews
associated with the deployment of carbon
capture, utilization, and sequestration
projects and carbon dioxide pipelines, includ-
ing best practices that—
(I) avoid duplicative reviews;
(II) engage stakeholders early in the per-
mitting process; and
(III) make the permitting process efficient,
orderly, and responsible;
(ii) develop common models for State-level
carbon dioxide pipeline regulation and over-
sight guidelines that can be shared with
States in the geographical area covered by
the task force;
(iii) provide technical assistance to States
in the geographical area covered by the task
force in implementing regulatory require-
ments and any models developed under
clause (ii);
(iv) inventory current or emerging activi-
ties that transform captured carbon dioxide
into a product of commercial value, or as an
input to products of commercial value;
(v) identify any priority carbon dioxide
pipelines needed to enable efficient, orderly,
and responsible development of carbon cap-
ture, utilization, and sequestration projects
at increased scale;
(vi) identify gaps in the current Federal
and State regulatory framework and in ex-
isting data for the deployment of carbon cap-
ture, utilization, and sequestration projects
and carbon dioxide pipelines;
(vii) identify Federal and State financing
mechanisms available to project developers;
and
(viii) develop recommendations for rel-
evant Federal agencies on how to develop
and research technologies that—
(I) can capture carbon dioxide; and
(II) would be able to be deployed within the
region covered by the task force, including
any projects that have received technical or
financial assistance for research under para-
graph (6) of section 103(g) of the Clean Air
Act (42 U.S.C. 7403(g)).
(E) REPORT.—Each year, each task force
shall prepare and submit to the Chair and to
the other task forces a report that includes—
(i) any recommendations for improvements
in efficient, orderly, and responsible issuance
or administration of Federal permits and
other Federal authorizations required under
a law described in paragraph (3)(B)(i); and
(ii) any other nationally relevant informa-
tion that the task force has collected in car-
rying out the duties under subparagraph (D).
(F) EVALUATION.—Not later than 5 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Chair shall—
(i) reevaluate the need for the task forces;
and
(ii) submit to Congress a recommendation
as to whether the task forces should con-
tinue.
SEC. 6085. LEGAL ASSISTANCE FOR VETERANS
AND SURVIVING SPOUSES AND DE-
PENDENTS.
(a) AVAILABILITY OF LEGAL ASSISTANCE AT
FACILITIES OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AF-
FAIRS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 59 of title 38,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following new section:
‘‘§ 5906. Availability of legal assistance at De-
partment facilities
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Not less frequently than
three times each year, the Secretary shall
facilitate the provision by a qualified legal
assistance clinic of pro bono legal assistance
described in subsection (c) to eligible indi-
viduals at not fewer than one medical center
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00261 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6948 November 16, 2020
of the Department of Veterans Affairs, or
such other facility of the Department as the
Secretary considers appropriate, in each
State.
‘‘(b) ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS.—For purposes
of this section, an eligible individual is—
‘‘(1) any veteran;
‘‘(2) any surviving spouse; or
‘‘(3) any child of a veteran who has died.
‘‘(c) PRO BONO LEGAL ASSISTANCE DE-
SCRIBED.—The pro bono legal assistance de-
scribed in this subsection is the following:
‘‘(1) Legal assistance with any program ad-
ministered by the Secretary.
‘‘(2) Legal assistance associated with—
‘‘(A) improving the status of a military
discharge or characterization of service in
the Armed Forces, including through a dis-
charge review board; or
‘‘(B) seeking a review of a military record
before a board of correction for military or
naval records.
‘‘(3) Such other legal assistance as the Sec-
retary—
‘‘(A) considers appropriate; and
‘‘(B) determines may be needed by eligible
individuals.
‘‘(d) LIMITATION ON USE OF FACILITIES.—
Space in a medical center or facility des-
ignated under subsection (a) shall be re-
served for and may only be used by the fol-
lowing, subject to review and removal from
participation by the Secretary:
‘‘(1) A veterans service organization or
other nonprofit organization.
‘‘(2) A legal assistance clinic associated
with an accredited law school.
‘‘(3) A legal services organization.
‘‘(4) A bar association.
‘‘(5) Such other attorneys and entities as
the Secretary considers appropriate.
‘‘(e) LEGAL ASSISTANCE IN RURAL AREAS.—
In carrying out this section, the Secretary
shall ensure that pro bono legal assistance is
provided under subsection (a) in rural areas.
‘‘(f) DEFINITION OF VETERANS SERVICE OR-
GANIZATION.—The term ‘veterans service or-
ganization’ means any organization recog-
nized by the Secretary for the representation
of veterans under section 5902 of this title.’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 59 of
such title is amended by adding at the end
the following new item:
‘‘5906. Availability of legal assistance at De-
partment facilities.’’.
(b) PILOT PROGRAM TO ESTABLISH AND SUP-
PORT LEGAL ASSISTANCE CLINICS.—
(1) PILOT PROGRAM REQUIRED.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall es-
tablish a pilot program to assess the feasi-
bility and advisability of awarding grants to
eligible entities to establish new legal assist-
ance clinics, or enhance existing legal assist-
ance clinics or other pro bono efforts, for the
provision of pro bono legal assistance de-
scribed in subsection (c) of section 5906 of
title 38, United States Code, as added by sub-
section (a), on a year-round basis to individ-
uals who served in the Armed Forces, includ-
ing individuals who served in a reserve com-
ponent of the Armed Forces, and who were
discharged or released therefrom, regardless
of the conditions of such discharge or re-
lease, at locations other than medical cen-
ters and facilities described in subsection (a)
of such section.
(B) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
subparagraph (A) shall be construed to limit
or affect—
(i) the provision of pro bono legal assist-
ance to eligible individuals at medical cen-
ters and facilities of the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs under section 5906(a) of title 38,
United States Code, as added by subsection
(a); or
(ii) any other legal assistance provided pro
bono at medical centers or facilities of the
Department as of the date of the enactment
of this Act.
(2) ELIGIBLE ENTITIES.—For purposes of the
pilot program, an eligible entity is—
(A) a veterans service organization or
other nonprofit organization specifically fo-
cused on assisting veterans;
(B) an entity specifically focused on assist-
ing veterans and associated with an accred-
ited law school;
(C) a legal services organization or bar as-
sociation; or
(D) such other type of entity as the Sec-
retary considers appropriate for purposes of
the pilot program.
(3) LOCATIONS.—The Secretary shall ensure
that at least one grant is awarded under
paragraph (1)(A) to at least one eligible enti-
ty in each State, if the Secretary determines
that there is such an entity in a State that
has applied for, and meets requirements for
the award of, such a grant.
(4) DURATION.—The Secretary shall carry
out the pilot program during the five-year
period beginning on the date on which the
Secretary establishes the pilot program.
(5) APPLICATION.—An eligible entity seek-
ing a grant under the pilot program shall
submit to the Secretary an application
therefore at such time, in such manner, and
containing such information as the Sec-
retary may require.
(6) SELECTION.—The Secretary shall select
eligible entities who submit applications
under paragraph (5) for the award of grants
under the pilot program using a competitive
process that takes into account the fol-
lowing:
(A) Capacity of the applicant entity to
serve veterans and ability of the entity to
provide sound legal advice.
(B) Demonstrated need of the veteran pop-
ulation the applicant entity would serve.
(C) Demonstrated need of the applicant en-
tity for assistance from the grants.
(D) Geographic diversity of applicant enti-
ties.
(E) Such other criteria as the Secretary
considers appropriate.
(7) GRANTEE REPORTS.—Each recipient of a
grant under the pilot program shall, in ac-
cordance with such criteria as the Secretary
may establish, submit to the Secretary a re-
port on the activities of the recipient and
how the grant amounts were used.
(c) REVIEW OF PRO BONO ELIGIBILITY OF
FEDERAL WORKERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall, in
consultation with the Attorney General and
the Director of the Office of Government
Ethics, conduct a review of the rules and reg-
ulations governing the circumstances under
which attorneys employed by the Federal
Government can provide pro bono legal as-
sistance.
(2) RECOMMENDATIONS.—In conducting the
review required by paragraph (1), the Sec-
retary shall develop recommendations for
such legislative or administrative action as
the Secretary considers appropriate to facili-
tate greater participation by Federal em-
ployees in pro bono legal and other volunteer
services for veterans.
(3) SUBMITTAL TO CONGRESS.—Not later
than one year after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit
to the appropriate committees of Congress—
(A) the findings of the Secretary with re-
spect to the review conducted under para-
graph (1); and
(B) the recommendations developed by the
Secretary under paragraph (2).
(d) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall submit to the appropriate
committees of Congress a report on the sta-
tus of the implementation of this section.
(e) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CON-
GRESS.—The term ‘‘appropriate committees
of Congress’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs
and the Committee on Appropriations of the
Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs
and the Committee on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives.
(2) VETERANS SERVICE ORGANIZATION.—The
term ‘‘veterans service organization’’ means
any organization recognized by the Sec-
retary for the representation of veterans
under section 5902 of title 38, United States
Code.
SEC. 6086. SILVER STAR SERVICE BANNER DAY.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds the fol-
lowing:
(1) Congress is committed to honoring the
sacrifices of wounded and ill members of the
Armed Forces.
(2) The Silver Star Service Banner recog-
nizes the members of the Armed Forces and
veterans who were wounded or became ill
while serving in combat for the United
States.
(3) The sacrifices made by members of the
Armed Forces and veterans on behalf of the
United States should never be forgotten.
(4) May 1 is an appropriate date to des-
ignate as ‘‘Silver Star Service Banner Day’’.
(b) DESIGNATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 1 of title 36,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘§ 146. Silver Star Service Banner Day
‘‘(a) DESIGNATION.—May 1 is Silver Star
Service Banner Day.
‘‘(b) PROCLAMATION.—The President is re-
quested to issue each year a proclamation
calling on the people of the United States to
observe Silver Star Service Banner Day with
appropriate programs, ceremonies, and ac-
tivities.’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 1 of such
title is amended by inserting after the item
relating to section 145 the following:
‘‘146. Silver Star Service Banner Day.’’.
SEC. 6087. ESTABLISHED PROGRAM TO STIMU-
LATE COMPETITIVE RESEARCH.
Section 2203(b) of the Energy Policy Act of
1992 (42 U.S.C. 13503(b)) is amended by strik-
ing paragraph (3) and inserting the following:
‘‘(3) ESTABLISHED PROGRAM TO STIMULATE
COMPETITIVE RESEARCH.—
‘‘(A) DEFINITIONS.—In this paragraph:
‘‘(i) ELIGIBLE JURISDICTION.—The term ‘eli-
gible jurisdiction’ means a State that is de-
termined to be eligible for a grant under this
paragraph in accordance with subparagraph
(D).
‘‘(ii) EPSCOR.—The term ‘EPSCoR’ means
the Established Program to Stimulate Com-
petitive Research operated under subpara-
graph (B).
‘‘(iii) NATIONAL LABORATORY.—The term
‘National Laboratory’ has the meaning given
the term in section 2 of the Energy Policy
Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15801).
‘‘(iv) STATE.—The term ‘State’ means—
‘‘(I) a State;
‘‘(II) the District of Columbia;
‘‘(III) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
‘‘(IV) Guam; and
‘‘(V) the United States Virgin Islands.
‘‘(B) PROGRAM OPERATION.—The Secretary
shall operate an Established Program to
Stimulate Competitive Research.
‘‘(C) OBJECTIVES.—The objectives of
EPSCoR shall be—
‘‘(i) to increase the number of researchers
in eligible jurisdictions, especially at insti-
tutions of higher education, capable of per-
forming nationally competitive science and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00262 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6949
November 16, 2020
engineering research in support of the mis-
sion of the Department of Energy in the
areas of applied energy research, environ-
mental management, and basic science;
‘‘(ii) to improve science and engineering
research and education programs at institu-
tions of higher education in eligible jurisdic-
tions and enhance the capabilities of eligible
jurisdictions to develop, plan, and execute
research that is competitive, including
through investing in research equipment and
instrumentation; and
‘‘(iii) to increase the probability of long-
term growth of competitive funding to eligi-
ble jurisdictions.
‘‘(D) ELIGIBLE JURISDICTIONS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may es-
tablish criteria for determining whether a
State is eligible for a grant under this para-
graph.
‘‘(ii) REQUIREMENT.—Except as provided in
clause (iii), in establishing criteria under
clause (i), the Secretary shall ensure that a
State is eligible for a grant under this para-
graph if the State, as determined by the Sec-
retary, is a State that—
‘‘(I) historically has received relatively lit-
tle Federal research and development fund-
ing; and
‘‘(II) has demonstrated a commitment—
‘‘(aa) to develop the research bases in the
State; and
‘‘(bb) to improve science and engineering
research and education programs at institu-
tions of higher education in the State.
‘‘(iii) ELIGIBILITY UNDER NSF EPSCOR.—At
the election of the Secretary, or if the Sec-
retary determines not to establish criteria
under clause (i), a State is eligible for a
grant under this paragraph if the State is el-
igible to receive funding under the Estab-
lished Program to Stimulate Competitive
Research of the National Science Founda-
tion.
‘‘(E) GRANTS IN AREAS OF APPLIED ENERGY
RESEARCH, ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT, AND
BASIC SCIENCE.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—EPSCoR shall make
grants to eligible jurisdictions to carry out
and support applied energy research and re-
search in all areas of environmental manage-
ment and basic science sponsored by the De-
partment of Energy, including—
‘‘(I) energy efficiency, fossil energy, renew-
able energy, and other applied energy re-
search;
‘‘(II) electricity delivery research;
‘‘(III) cybersecurity, energy security, and
emergency response;
‘‘(IV) environmental management; and
‘‘(V) basic science research.
‘‘(ii) ACTIVITIES.—EPSCoR shall make
grants under this subparagraph for activities
consistent with the objectives described in
subparagraph (C) in the areas of applied en-
ergy research, environmental management,
and basic science described in clause (i), in-
cluding—
‘‘(I) to support research that is carried out
in partnership with the National Labora-
tories;
‘‘(II) to provide for graduate traineeships;
‘‘(III) to support research by early career
faculty; and
‘‘(IV) to improve research capabilities
through biennial research implementation
grants.
‘‘(iii) NO COST SHARING.—EPSCoR shall not
impose any cost-sharing requirement with
respect to a grant made under this subpara-
graph, but may require letters of commit-
ment from National Laboratories.
‘‘(F) OTHER ACTIVITIES.—EPSCoR may
carry out such activities as may be nec-
essary to meet the objectives described in
subparagraph (C) in the areas of applied en-
ergy research, environmental management,
and basic science described in subparagraph
(E)(i).
‘‘(G) PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 270 days
after the date of enactment of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2021, the Secretary shall submit to the Com-
mittees on Energy and Natural Resources
and Appropriations of the Senate and the
Committees on Energy and Commerce and
Appropriations of the House of Representa-
tives a plan describing how the Secretary
shall implement EPSCoR.
‘‘(ii) CONTENTS OF PLAN.—The plan de-
scribed in clause (i) shall include a descrip-
tion of—
‘‘(I) the management structure of EPSCoR,
which shall ensure that all research areas
and activities described in this paragraph are
incorporated into EPSCoR;
‘‘(II) efforts to conduct outreach to inform
eligible jurisdictions and faculty of changes
to, and opportunities under, EPSCoR;
‘‘(III) how EPSCoR plans to increase en-
gagement with eligible jurisdictions, faculty,
and State committees, including by holding
regular workshops, to increase participation
in EPSCoR; and
‘‘(IV) any other issues relating to EPSCoR
that the Secretary determines appropriate.
‘‘(H) PROGRAM EVALUATION.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 5 years
after the date of enactment of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2021, the Secretary shall contract with a fed-
erally funded research and development cen-
ter, the National Academy of Sciences, or a
similar organization to carry out an assess-
ment of the effectiveness of EPSCoR, includ-
ing an assessment of—
‘‘(I) the tangible progress made towards
achieving the objectives described in sub-
paragraph (C);
‘‘(II) the impact of research supported by
EPSCoR on the mission of the Department of
Energy; and
‘‘(III) any other issues relating to EPSCoR
that the Secretary determines appropriate.
‘‘(ii) LIMITATION.—The organization with
which the Secretary contracts under clause
(i) shall not be a National Laboratory.
‘‘(iii) REPORT.—Not later than 6 years after
the date of enactment of the National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021,
the Secretary shall submit to the Commit-
tees on Energy and Natural Resources and
Appropriations of the Senate and the Com-
mittees on Energy and Commerce and Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives a
report describing the results of the assess-
ment carried out under clause (i), including
recommendations for improvements that
would enable the Secretary to achieve the
objectives described in subparagraph (C).’’.
SEC. 6088. SUBPOENA AUTHORITY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 2209 of the Home-
land Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 659) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in paragraph (5), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(B) by redesignating paragraph (6) as para-
graph (7); and
(C) by inserting after paragraph (5) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(6) the term ‘security vulnerability’ has
the meaning given that term in section
102(17) of the Cybersecurity Information
Sharing Act of 2015 (6 U.S.C. 1501(17)); and’’;
(2) in subsection (c)—
(A) in paragraph (10), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(B) in paragraph (11), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(12) detecting, identifying, and receiving
information about security vulnerabilities
relating to critical infrastructure in the in-
formation systems and devices for a cyberse-
curity purpose, as defined in section 102 of
the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act
of 2015 (6 U.S.C. 1501).’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(o) SUBPOENA AUTHORITY.—
‘‘(1) DEFINITION.—In this subsection, the
term ‘covered device or system’—
‘‘(A) means a device or system commonly
used to perform industrial, commercial, sci-
entific, or governmental functions or proc-
esses that relate to critical infrastructure,
including operational and industrial control
systems, distributed control systems, and
programmable logic controllers; and
‘‘(B) does not include personal devices and
systems, such as consumer mobile devices,
home computers, residential wireless rout-
ers, or residential internet enabled consumer
devices.
‘‘(2) AUTHORITY.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—If the Director identifies
a system connected to the internet with a
specific security vulnerability and has rea-
son to believe that the security vulnerability
relates to critical infrastructure and affects
a covered device or system, and the Director
is unable to identify the entity at risk that
owns or operates the covered device or sys-
tem, the Director may issue a subpoena for
the production of information necessary to
identify and notify the entity at risk, in
order to carry out a function authorized
under subsection (c)(12).
‘‘(B) LIMIT ON INFORMATION.—A subpoena
issued under the authority under subpara-
graph (A) may seek information—
‘‘(i) only in the categories set forth in sub-
paragraphs (A), (B), (D), and (E) of section
2703(c)(2) of title 18, United States Code; and
‘‘(ii) for not more than 20 covered devices
or systems.
‘‘(C) LIABILITY PROTECTIONS FOR DISCLOSING
PROVIDERS.—The provisions of section 2703(e)
of title 18, United States Code, shall apply to
any subpoena issued under the authority
under subparagraph (A).
‘‘(3) COORDINATION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—If the Director decides
to exercise the subpoena authority under
this subsection, and in the interest of avoid-
ing interference with ongoing law enforce-
ment investigations, the Director shall co-
ordinate the issuance of any such subpoena
with the Department of Justice, including
the Federal Bureau of Investigation, pursu-
ant to inter-agency procedures which the Di-
rector, in coordination with the Attorney
General, shall develop not later than 60 days
after the date of enactment of this sub-
section.
‘‘(B) CONTENTS.—The inter-agency proce-
dures developed under this paragraph shall
provide that a subpoena issued by the Direc-
tor under this subsection shall be—
‘‘(i) issued in order to carry out a function
described in subsection (c)(12); and
‘‘(ii) subject to the limitations under this
subsection.
‘‘(4) NONCOMPLIANCE.—If any person, part-
nership, corporation, association, or entity
fails to comply with any duly served sub-
poena issued under this subsection, the Di-
rector may request that the Attorney Gen-
eral seek enforcement of the subpoena in any
judicial district in which such person, part-
nership, corporation, association, or entity
resides, is found, or transacts business.
‘‘(5) NOTICE.—Not later than 7 days after
the date on which the Director receives in-
formation obtained through a subpoena
issued under this subsection, the Director
shall notify any entity identified by informa-
tion obtained under the subpoena regarding
the subpoena and the identified vulner-
ability.
‘‘(6) AUTHENTICATION.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00263 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6950 November 16, 2020
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Any subpoena issued by
the Director under this subsection shall be
authenticated with a cryptographic digital
signature of an authorized representative of
the Agency, or other comparable successor
technology, that allows the Agency to dem-
onstrate that the subpoena was issued by the
Agency and has not been altered or modified
since it was issued by the Agency.
‘‘(B) INVALID IF NOT AUTHENTICATED.—Any
subpoena issued by the Director under this
subsection that is not authenticated in ac-
cordance with subparagraph (A) shall not be
considered to be valid by the recipient of the
subpoena.
‘‘(7) PROCEDURES.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of enactment of this sub-
section, the Director shall establish internal
procedures and associated training, applica-
ble to employees and operations of the Agen-
cy, regarding subpoenas issued under this
subsection, which shall address—
‘‘(A) the protection of and restriction on
dissemination of nonpublic information ob-
tained through a subpoena issued under this
subsection, including a requirement that the
Agency shall not disseminate nonpublic in-
formation obtained through a subpoena
issued under this subsection that identifies
the party that is subject to the subpoena or
the entity at risk identified by information
obtained, except that the Agency may share
the nonpublic information of the entity at
risk with another the Department of Justice
for the purpose of enforcing the subpoena in
accordance with paragraph (4) or with a Fed-
eral agency if—
‘‘(i) the Agency identifies or is notified of
a cybersecurity incident involving the enti-
ty, which relates to the vulnerability which
led to the issuance of the subpoena;
‘‘(ii) the Director determines that sharing
the nonpublic information with another Fed-
eral agency is necessary to allow that Fed-
eral agency to take a law enforcement or na-
tional security action, subject to the inter-
agency procedures under paragraph (3)(A), or
actions related to mitigating or otherwise
resolving such incident;
‘‘(iii) the entity to which the information
pertains is notified of the Director’s deter-
mination, to the extent practicable con-
sistent with national security or law en-
forcement interests, subject to the inter-
agency procedures under paragraph (3)(A);
and
‘‘(iv) the entity consents, except that the
entity’s consent shall not be required if an-
other Federal agency identifies the entity to
the Agency in connection with a suspected
cybersecurity incident;
‘‘(B) the restriction on the use of informa-
tion obtained through the subpoena for a cy-
bersecurity purpose, as defined in section 102
of the Cybersecurity Information Sharing
Act of 2015 (6 U.S.C. 1501);
‘‘(C) the retention and destruction of non-
public information obtained through a sub-
poena issued under this subsection, includ-
ing—
‘‘(i) destruction of information obtained
through the subpoena that the Director de-
termines is unrelated to critical infrastruc-
ture immediately upon providing notice to
the entity pursuant to paragraph (5); and
‘‘(ii) destruction of any personally identifi-
able information not later than 6 months
after the date on which the Director receives
information obtained through the subpoena,
unless otherwise agreed to by the individual
identified by the subpoena respondent;
‘‘(D) the processes for providing notice to
each party that is subject to the subpoena
and each entity identified by information ob-
tained under a subpoena issued under this
subsection;
‘‘(E) the processes and criteria for con-
ducting critical infrastructure security risk
assessments to determine whether a sub-
poena is necessary prior to being issued
under this subsection; and
‘‘(F) the information to be provided to an
entity at risk at the time of the notice of the
vulnerability, which shall include—
‘‘(i) a discussion or statement that re-
sponding to, or subsequent engagement with,
the Agency, is voluntary; and
‘‘(ii) to the extent practicable, information
regarding the process through which the Di-
rector identifies security vulnerabilities.
‘‘(8) LIMITATION ON PROCEDURES.—The in-
ternal procedures established under para-
graph (7) may not require an owner or oper-
ator of critical infrastructure to take any
action as a result of a notice of vulnerability
made pursuant to this Act.
‘‘(9) REVIEW OF PROCEDURES.—Not later
than 1 year after the date of enactment of
this subsection, the Privacy Officer of the
Agency shall—
‘‘(A) review the procedures developed by
the Director under paragraph (7) to ensure
that—
‘‘(i) the procedures are consistent with fair
information practices; and
‘‘(ii) the operations of the Agency comply
with the procedures; and
‘‘(B) notify the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs of the
Senate and the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity of the House of Representatives of the
results of the review.
‘‘(10) PUBLICATION OF INFORMATION.—Not
later than 120 days after establishing the in-
ternal procedures under paragraph (7), the
Director shall publish information on the
website of the Agency regarding the sub-
poena process under this subsection, includ-
ing regarding—
‘‘(A) the purpose for subpoenas issued
under this subsection;
‘‘(B) the subpoena process;
‘‘(C) the criteria for the critical infrastruc-
ture security risk assessment conducted
prior to issuing a subpoena;
‘‘(D) policies and procedures on retention
and sharing of data obtained by subpoena;
‘‘(E) guidelines on how entities contacted
by the Director may respond to notice of a
subpoena; and
‘‘(F) the procedures and policies of the
Agency developed under paragraph (7).
‘‘(11) ANNUAL REPORTS.—The Director shall
annually submit to the Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs of
the Senate and the Committee on Homeland
Security of the House of Representatives a
report (which may include a classified annex
but with the presumption of declassification)
on the use of subpoenas under this sub-
section by the Director, which shall in-
clude—
‘‘(A) a discussion of—
‘‘(i) the effectiveness of the use of sub-
poenas to mitigate critical infrastructure se-
curity vulnerabilities;
‘‘(ii) the critical infrastructure security
risk assessment process conducted for sub-
poenas issued under this subsection;
‘‘(iii) the number of subpoenas issued under
this subsection by the Director during the
preceding year;
‘‘(iv) to the extent practicable, the number
of vulnerable covered devices or systems
mitigated under this subsection by the Agen-
cy during the preceding year; and
‘‘(v) the number of entities notified by the
Director under this subsection, and their re-
sponse, during the previous year; and
‘‘(B) for each subpoena issued under this
subsection—
‘‘(i) the source of the security vulner-
ability detected, identified, or received by
the Director;
‘‘(ii) the steps taken to identify the entity
at risk prior to issuing the subpoena; and
‘‘(iii) a description of the outcome of the
subpoena, including discussion on the resolu-
tion or mitigation of the critical infrastruc-
ture security vulnerability.
‘‘(12) PUBLICATION OF THE ANNUAL RE-
PORTS.—The Director shall publish a version
of the annual report required by paragraph
(11) on the website of the Agency, which
shall, at a minimum, include the findings de-
scribed in clauses (iii), (iv) and (v) of para-
graph (11)(A).
‘‘(13) PROHIBITION ON USE OF INFORMATION
FOR UNAUTHORIZED PURPOSES.—Any informa-
tion obtained pursuant to a subpoena issued
under this subsection shall not be provided
to any other Federal agency for any purpose
other than a cybersecurity purpose, as de-
fined in section 102 of the Cybersecurity In-
formation Sharing Act of 2015 (6 U.S.C. 1501)
or for the purpose of enforcing a subpoena
under paragraph (4).’’.
(b) RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.—
(1) PROHIBITION ON NEW REGULATORY AU-
THORITY.—Nothing in this section or the
amendments made by this section shall be
construed to grant the Secretary of Home-
land Security (in this subsection referred to
as the ‘‘Secretary’’), or another Federal
agency, any authority to promulgate regula-
tions or set standards relating to the cyber-
security of private sector critical infrastruc-
ture that was not in effect on the day before
the date of enactment of this Act.
(2) PRIVATE ENTITIES.—Nothing in this sec-
tion or the amendments made by this section
shall be construed to require any private en-
tity—
(A) toto request assistance from the Sec-
retary; or
(B) that requested such assistance from the
Secretary to implement any measure or rec-
ommendation suggested by the Secretary.
SEC. 6089. THAD COCHRAN HEADQUARTERS
BUILDING.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The headquarters build-
ing of the Engineer Research and Develop-
ment Center of the Corps of Engineers lo-
cated at 3909 Halls Ferry Road in Vicksburg,
Mississippi, shall be known and designated
as the ‘‘Thad Cochran Headquarters Build-
ing’’.
(b) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law,
map, regulation, document, paper, or other
record of the United States to the building
referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed
to be a reference to the ‘‘Thad Cochran Head-
quarters Building’’.
SEC. 6090. COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE
UNITED STATES REPORT ON HAN-
DLING BY DEPARTMENT OF VET-
ERANS AFFAIRS OF DISABILITY-RE-
LATED BENEFITS CLAIMS BY VET-
ERANS WITH TYPE 1 DIABETES WHO
WERE EXPOSED TO A HERBICIDE
AGENT.
The Comptroller General of the United
States shall submit to Congress a report
evaluating how the Department of Veterans
Affairs has handled claims for disability-re-
lated benefits under laws administered by
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs of veterans
with type 1 diabetes who have been exposed
to a herbicide agent (as defined in section
1116(a)(3) of title 38, United States Code).
SEC. 6091. SPECIAL RULES FOR CERTAIN MONTH-
LY WORKERS’ COMPENSATION PAY-
MENTS AND OTHER PAYMENTS FOR
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT PER-
SONNEL UNDER CHIEF OF MISSION
AUTHORITY.
Section 901 of title IX of division J of the
Further Consolidated Appropriations Act,
2020 (Public Law 116–94) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by inserting ‘‘or other
designated heads of Federal agencies’’ after
‘‘The Secretary of State’’; and
(2) in subsection (e)(2), by striking ‘‘De-
partment of State’’ and inserting ‘‘Federal
Government’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00264 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6951
November 16, 2020
Subtitle H—Industries of the Future
SEC. 6094A. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Indus-
tries of the Future Act of 2020’’.
SEC. 6094B. REPORT ON FEDERAL RESEARCH
AND DEVELOPMENT FOCUSED ON
INDUSTRIES OF THE FUTURE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 120 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of the Office of Science and
Technology Policy shall submit to Congress
a report on research and development invest-
ments, infrastructure, and workforce devel-
opment investments of the Federal Govern-
ment that enable continued United States
leadership in industries of the future.
(b) CONTENTS.—The report submitted under
subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1) A definition, for purposes of this Act, of
the term ‘‘industries of the future’’ that in-
cludes emerging technologies.
(2) An assessment of the current baseline
of investments in civilian research and de-
velopment investments of the Federal Gov-
ernment in the industries of the future.
(3) A plan to double such baseline invest-
ments in artificial intelligence and quantum
information science by fiscal year 2022.
(4) A detailed plan to increase investments
described in paragraph (2) in industries of
the future to $10,000,000,000 per year by fiscal
year 2025.
(5) A plan to leverage investments de-
scribed in paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) in in-
dustries of the future to elicit complimen-
tary investments by non-Federal entities to
the greatest extent practicable.
(6) Proposed legislation to implement such
plans.
SEC. 6094C. INDUSTRIES OF THE FUTURE CO-
ORDINATION COUNCIL.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The President shall estab-
lish or designate a council to advise the Di-
rector of the Office of Science and Tech-
nology Policy on matters relevant to the Di-
rector and the industries of the future.
(2) DESIGNATION.—The council established
or designated under paragraph (1) shall be
known as the ‘‘Industries of the Future Co-
ordination Council’’ (in this section the
‘‘Council’’).
(b) MEMBERSHIP.—
(1) COMPOSITION.—The Council shall be
composed of members from the Federal Gov-
ernment as follows:
(A) One member appointed by the Director.
(B) A chairperson of the Select Committee
on Artificial Intelligence of the National
Science and Technology Council.
(C) A chairperson of the Subcommittee on
Advanced Manufacturing of the National
Science and Technology Council.
(D) A chairperson of the Subcommittee on
Quantum Information Science of the Na-
tional Science and Technology Council.
(E) Such other members as the President
considers appropriate.
(2) CHAIRPERSON.—The member appointed
to the Council under paragraph (1)(A) shall
serve as the chairperson of the Council.
(c) DUTIES.—The duties of the Council are
as follows:
(1) To provide the Director with advice on
ways in which in the Federal Government
can ensure the United States continues to
lead the world in developing emerging tech-
nologies that improve the quality of life of
the people of the United States, increase eco-
nomic competitiveness of the United States,
and strengthen the national security of the
United States, including identification of the
following:
(A) Investments required in fundamental
research and development, infrastructure,
and workforce development of the United
States workers who will support the indus-
tries of the future.
(B) Actions necessary to create and further
develop the workforce that will support the
industries of the future.
(C) Actions required to leverage the
strength of the research and development
ecosystem of the United States, which in-
cludes academia, industry, and nonprofit or-
ganizations.
(D) Ways that the Federal Government can
consider leveraging existing partnerships
and creating new partnerships and other
multisector collaborations to advance the
industries of the future.
(2) To provide the Director with advice on
matters relevant to the report required by
section 6092B.
(d) COORDINATION.—The Council shall co-
ordinate with and utilize relevant existing
National Science and Technology Council
committees to the maximum extent feasible
in order to minimize duplication of effort.
(e) SUNSET.—The Council shall terminate
on the date that is 6 years after the date of
the enactment of this Act.
Subtitle I—READI Act
SEC. 6096. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Reliable
Emergency Alert Distribution Improvement
Act of 2020’’ or ‘‘READI Act’’.
SEC. 6096A. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle—
(1) the term ‘‘Administrator’’ means the
Administrator of the Federal Emergency
Management Agency;
(2) the term ‘‘Commission’’ means the Fed-
eral Communications Commission;
(3) the term ‘‘Emergency Alert System’’
means the national public warning system,
the rules for which are set forth in part 11 of
title 47, Code of Federal Regulations (or any
successor regulation); and
(4) the term ‘‘Wireless Emergency Alerts
System’’ means the wireless national public
warning system established under the Warn-
ing, Alert, and Response Network Act (47
U.S.C. 1201 et seq.), the rules for which are
set forth in part 10 of title 47, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations (or any successor regula-
tion).
SEC. 6096B. WIRELESS EMERGENCY ALERTS SYS-
TEM OFFERINGS.
(a) AMENDMENT.—Section 602(b)(2)(E) of the
Warning, Alert, and Response Network Act
(47 U.S.C. 1201(b)(2)(E)) is amended—
(1) by striking the second and third sen-
tences; and
(2) by striking ‘‘other than an alert issued
by the President.’’ and inserting the fol-
lowing: ‘‘other than an alert issued by—
‘‘(i) the President; or
‘‘(ii) the Administrator of the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.’’.
(b) REGULATIONS.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Commission, in consultation with the Ad-
ministrator, shall adopt regulations to im-
plement the amendment made by subsection
(a)(2).
SEC. 6096C. STATE EMERGENCY ALERT SYSTEM
PLANS AND EMERGENCY COMMU-
NICATIONS COMMITTEES.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
(1) the term ‘‘SECC’’ means a State Emer-
gency Communications Committee;
(2) the term ‘‘State’’ means any State of
the United States, the District of Columbia,
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the
United States Virgin Islands, Guam, Amer-
ican Samoa, the Commonwealth of the
Northern Mariana Islands, and any posses-
sion of the United States; and
(3) the term ‘‘State EAS Plan’’ means a
State Emergency Alert System Plan.
(b) STATE EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS
COMMITTEE.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Com-
mission shall adopt regulations that—
(1) encourage the chief executive of each
State—
(A) to establish an SECC if the State does
not have an SECC; or
(B) if the State has an SECC, to review the
composition and governance of the SECC;
(2) provide that—
(A) each SECC, not less frequently than
annually, shall—
(i) meet to review and update its State
EAS Plan;
(ii) certify to the Commission that the
SECC has met as required under clause (i);
and
(iii) submit to the Commission an updated
State EAS Plan; and
(B) not later than 60 days after the date on
which the Commission receives an updated
State EAS Plan under subparagraph (A)(iii),
the Commission shall—
(i) approve or disapprove the updated State
EAS Plan; and
(ii) notify the chief executive of the State
of the Commission’s findings; and
(3) establish a State EAS Plan content
checklist for SECCs to use when reviewing
and updating a State EAS Plan for submis-
sion to the Commission under paragraph
(2)(A).
(c) CONSULTATION.—The Commission shall
consult with the Administrator regarding
the adoption of regulations under subsection
(b)(3).
SEC. 6096D. INTEGRATED PUBLIC ALERT AND
WARNING SYSTEM GUIDANCE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Administrator shall develop and issue guid-
ance on how State, Tribal, and local govern-
ments can participate in the integrated pub-
lic alert and warning system of the United
States described in section 526 of the Home-
land Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 321o) (re-
ferred to in this section as the ‘‘public alert
and warning system’’) while maintaining the
integrity of the public alert and warning sys-
tem, including—
(1) guidance on the categories of public
emergencies and appropriate circumstances
that warrant an alert and warning from
State, Tribal, and local governments using
the public alert and warning system;
(2) the procedures for State, Tribal, and
local government officials to authenticate
civil emergencies and initiate, modify, and
cancel alerts transmitted through the public
alert and warning system, including proto-
cols and technology capabilities for—
(A) the initiation, or prohibition on the
initiation, of alerts by a single authorized or
unauthorized individual;
(B) testing a State, Tribal, or local govern-
ment incident management and warning tool
without accidentally initiating an alert
through the public alert and warning sys-
tem; and
(C) steps a State, Tribal, or local govern-
ment official should take to mitigate the
possibility of the issuance of a false alert
through the public alert and warning sys-
tem;
(3) the standardization, functionality, and
interoperability of incident management and
warning tools used by State, Tribal, and
local governments to notify the public of an
emergency through the public alert and
warning system;
(4) the annual training and recertification
of emergency management personnel on re-
quirements for originating and transmitting
an alert through the public alert and warn-
ing system;
(5) the procedures, protocols, and guidance
concerning the protective action plans that
State, Tribal, and local governments should
issue to the public following an alert issued
under the public alert and warning system;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00265 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6952 November 16, 2020
(6) the procedures, protocols, and guidance
concerning the communications that State,
Tribal, and local governments should issue
to the public following a false alert issued
under the public alert and warning system;
(7) a plan by which State, Tribal, and local
government officials may, during an emer-
gency, contact each other as well as Federal
officials and participants in the Emergency
Alert System and the Wireless Emergency
Alerts System, when appropriate and nec-
essary, by telephone, text message, or other
means of communication regarding an alert
that has been distributed to the public; and
(8) any other procedure the Administrator
considers appropriate for maintaining the in-
tegrity of and providing for public con-
fidence in the public alert and warning sys-
tem.
(b) COORDINATION WITH NATIONAL ADVISORY
COUNCIL REPORT.—The Administrator shall
ensure that the guidance developed under
subsection (a) does not conflict with rec-
ommendations made for improving the pub-
lic alert and warning system provided in the
report submitted by the National Advisory
Council under section 2(b)(7)(B) of the Inte-
grated Public Alert and Warning System
Modernization Act of 2015 (Public Law 114–
143; 130 Stat. 332).
(c) PUBLIC CONSULTATION.—In developing
the guidance under subsection (a), the Ad-
ministrator shall ensure appropriate public
consultation and, to the extent practicable,
coordinate the development of the guidance
with stakeholders of the public alert and
warning system, including—
(1) appropriate personnel from Federal
agencies, including the National Institute of
Standards and Technology, the Federal
Emergency Management Agency, and the
Commission;
(2) representatives of State and local gov-
ernments and emergency services personnel,
who shall be selected from among individ-
uals nominated by national organizations
representing those governments and per-
sonnel;
(3) representatives of federally recognized
Indian Tribes and national Indian organiza-
tions;
(4) communications service providers;
(5) vendors, developers, and manufacturers
of systems, facilities, equipment, and capa-
bilities for the provision of communications
services;
(6) third-party service bureaus;
(7) the national organization representing
the licensees and permittees of noncommer-
cial broadcast television stations;
(8) technical experts from the broadcasting
industry, including representatives of both
the non-commercial and commercial radio
broadcast industries and non-commercial
and commercial television broadcast indus-
tries;
(9) educators from the Emergency Manage-
ment Institute; and
(10) other individuals with technical exper-
tise as the Administrator determines appro-
priate.
(d) INAPPLICABILITY OF FACA.—The Fed-
eral Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.)
shall not apply to the public consultation
with stakeholders under subsection (c).
(e) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
subsection (a) shall be construed to amend,
supplement, or abridge the authority of the
Commission under the Communications Act
of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 151 et seq.) or in any other
manner give the Administrator authority
over communications service providers par-
ticipating in the Emergency Alert System or
the Wireless Emergency Alerts System.
SEC. 6096E. FALSE ALERT REPORTING.
Not later than 180 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Commission, in
consultation with the Administrator, shall
complete a rulemaking proceeding to estab-
lish a system to receive from the Adminis-
trator or State, Tribal, or local governments
reports of false alerts under the Emergency
Alert System or the Wireless Emergency
Alerts System for the purpose of recording
such false alerts and examining their causes.
SEC. 6096F. REPEATING EMERGENCY ALERT SYS-
TEM MESSAGES FOR NATIONAL SE-
CURITY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Commission, in consultation with the Ad-
ministrator, shall complete a rulemaking
proceeding to modify the Emergency Alert
System to provide for repeating Emergency
Alert System messages while an alert re-
mains pending that is issued by—
(1) the President;
(2) the Administrator; or
(3) any other entity under specified cir-
cumstances as determined by the Commis-
sion, in consultation with the Adminis-
trator.
(b) SCOPE OF RULEMAKING.—Subsection
(a)—
(1) shall apply to warnings of national se-
curity events, meaning emergencies of na-
tional significance, such as a missile threat,
terror attack, or other act of war; and
(2) shall not apply to more typical warn-
ings, such as a weather alert, AMBER Alert,
or disaster alert.
SEC. 6096G. INTERNET AND ONLINE STREAMING
SERVICES EMERGENCY ALERT EX-
AMINATION.
(a) STUDY.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of enactment of this Act, and after
providing public notice and opportunity for
comment, the Commission shall complete an
inquiry to examine the feasibility of updat-
ing the Emergency Alert System to enable
or improve alerts to consumers provided
through the internet, including through
streaming services.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after
completing the inquiry under subsection (a),
the Commission shall submit a report on the
findings and conclusions of the inquiry to—
(1) the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation of the Senate; and
(2) the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives.
TITLE LXII—MATTERS RELATING TO
FOREIGN NATIONS
Subtitle B—Matters Relating to Afghanistan
and Pakistan
SEC. 6211. CONGRESSIONAL OVERSIGHT OF
UNITED STATES TALKS WITH
TALIBAN OFFICIALS AND AFGHANI-
STAN’S COMPREHENSIVE PEACE
PROCESS.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Foreign Relations,
the Committee on Armed Services, and the
Select Committee on Intelligence of the Sen-
ate; and
(B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the
Committee on Armed Services, and the Per-
manent Select Committee on Intelligence of
the House of Representatives.
(2) GOVERNMENT OF AFGHANISTAN.—The
term ‘‘Government of Afghanistan’’ means
the Government of the Islamic Republic of
Afghanistan and its agencies, instrumental-
ities, and controlled entities.
(3) THE TALIBAN.—The term ‘‘the
Taliban’’—
(A) refers to the organization that refers to
itself as the ‘‘Islamic Emirate of Afghani-
stan’’, that was founded by Mohammed
Omar, and that is currently led by Mawlawi
Hibatullah Akhundzada; and
(B) includes subordinate organizations,
such as the Haqqani Network, and any suc-
cessor organization.
(4) FEBRUARY 29 AGREEMENT.—The term
‘‘February 29 Agreement’’ refers to the polit-
ical arrangement between the United States
and the Taliban titled ‘‘Agreement for Bring-
ing Peace to Afghanistan Between the Is-
lamic Emirate of Afghanistan which is not
recognized by the United States as a state
and is known as the Taliban and the United
States of America’’ signed at Doha, Qatar
February 29, 2020.
(b) OVERSIGHT OF PEACE PROCESS AND
OTHER AGREEMENTS.—
(1) TRANSMISSION TO CONGRESS OF MATE-
RIALS RELEVANT TO THE FEBRUARY 29 AGREE-
MENT.—The Secretary of State, in consulta-
tion with the Secretary of Defense, shall
continue to submit to the appropriate con-
gressional committees materials relevant to
the February 29 Agreement.
(2) SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS OF ANY FUTURE
DEALS INVOLVING THE TALIBAN.—The Sec-
retary of State shall submit to the appro-
priate congressional committees, within 5
days of conclusion and on an ongoing basis
thereafter, any future agreement or arrange-
ment involving the Taliban in any manner,
as well as materials relevant to any future
agreement or arrangement involving the
Taliban in any manner.
(3) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection, the
terms ‘‘materials relevant to the February 29
Agreement’’ and ‘‘materials relevant to any
future agreement or arrangement’’ include
all annexes, appendices, and instruments for
implementation of the February 29 Agree-
ment or a future agreement or arrangement,
as well as any understandings or expecta-
tions related to the Agreement or a future
agreement or arrangement.
(c) REPORT AND BRIEFING ON VERIFICATION
AND COMPLIANCE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—
(A) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, and
not less frequently than once every 120 days
thereafter, the President shall submit to the
appropriate congressional committees a re-
port verifying whether the key tenets of the
February 29 Agreement, or future agree-
ments, and accompanying implementing
frameworks are being preserved and honored.
(B) BRIEFING.—At the time of each report
submitted under subparagraph (A), the Sec-
retary of State shall direct a Senate-con-
firmed Department of State official and
other appropriate officials to brief the appro-
priate congressional committees on the con-
tents of the report. The Director of National
Intelligence shall also direct an appropriate
official to participate in the briefing.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The report and briefing re-
quired under paragraph (1) shall include—
(A) an assessment—
(i) of the Taliban’s compliance with
counterterrorism guarantees, including
guarantees to deny safe haven and freedom
of movement to al-Qaeda and other terrorist
threats from operating on territory under its
influence; and
(ii) whether the United States intelligence
community has collected any intelligence in-
dicating the Taliban does not intend to up-
hold its commitments;
(B) an assessment of Taliban actions
against terrorist threats to United States
national security interests;
(C) an assessment of whether Taliban offi-
cials have made a complete, transparent,
public, and verifiable breaking of all ties
with al-Qaeda;
(D) an assessment of the current relation-
ship between the Taliban and al-Qaeda, in-
cluding any interactions between members
of the two groups in Afghanistan, Pakistan,
or other countries, and any change in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00266 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6953
November 16, 2020
Taliban conduct towards al-Qaeda since Feb-
ruary 29, 2020;
(E) an assessment of the relationship be-
tween the Taliban and any other terrorist
group that is assessed to threaten the secu-
rity of the United States or its allies, includ-
ing any change in conduct since February 29,
2020;
(F) an assessment of whether the Haqqani
Network has broken ties with al-Qaeda, and
whether the Haqqani Network’s leader
Sirajuddin Haqqani remains part of the lead-
ership structure of the Taliban;
(G) an assessment of threats emanating
from Afghanistan against the United States
homeland and United States partners, and a
description of how the United States Govern-
ment is responding to those threats;
(H) an assessment of intra-Afghan discus-
sions, political reconciliation, and progress
towards a political roadmap that seeks to
serve all Afghans;
(I) an assessment of the viability of any
intra-Afghan governing agreement;
(J) an assessment as to whether the terms
of any reduction in violence or ceasefire are
being met by all sides in the conflict;
(K) a detailed overview of any United
States and NATO presence remaining in Af-
ghanistan and any planned changes to such
force posture;
(L) an assessment of the status of human
rights, including the rights of women, mi-
norities, and youth;
(M) an assessment of the access of women,
minorities, and youth to education, justice,
and economic opportunities in Afghanistan;
(N) an assessment of the status of the rule
of law and governance structures at the cen-
tral, provincial, and district levels of govern-
ment;
(O) an assessment of the media and of the
press and civil society’s operating space in
Afghanistan;
(P) an assessment of illicit narcotics pro-
duction in Afghanistan, its linkages to ter-
rorism, corruption, and instability, and poli-
cies to counter illicit narcotics flows;
(Q) an assessment of corruption in Govern-
ment of Afghanistan institutions at the dis-
trict, provincial, and central levels of gov-
ernment;
(R) an assessment of the number of Taliban
and Afghan prisoners and any plans for the
release of such prisoners from either side;
(S) an assessment of any malign Iranian,
Chinese, and Russian influence in Afghani-
stan;
(T) an assessment of how other regional ac-
tors, such as Pakistan, are engaging with Af-
ghanistan;
(U) a detailed overview of national-level ef-
forts to promote transitional justice, includ-
ing forensic efforts and documentation of
war crimes, mass killings, or crimes against
humanity, redress to victims, and reconcili-
ation activities;
(V) A detailed overview of United States
support for Government of Afghanistan and
civil society efforts to promote peace and
justice at the local level and how these ef-
forts are informing government-level poli-
cies and negotiations;
(W) an assessment of the progress made by
the Afghanistan Ministry of Interior and the
Office of the Attorney General to address
gross violations of human rights (GVHRs) by
civilian security forces, Taliban, and non-
government armed groups, including—
(i) a breakdown of resources provided by
the Government of Afghanistan towards
these efforts; and
(ii) a summary of assistance provided by
the United States Government to support
these efforts; and
(X) an overview of civilian casualties
caused by the Taliban, non-government
armed groups, and Afghan National Defense
and Security Forces, including—
(i) an estimate of the number of destroyed
or severely damaged civilian structures;
(ii) a description of steps taken by the Gov-
ernment of Afghanistan to minimize civilian
casualties and other harm to civilians and
civilian infrastructure;
(iii) an assessment of the Government of
Afghanistan’s capacity and mechanisms for
investigating reports of civilian casualties;
and
(iv) an assessment of the Government of
Afghanistan’s efforts to hold local militias
accountable for civilian casualties.
(3) COUNTERTERRORISM STRATEGY.—In the
event that the Taliban does not meet its
counterterrorism obligations under the Feb-
ruary 29 Agreement, the report and briefing
required under this subsection shall include
information detailing the United States’
counterterrorism strategy in Afghanistan
and Pakistan.
(4) FORM.—The report required under sub-
paragraph (A) of paragraph (1) shall be sub-
mitted in unclassified form, but may include
a classified annex, and the briefing required
under subparagraph (B) of such paragraph
shall be conducted at the appropriate classi-
fication level.
(d) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section shall prejudice whether a future
deal involving the Taliban in any manner
constitutes a treaty for purposes of Article II
of the Constitution of the United States.
(e) SUNSET.—Except for subsections (b) and
(d), the provisions of this section shall cease
to be effective on the date that is 5 years
after the date of the enactment of this Act.
Subtitle D—Matters Relating to Europe and
the Russian Federation
SEC. 6231. CLARIFICATION AND EXPANSION OF
SANCTIONS RELATING TO CON-
STRUCTION OF NORD STREAM 2 OR
TURKSTREAM PIPELINE PROJECTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (a)(1) of sec-
tion 7503 of the Protecting Europe’s Energy
Security Act of 2019 (title LXXV of Public
Law 116–92) is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘or
pipe-laying activities’’ after ‘‘pipe-laying’’;
and
(2) in subparagraph (B)—
(A) in clause (i)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘, or facilitated selling,
leasing, or providing,’’ after ‘‘provided’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘; or’’ and inserting a semi-
colon;
(B) in clause (ii), by striking the period at
the end and inserting a semicolon; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(iii) provided underwriting services or in-
surance or reinsurance for those vessels;
‘‘(iv) provided services or facilities for
technology upgrades or installation of weld-
ing equipment for, or retrofitting or teth-
ering of, those vessels; or
‘‘(v) provided services for the testing, in-
spection, or certification necessary for, or
associated with the operation of, the Nord
Stream 2 pipeline.’’.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—Subsection (i) of such
section is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraph (5) as para-
graph (6); and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (4) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(5) PIPE-LAYING ACTIVITIES.—The term
‘pipe-laying activities’ means activities that
facilitate pipe-laying, including site prepara-
tion, trenching, surveying, placing rocks,
backfilling, stringing, bending, welding,
coating, and lowering of pipe.’’.
SEC. 6235. SENSE OF SENATE ON ADMISSION OF
UKRAINE TO THE NORTH ATLANTIC
TREATY ORGANIZATION ENHANCED
OPPORTUNITIES PARTNERSHIP
PROGRAM.
(a) INEFFECTIVENESS OF SECTION 1235.—Sec-
tion 1235 shall have no force or effect.
(b) FINDINGS.—Congress makes the fol-
lowing findings:
(1) On August 24, 1991, Ukraine became a
free and independent country after declaring
its independence from the Soviet Union.
(2) The Russian Federation is required to
respect the independence, sovereignty, and
territorial integrity of Ukraine through its
signed commitments to the 1994 Budapest
Memorandum, the 1975 Helsinki Accords, and
the Charter of the United Nations.
(3) On February 8, 1994, Ukraine was among
the first post-Soviet states to join the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization’s Partnership
for Peace, and Ukraine subsequently partici-
pated in numerous North Atlantic Treaty
Organization-led security assistance, peace-
keeping, counterterror, and maritime initia-
tives.
(4) The North Atlantic Treaty Organiza-
tion and Ukraine have continuously deep-
ened their cooperation through the estab-
lishment of—
(A) the North Atlantic Treaty Organiza-
tion-Ukraine Charter on a Distinctive Part-
nership and the North Atlantic Treaty Orga-
nization-Ukraine Commission in 1997;
(B) the North Atlantic Treaty Organiza-
tion-Ukraine Joint Working Group on De-
fense Reform in 1998; and
(C) the North Atlantic Treaty Organiza-
tion-Ukraine Action Plan in 2002.
(5) In the Bucharest Summit Declaration
of April 2008, heads of state and governments
of North Atlantic Treaty Organization mem-
ber countries declared, ‘‘NATO welcomes
Ukraine’s and Georgia’s Euro-Atlantic aspi-
rations for membership in NATO. We agreed
today that these countries will become mem-
bers of NATO.’’.
(6) Beginning on November 21, 2013, and
ending on February 22, 2014, during a period
that became known as the Revolution of Dig-
nity, the people of Ukraine peacefully pro-
tested the decision of then President Viktor
Yanukovych to suspend the signing of the
Ukraine-European Union Association Agree-
ment, resulting in the unanimous removal
from office of Yanukovych by the Verkhovna
Rada.
(7) On May 25, 2014, Peter Poroshenko was
elected democratically to become the Presi-
dent of Ukraine based on a pro-European
Union and pro-North Atlantic Treaty Orga-
nization platform, which laid the foundation
for progress on the European Union Associa-
tion Agreement.
(8) In response to Ukraine’s Revolution of
Dignity, the Russian Federation launched an
overt and covert military campaign against
Ukraine, illegally occupied Ukraine’s Cri-
mean Peninsula, and instigated war in east-
ern Ukraine, resulting in the deaths of ap-
proximately 14,000 Ukrainians.
(9) The Russian Federation’s invasion and
illegal occupation of the Crimean Peninsula
and instigation of conflict in eastern
Ukraine in 2014 was widely viewed as an ef-
fort to stifle pro-democracy and pro-Western
developments across Ukraine in the wake of
the Revolution of Dignity.
(10) At the 2014 Wales Summit, the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization adopted the
Enhanced Opportunities Partnership Pro-
gram as a component of the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization Partnership Interoper-
ability Initiative, which would ‘‘encourage,
facilitate, and sustain’’ Ukraine’s contribu-
tions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organiza-
tion.
(11) In 2016, as a result of the Warsaw Sum-
mit, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00267 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6954 November 16, 2020
pledged additional training and technical
support for the military forces of Ukraine
and endorsed a comprehensive assistance
package that included ‘‘tailored capability
and capacity building measures . . . to en-
hance Ukraine’s resilience against a wide
array of threats, including hybrid threats’’.
(12) In 2017, in the face of continued Rus-
sian Federation aggression in the eastern re-
gion of Ukraine and the continued occupa-
tion of Crimea, the Government of Ukraine
rejected cooperation with the Russian Fed-
eration and voted to make cooperation with
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization a
foreign policy priority.
(13) On September 1, 2017, the Ukraine-Eu-
ropean Union Association Agreement en-
tered into force.
(14) On April 21, 2019, the new president of
Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskyy—
(A) reaffirmed to European Union and
North Atlantic Treaty Organization leaders
that Ukraine’s strategic course was to
achieve full membership in the European
Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organi-
zation; and
(B) championed the adoption of an amend-
ment to the Constitution of Ukraine declar-
ing that the Government of Ukraine is re-
sponsible for implementing such strategic
course toward membership in the European
Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organi-
zation.
(15) In January 2020, the Government of
Ukraine requested that the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization grant Ukraine the sta-
tus of an Enhanced Opportunities Partner.
(16) Since Ukraine’s Revolution of Dignity
and in recognition of the United States-
Ukraine strategic partnership, the United
States has—
(A) provided Ukraine with more than
$1,600,000,000 in security assistance, including
critical defense items;
(B) collaborated closely with the military
forces of Ukraine; and
(C) imposed strong sanctions on the Rus-
sian Federation in response to continued
Russian Federation aggression in Ukraine.
(17) On June 12, 2020, the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization welcomed Ukraine into
the Enhanced Opportunities Partnership pro-
gram, joining Australia, Finland, Sweden,
Georgia, and Jordan.
(c) SENSE OF SENATE.—It is the sense of the
Senate that the Senate—
(1) applauds the progress of Ukraine and
the Revolution of Dignity with respect to
strengthening the rule of law and combating
corruption, aligning with Euro-Atlantic
norms and standards, and improving
Ukraine’s military combat readiness and
interoperability with the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization;
(2) affirms the unwavering commitment of
the United States to—
(A) supporting the continued efforts of
Ukraine to implement democratic and free
market reforms;
(B) restoring the territorial integrity of
Ukraine; and
(C) providing additional lethal and non-
lethal security assistance to strengthen the
defense capabilities of Ukraine and to deter
further Russian Federation aggression;
(3) condemns the Russian Federation’s on-
going use of force and other malign activi-
ties against Ukraine and renews its call on
the Government of the Russian Federation
to immediately cease all activities that seek
to undermine Ukraine and destabilize Eu-
rope; and
(4) congratulates Ukraine on its inclusion
in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
Enhanced Opportunities Partnership pro-
gram and on the establishment of a roadmap
to full NATO accession for Ukraine.
Subtitle E—Matters Relating to the Indo-
Pacific Region
SEC. 6251. PILOT PROGRAM TO IMPROVE CYBER
COOPERATION WITH VIETNAM,
THAILAND, AND INDONESIA.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense,
in consultation with the Secretary of State,
may establish a pilot program in Vietnam,
Thailand, and Indonesia—
(1) to enhance the cyber security, resil-
ience, and readiness of Vietnam, Thailand,
and Indonesia; and
(2) to increase regional cooperation be-
tween the United States and Vietnam, Thai-
land, and Indonesia on cyber issues.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The activities of the pilot
program under subsection (a) shall include
the following:
(1) Provision of training to cybersecurity
and computer science professionals in Viet-
nam, Thailand, and Indonesia.
(2) An expansion of the capacity of organi-
zations involved in the training of such cy-
bersecurity and computer science profes-
sionals.
(3) The facilitation of regular policy dia-
logues between and among the United States
Government and the governments of Viet-
nam, Thailand, and Indonesia with respect to
the development of infrastructure to protect
against cyber attacks.
(4) An evaluation of legal and other bar-
riers to reforms relevant to cybersecurity
and technology in Vietnam, Thailand, and
Indonesia.
(5) A feasibility study on establishing a
public-private partnership to build cloud-
computing capacity in Vietnam, Thailand,
and Indonesia and in Southeast Asia more
broadly.
(6) The development of cooperative exer-
cises, to be carried out in future years, to en-
hance collaboration between the United
States Government and the governments of
Vietnam, Thailand, and Indonesia.
(c) FUNDING.—The Secretary of Defense
may enter into cooperative agreements with
entities that receive funds under section 211
of the Vietnam Education Foundation Act of
2000 (title II of division B of H.R. 5666, as en-
acted by section 1(a)(4) of Public Law 106–554
and contained in appendix D of that Act; 114
Stat. 2763A–254; 22 U.S.C. 2452 note), as added
by section 7085 of the Consolidated and Fur-
ther Appropriations Act, 2015 (Public Law
113–235; 128 Stat. 2685), to carry out the pilot
program under subsection (a).
(d) REPORTS.—
(1) DESIGN OF PILOT PROGRAM.—Not later
than June 1, 2021, the Secretary of Defense,
in consultation with the Secretary of State,
shall submit to the appropriate committees
of Congress a report on the design of the
pilot program under subsection (a).
(2) PROGRESS REPORT.—Not later than De-
cember 31, 2021, the Secretary of Defense, in
consultation with the Secretary of State,
shall submit to the appropriate committees
of Congress a report on the pilot program
under subsection (a) that includes—
(A) a description of the activities con-
ducted and the results of such activities; and
(B) an assessment of legal and other bar-
riers to reforms relevant to cybersecurity
and technology in Vietnam, Thailand, and
Indonesia.
(e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated
$5,000,000 for fiscal year 2021 to carry out this
section.
(f) OFFSET.—The amount authorized to be
appropriated by this Act for operation and
maintenance, Navy, and available for SAG
1CCS for military information support oper-
ations, is hereby reduced by $5,000,000.
(g) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS
DEFINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘appro-
priate committees of Congress’’ means—
(1) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the
Senate; and
(2) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the
House of Representatives.
Subtitle F—Reports
SEC. 6273. REPORT ON RISK TO PERSONNEL,
EQUIPMENT, AND OPERATIONS DUE
TO HUAWEI 5G ARCHITECTURE IN
HOST COUNTRIES.
Section 1273 shall have no force or effect.
Subtitle G—Other Matters
SEC. 6281. COMPARATIVE STUDIES ON DEFENSE
BUDGET TRANSPARENCY OF THE
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA, THE
RUSSIAN FEDERATION, AND THE
UNITED STATES.
(a) STUDIES REQUIRED.—
(1) DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE STUDY.—Not
later than 270 days after the date of the en-
actment of this Act, the Secretary of De-
fense, acting through the Director of the De-
fense Intelligence Agency, in consultation
with the Under Secretary of Defense (Comp-
troller), the Director of the Office of Cost As-
sessment and Program Evaluation, the Di-
rector of the Office of Net Assessment, the
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Indo-Pa-
cific Security Affairs, and the Assistant Sec-
retary of Defense for International Security
Affairs, shall complete a comparative study
on the defense budgets of the People’s Re-
public of China, the Russian Federation, and
the United States.
(2) INDEPENDENT STUDY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense shall offer to enter
into an agreement with not more than two
entities independent of the Department to
conduct a comparative study on the defense
budgets of the People’s Republic of China,
the Russian Federation, and the United
States, to be completed not later than 270
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act.
(B) FEDERALLY FUNDED RESEARCH AND DE-
VELOPMENT CENTER.—Not fewer than one en-
tity described in subparagraph (A) shall be a
federally funded research and development
center.
(b) GOAL.—The goal of the studies required
by subsection (a) shall be to develop a meth-
odologically sound set of assumptions to un-
derpin a comparison of the defense spending
of the People’s Republic of China, the Rus-
sian Federation, and the United States.
(c) ELEMENTS.—Each study required by
subsection (a) shall do the following:
(1) Develop consistent functional cat-
egories for spending, including—
(A) defense-related research and develop-
ment;
(B) weapons procurement;
(C) operations and maintenance; and
(D) pay and benefits.
(2) Consider the effects of purchasing power
parity and market exchange rates, particu-
larly on nontraded goods.
(3) Consider differences in the relative
prices of goods and labor within each subject
country.
(4) Compare the costs of labor and benefits
for the defense workforce of each subject
country.
(5) Account for discrepancies in the man-
ner in which each subject country accounts
for certain functional types of defense-re-
lated spending.
(6) Explicitly estimate the magnitude of
omitted spending from official defense budg-
et information.
(7) Evaluate the adequacy of the United
Nations database on military expenditures.
(8) Exclude spending related to veterans’
benefits.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00268 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6955
November 16, 2020
(d) REPORT.—Not later than 30 days after
the date on which the studies required by
subsection (a) are completed, the Secretary
of Defense shall submit to the Committees
on Armed Services of the Senate and the
House of Representatives a report on the re-
sults of each study, together with the views
of the Secretary on each study.
(e) FORM.—The report required by sub-
section (d) shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 6282. MODIFICATION TO INITIATIVE TO SUP-
PORT PROTECTION OF NATIONAL
SECURITY ACADEMIC RESEARCHERS
FROM UNDUE INFLUENCE AND
OTHER SECURITY THREATS.
Section 1286 of the John S. McCain Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2019 (10 U.S.C. 2358 note) is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (f) as sub-
section (g); and
(2) by adding after subsection (e) the fol-
lowing new subsection (f):
‘‘(f) DESIGNATION OF ACADEMIC LIAISON.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2021, the Secretary, acting through the
Under Secretary of Defense for Research and
Engineering, shall designate an academic li-
aison with principal responsibility for work-
ing with the academic community to protect
Department-sponsored academic research of
concern from undue foreign influence.
‘‘(2) QUALIFICATION.—The Secretary shall
designate an individual under paragraph (1)
who is an official of the Office of the Under
Secretary of Defense for Research and Engi-
neering.
‘‘(3) DUTIES.—The duties of the academic
liaison designated under paragraph (1) shall
be as follows:
‘‘(A) To serve as the liaison of the Depart-
ment with the academic community.
‘‘(B) To conduct annual outreach and edu-
cation activities for the academic commu-
nity on undue foreign influence and threats
to Department-sponsored academic research
of concern.
‘‘(C) To coordinate and align academic se-
curity policies with Department component
agencies, the Office of Science and Tech-
nology Policy, the intelligence community,
Federal science agencies, and Federal regu-
latory agencies, including agencies involved
in export controls.
‘‘(D) To the extent practicable, to coordi-
nate on an annual basis with the intelligence
community to share, not less frequently
than annually, with the academic commu-
nity unclassified information, including
counterintelligence information, on threats
from undue foreign influence.
‘‘(E) Any other related responsibility, as
determined by the Secretary in consultation
with the Under Secretary of Defense for Re-
search and Engineering.
‘‘(F) Any other duty, as determined by the
Secretary.’’.
SEC. 6283. SENSE OF SENATE ON UNITED STATES-
ISRAEL COOPERATION ON PRECI-
SION-GUIDED MUNITIONS.
It is the sense of the Senate that—
(1) the Department of Defense has cooper-
ated extensively with Israel to assist in the
procurement of precision-guided munitions,
and such cooperation represents an impor-
tant example of robust United States sup-
port for Israel;
(2) to the extent practicable, the Secretary
of Defense should take further measures to
expedite deliveries of precision-guided muni-
tions to Israel; and
(3) regularized annual purchases of preci-
sion-guided munitions by Israel, in accord-
ance with existing requirements and prac-
tices regarding the export of defense articles
and defense services, coordinated with the
United States Air Force annual purchase of
precision-guided munitions, would enhance
the security of both the United States and
Israel by—
(A) promoting a more efficient use of de-
fense resources by taking advantage of
economies of scale;
(B) enabling the United States and Israel
to address crisis requirements for precision-
guided munitions in a timely and flexible
manner; and
(C) encouraging the defense industrial base
to maintain routine production lines of pre-
cision-guided munitions.
SEC. 6284. BLOCKING DEADLY FENTANYL IM-
PORTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be
cited as the ‘‘Blocking Deadly Fentanyl Im-
ports Act’’.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—Section 481(e) of the For-
eign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2291(e))
is amended—
(1) in paragraph (2)—
(A) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by striking ‘‘in which’’;
(B) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘in
which’’ before ‘‘1,000’’;
(C) in subparagraph (B)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘in which’’ before ‘‘1,000’’;
and
(ii) by striking ‘‘or’’ at the end;
(D) in subparagraph (C)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘in which’’ before ‘‘5,000’’;
and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘or’’ after the semicolon;
and
(E) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(D) that is a significant source of illicit
synthetic opioids significantly affecting the
United States;’’; and
(2) in paragraph (4)—
(A) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘and’’
at the end;
(B) in subparagraph (D), by adding ‘‘and’’
at the end; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(E) assistance that furthers the objectives
set forth in paragraphs (1) through (4) of sec-
tion 664(b) of the Foreign Relations Author-
ization Act, Fiscal Year 2003 (22 U.S.C. 2151n–
2(b));
‘‘(F) assistance to combat trafficking au-
thorized under the Victims of Trafficking
and Violence Protection Act of 2000 (22
U.S.C. 7101 et seq.)); and
‘‘(G) global health assistance authorized
under sections 104 through 104C of the For-
eign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151b
through 22 U.S.C. 2151b–4).’’.
(c) INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS CONTROL
STRATEGY REPORT.—Section 489(a) of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C.
2291h(a)) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(9) A separate section that contains the
following:
‘‘(A) An identification of the countries, to
the extent feasible, that are the most signifi-
cant sources of illicit fentanyl and fentanyl
analogues significantly affecting the United
States during the preceding calendar year.
‘‘(B) A description of the extent to which
each country identified pursuant to subpara-
graph (A) has cooperated with the United
States to prevent the articles or chemicals
described in subparagraph (A) from being ex-
ported from such country to the United
States.
‘‘(C) A description of whether each country
identified pursuant to subparagraph (A) has
adopted and utilizes scheduling or other pro-
cedures for illicit drugs that are similar in
effect to the procedures authorized under
title II of the Controlled Substances Act (21
U.S.C. 811 et seq.) for adding drugs and other
substances to the controlled substances
schedules;
‘‘(D) A description of whether each country
identified pursuant to subparagraph (A) is
following steps to prosecute individuals in-
volved in the illicit manufacture or distribu-
tion of controlled substance analogues (as
defined in section 102(32) of the Controlled
Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802(32)); and
‘‘(E) A description of whether each country
identified pursuant to subparagraph (A) re-
quires the registration of tableting machines
and encapsulating machines or other meas-
ures similar in effect to the registration re-
quirements set forth in part 1310 of title 21,
Code of Federal Regulations, and has not
made good faith efforts, in the opinion of the
Secretary, to improve regulation of
tableting machines and encapsulating ma-
chines.’’.
(d) WITHHOLDING OF BILATERAL AND MULTI-
LATERAL ASSISTANCE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 490(a) of the For-
eign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2291j(a))
is amended—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘or coun-
try identified pursuant to clause (i) or (ii) of
section 489(a)(8)(A) of this Act’’ and inserting
‘‘country identified pursuant to section
489(a)(8)(A), or country thrice identified dur-
ing a 5-year period pursuant to section
489(a)(9)(A)’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘or major
drug-transit country (as determined under
subsection (h)) or country identified pursu-
ant to clause (i) or (ii) of section 489(a)(8)(A)
of this Act’’ and inserting ‘‘, major drug-
transit country, country identified pursuant
to section 489(a)(8)(A), or country thrice
identified during a 5-year period pursuant to
section 489(a)(9)(A)’’.
(2) DESIGNATION OF ILLICIT FENTANYL COUN-
TRIES WITHOUT SCHEDULING PROCEDURES.—
Section 706(2) of the Foreign Relations Au-
thorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003 (22 U.S.C.
2291j–1(2)) is amended—
(A) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by striking ‘‘also’’;
(B) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by striking
‘‘and’’ at the end;
(C) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as
subparagraph (D);
(D) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the
following:
‘‘(B) designate each country, if any, identi-
fied under section 489(a)(9) of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2291h(a)(9))
that has failed to adopt and utilize sched-
uling procedures for illicit drugs that are
comparable to the procedures authorized
under title II of the Controlled Substances
Act (21 U.S.C. 811 et seq.) for adding drugs
and other substances to the controlled sub-
stances schedules;’’; and
(E) in subparagraph (D), as redesignated,
by striking ‘‘so designated’’ and inserting
‘‘designated under subparagraph (A), (B), or
(C)’’.
(3) DESIGNATION OF ILLICIT FENTANYL COUN-
TRIES WITHOUT ABILITY TO PROSECUTE CRIMI-
NALS FOR THE MANUFACTURE OR DISTRIBUTION
OF FENTANYL ANALOGUES.—Section 706(2) of
the Foreign Relations Authorization Act,
Fiscal Year 2003 (22 U.S.C. 2291j–1(2)), as
amended by paragraph (2), is further amend-
ed by inserting after subparagraph (B) the
following:
‘‘(C) designate each country, if any, identi-
fied under section 489(a)(9) of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2291h(a)(9))
that has not taken significant steps to pros-
ecute individuals involved in the illicit man-
ufacture or distribution of controlled sub-
stance analogues (as defined in section
102(32) of the Controlled Substances Act (21
U.S.C. 802(32));’’.
(4) LIMITATION ON ASSISTANCE FOR DES-
IGNATED COUNTRIES.—Section 706(3) of the
Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal
Year 2003 (22 U.S.C. 2291j–1(3)) is amended by
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00269 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6956 November 16, 2020
striking ‘‘also designated under paragraph
(2) in the report’’ and inserting ‘‘designated
in the report under paragraph (2)(A) or thrice
designated during a 5-year period in the re-
port under subparagraph (B) or (C) of para-
graph (2)’’.
(5) EXCEPTION TO THE LIMITATION ON ASSIST-
ANCE.—Section 706(5) of the Foreign Rela-
tions Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003 (22
U.S.C. 2291j–1(5)) is amended—
(A) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as
subparagraph (F);
(B) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the
following:
‘‘(C) Notwithstanding paragraph (3), assist-
ance to promote democracy (as described in
section 481(e)(4)(E) of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2291(e)(4)(E))) shall be
provided to countries identified in a report
under paragraph (1) and designated under
subparagraph (B) or (C) of paragraph (2), to
the extent such countries are otherwise eli-
gible for such assistance, regardless of
whether the President reports to the appro-
priate congressional committees in accord-
ance with such paragraph.
‘‘(D) Notwithstanding paragraph (3), assist-
ance to combat trafficking (as described in
section 481(e)(4)(F) of such Act) shall be pro-
vided to countries identified in a report
under paragraph (1) and designated under
subparagraph (B) or (C) of paragraph (2), to
the extent such countries are otherwise eli-
gible for such assistance, regardless of
whether the President reports to the appro-
priate congressional committees in accord-
ance with such paragraph.
‘‘(E) Notwithstanding paragraph (3), global
health assistance (as described in section
481(e)(4)(G) of such Act) shall be provided to
countries identified in a report under para-
graph (1) and designated under subparagraph
(B) or (C) of paragraph (2), to the extent such
countries are otherwise eligible for such as-
sistance, regardless of whether the President
reports to the appropriate congressional
committees in accordance with such para-
graph’’; and
(C) in subparagraph (F), as redesignated,
by striking ‘‘section clause (i) or (ii) of’’ and
inserting ‘‘clause (i) or (ii) of section’’.
(e) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall take effect on the
date that is 90 days after the date of the en-
actment of this Act.
SEC. 6286. ESTABLISHMENT OF UNITED STATES-
ISRAEL OPERATIONS-TECHNOLOGY
WORKING GROUP.
The reference in section 1286(b)(5)(A) to the
‘‘Minister of Defense of Israel’’ is deemed to
refer to the ‘‘Secretary of State and the Min-
ister of Defense of Israel’’.
Subtitle H—United States-Israel Security
Assistance
SEC. 6290. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘United
States-Israel Security Assistance Authoriza-
tion Act of 2020’’.
SEC. 6290A. DEFINITION.
In this subtitle, the term ‘‘appropriate con-
gressional committees’’ means—
(1) the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate;
(2) the Committee on Armed Services of
the Senate;
(3) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the
House of Representatives; and
(4) the Committee on Armed Services of
the House of Representatives.
CHAPTER 1—SECURITY ASSISTANCE FOR
ISRAEL
SEC. 6291. FINDINGS.
Congress makes the following findings:
(1) On September 14, 2016, the United
States and Israel signed a 10-year Memo-
randum of Understanding to reaffirm the im-
portance of continuing annual United States
military assistance to Israel and cooperative
missile defense programs in a way that en-
hances Israel’s security and strengthens the
bilateral relationship between the 2 coun-
tries.
(2) The 2016 Memorandum of Understanding
reflects United States support of Foreign
Military Financing grant assistance to Israel
over a 10-year period beginning in fiscal year
2019 and ending in fiscal year 2028.
(3) The 2016 Memorandum of Understanding
also reflects United States support for fund-
ing for cooperative programs to develop,
produce, and procure missile, rocket, and
projectile defense capabilities during such
10-year period at an average funding level of
$500,000,000 per year, totaling $5,000,000,000 for
such period.
SEC. 6292. STATEMENT OF POLICY.
It is the policy of the United States to pro-
vide assistance to the Government of Israel
for the development and acquisition of ad-
vanced capabilities that Israel requires to
meet its security needs and to enhance
United States capabilities.
SEC. 6293. SECURITY ASSISTANCE FOR ISRAEL.
Section 513(c) of the Security Assistance
Act of 2000 (Public Law 106–280; 114 Stat. 856)
is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘2002 and
2003’’ and inserting ‘‘2021, 2022, 2023, 2024, 2025,
2026, 2027, and 2028’’;
(2) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘equal to—
’’ and all that follows and inserting ‘‘not less
than $3,300,000,000.’’; and
(3) by amending paragraph (3) to read as
follows:
‘‘(3) DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS.—Amounts
authorized to be available for Israel under
paragraph (1) and subsection (b)(1) for fiscal
years 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024, 2025, 2026, 2027, and
2028 shall be disbursed not later than 30 days
after the date of the enactment of an Act
making appropriations for the Department
of State, foreign operations, and related pro-
grams for the respective fiscal year, or Octo-
ber 31 of the respective fiscal year, whichever
is later.’’.
SEC. 6294. EXTENSION OF WAR RESERVES STOCK-
PILE AUTHORITY.
(a) DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIA-
TIONS ACT, 2005.—Section 12001(d) of the De-
partment of Defense Appropriations Act, 2005
(Public Law 108–287; 118 Stat. 1011) is amend-
ed by striking ‘‘September 30, 2020’’ and in-
serting ‘‘after September 30, 2025’’.
(b) FOREIGN ASSISTANCE ACT OF 1961.—Sec-
tion 514(b)(2)(A) of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2321h(b)(2)(A)) is
amended by striking ‘‘2013, 2014, 2015, 2016,
2017, 2018, 2019, and 2020’’ and inserting ‘‘2021,
2022, 2023, 2024, and 2025’’.
SEC. 6295. EXTENSION OF LOAN GUARANTEES TO
ISRAEL.
Chapter 5 of title I of the Emergency War-
time Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2003
(Public Law 108–11; 117 Stat. 576) is amended
under the heading ‘‘LOAN GUARANTEES TO
ISRAEL’’—
(1) in the matter preceding the first pro-
viso, by striking ‘‘September 30, 2023’’ and
inserting ‘‘September 30, 2025’’; and
(2) in the second proviso, by striking ‘‘Sep-
tember 30, 2023’’ and inserting ‘‘September
30, 2025’’.
SEC. 6296. TRANSFER OF PRECISION GUIDED MU-
NITIONS TO ISRAEL.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding section
514 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22
U.S.C. 2321h), the President is authorized to
transfer to Israel precision guided munitions
from reserve stocks for Israel in such quan-
tities as may be necessary for legitimate
self-defense of Israel and is otherwise con-
sistent with the purposes and conditions for
such transfers under the Arms Export Con-
trol Act (22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.).
(b) CERTIFICATIONS.—Except in case of
emergency, as determined by the President,
not later than 5 days before making a trans-
fer under subsection (a), the President shall
certify to the appropriate congressional
committees that the transfer of the precision
guided munitions—
(1) does not affect the ability of the United
States to maintain a sufficient supply of pre-
cision guided munitions;
(2) does not harm the combat readiness of
the United States or the ability of the
United States to meet its commitment to al-
lies for the transfer of such munitions;
(3) is necessary for Israel to counter the
threat of rockets in a timely fashion; and
(4) is in the national security interest of
the United States.
SEC. 6297. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON RAPID AC-
QUISITION AND DEPLOYMENT PRO-
CEDURES.
It is the sense of Congress that the Presi-
dent should—
(1) prescribe procedures for the rapid ac-
quisition and deployment of precision guided
munitions for United States counterter-
rorism missions; or
(2) assist Israel, which is an ally of the
United States, to protect itself against di-
rect missile threats.
SEC. 6298. ELIGIBILITY OF ISRAEL FOR THE
STRATEGIC TRADE AUTHORIZATION
EXCEPTION TO CERTAIN EXPORT
CONTROL LICENSING REQUIRE-
MENTS.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds the fol-
lowing:
(1) Israel has adopted high standards in the
field of weapons export controls.
(2) Israel has declared its unilateral adher-
ence to the Missile Technology Control Re-
gime, the Australia Group, and the Nuclear
Suppliers Group.
(3) Israel is a party to—
(A) the Protocol for the Prohibition of the
Use in War of Asphyxiating, Poisonous or
Other Gases, and of Bacteriological Methods
of Warfare, signed at Geneva June 17, 1925
(commonly known as the ‘‘Geneva Pro-
tocol’’);
(B) the Convention on the Physical Protec-
tion of Nuclear Material, signed at Vienna
and New York March 3, 1980; and
(C) the Convention on Prohibitions or Re-
strictions on the Use of Certain Conven-
tional Weapons Which may be Deemed to be
Excessively Injurious or to Have Indiscrimi-
nate Effects, signed at Geneva October 10,
1980.
(4) Section 6(b) of the United States-Israel
Strategic Partnership Act of 2014 (22 U.S.C.
8603 note) directs the President, consistent
with the commitments of the United States
under international agreements, to take
steps so that Israel may be included in the
list of countries eligible for the strategic
trade authorization exception under section
740.20(c)(1) of title 15, Code of Federal Regu-
lations, to the requirement for a license for
the export, re-export, or in-country transfer
of an item subject to controls under the Ex-
port Administration Regulations.
(b) BRIEFING ON ELIGIBILITY FOR STRATEGIC
TRADE AUTHORIZATION EXCEPTION.—Not later
than 120 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the President shall brief the ap-
propriate congressional committees by de-
scribing the steps taken to include Israel in
the list of countries eligible for the strategic
trade authorization exception under section
740.20(c)(1) of title 15, Code of Federal Regu-
lations, as required under section 6(b) of the
United States-Israel Strategic Partnership
Act of 2014 (Public Law 113–296).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00270 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6957
November 16, 2020
CHAPTER 2—ENHANCED UNITED STATES-
ISRAEL COOPERATION
SEC. 6299. UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT MEMO-
RANDA OF UNDERSTANDING TO EN-
HANCE COOPERATION WITH ISRAEL.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that the
United States Agency for International De-
velopment and Israel’s Agency for Inter-
national Development Cooperation signed
memoranda of understanding in 2012, 2017,
and 2019 to coordinate the agencies’ respec-
tive efforts to promote common development
goals in third countries.
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING USAID
POLICY.—It is the sense of Congress that the
Department of State and the United States
Agency for International Development
should continue to cooperate with Israel to
advance common development goals in third
countries across a wide variety of sectors, in-
cluding energy, agriculture, food security,
democracy, human rights, governance, eco-
nomic growth, trade, education, environ-
ment, global health, water, and sanitation.
(c) MEMORANDA OF UNDERSTANDING.—The
Secretary of State, acting through the Ad-
ministrator of the United States Agency for
International Development, may enter into
memoranda of understanding with Israel to
advance common goals on energy, agri-
culture, food security, democracy, human
rights, governance, economic growth, trade,
education, environment, global health,
water, and sanitation, with a focus on
strengthening mutual ties and cooperation
with nations throughout the world.
SEC. 6299A. COOPERATIVE PROJECTS AMONG
THE UNITED STATES, ISRAEL, AND
DEVELOPING COUNTRIES.
Section 106 of the Foreign Assistance Act
of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151d) is amended by strik-
ing subsections (e) and (f) and inserting the
following:
‘‘(e) There are authorized to be appro-
priated $2,000,000 for each of the fiscal years
2021 through 2025 to finance cooperative
projects among the United States, Israel,
and developing countries that identify and
support local solutions to address sustain-
ability challenges relating to water re-
sources, agriculture, and energy storage, in-
cluding—
‘‘(1) establishing public-private partner-
ships;
‘‘(2) supporting the identification, re-
search, development testing, and scaling of
innovations that focus on populations that
are vulnerable to environmental and re-
source-scarcity crises, such as subsistence
farming communities;
‘‘(3) seed or transition-to-scale funding;
‘‘(4) clear and appropriate branding and
marking of United States funded assistance,
in accordance with section 641; and
‘‘(5) accelerating demonstrations or appli-
cations of local solutions to sustainability
challenges, or the further refinement, test-
ing, or implementation of innovations that
have previously effectively addressed sus-
tainability challenges.
‘‘(f) Amounts appropriated pursuant to
subsection (e) shall be obligated in accord-
ance with the memoranda of understanding
referred to in subsections (a) and (c) of sec-
tion 6299 of the United States-Israel Security
Assistance Authorization Act of 2020’’.
SEC. 6299B. JOINT COOPERATIVE PROGRAM RE-
LATED TO INNOVATION AND HIGH-
TECH FOR THE MIDDLE EAST RE-
GION.
(a) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1) the United States should help foster co-
operation in the Middle East region by fi-
nancing and, as appropriate, cooperating in
projects related to innovation and advanced
technologies; and
(2) projects referred to in paragraph (1)
should—
(A) contribute to development and the
quality of life in the Middle East region
through the application of research and ad-
vanced technology; and
(B) contribute to Arab-Israeli cooperation
by establishing strong working relationships
that last beyond the life of such projects.
(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary of
State, acting through the Administrator of
the United States Agency for International
Development, is authorized to seek to estab-
lish a program between the United States
and appropriate regional partners to provide
for cooperation in the Middle East region by
supporting projects related to innovation
and advanced technologies.
(c) PROJECT REQUIREMENTS.—Each project
carried out under the program established
pursuant to subsection (b)—
(1) shall include the participation of at
least 1 entity from Israel and 1 entity from
another regional partner; and
(2) shall be conducted in a manner that ap-
propriately protects sensitive information,
intellectual property, the national security
interests of the United States, and the na-
tional security interests of Israel.
SEC. 6299C. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON UNITED
STATES-ISRAEL ECONOMIC CO-
OPERATION.
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1) the United States-Israel economic part-
nership—
(A) has achieved great tangible and intan-
gible benefits to both countries; and
(B) is a foundational component of the
strong alliance;
(2) science and technology innovations
present promising new frontiers for United
States-Israel economic cooperation, particu-
larly in light of widespread drought, cyberse-
curity attacks, and other major challenges
impacting the United States; and
(3) the President should regularize and ex-
pand existing forums of economic dialogue
with Israel and foster both public and pri-
vate sector participation.
SEC. 6299D. COOPERATION ON DIRECTED EN-
ERGY CAPABILITIES.
(a) AUTHORITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense,
with the concurrence of the Secretary of
State, is authorized to carry out research,
development, test, and evaluation activities,
on a joint basis with Israel, to establish di-
rected energy capabilities that address
threats to the United States, deployed forces
of the United States, or Israel. Any activi-
ties carried out under this paragraph shall be
conducted in a manner that appropriately
protects sensitive information, intellectual
property, the national security interests of
the United States, and the national security
interests of Israel.
(2) REPORT.—The activities described in
paragraph (1) may be carried out after the
Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence
of the Secretary of State, submits a report
to the appropriate congressional committees
that includes—
(A) a memorandum of agreement between
the United States and Israel regarding shar-
ing of research and development costs for the
capabilities described in paragraph (1), and
any supporting documents; and
(B) a certification that the memorandum
of agreement referred to in subparagraph
(A)—
(i) requires sharing of costs of projects, in-
cluding in-kind support, between the United
States and Israel;
(ii) establishes a framework to negotiate
the rights to any intellectual property devel-
oped under the memorandum of agreement;
and
(iii) requires the United States Govern-
ment to receive semiannual reports on ex-
penditure of funds, if any, by the Govern-
ment of Israel, including—
(I) a description of what the funds have
been used for and when funds were expended;
and
(II) the identification of entities that ex-
pended such funds.
(b) SUPPORT IN CONNECTION WITH ACTIVI-
TIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense,
with the concurrence of the Secretary of
State, is authorized to provide maintenance
and sustainment support to Israel for the di-
rected energy capabilities research, develop-
ment, test, and evaluation activities author-
ized under subsection (a)(1), including the in-
stallation of equipment that is necessary to
carry out such research, development, test,
and evaluation.
(2) REPORT.—The support described in
paragraph (1) may not be provided until 15
days after the date on which the Secretary of
Defense, with the concurrence of the Sec-
retary of State, submits a report to the ap-
propriate congressional committees that de-
scribes in detail the support to be provided.
(3) MATCHING CONTRIBUTION.—The support
described in paragraph (1) may not be pro-
vided unless the Secretary of Defense, with
the concurrence of the Secretary of State,
certifies to the appropriate congressional
committees that the Government of Israel
will contribute to such support—
(A) an amount not less than the amount of
support to be so provided; or
(B) an amount that otherwise meets the
best efforts of Israel, as mutually agreed to
by the United States and Israel.
(c) SEMIANNUAL REPORT.—The Secretary of
Defense, with the concurrence of the Sec-
retary of State, shall submit a semiannual
report to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees that includes the most recent semi-
annual report provided by the Government of
Israel to the United States Government.
SEC. 6299E. PLANS TO PROVIDE ISRAEL WITH
NECESSARY DEFENSE ARTICLES
AND SERVICES IN A CONTINGENCY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The President shall es-
tablish and update, as appropriate, plans to
provide Israel with defense articles and serv-
ices that are determined by the Secretary of
Defense to be necessary for the defense of
Israel in a contingency.
(b) CONGRESSIONAL BRIEFING.—Not later
than 1 year after the date of the enactment
of this Act, and annually thereafter, the
President shall brief the appropriate con-
gressional committees regarding the status
of the plans required under subsection (a).
SEC. 6299F. OTHER MATTERS OF COOPERATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Activities authorized
under this section shall be carried out with
the concurrence of the Secretary of State
and aligned with the National Security
Strategy of the United States, the United
States Government Global Health Security
Strategy, the Department of State Inte-
grated Country Strategies, the USAID Coun-
try Development Cooperation Strategies,
and any equivalent or successor plans or
strategies, as necessary and appropriate
(b) DEVELOPMENT OF HEALTH TECH-
NOLOGIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—There is authorized to be
appropriated to the Secretary of Health and
Human Services $4,000,000 for each of the fis-
cal years 2021 through 2023 for a bilateral co-
operative program with the Government of
Israel that awards grants for the develop-
ment of health technologies, including
health technologies listed in paragraph (2),
subject to paragraph (3), with an emphasis
on collaboratively advancing the use of tech-
nology and personalized medicine in relation
to COVID–19.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00271 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6958 November 16, 2020
(2) TYPES OF HEALTH TECHNOLOGIES.—The
health technologies described in this para-
graph may include technologies such as sen-
sors, drugs and vaccinations, respiratory as-
sist devices, diagnostic tests, and telemedi-
cine.
(3) RESTRICTIONS ON FUNDING.—Amounts
appropriated pursuant to paragraph (1) are
subject to a matching contribution from the
Government of Israel.
(4) OPTION FOR ESTABLISHING NEW PRO-
GRAM.—Amounts appropriated pursuant to
paragraph (1) may be expended for a bilateral
program with the Government of Israel
that—
(A) is in existence on the day before the
date of the enactment of this Act for the
purposes described in paragraph (1); or
(B) is established after the date of the en-
actment of this Act by the Secretary of
Health and Human Services, in consultation
with the Secretary of State, in accordance
with the Agreement between the Govern-
ment of the United States of America and
the Government of the State of Israel on Co-
operation in Science and Technology for
Homeland Security Matters, done at Jeru-
salem May 29, 2008 (or a successor agree-
ment), for the purposes described in para-
graph (1).
(c) COORDINATOR OF UNITED STATES–ISRAEL
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The President may des-
ignate the Assistant Secretary of State for
the Bureau of Oceans and International En-
vironmental and Scientific Affairs, or an-
other appropriate Department of State offi-
cial, to act as Coordinator of United States-
Israel Research and Development (referred
to in this subsection as the ‘‘Coordinator’’).
(2) AUTHORITIES AND DUTIES.—The Coordi-
nator, in conjunction with the heads of rel-
evant Federal Government departments and
agencies and in coordination with the Israel
Innovation Authority, may oversee civilian
science and technology programs on a joint
basis with Israel.
(d) OFFICE OF GLOBAL POLICY AND STRAT-
EGY OF THE FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRA-
TION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—It is the sense of Congress
that the Commissioner of the Food and Drug
Administration should seek to explore col-
laboration with Israel through the Office of
Global Policy and Strategy.
(2) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Commissioner, acting through the head of
the Office of Global Policy and Strategy,
shall submit a report describing the benefits
to the United States and to Israel of opening
an office in Israel for the Office of Global
Policy and Strategy to—
(A) the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate;
(B) the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions of the Senate;
(C) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of
the House of Representatives; and
(D) the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives.
(e) UNITED STATES–ISRAEL ENERGY CEN-
TER.—There is authorized to be appropriated
to the Secretary of Energy $4,000,000 for each
of the fiscal years 2021 through 2023 to carry
out the activities of the United States-Israel
Energy Center established pursuant to sec-
tion 917(d) of the Energy Independence and
Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17337(d)).
(f) UNITED STATES–ISRAEL BINATIONAL IN-
DUSTRIAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT FOUN-
DATION.—It is the sense of Congress that
grants to promote covered energy projects
conducted by, or in conjunction with, the
United States-Israel Binational Industrial
Research and Development Foundation
should be funded at not less than $2,000,000
annually under section 917(b) of the Energy
Independence and Security Act of 2007 (42
U.S.C. 17337(b)).
(g) UNITED STATES–ISRAEL COOPERATION ON
ENERGY, WATER, HOMELAND SECURITY, AGRI-
CULTURE, AND ALTERNATIVE FUEL TECH-
NOLOGIES.—Section 7 of the United States-
Israel Strategic Partnership Act of 2014 (22
U.S.C. 8606) is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to
carry out this section $2,000,000 for each of
the fiscal years 2021 through 2023.’’.
(h) ANNUAL POLICY DIALOGUE.—It is the
sense of Congress that the Department of
Transportation and Israel’s Ministry of
Transportation should engage in an annual
policy dialogue to implement the 2016 Memo-
randum of Cooperation signed by the Sec-
retary of Transportation and the Israeli Min-
ister of Transportation.
(i) COOPERATION ON SPACE EXPLORATION
AND SCIENCE INITIATIVES.—The Adminis-
trator of the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration shall continue to work with
the Israel Space Agency to identify and co-
operatively pursue peaceful space explo-
ration and science initiatives in areas of mu-
tual interest, taking all appropriate meas-
ures to protect sensitive information, intel-
lectual property, trade secrets, and economic
interests of the United States.
(j) RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COOPERA-
TION RELATING TO DESALINATION TECH-
NOLOGY.—Not later than 1 year after the date
of the enactment of this Act, the Director of
the Office of Science and Technology Policy
shall submit a report that describes research
and development cooperation with inter-
national partners, such as the State of
Israel, in the area of desalination technology
in accordance with section 9(b)(3) of the
Water Desalination Act of 1996 (42 U.S.C.
10301 note) to—
(1) the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate;
(2) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate;
(3) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the
House of Representatives; and
(4) the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives.
(k) RESEARCH AND TREATMENT OF
POSTTRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER.—It is the
sense of Congress that the Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs should seek to explore collabo-
ration between the Mental Illness Research,
Education and Clinical Centers of Excellence
and Israeli institutions with expertise in re-
searching and treating posttraumatic stress
disorder.
TITLE LXVI—STRATEGIC PROGRAMS,
CYBER, AND INTELLIGENCE MATTERS
Subtitle B—Cyberspace Related Matters
SEC. 6611. REPORT ON USE OF ENCRYPTION BY
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE NA-
TIONAL SECURITY SYSTEMS.
Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
Defense shall submit to the Congress a re-
port detailing the mission need and efficacy
of full disk encryption across Non-classified
Internet Protocol Router Network
(NIPRNet) and Secretary Internet Protocol
Router Network (SIPRNet) endpoint com-
puter systems. Such report shall cover mat-
ters relating to cost, mission impact, and
implementation timeline.
SEC. 6612. GUIDANCE AND DIRECTION ON USE OF
DIRECT HIRING PROCESSES FOR AR-
TIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE PROFES-
SIONALS AND OTHER DATA SCIENCE
AND SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT
PERSONNEL.
(a) GUIDANCE REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall issue
guidance to the secretaries of the military
departments and the heads of the defense
components on improved use of the direct
hiring processes for artificial intelligence
professionals and other data science and
software development personnel.
(b) OBJECTIVE.—The objective of the guid-
ance issued under subsection (a) shall be to
ensure that organizational leaders assume
greater responsibility for the results of civil-
ian hiring of artificial intelligence profes-
sionals and other data science and software
development personnel.
(c) CONTENTS OF GUIDANCE.—At a min-
imum, the guidance required by subsection
(a) shall—
(1) instruct human resources professionals
and hiring authorities to utilize available di-
rect hiring authorities (including excepted
service authorities) for the hiring of artifi-
cial intelligence professionals and other data
science and software development personnel,
to the maximum extent practicable;
(2) instruct hiring authorities, when using
direct hiring authorities, to prioritize utili-
zation of panels of subject matter experts
over human resources professionals to assess
applicant qualifications and determine
which applicants are best qualified for a po-
sition;
(3) authorize and encourage the use of
ePortfolio reviews to provide insight into the
previous work of applicants as a tangible
demonstration of capabilities and contribute
to the assessment of applicant qualifications
by subject matter experts; and
(4) encourage the use of referral bonuses
for recruitment and hiring of highly quali-
fied artificial intelligence professionals and
other data science and software development
personnel in accordance with volume 451 of
Department of Defense Instruction 1400.25.
(d) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date on which the guidance is
issued under subsection (a), the Secretary
shall submit to the Committee on Armed
Services of the Senate and the Committee on
Armed Services of the House of Representa-
tives a report on the guidance issued pursu-
ant to subsection (a).
(2) CONTENTS.—At a minimum, the report
submitted under paragraph (1) shall address
the following:
(A) The objectives of the guidance and the
manner in which the guidance seeks to
achieve those objectives.
(B) The effect of the guidance on the hiring
process for artificial intelligence profes-
sionals and other data science and software
development personnel, including the effect
on—
(i) hiring time;
(ii) the use of direct hiring authority;
(iii) the use of subject matter experts; and
(iv) the quality of new hires, as assessed by
hiring managers and organizational leaders.
SEC. 6613. CYBERSECURITY STATE COORDI-
NATOR ACT.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be
cited as the ‘‘Cybersecurity State Coordi-
nator Act of 2020’’.
(b) CYBERSECURITY STATE COORDINATOR.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle A of title XXII of
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C.
651 et seq.) is amended—
(A) in section 2202(c) (6 U.S.C. 652(c))—
(i) in paragraph (10), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(ii) by redesignating paragraph (11) as
paragraph (12); and
(iii) by inserting after paragraph (10) the
following:
‘‘(11) appoint a Cybersecurity State Coordi-
nator in each State, as described in section
2215; and’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00272 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6959
November 16, 2020
‘‘SEC. 2215. CYBERSECURITY STATE COORDI-
NATOR.
‘‘(a) APPOINTMENT.—The Director shall ap-
point an employee of the Agency in each
State, with the appropriate cybersecurity
qualifications and expertise, who shall serve
as the Cybersecurity State Coordinator.
‘‘(b) DUTIES.—The duties of a Cybersecu-
rity State Coordinator appointed under sub-
section (a) shall include—
‘‘(1) building strategic relationships across
Federal and, on a voluntary basis, non-Fed-
eral entities by advising on establishing gov-
ernance structures to facilitate the develop-
ment and maintenance of secure and resil-
ient infrastructure;
‘‘(2) serving as a Federal cybersecurity risk
advisor and coordinating between Federal
and, on a voluntary basis, non-Federal enti-
ties to support preparation, response, and re-
mediation efforts relating to cybersecurity
risks and incidents;
‘‘(3) facilitating the sharing of cyber threat
information between Federal and, on a vol-
untary basis, non-Federal entities to im-
prove understanding of cybersecurity risks
and situational awareness of cybersecurity
incidents;
‘‘(4) raising awareness of the financial,
technical, and operational resources avail-
able from the Federal Government to non-
Federal entities to increase resilience
against cyber threats;
‘‘(5) supporting training, exercises, and
planning for continuity of operations to ex-
pedite recovery from cybersecurity inci-
dents, including ransomware;
‘‘(6) serving as a principal point of contact
for non-Federal entities to engage, on a vol-
untary basis, with the Federal Government
on preparing, managing, and responding to
cybersecurity incidents;
‘‘(7) assisting non-Federal entities in devel-
oping and coordinating vulnerability disclo-
sure programs consistent with Federal and
information security industry standards; and
‘‘(8) performing such other duties as deter-
mined necessary by the Director to achieve
the goal of managing cybersecurity risks in
the United States and reducing the impact of
cyber threats to non-Federal entities.
‘‘(c) FEEDBACK.—The Director shall consult
with relevant State and local officials re-
garding the appointment, and State and
local officials and other non-Federal entities
regarding the performance, of the Cybersecu-
rity State Coordinator of a State.’’.
(2) OVERSIGHT.—The Director of the Cyber-
security and Infrastructure Security Agency
shall provide to the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs of the
Senate and the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity of the House of Representatives a
briefing on the placement and efficacy of the
Cybersecurity State Coordinators appointed
under section 2215 of the Homeland Security
Act of 2002, as added by paragraph (1)—
(A) not later than 1 year after the date of
enactment of this Act; and
(B) not later than 2 years after providing
the first briefing under this paragraph.
(3) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this
subsection or the amendments made by this
subsection shall be construed to affect or
otherwise modify the authority of Federal
law enforcement agencies with respect to in-
vestigations relating to cybersecurity inci-
dents.
(4) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMEND-
MENT.—The table of contents in section 1(b)
of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (Public
Law 107–296; 116 Stat. 2135) is amended by in-
serting after the item relating to section 2214
the following:
‘‘Sec. 2215. Cybersecurity State Coordi-
nator.’’.
SEC. 6614. CYBERSECURITY ADVISORY COM-
MITTEE.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be
cited as the ‘‘Cybersecurity Advisory Com-
mittee Authorization Act of 2020’’.
(b) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle A of title XXII of
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C.
651 et seq.), as amended by section 6613 of
this Act, is further amended by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘SEC. 2216. CYBERSECURITY ADVISORY COM-
MITTEE.
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary shall
establish within the Agency a Cybersecurity
Advisory Committee (referred to in this sec-
tion as the ‘Advisory Committee’).
‘‘(b) DUTIES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Advisory Committee
shall advise, consult with, report to, and
make recommendations to the Director, as
appropriate, on the development, refine-
ment, and implementation of policies, pro-
grams, planning, and training pertaining to
the cybersecurity mission of the Agency.
‘‘(2) RECOMMENDATIONS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Advisory Com-
mittee shall develop, at the request of the
Director, recommendations for improve-
ments to advance the cybersecurity mission
of the Agency and strengthen the cybersecu-
rity of the United States.
‘‘(B) RECOMMENDATIONS OF SUBCOMMIT-
TEES.—Recommendations agreed upon by
subcommittees established under subsection
(d) for any year shall be approved by the Ad-
visory Committee before the Advisory Com-
mittee submits to the Director the annual
report under paragraph (4) for that year.
‘‘(3) PERIODIC REPORTS.—The Advisory
Committee shall periodically submit to the
Director—
‘‘(A) reports on matters identified by the
Director; and
‘‘(B) reports on other matters identified by
a majority of the members of the Advisory
Committee.
‘‘(4) ANNUAL REPORT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Advisory Com-
mittee shall submit to the Director an an-
nual report providing information on the ac-
tivities, findings, and recommendations of
the Advisory Committee, including its sub-
committees, for the preceding year.
‘‘(B) PUBLICATION.—Not later than 180 days
after the date on which the Director receives
an annual report for a year under subpara-
graph (A), the Director shall publish a public
version of the report describing the activi-
ties of the Advisory Committee and such re-
lated matters as would be informative to the
public during that year, consistent with sec-
tion 552(b) of title 5, United States Code.
‘‘(5) FEEDBACK.—Not later than 90 days
after receiving any recommendation sub-
mitted by the Advisory Committee under
paragraph (2), (3), or (4), the Director shall
respond in writing to the Advisory Com-
mittee with feedback on the recommenda-
tion. Such a response shall include—
‘‘(A) with respect to any recommendation
with which the Director concurs, an action
plan to implement the recommendation; and
‘‘(B) with respect to any recommendation
with which the Director does not concur, a
justification for why the Director does not
plan to implement the recommendation.
‘‘(6) CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION.—Not
less frequently than once per year after the
date of enactment of this section, the Direc-
tor shall provide to the Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs and
the Committee on Appropriations of the Sen-
ate and the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and the Committee on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives a briefing on
feedback from the Advisory Committee.
‘‘(7) GOVERNANCE RULES.—The Director
shall establish rules for the structure and
governance of the Advisory Committee and
all subcommittees established under sub-
section (d).
‘‘(c) MEMBERSHIP.—
‘‘(1) APPOINTMENT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of the Cyberse-
curity Advisory Committee Authorization
Act of 2020, the Director shall appoint the
members of the Advisory Committee.
‘‘(B) COMPOSITION.—The membership of the
Advisory Committee shall consist of not
more than 35 individuals.
‘‘(C) REPRESENTATION.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The membership of the
Advisory Committee shall—
‘‘(I) consist of subject matter experts;
‘‘(II) be geographically balanced; and
‘‘(III) include representatives of State,
local, and Tribal governments and of a broad
range of industries, which may include the
following:
‘‘(aa) Defense.
‘‘(bb) Education.
‘‘(cc) Financial services and insurance.
‘‘(dd) Healthcare.
‘‘(ee) Manufacturing.
‘‘(ff) Media and entertainment.
‘‘(gg) Chemicals.
‘‘(hh) Retail.
‘‘(ii) Transportation.
‘‘(jj) Energy.
‘‘(kk) Information Technology.
‘‘(ll) Communications.
‘‘(mm) Other relevant fields identified by
the Director.
‘‘(ii) PROHIBITION.—Not less than 1 member
nor more than 3 members may represent any
1 category under clause (i)(III).
‘‘(iii) PUBLICATION OF MEMBERSHIP LIST.—
The Advisory Committee shall publish its
membership list on a publicly available
website not less than once per fiscal year and
shall update the membership list as changes
occur.
‘‘(2) TERM OF OFFICE.—
‘‘(A) TERMS.—The term of each member of
the Advisory Committee shall be 2 years, ex-
cept that a member may continue to serve
until a successor is appointed.
‘‘(B) REMOVAL.—The Director may review
the participation of a member of the Advi-
sory Committee and remove such member
any time at the discretion of the Director.
‘‘(C) REAPPOINTMENT.—A member of the
Advisory Committee may be reappointed for
an unlimited number of terms.
‘‘(3) PROHIBITION ON COMPENSATION.—The
members of the Advisory Committee may
not receive pay or benefits from the United
States Government by reason of their service
on the Advisory Committee.
‘‘(4) MEETINGS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Director shall re-
quire the Advisory Committee to meet not
less frequently than semiannually, and may
convene additional meetings as necessary.
‘‘(B) PUBLIC MEETINGS.—At least one of the
meetings referred to in subparagraph (A)
shall be open to the public.
‘‘(C) ATTENDANCE.—The Advisory Com-
mittee shall maintain a record of the persons
present at each meeting.
‘‘(5) MEMBER ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFOR-
MATION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 60 days
after the date on which a member is first ap-
pointed to the Advisory Committee and be-
fore the member is granted access to any
classified information, the Director shall de-
termine, for the purposes of the Advisory
Committee, if the member should be re-
stricted from reviewing, discussing, or pos-
sessing classified information.
‘‘(B) ACCESS.—Access to classified mate-
rials shall be managed in accordance with
Executive Order No. 13526 of December 29,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00273 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6960 November 16, 2020
2009 (75 Fed. Reg. 707), or any subsequent cor-
responding Executive Order.
‘‘(C) PROTECTIONS.—A member of the Advi-
sory Committee shall protect all classified
information in accordance with the applica-
ble requirements for the particular level of
classification of such information.
‘‘(D) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this paragraph shall be construed to affect
the security clearance of a member of the
Advisory Committee or the authority of a
Federal agency to provide a member of the
Advisory Committee access to classified in-
formation.
‘‘(6) CHAIRPERSON.—The Advisory Com-
mittee shall select, from among the mem-
bers of the Advisory Committee—
‘‘(A) a member to serve as chairperson of
the Advisory Committee; and
‘‘(B) a member to serve as chairperson of
each subcommittee of the Advisory Com-
mittee established under subsection (d).
‘‘(d) SUBCOMMITTEES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Director shall estab-
lish subcommittees within the Advisory
Committee to address cybersecurity issues,
which may include the following:
‘‘(A) Information exchange.
‘‘(B) Critical infrastructure.
‘‘(C) Risk management.
‘‘(D) Public and private partnerships.
‘‘(2) MEETINGS AND REPORTING.—Each sub-
committee shall meet not less frequently
than semiannually, and submit to the Advi-
sory Committee for inclusion in the annual
report required under subsection (b)(4) infor-
mation, including activities, findings, and
recommendations, regarding subject matter
considered by the subcommittee.
‘‘(3) SUBJECT MATTER EXPERTS.—The chair
of the Advisory Committee shall appoint
members to subcommittees and shall ensure
that each member appointed to a sub-
committee has subject matter expertise rel-
evant to the subject matter of the sub-
committee.’’.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Se-
curity Act of 2002 (Public Law 107–296; 116
Stat. 2135), as so amended, is further amend-
ed by inserting after the item relating to
section 2215 the following:
‘‘Sec. 2216. Cybersecurity Advisory Com-
mittee.’’.
SEC. 6615. CYBERSECURITY EDUCATION AND
TRAINING ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.
(a) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1) the United States continues to face
critical shortages in the national cybersecu-
rity workforce;
(2) the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure
Security Agency within the Department of
Homeland Security has the responsibility to
manage cyber and physical risks to our crit-
ical infrastructure, including by ensuring a
national workforce supply to support cyber-
security through education, training, and ca-
pacity development efforts;
(3) to reestablish the technology leader-
ship, security, and economic competitiveness
of the United States, the Cybersecurity and
Infrastructure Security Agency should cre-
ate a sustainable pipeline by strengthening
K–12 cybersecurity outreach and education
nationwide.
(b) AUTHORITIES.—Section 2202(e)(1) of the
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C.
652(e)(1)) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(R) To encourage and build cybersecurity
awareness and competency across the United
States and to develop, attract, and retain
the cybersecurity workforce necessary for
the cybersecurity related missions of the De-
partment, including by—
‘‘(i) overseeing K–12 cybersecurity edu-
cation and awareness related programs at
the agency;
‘‘(ii) leading efforts to develop, attract,
and retain the cybersecurity workforce nec-
essary for the cybersecurity related missions
of the Department;
‘‘(iii) encouraging and building cybersecu-
rity awareness and competency across the
United States; and
‘‘(iv) carrying out cybersecurity related
workforce development activities, including
through—
‘‘(I) increasing the pipeline of future cyber-
security professionals through programs fo-
cused on K–12, higher education, and non-
traditional students; and
‘‘(II) building awareness of and competency
in cybersecurity across the civilian Federal
government workforce.’’.
(c) EDUCATION, TRAINING, AND CAPACITY DE-
VELOPMENT.—Section 2202(c) of the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 652(c)) is
amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraph (11) as para-
graph (12);
(2) in paragraph (10), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end; and
(3) by inserting after paragraph (10) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(11) provide education, training, and ca-
pacity development for Federal and non-Fed-
eral entities to enhance the security and re-
siliency of domestic and global cybersecurity
and infrastructure security; and’’.
(d) ESTABLISHMENT OF TRAINING PRO-
GRAMS.—Subtitle A of title XXII of the
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 651
et seq.), as amended by section 6614 of this
Act, is further amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘SEC. 2217. CYBERSECURITY EDUCATION AND
TRAINING PROGRAMS.
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Cybersecurity Edu-
cation and Training Assistance Program (re-
ferred to in this section as ‘CETAP’) is estab-
lished within the Agency.
‘‘(2) PURPOSE.—The purpose of CETAP
shall be to support the effort of the Agency
in building and strengthening a national cy-
bersecurity workforce pipeline capacity
through enabling K–12 cybersecurity edu-
cation, including by—
‘‘(A) providing foundational cybersecurity
awareness and literacy;
‘‘(B) encouraging cybersecurity career ex-
ploration; and
‘‘(C) supporting the teaching of cybersecu-
rity skills at the K–12 levels.
‘‘(b) REQUIREMENTS.—In carrying out
CETAP, the Director shall—
‘‘(1) ensure that the program—
‘‘(A) creates and disseminates K–12 cyber-
security-focused curricula and career aware-
ness materials;
‘‘(B) conducts professional development
sessions for teachers;
‘‘(C) develops resources for the teaching of
K–12 cybersecurity-focused curricula;
‘‘(D) provides direct student engagement
opportunities through camps and other pro-
gramming;
‘‘(E) engages with local and State edu-
cation authorities to promote awareness of
the program and ensure that offerings align
with State and local standards;
‘‘(F) integrates with existing post-sec-
ondary education and workforce develop-
ment programs at the Department;
‘‘(G) establishes and maintains national
standards for K–12 cyber education;
‘‘(H) partners with cybersecurity and edu-
cation stakeholder groups to expand out-
reach; and
‘‘(I) any other activity the Director deter-
mines necessary to meet the purpose de-
scribed in subsection (a)(2); and
‘‘(2) enable the deployment of CETAP na-
tionwide, with special consideration for un-
derserved populations or communities.
‘‘(c) BRIEFINGS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the establishment of CETAP, and annu-
ally thereafter, the Secretary shall brief the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs of the Senate and the
Committee on Homeland Security of the
House of Representatives on the program.
‘‘(2) CONTENTS.—Each briefing conducted
under paragraph (1) shall include—
‘‘(A) estimated figures on the number of
students reached and teachers engaged;
‘‘(B) information on community outreach
and State engagement efforts;
‘‘(C) information on new curricula offer-
ings and teacher training platforms; and
‘‘(D) information on coordination with
post-secondary education and workforce de-
velopment programs at the Department.
‘‘(d) MISSION PROMOTION.—The Director
may use appropriated amounts to purchase
promotional and recognition items and mar-
keting and advertising services to publicize
and promote the mission and services of the
Agency, support the activities of the Agency,
and to recruit and retain Agency per-
sonnel.’’.
(e) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMEND-
MENT.—The table of contents in section 1(b)
of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (Public
Law 107–296; 116 Stat. 2135), as so amended, is
further amended by inserting after the item
relating to section 2216 the following:
‘‘Sec. 2217. Cybersecurity Education and
Training Programs.’’.
Subtitle C—Nuclear Forces
SEC. 6651. REPORT ON ELECTROMAGNETIC
PULSE HARDENING OF GROUND-
BASED STRATEGIC DETERRENT
WEAPONS SYSTEM.
(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall
submit to the congressional defense commit-
tees a report on establishing requirements
and protocols to ensure that the ground-
based strategic deterrent weapons system is
hardened against electromagnetic pulses.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall include a description of the
following:
(1) The testing protocols the ground-based
strategic deterrent program will use for elec-
tromagnetic pulse testing.
(2) How requirements for electromagnetic
pulse hardness will be integrated into the
ground-based strategic deterrent program.
(3) Plans for electromagnetic pulse
verification tests of the ground-based stra-
tegic deterrent weapons system.
(4) Plans for electromagnetic pulse testing
of nonmissile components of the ground-
based strategic deterrent weapons system.
(5) Plans to sustain electromagnetic pulse
qualification of the ground-based strategic
deterrent weapons system.
TITLE LXVII—NUCLEAR ENERGY
LEADERSHIP
SEC. 6701. ADVANCED NUCLEAR REACTOR RE-
SEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT GOALS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle E of title IX of
the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16271
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘SEC. 959A. ADVANCED NUCLEAR REACTOR RE-
SEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT GOALS.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) ADVANCED NUCLEAR REACTOR.—The
term ‘advanced nuclear reactor’ means—
‘‘(A) a nuclear fission reactor, including a
prototype plant (as defined in sections 50.2
and 52.1 of title 10, Code of Federal Regula-
tions (or successor regulations)), with sig-
nificant improvements compared to the most
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00274 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6961
November 16, 2020
recent generation of fission reactors, includ-
ing improvements such as—
‘‘(i) additional inherent safety features;
‘‘(ii) lower waste yields;
‘‘(iii) improved fuel performance;
‘‘(iv) increased tolerance to loss of fuel
cooling;
‘‘(v) enhanced reliability;
‘‘(vi) increased proliferation resistance;
‘‘(vii) increased thermal efficiency;
‘‘(viii) reduced consumption of cooling
water;
‘‘(ix) the ability to integrate into electric
applications and nonelectric applications;
‘‘(x) modular sizes to allow for deployment
that corresponds with the demand for elec-
tricity; or
‘‘(xi) operational flexibility to respond to
changes in demand for electricity and to
complement integration with intermittent
renewable energy; and
‘‘(B) a fusion reactor.
‘‘(2) DEMONSTRATION PROJECT.—The term
‘demonstration project’ means an advanced
nuclear reactor operated in any manner, in-
cluding as part of the power generation fa-
cilities of an electric utility system, for the
purpose of demonstrating the suitability for
commercial application of the advanced nu-
clear reactor.
‘‘(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this section
is to direct the Secretary, as soon as prac-
ticable after the date of enactment of this
section, to advance the research and develop-
ment of domestic advanced, affordable, and
clean nuclear energy by—
‘‘(1) demonstrating different advanced nu-
clear reactor technologies that could be used
by the private sector to produce—
‘‘(A) emission-free power at a levelized cost
of electricity of $60 per megawatt-hour or
less;
‘‘(B) heat for community heating, indus-
trial purposes, or synthetic fuel production;
‘‘(C) remote or off-grid energy supply; or
‘‘(D) backup or mission-critical power sup-
plies;
‘‘(2) developing subgoals for nuclear energy
research programs that would accomplish
the goals of the demonstration projects car-
ried out under subsection (c);
‘‘(3) identifying research areas that the pri-
vate sector is unable or unwilling to under-
take due to the cost of, or risks associated
with, the research; and
‘‘(4) facilitating the access of the private
sector—
‘‘(A) to Federal research facilities and per-
sonnel; and
‘‘(B) to the results of research relating to
civil nuclear technology funded by the Fed-
eral Government.
‘‘(c) DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall, to
the maximum extent practicable—
‘‘(A) enter into agreements to complete
not fewer than 2 demonstration projects by
not later than December 31, 2025; and
‘‘(B) establish a program to enter into
agreements to complete 1 additional oper-
ational demonstration project by not later
than December 31, 2035.
‘‘(2) REQUIREMENTS.—In carrying out dem-
onstration projects under paragraph (1), the
Secretary shall—
‘‘(A) include diversity in designs for the ad-
vanced nuclear reactors demonstrated under
this section, including designs using var-
ious—
‘‘(i) primary coolants;
‘‘(ii) fuel types and compositions; and
‘‘(iii) neutron spectra;
‘‘(B) seek to ensure that—
‘‘(i) the long-term cost of electricity or
heat for each design to be demonstrated
under this subsection is cost-competitive in
the applicable market;
‘‘(ii) the selected projects can meet the
deadline established in paragraph (1) to dem-
onstrate first-of-a-kind advanced nuclear re-
actor technologies, for which additional in-
formation shall be considered, including—
‘‘(I) the technology readiness level of a pro-
posed advanced nuclear reactor technology;
‘‘(II) the technical abilities and qualifica-
tions of teams desiring to demonstrate a pro-
posed advanced nuclear reactor technology;
and
‘‘(III) the capacity to meet cost-share re-
quirements of the Department;
‘‘(C) ensure that each evaluation of can-
didate technologies for the demonstration
projects is completed through an external re-
view of proposed designs, which review
shall—
‘‘(i) be conducted by a panel that includes
not fewer than 1 representative of each of—
‘‘(I) an electric utility; and
‘‘(II) an entity that uses high-temperature
process heat for manufacturing or industrial
processing, such as a petrochemical com-
pany, a manufacturer of metals, or a manu-
facturer of concrete;
‘‘(ii) include a review of cost-competitive-
ness and other value streams, together with
the technology readiness level, of each de-
sign to be demonstrated under this sub-
section; and
‘‘(iii) not be required for a demonstration
project that receives no financial assistance
from the Department for construction costs;
‘‘(D) for federally funded demonstration
projects, enter into cost-sharing agreements
with private sector partners in accordance
with section 988 for the conduct of activities
relating to the research, development, and
demonstration of private-sector advanced
nuclear reactor designs under the program;
‘‘(E) work with private sector partners to
identify potential sites, including Depart-
ment-owned sites, for demonstrations, as ap-
propriate;
‘‘(F) align specific activities carried out
under demonstration projects carried out
under this subsection with priorities identi-
fied through direct consultations between—
‘‘(i) the Department;
‘‘(ii) National Laboratories;
‘‘(iii) institutions of higher education;
‘‘(iv) traditional end-users (such as electric
utilities);
‘‘(v) potential end-users of new tech-
nologies (such as users of high-temperature
process heat for manufacturing processing,
including petrochemical companies, manu-
facturers of metals, or manufacturers of con-
crete); and
‘‘(vi) developers of advanced nuclear reac-
tor technology; and
‘‘(G) seek to ensure that the demonstration
projects carried out under paragraph (1) do
not cause any delay in a deployment of an
advanced reactor by private industry and the
Department that is underway as of the date
of enactment of this section.
‘‘(3) ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.—In car-
rying out demonstration projects under
paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
‘‘(A) identify candidate technologies that—
‘‘(i) are not developed sufficiently for dem-
onstration within the initial required time-
frame described in paragraph (1)(A); but
‘‘(ii) could be demonstrated within the
timeframe described in paragraph (1)(B);
‘‘(B) identify technical challenges to the
candidate technologies identified in subpara-
graph (A);
‘‘(C) support near-term research and devel-
opment to address the highest-risk technical
challenges to the successful demonstration
of a selected advanced reactor technology, in
accordance with—
‘‘(i) subparagraph (B); and
‘‘(ii) the research and development activi-
ties under sections 952 and 958;
‘‘(D) establish such technology advisory
working groups as the Secretary determines
to be appropriate to advise the Secretary re-
garding the technical challenges identified
under subparagraph (B) and the scope of re-
search and development programs to address
the challenges, in accordance with subpara-
graph (C), to be comprised of—
‘‘(i) private-sector advanced nuclear reac-
tor technology developers;
‘‘(ii) technical experts with respect to the
relevant technologies at institutions of high-
er education; and
‘‘(iii) technical experts at the National
Laboratories.
‘‘(d) GOALS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall es-
tablish goals for research relating to ad-
vanced nuclear reactors facilitated by the
Department that support the objectives of
the program for demonstration projects es-
tablished under subsection (c).
‘‘(2) COORDINATION.—In developing the
goals under paragraph (1), the Secretary
shall coordinate, on an ongoing basis, with
members of private industry to advance the
demonstration of various designs of ad-
vanced nuclear reactors.
‘‘(3) REQUIREMENTS.—In developing the
goals under paragraph (1), the Secretary
shall ensure that—
‘‘(A) research activities facilitated by the
Department to meet the goals developed
under this subsection are focused on key
areas of nuclear research and deployment
ranging from basic science to full-design de-
velopment, safety evaluation, and licensing;
‘‘(B) research programs designed to meet
the goals emphasize—
‘‘(i) resolving materials challenges relating
to extreme environments, including ex-
tremely high levels of—
‘‘(I) radiation fluence;
‘‘(II) temperature;
‘‘(III) pressure; and
‘‘(IV) corrosion; and
‘‘(ii) qualification of advanced fuels;
‘‘(C) activities are carried out that address
near-term challenges in modeling and sim-
ulation to enable accelerated design and li-
censing;
‘‘(D) related technologies, such as tech-
nologies to manage, reduce, or reuse nuclear
waste, are developed;
‘‘(E) nuclear research infrastructure is
maintained or constructed, such as—
‘‘(i) currently operational research reac-
tors at the National Laboratories and insti-
tutions of higher education;
‘‘(ii) hot cell research facilities;
‘‘(iii) a versatile fast neutron source; and
‘‘(iv) a molten salt testing facility;
‘‘(F) basic knowledge of non-light water
coolant physics and chemistry is improved;
‘‘(G) advanced sensors and control systems
are developed; and
‘‘(H) advanced manufacturing and ad-
vanced construction techniques and mate-
rials are investigated to reduce the cost of
advanced nuclear reactors.’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (Pub-
lic Law 109–58; 119 Stat. 594; 132 Stat. 3160) is
amended—
(1) in the item relating to section 917, by
striking ‘‘Efficiency’’;
(2) in the items relating to each of sections
957, 958, and 959 by inserting ‘‘Sec.’’ before
the item number; and
(3) by inserting after the item relating to
section 959 the following:
‘‘Sec. 959A. Advanced nuclear reactor re-
search and development
goals.’’.
SEC. 6702. NUCLEAR ENERGY STRATEGIC PLAN.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle E of title IX of
the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16271
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00275 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6962 November 16, 2020
et seq.) (as amended by section 6701(a)) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 959B. NUCLEAR ENERGY STRATEGIC PLAN.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this section,
the Secretary shall submit to the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources of the Sen-
ate and the Committees on Energy and Com-
merce and Science, Space, and Technology of
the House of Representatives a 10-year stra-
tegic plan for the Office of Nuclear Energy of
the Department, in accordance with this sec-
tion.
‘‘(b) REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(1) COMPONENTS.—The strategic plan
under this section shall designate—
‘‘(A) programs that support the planned ac-
complishment of—
‘‘(i) the goals established under section
959A; and
‘‘(ii) the demonstration programs identi-
fied under subsection (c) of that section; and
‘‘(B) programs that—
‘‘(i) do not support the planned accom-
plishment of demonstration programs, or the
goals, referred to in subparagraph (A); but
‘‘(ii) are important to the mission of the
Office of Nuclear Energy, as determined by
the Secretary.
‘‘(2) PROGRAM PLANNING.—In developing the
strategic plan under this section, the Sec-
retary shall specify expected timelines for,
as applicable—
‘‘(A) the accomplishment of relevant objec-
tives under current programs of the Depart-
ment; or
‘‘(B) the commencement of new programs
to accomplish those objectives.
‘‘(c) UPDATES.—Not less frequently than
once every 2 years, the Secretary shall sub-
mit to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources of the Senate and the Com-
mittees on Energy and Commerce and
Science, Space, and Technology of the House
of Representatives an updated 10-year stra-
tegic plan in accordance with subsection (b),
which shall identify, and provide a justifica-
tion for, any major deviation from a previous
strategic plan submitted under this sec-
tion.’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (Pub-
lic Law 109–58; 119 Stat. 594; 132 Stat. 3160) (as
amended by section 6701(b)(3)) is amended by
inserting after the item relating to section
959A the following:
‘‘Sec. 959B. Nuclear energy strategic plan.’’.
SEC. 6703. VERSATILE, REACTOR-BASED FAST
NEUTRON SOURCE.
Section 955(c)(1) of the Energy Policy Act
of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16275(c)(1)) is amended—
(1) in the paragraph heading, by striking
‘‘MISSION NEED’’ and inserting ‘‘AUTHORIZA-
TION’’; and
(2) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘deter-
mine the mission need’’ and inserting ‘‘pro-
vide’’.
SEC. 6704. ADVANCED NUCLEAR FUEL SECURITY
PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle E of title IX of
the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16271
et seq.) (as amended by section 6702(a)) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 960. ADVANCED NUCLEAR FUEL SECURITY
PROGRAM.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) HALEU TRANSPORTATION PACKAGE.—
The term ‘HALEU transportation package’
means a transportation package that is suit-
able for transporting high-assay, low-en-
riched uranium.
‘‘(2) HIGH-ASSAY, LOW-ENRICHED URANIUM.—
The term ‘high-assay, low-enriched uranium’
means uranium with an assay greater than 5
weight percent, but less than 20 weight per-
cent, of the uranium-235 isotope.
‘‘(3) HIGH-ENRICHED URANIUM.—The term
‘high-enriched uranium’ means uranium
with an assay of 20 weight percent or more of
the uranium-235 isotope.
‘‘(b) HIGH-ASSAY, LOW-ENRICHED URANIUM
PROGRAM FOR ADVANCED REACTORS.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this section,
the Secretary shall establish a program to
make available high-assay, low-enriched ura-
nium, through contracts for sale, resale,
transfer, or lease, for use in commercial or
noncommercial advanced nuclear reactors.
‘‘(2) NUCLEAR FUEL OWNERSHIP.—Each lease
under this subsection shall include a provi-
sion establishing that the high-assay, low-
enriched uranium that is the subject of the
lease shall remain the property of the De-
partment, including with respect to responsi-
bility for the storage, use, or final disposi-
tion of all radioactive waste created by the
irradiation, processing, or purification of
any leased high-assay, low-enriched ura-
nium.
‘‘(3) QUANTITY.—In carrying out the pro-
gram under this subsection, the Secretary
shall make available—
‘‘(A) by December 31, 2022, high-assay, low-
enriched uranium containing not less than 2
metric tons of the uranium-235 isotope; and
‘‘(B) by December 31, 2025, high-assay, low-
enriched uranium containing not less than 10
metric tons of the uranium-235 isotope (as
determined including the quantities of the
uranium-235 isotope made available before
December 31, 2022).
‘‘(4) FACTORS FOR CONSIDERATION.—In car-
rying out the program under this subsection,
the Secretary shall take into consideration—
‘‘(A) options for providing the high-assay,
low-enriched uranium under this subsection
from a stockpile of uranium owned by the
Department (including the National Nuclear
Security Administration), including—
‘‘(i) fuel that—
‘‘(I) directly meets the needs of an end-
user; but
‘‘(II) has been previously used or fabricated
for another purpose;
‘‘(ii) fuel that can meet the needs of an
end-user after removing radioactive or other
contaminants that resulted from a previous
use or fabrication of the fuel for research, de-
velopment, demonstration, or deployment
activities of the Department (including ac-
tivities of the National Nuclear Security Ad-
ministration); and
‘‘(iii) fuel from a high-enriched uranium
stockpile, which can be blended with lower-
assay uranium to become high-assay, low-en-
riched uranium to meet the needs of an end-
user; and
‘‘(B) requirements to support molybdenum-
99 production under the American Medical
Isotopes Production Act of 2012 (Public Law
112–239; 126 Stat. 2211).
‘‘(5) LIMITATIONS.—
‘‘(A) FINAL DISPOSITION OF RADIOACTIVE
WASTE.—The Secretary shall not barter or
otherwise sell or transfer uranium in any
form in exchange for services relating to the
final disposition of radioactive waste from
uranium that is the subject of a lease under
this subsection.
‘‘(B) NATIONAL SECURITY NEEDS.—The Sec-
retary shall only make available from De-
partment stockpiles under this subsection
high-assay, low-enriched uranium that is not
needed for national security.
‘‘(6) SUNSET.—The program under this sub-
section shall terminate on the earlier of—
‘‘(A) January 1, 2035; and
‘‘(B) the date on which uranium enriched
up to, but not equal to, 20 weight percent can
be obtained in the commercial market from
domestic suppliers.
‘‘(c) REPORT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this section,
the Secretary shall submit to the appro-
priate committees of Congress a report that
describes actions proposed to be carried out
by the Secretary—
‘‘(A) under the program under subsection
(b); or
‘‘(B) otherwise to enable the commercial
use of high-assay, low-enriched uranium.
‘‘(2) COORDINATION AND STAKEHOLDER
INPUT.—In developing the report under this
subsection, the Secretary shall seek input
from—
‘‘(A) the Nuclear Regulatory Commission;
‘‘(B) the National Laboratories;
‘‘(C) institutions of higher education;
‘‘(D) producers of medical isotopes;
‘‘(E) a diverse group of entities operating
in the nuclear energy industry; and
‘‘(F) a diverse group of technology devel-
opers.
‘‘(3) COST AND SCHEDULE ESTIMATES.—The
report under this subsection shall include es-
timated costs, budgets, and timeframes for
enabling the use of high-assay, low-enriched
uranium.
‘‘(4) REQUIRED EVALUATIONS.—The report
under this subsection shall evaluate—
‘‘(A) the costs and actions required to es-
tablish and carry out the program under sub-
section (b), including with respect to—
‘‘(i) proposed preliminary terms for the
sale, resale, transfer, and leasing of high-
assay, low-enriched uranium (including
guidelines defining the roles and responsibil-
ities between the Department and the pur-
chaser, transfer recipient, or lessee); and
‘‘(ii) the potential to coordinate with pur-
chasers, transfer recipients, and lessees re-
garding—
‘‘(I) fuel fabrication; and
‘‘(II) fuel transport;
‘‘(B) the potential sources and fuel forms
available to provide uranium for the pro-
gram under subsection (b);
‘‘(C) options to coordinate the program
under subsection (b) with the operation of
the versatile reactor-based fast neutron
source under section 955(c)(1);
‘‘(D) the ability of the domestic uranium
market to provide materials for advanced
nuclear reactor fuel; and
‘‘(E) any associated legal, regulatory, and
policy issues that should be addressed to en-
able—
‘‘(i) the program under subsection (b); and
‘‘(ii) the establishment of a domestic in-
dustry capable of providing high-assay, low-
enriched uranium for commercial and non-
commercial purposes, including with respect
to the needs of—
‘‘(I) the Department;
‘‘(II) the Department of Defense; and
‘‘(III) the National Nuclear Security Ad-
ministration.
‘‘(d) HALEU TRANSPORTATION PACKAGE RE-
SEARCH PROGRAM.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this section,
the Secretary shall establish a research, de-
velopment, and demonstration program
under which the Secretary shall provide fi-
nancial assistance, on a competitive basis, to
establish the capability to transport high-
assay, low-enriched uranium.
‘‘(2) REQUIREMENT.—The focus of the pro-
gram under this subsection shall be to estab-
lish 1 or more HALEU transportation pack-
ages that can be certified by the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission to transport high-
assay, low-enriched uranium to the various
facilities involved in producing or using nu-
clear fuel containing high-assay, low-en-
riched uranium, such as—
‘‘(A) enrichment facilities;
‘‘(B) fuel processing facilities;
‘‘(C) fuel fabrication facilities; and
‘‘(D) nuclear reactors.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents of the Energy Policy Act of 2005
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00276 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6963
November 16, 2020
(Public Law 109–58; 119 Stat. 594; 132 Stat.
3160) (as amended by section 6702(b)) is
amended by inserting after the item relating
to section 959B the following:
‘‘Sec. 960. Advanced nuclear fuel security
program.’’.
SEC. 6705. UNIVERSITY NUCLEAR LEADERSHIP
PROGRAM.
Section 313 of the Energy and Water Devel-
opment and Related Agencies Appropriations
Act, 2009 (42 U.S.C. 16274a) is amended to read
as follows:
‘‘SEC. 313. UNIVERSITY NUCLEAR LEADERSHIP
PROGRAM.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) ADVANCED NUCLEAR REACTOR.—The
term ‘advanced nuclear reactor’ means—
‘‘(A) a nuclear fission reactor, including a
prototype plant (as defined in sections 50.2
and 52.1 of title 10, Code of Federal Regula-
tions (or successor regulations)), with sig-
nificant improvements compared to the most
recent generation of fission reactors, includ-
ing improvements such as—
‘‘(i) additional inherent safety features;
‘‘(ii) lower waste yields;
‘‘(iii) improved fuel performance;
‘‘(iv) increased tolerance to loss of fuel
cooling;
‘‘(v) enhanced reliability;
‘‘(vi) increased proliferation resistance;
‘‘(vii) increased thermal efficiency;
‘‘(viii) reduced consumption of cooling
water;
‘‘(ix) the ability to integrate into electric
applications and nonelectric applications;
‘‘(x) modular sizes to allow for deployment
that corresponds with the demand for elec-
tricity; or
‘‘(xi) operational flexibility to respond to
changes in demand for electricity and to
complement integration with intermittent
renewable energy; and
‘‘(B) a fusion reactor.
‘‘(2) INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION.—
The term ‘institution of higher education’
has the meaning given the term in section
101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20
U.S.C. 1001(a)).
‘‘(3) PROGRAM.—The term ‘Program’ means
the University Nuclear Leadership Program
established under subsection (b).
‘‘(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary of
Energy, the Administrator of the National
Nuclear Security Administration, and the
Chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Com-
mission shall jointly establish a program, to
be known as the ‘University Nuclear Leader-
ship Program’.
‘‘(c) USE OF FUNDS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), amounts made available to
carry out the Program shall be used to pro-
vide financial assistance for scholarships,
fellowships, and research and development
projects at institutions of higher education
in areas relevant to the programmatic mis-
sion of the applicable Federal agency, with
an emphasis on providing the financial as-
sistance with respect to research, develop-
ment, demonstration, and deployment ac-
tivities for technologies relevant to ad-
vanced nuclear reactors, including relevant
fuel cycle technologies.
‘‘(2) EXCEPTION.—Notwithstanding para-
graph (1), amounts made available to carry
out the Program may be used to provide fi-
nancial assistance for a scholarship, fellow-
ship, or multiyear research and development
project that does not align directly with a
programmatic mission of the applicable Fed-
eral agency providing the financial assist-
ance, if the activity for which assistance is
provided would facilitate the maintenance of
the discipline of nuclear science or engineer-
ing.
‘‘(d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to
carry out the Program for fiscal year 2021
and each fiscal year thereafter—
‘‘(1) $30,000,000 to the Secretary of Energy;
and
‘‘(2) $15,000,000 to the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission.’’.
SEC. 6706. ADJUSTING STRATEGIC PETROLEUM
RESERVE MANDATED DRAWDOWNS.
(a) BIPARTISAN BUDGET ACT OF 2015.—Sec-
tion 403(a) of the Bipartisan Budget Act of
2015 (42 U.S.C. 6241 note; Public Law 114–74) is
amended—
(1) by striking paragraph (6);
(2) by redesignating paragraphs (7) and (8)
as paragraphs (6) and (7), respectively; and
(3) in paragraph (7) (as so redesignated), by
striking ‘‘10,000,000’’ and inserting
‘‘20,000,000’’.
(b) FIXING AMERICA’S SURFACE TRANSPOR-
TATION ACT.—Section 32204(a)(1) of the FAST
Act (42 U.S.C. 6241 note; Public Law 114–94) is
amended—
(1) in subparagraph (B)—
(A) by striking ‘‘16,000,000’’ and inserting
‘‘11,000,000’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘2023’’ and inserting ‘‘2022’’;
and
(2) in subparagraph (C), by striking
‘‘25,000,000’’ and inserting ‘‘30,000,000’’.
(c) AMERICA’S WATER INFRASTRUCTURE ACT
OF 2018.—Section 3009(a)(1) of America’s
Water Infrastructure Act of 2018 (42 U.S.C.
6241 note; Public Law 115–270) is amended by
striking ‘‘2028’’ and inserting ‘‘2030.’’
(d) BIPARTISAN BUDGET ACT OF 2018.—Sec-
tion 30204(a)(1) of the Bipartisan Budget Act
of 2018 (42 U.S.C. 6241 note; Public Law 115–
123) is amended by striking subparagraphs
(A) through (C) and inserting the following:
‘‘(A) 7,500,000 barrels of crude oil during fis-
cal year 2022;
‘‘(B) 7,500,000 barrels of crude oil during fis-
cal year 2024;
‘‘(C) 15,000,000 barrels of crude oil during
fiscal year 2025;
‘‘(D) 30,000,000 barrels of crude oil during
fiscal year 2029; and
‘‘(E) 40,000,000 barrels of crude oil during
fiscal year 2030.’’.
(e) RECONCILIATION ON THE BUDGET FOR
2018.—Section 20003(a)(1) of Public Law 115–97
(42 U.S.C. 6241 note) is amended by striking
‘‘the period of fiscal years 2026 through 2027’’
and inserting ‘‘fiscal year 2030’’.
TITLE LXXVIII—MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
Subtitle A—Military Construction Program
SEC. 7801. MODIFICATION TO AUTHORITY FOR
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
PROJECTS FOR CHILD DEVELOP-
MENT CENTERS AT MILITARY IN-
STALLATIONS.
Section 2809(b) of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 is
amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘and an-
nually thereafter,’’ after ‘‘this Act,’’; and
(2) in paragraph (2)—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘the
report’’ and inserting ‘‘a report’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ‘‘in
which the project is included’’ before the pe-
riod at the end.
SEC. 7802. MODIFICATION OF CONSTRUCTION OF
GROUND-BASED STRATEGIC DETER-
RENT LAUNCH FACILITIES AND
LAUNCH CENTERS FOR THE AIR
FORCE.
Subsection (e) of section 2802 is deemed to
read as follows:
‘‘(e) FUNDING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Of the amount author-
ized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 as
specified in the funding table in section 4601,
the Secretary of the Air Force may expend
not more than $15,000,000 for the purposes of
planning and design to support the projects
described in subsection (a).
‘‘(2) INCREASE.—The amount authorized to
be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 for mili-
tary construction for the Air Force is hereby
increased by $15,000,000, with the amount of
the increase to be designated to Air Force,
Unspecified Worldwide Locations, Planning
and Design.
‘‘(3) OFFSET.—The amount authorized to be
appropriated for fiscal year 2021 for oper-
ation and maintenance for the Army is here-
by reduced by $15,000,000, with the amount of
the reduction to be derived from subactivity
group 421, Servicewide Transportation.’’.
Subtitle B—Military Family Housing
SEC. 7821. INCLUSION OF ASSESSMENT OF PER-
FORMANCE METRICS IN ANNUAL
PUBLICATION ON USE OF INCEN-
TIVE FEES FOR PRIVATIZED MILI-
TARY HOUSING PROJECTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 2891c of title 10,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) by striking the section heading and in-
serting the following: ‘‘Transparency regard-
ing finances and performance metrics’’;
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) in the subsection heading, by inserting
‘‘PERFORMANCE METRICS AND’’ before ‘‘USE OF
INCENTIVE FEES’’;
(B) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘publicly
accessible website, information’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘publicly accessible website—
‘‘(A) for each contract for the provision or
management of housing units—
‘‘(i) an assessment of indicators underlying
the performance metrics under such contract
to ensure such indicators adequately meas-
ure the condition and quality of the home or
homes covered by the contract, including—
‘‘(I) resident satisfaction;
‘‘(II) maintenance management;
‘‘(III) project safety; and
‘‘(IV) financial management; and
‘‘(ii) a detailed description of each indi-
cator assessed under subparagraph (A), in-
cluding an indication of—
‘‘(I) the limitations of available survey
data;
‘‘(II) how resident satisfaction and mainte-
nance management is calculated; and
‘‘(III) whether data is missing; and
‘‘(B) information’’; and
(C) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘para-
graph (1)’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraph (1)(B)’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of subchapter V of
chapter 169 of such title is amended by strik-
ing the item relating to section 2891c and in-
serting the following new item:
‘‘2891c. Transparency regarding finances and
performance metrics.’’.
Subtitle D—Land Conveyances
SEC. 7861. ESTABLISHMENT OF INTERAGENCY
COMMITTEES ON JOINT USE OF CER-
TAIN LAND WITHDRAWN FROM AP-
PROPRIATION UNDER PUBLIC LAND
LAWS.
(a) INTERAGENCY EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE ON
JOINT USE BY DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY AND
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR OF NAVAL AIR
STATION FALLON RANGES.—Section 3011(a) of
the Military Lands Withdrawal Act of 1999
(Public Law 106–65; 113 Stat. 885) is amended
by adding at the end the following new para-
graph:
‘‘(5) INTERGOVERNMENTAL EXECUTIVE COM-
MITTEE.—
‘‘(A) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary of
the Navy and the Secretary of the Interior
shall jointly establish, by memorandum of
understanding, an intergovernmental execu-
tive committee (referred to in this paragraph
as the ‘executive committee’), for the pur-
pose of exchanging views, information, and
advice relating to the management of the
natural and cultural resources of the land
described in paragraph (2).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00277 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6964 November 16, 2020
‘‘(B) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING.—
The memorandum of understanding entered
into under subparagraph (A) shall include—
‘‘(i) a description of the officials and other
individuals to be invited to participate as
members in the executive committee under
subparagraph (C);
‘‘(ii) a description of the duties of the
Chairperson and Vice Chairperson of the ex-
ecutive committee; and
‘‘(iii) subject to subparagraphs (D) and (E),
a procedure for—
‘‘(I) creating a forum to carry out the pur-
pose described in subparagraph (A);
‘‘(II) rotating the Chairperson of the execu-
tive committee; and
‘‘(III) scheduling regular meetings of the
executive committee.
‘‘(C) MEMBERSHIP.—The executive com-
mittee shall be comprised of—
‘‘(i) 1 representative of the Nevada Depart-
ment of Wildlife;
‘‘(ii) 1 representative of the Nevada Depart-
ment of Conservation and Natural Re-
sources;
‘‘(iii) 1 county commissioner from each of
Churchill, Lyon, Nye, Mineral, and Pershing
Counties, Nevada;
‘‘(iv) 1 representative of each Indian tribe
in the vicinity of the land described in para-
graph (2); and
‘‘(v) not more than 3 members that the
Secretary of the Navy and the Secretary of
the Interior jointly determine would advance
the goals and objectives of the executive
committee.
‘‘(D) CHAIRPERSON AND VICE CHAIRPERSON.—
The members of the executive committee
shall elect from among the members—
‘‘(i) 1 member to serve as Chairperson of
the executive committee; and
‘‘(ii) 1 member to serve as Vice Chairperson
of the executive committee.
‘‘(E) MEETINGS.—
‘‘(i) FREQUENCY.—The executive committee
shall meet not less frequently than 3 times
each calendar year.
‘‘(ii) LOCATION.—The location of the meet-
ings of the executive committee shall rotate
to facilitate ease of access for all members of
the executive committee.
‘‘(iii) PUBLIC ACCESSIBILITY.—The meetings
of the executive committee shall—
‘‘(I) be open to the public; and
‘‘(II) serve as a forum for the public to pro-
vide comments regarding the natural and
cultural resources of the land described in
paragraph (2).
‘‘(F) CONDITIONS AND TERMS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Each member of the ex-
ecutive committee shall serve voluntarily
and without compensation.
‘‘(ii) TERM OF APPOINTMENT.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subclause (II)(bb), each member of the execu-
tive committee shall be appointed for a term
of 4 years.
‘‘(II) ORIGINAL MEMBERS.—Of the members
initially appointed to the executive com-
mittee, the Secretary of the Navy and the
Secretary of the Interior shall select—
‘‘(aa) 1⁄2 to serve for a term of 4 years; and
‘‘(bb) 1⁄2 to serve for a term of 2 years.
‘‘(iii) REAPPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT.—
The Secretary of the Navy and the Secretary
of the Interior may reappoint or replace, as
appropriate, a member of the executive com-
mittee if—
‘‘(I) the term of the member has expired;
‘‘(II) the member has resigned; or
‘‘(III) the position held by the member has
changed to the extent that the ability of the
member to represent the group or entity
that the member represents has been signifi-
cantly affected.
‘‘(G) LIAISONS.—The Secretary of the Navy
and the Secretary of the Interior shall each
appoint appropriate operational and land
management personnel of the Department of
the Navy and the Department of the Inte-
rior, respectively, to serve as liaisons to the
executive committee.’’.
(b) JOINT ACCESS AND USE BY DEPARTMENT
OF THE AIR FORCE AND DEPARTMENT OF THE
INTERIOR OF NEVADA TEST AND TRAINING
RANGE AND DESERT NATIONAL WILDLIFE REF-
UGE.—
(1) UNITED STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERV-
ICE AND DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE CO-
ORDINATION.—Section 3011(b)(5) of the Mili-
tary Lands Withdrawal Act of 1999 (Public
Law 106–65; 113 Stat. 887) is amended by add-
ing at the end the following new subpara-
graph:
‘‘(G) INTERAGENCY COMMITTEE.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the In-
terior and the Secretary of the Air Force
shall jointly establish an interagency com-
mittee (referred to in this subparagraph as
the ‘interagency committee’) to facilitate
coordination, manage public access needs
and requirements, and minimize potential
conflict between the Department of the Inte-
rior and the Department of the Air Force
with respect to joint operating areas within
the Desert National Wildlife Refuge.
‘‘(ii) MEMBERSHIP.—The interagency com-
mittee shall include only the following mem-
bers:
‘‘(I) Representatives from the United
States Fish and Wildlife Service.
‘‘(II) Representatives from the Department
of the Air Force.
‘‘(III) The Project Leader of the Desert Na-
tional Wildlife Refuge Complex.
‘‘(IV) The Commander of the Nevada Test
and Training Range, Nellis Air Force Base.
‘‘(iii) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—The inter-
agency committee shall biannually submit
to the Committees on Armed Services, Envi-
ronment and Public Works, and Energy and
Natural Resources of the Senate and the
Committees on Armed Services and Natural
Resources of the House of Representatives,
and make available publicly online, a report
on the activities of the interagency com-
mittee.’’.
(2) INTERGOVERNMENTAL EXECUTIVE COM-
MITTEE.—Such section is further amended by
adding at the end the following new subpara-
graph:
‘‘(H) INTERGOVERNMENTAL EXECUTIVE COM-
MITTEE.—
‘‘(i) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary of the
Interior and the Secretary of the Air Force
shall jointly establish, by memorandum of
understanding, an intergovernmental execu-
tive committee (referred to in this subpara-
graph as the ‘executive committee’) in ac-
cordance with this subparagraph.
‘‘(ii) PURPOSE.—The executive committee
shall be established for the purposes of—
‘‘(I) exchanging views, information, and ad-
vice relating to the management of the nat-
ural and cultural resources of the lands with-
drawn and reserved by this section; and
‘‘(II) discussing and making recommenda-
tions to the interagency committee estab-
lished under subparagraph (G) with respect
to public access needs and requirements.
‘‘(iii) COMPOSITION.—The executive com-
mittee shall comprise the following mem-
bers:
‘‘(I) FEDERAL AGENCIES.—The Secretary of
the Interior and the Secretary of the Air
Force shall each appoint 1 representative
from an interested Federal agency.
‘‘(II) STATE GOVERNMENT.—The Secretary
of the Interior and the Secretary of the Air
Force shall jointly invite 1 representative of
the Nevada Department of Wildlife.
‘‘(III) LOCAL GOVERNMENTS.—The Secretary
of the Interior and the Secretary of the Air
Force shall jointly invite 1 county commis-
sioner of each of Clark, Nye, and Lincoln
Counties, Nevada.
‘‘(IV) TRIBAL GOVERNMENTS.—The Sec-
retary of the Interior and the Secretary of
the Air Force shall jointly invite 1 represent-
ative of each Indian tribe in the vicinity of
the portions of the joint use area of the
Desert National Wildlife Refuge where the
Secretary of the Interior exercises primary
jurisdiction.
‘‘(V) PUBLIC.—The Secretary of the Inte-
rior and the Secretary of the Air Force shall
jointly invite not more than 3 private indi-
viduals who the Secretary of the Interior and
the Secretary of the Air Force jointly deter-
mine would further the goals and objectives
of the executive committee.
‘‘(VI) ADDITIONAL MEMBERS.—The Sec-
retary of the Interior and the Secretary of
the Air Force may designate such additional
members as the Secretary of the Interior and
the Secretary of the Air Force jointly deter-
mine to be appropriate.
‘‘(iv) OPERATION.—The executive com-
mittee shall operate in accordance with the
terms set forth in the memorandum of un-
derstanding under clause (i), which shall
specify the officials or other individuals to
be invited to participate in the executive
committee in accordance with clause (iii).
‘‘(v) PROCEDURES.—Subject to clauses (vi)
and (vii), the memorandum of understanding
under clause (i) shall establish procedures
for—
‘‘(I) creating a forum for carrying out the
purpose described in clause (ii);
‘‘(II) rotating the Chairperson of the execu-
tive committee; and
‘‘(III) scheduling regular meetings.
‘‘(vi) CHAIRPERSON AND VICE CHAIRPERSON.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—The members of the ex-
ecutive committee shall elect from among
the members—
‘‘(aa) 1 member to serve as the Chairperson
of the executive committee; and
‘‘(bb) 1 member to serve as the Vice Chair-
person of the executive committee.
‘‘(II) DUTIES.—The duties of each of the
Chairperson and the Vice Chairperson shall
be included in the memorandum of under-
standing under clause (i).
‘‘(vii) MEETINGS.—
‘‘(I) FREQUENCY.—The executive committee
shall meet not less frequently than 3 times
each calendar year.
‘‘(II) MEETING LOCATIONS.—Locations of
meetings of the executive committee shall
rotate to facilitate ease of access for all ex-
ecutive committee members.
‘‘(III) PUBLIC ACCESSIBILITY.—Meetings of
the executive committee shall—
‘‘(aa) be open to the public; and
‘‘(bb) provide a forum for the public to pro-
vide comment regarding the management of,
and public access to, the Nevada Test and
Training Range and the Desert National
Wildlife Refuge.
‘‘(viii) CONDITIONS AND TERMS OF APPOINT-
MENT.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—Each member of the ex-
ecutive committee shall serve voluntarily
and without compensation.
‘‘(II) TERM OF APPOINTMENT.—
‘‘(aa) IN GENERAL.—Each member of the ex-
ecutive committee shall be appointed for a
term of 4 years.
‘‘(bb) ORIGINAL MEMBERS.—Notwith-
standing item (aa), the Secretary of the Inte-
rior and the Secretary of the Air Force shall
select—
‘‘(AA) 1⁄2 of the original members of the ex-
ecutive committee to serve for a term of 4
years; and
‘‘(BB) 1⁄2 of the original members of the ex-
ecutive committee to serve for a term of 2
years.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00278 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6965
November 16, 2020
‘‘(III) REAPPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT.—
The Secretary of the Interior and the Sec-
retary of the Air Force may reappoint or re-
place a member of the executive committee
if—
‘‘(aa) the term of the member has expired;
‘‘(bb) the member has resigned; or
‘‘(cc) the position held by the member has
changed to the extent that the ability of the
member to represent the group or entity
that the member represents has been signifi-
cantly affected.
‘‘(ix) LIAISONS.—The Secretary of the Air
Force and the Secretary of the Interior shall
each appoint appropriate operational and
land management personnel of the Depart-
ment of the Air Force and the Department of
the Interior, respectively, to participate in,
and serve as liaisons to, the executive com-
mittee.’’.
SEC. 7862. LEASE EXTENSION FOR BRYAN MULTI-
SPORTS COMPLEX, WAYNE COUNTY,
NORTH CAROLINA.
(a) AUTHORITY.—The Secretary of the Air
Force may extend to the City of Goldsboro
the existing lease of the approximately 62-
acre Bryan Multi-Sports Complex located in
Wayne County, North Carolina, for the pur-
pose of operating a sports and recreation fa-
cility for the benefit of both the Air Force
and the community.
(b) DURATION.—At the option of the Sec-
retary of the Air Force, the lease entered
into under this section may be extended for
up to 30 additional years with a total lease
period not to exceed 50 years.
(c) PAYMENTS UNDER THE LEASE.—The Sec-
retary of the Air Force may waive the re-
quirement under section 2667(b)(4) of title 10,
United States Code, with respect to the lease
entered into under this section if the Sec-
retary determines that the lease enhances
the quality of life of members of the Armed
Forces.
(d) SENSE OF SENATE.—It is the Sense of
the Senate regarding the conditions gov-
erning the extension of the current lease for
the Bryan Multi-Sports Complex that—
(1) the Senate has determined it is in the
best interest of the community and the Air
Force to extend the lease at no cost;
(2) the current lease allowed the Air Force
to close their sports field on Seymour-John-
son Air Force Base and resulted in a savings
of $15,000 per year in utilities and grounds
maintenance costs;
(3) the current sports complex reduces
force protection vulnerability now that the
sports complex is located outside the fence
line of the installation; and
(4) the facility has improved the quality of
life for military families stationed at Sey-
mour-Johnson Air Force Base by allowing
members of the Armed Forces and their fam-
ilies to have access to world class sports fa-
cilities located adjacent to the installation
and on-base privatized housing with easy ac-
cess by junior enlisted members residing in
the dorms.
Subtitle E—Other Matters
SEC. 7881. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON RELOCATION
OF JOINT SPECTRUM CENTER.
It is the Sense of Congress that Congress
strongly recommends that the Director of
the Defense Information Systems Agency
begin the process for the relocation of the
Joint Spectrum Center of the Department of
Defense to the building at Fort Meade that is
allocated for such center.
DIVISION F—INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZA-
TION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2021
SEC. 9001. SHORT TITLE.
This division may be cited as the ‘‘Intel-
ligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2021’’.
SEC. 9002. DEFINITIONS.
In this division:
(1) CONGRESSIONAL INTELLIGENCE COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘congressional intelligence
committees’’ has the meaning given such
term in section 3 of the National Security
Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).
(2) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.—The term
‘‘intelligence community’’ has the meaning
given such term in such section.
TITLE XCI—INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
SEC. 9101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
Funds are hereby authorized to be appro-
priated for fiscal year 2021 for the conduct of
the intelligence and intelligence-related ac-
tivities of the following elements of the
United States Government:
(1) The Office of the Director of National
Intelligence.
(2) The Central Intelligence Agency.
(3) The Department of Defense.
(4) The Defense Intelligence Agency.
(5) The National Security Agency.
(6) The Department of the Army, the De-
partment of the Navy, and the Department
of the Air Force.
(7) The Coast Guard.
(8) The Department of State.
(9) The Department of the Treasury.
(10) The Department of Energy.
(11) The Department of Justice.
(12) The Federal Bureau of Investigation.
(13) The Drug Enforcement Administra-
tion.
(14) The National Reconnaissance Office.
(15) The National Geospatial-Intelligence
Agency.
(16) The Department of Homeland Secu-
rity.
SEC. 9102. CLASSIFIED SCHEDULE OF AUTHOR-
IZATIONS.
(a) SPECIFICATIONS OF AMOUNTS.—The
amounts authorized to be appropriated under
section 9101 for the conduct of the intel-
ligence activities of the elements listed in
paragraphs (1) through (16) of section 9101,
are those specified in the classified Schedule
of Authorizations prepared to accompany
this division.
(b) AVAILABILITY OF CLASSIFIED SCHEDULE
OF AUTHORIZATIONS.—
(1) AVAILABILITY.—The classified Schedule
of Authorizations referred to in subsection
(a) shall be made available to the Committee
on Appropriations of the Senate, the Com-
mittee on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives, and to the President.
(2) DISTRIBUTION BY THE PRESIDENT.—Sub-
ject to paragraph (3), the President shall pro-
vide for suitable distribution of the classified
Schedule of Authorizations referred to in
subsection (a), or of appropriate portions of
such Schedule, within the executive branch
of the Federal Government.
(3) LIMITS ON DISCLOSURE.—The President
shall not publicly disclose the classified
Schedule of Authorizations or any portion of
such Schedule except—
(A) as provided in section 601(a) of the Im-
plementing Recommendations of the 9/11
Commission Act of 2007 (50 U.S.C. 3306(a));
(B) to the extent necessary to implement
the budget; or
(C) as otherwise required by law.
SEC. 9103. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MANAGE-
MENT ACCOUNT.
(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated for
the Intelligence Community Management
Account of the Director of National Intel-
ligence for fiscal year 2021 the sum of
$731,200,000.
(b) CLASSIFIED AUTHORIZATION OF APPRO-
PRIATIONS.—In addition to amounts author-
ized to be appropriated for the Intelligence
Community Management Account by sub-
section (a), there are authorized to be appro-
priated for the Intelligence Community Man-
agement Account for fiscal year 2021 such ad-
ditional amounts as are specified in the clas-
sified Schedule of Authorizations referred to
in section 9102(a).
TITLE XCII—CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE
AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY
SYSTEM
SEC. 9201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
There is authorized to be appropriated for
the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement
and Disability Fund $514,000,000 for fiscal
year 2021.
TITLE XCIII—INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
MATTERS
Subtitle A—General Intelligence Community
Matters
SEC. 9301. RESTRICTION ON CONDUCT OF INTEL-
LIGENCE ACTIVITIES.
The authorization of appropriations by
this division shall not be deemed to con-
stitute authority for the conduct of any in-
telligence activity which is not otherwise
authorized by the Constitution or the laws of
the United States.
SEC. 9302. INCREASE IN EMPLOYEE COMPENSA-
TION AND BENEFITS AUTHORIZED
BY LAW.
Appropriations authorized by this division
for salary, pay, retirement, and other bene-
fits for Federal employees may be increased
by such additional or supplemental amounts
as may be necessary for increases in such
compensation or benefits authorized by law.
SEC. 9303. CLARIFICATION OF AUTHORITIES AND
RESPONSIBILITIES OF NATIONAL
MANAGER FOR NATIONAL SECURITY
TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND INFOR-
MATION SYSTEMS SECURITY.
In carrying out the authorities and respon-
sibilities of the National Manager for Na-
tional Security Telecommunications and In-
formation Systems Security under National
Security Directive 42 (signed by the Presi-
dent on July 5, 1990), the National Manager
shall not supervise, oversee, or execute, ei-
ther directly or indirectly, any aspect of the
National Intelligence Program.
SEC. 9304. CONTINUITY OF OPERATIONS PLANS
FOR CERTAIN ELEMENTS OF THE IN-
TELLIGENCE COMMUNITY IN THE
CASE OF A NATIONAL EMERGENCY.
(a) DEFINITION OF COVERED NATIONAL EMER-
GENCY.—In this section, the term ‘‘covered
national emergency’’ means the following:
(1) A major disaster declared by the Presi-
dent under section 401 of the Robert T. Staf-
ford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assist-
ance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170).
(2) An emergency declared by the President
under section 501 of the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act (42 U.S.C. 5191).
(3) A national emergency declared by the
President under the National Emergencies
Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.).
(4) A public health emergency declared
under section 319 of the Public Health Serv-
ice Act (42 U.S.C. 247d).
(b) IN GENERAL.—The Director of National
Intelligence, the Director of the Central In-
telligence Agency, the Director of the Na-
tional Reconnaissance Office, the Director of
the Defense Intelligence Agency, the Direc-
tor of the National Security Agency, and the
Director of the National Geospatial-Intel-
ligence Agency shall each establish con-
tinuity of operations plans for use in the
case of covered national emergencies for the
element of the intelligence community con-
cerned.
(c) SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS.—
(1) DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE
AND DIRECTOR OF THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE
AGENCY.—Not later than 7 days after the date
on which a covered national emergency is de-
clared, the Director of National Intelligence
and the Director of the Central Intelligence
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00279 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6966 November 16, 2020
Agency shall each submit to the congres-
sional intelligence committees the plan es-
tablished under subsection (b) for that emer-
gency for the element of the intelligence
community concerned.
(2) DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL RECONNAISSANCE
OFFICE, DIRECTOR OF DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE
AGENCY, DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL SECURITY
AGENCY, AND DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL
GEOSPATIAL-INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.—Not later
than 7 days after the date on which a covered
national emergency is declared, the Director
of the National Reconnaissance Office, the
Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency,
the Director of the National Security Agen-
cy, and the Director of the National
Geospatial-Intelligence Agency shall each
submit the plan established under subsection
(b) for that emergency for the element of the
intelligence community concerned to the fol-
lowing:
(A) The congressional intelligence commit-
tees.
(B) The Committee on Armed Services of
the Senate.
(C) The Committee on Armed Services of
the House of Representatives.
(d) UPDATES.—During a covered national
emergency, the Director of National Intel-
ligence, the Director of the Central Intel-
ligence Agency, the Director of the National
Reconnaissance Office, the Director of the
Defense Intelligence Agency, the Director of
the National Security Agency, and the Di-
rector of the National Geospatial-Intel-
ligence Agency shall each submit any up-
dates to the plans submitted under sub-
section (c)—
(1) in accordance with that subsection; and
(2) in a timely manner consistent with sec-
tion 501 of the National Security Act of 1947
(50 U.S.C. 3091).
SEC. 9305. APPLICATION OF EXECUTIVE SCHED-
ULE LEVEL III TO POSITION OF DI-
RECTOR OF NATIONAL RECONNAIS-
SANCE OFFICE.
Section 5314 of title 5, United States Code,
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘Director of the National Reconnaissance
Office.’’.
SEC. 9306. NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE UNIVER-
SITY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title X of the National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3191 et seq.) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘Subtitle D—National Intelligence University
‘‘SEC. 1031. TRANSFER DATE.
‘‘In this subtitle, the term ‘transfer date’
means the date on which the National Intel-
ligence University is transferred from the
Defense Intelligence Agency to the Director
of National Intelligence under section 5324(a)
of the National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92).
‘‘SEC. 1032. DEGREE-GRANTING AUTHORITY.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Beginning on the trans-
fer date, under regulations prescribed by the
Director of National Intelligence, the Presi-
dent of the National Intelligence University
may, upon the recommendation of the fac-
ulty of the University, confer appropriate de-
grees upon graduates who meet the degree
requirements.
‘‘(b) LIMITATION.—A degree may not be con-
ferred under this section unless—
‘‘(1) the Secretary of Education has rec-
ommended approval of the degree in accord-
ance with the Federal Policy Governing
Granting of Academic Degrees by Federal
Agencies; and
‘‘(2) the University is accredited by the ap-
propriate academic accrediting agency or or-
ganization to award the degree, as deter-
mined by the Secretary of Education.
‘‘(c) CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION REQUIRE-
MENTS.—
‘‘(1) ACTIONS ON NONACCREDITATION.—Begin-
ning on the transfer date, the Director shall
promptly—
‘‘(A) notify the congressional intelligence
committees of any action by the Middle
States Commission on Higher Education, or
other appropriate academic accrediting
agency or organization, to not accredit the
University to award any new or existing de-
gree; and
‘‘(B) submit to such committees a report
containing an explanation of any such ac-
tion.
‘‘(2) MODIFICATION OR REDESIGNATION OF DE-
GREE-GRANTING AUTHORITY.—Beginning on
the transfer date, upon any modification or
redesignation of existing degree-granting au-
thority, the Director shall submit to the
congressional intelligence committees a re-
port containing—
‘‘(A) the rationale for the proposed modi-
fication or redesignation; and
‘‘(B) any subsequent recommendation of
the Secretary of Education with respect to
the proposed modification or redesignation.
‘‘SEC. 1033. FACULTY MEMBERS; EMPLOYMENT
AND COMPENSATION.
‘‘(a) AUTHORITY OF DIRECTOR.—Beginning
on the transfer date, the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence may employ as many pro-
fessors, instructors, and lecturers at the Na-
tional Intelligence University as the Direc-
tor considers necessary.
‘‘(b) COMPENSATION OF FACULTY MEM-
BERS.—The compensation of persons em-
ployed under this section shall be as pre-
scribed by the Director.
‘‘(c) COMPENSATION PLAN.—The Director
shall provide each person employed as a pro-
fessor, instructor, or lecturer at the Univer-
sity on the transfer date an opportunity to
elect to be paid under the compensation plan
in effect on the day before the transfer date
(with no reduction in pay) or under the au-
thority of this section.
‘‘SEC. 1034. ACCEPTANCE OF FACULTY RESEARCH
GRANTS.
‘‘The Director of National Intelligence
may authorize the President of the National
Intelligence University to accept qualifying
research grants in the same manner and to
the same degree as the President of the Na-
tional Defense University under section
2165(e) of title 10, United States Code.
‘‘SEC. 1035. CONTINUED APPLICABILITY OF THE
FEDERAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE
ACT TO THE BOARD OF VISITORS.
‘‘The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5
U.S.C. App.) shall continue to apply to the
Board of Visitors of the National Intel-
ligence University on and after the transfer
date.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section
5324 of the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92)
is amended—
(1) in subsection (b)(1)(C), by striking ‘‘sub-
section (e)(2)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 1032(b)
of the National Security Act of 1947’’;
(2) by striking subsections (e) and (f); and
(3) by redesignating subsections (g) and (h)
as subsections (e) and (f), respectively.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents of the National Security Act of 1947
is amended by inserting after the item relat-
ing to section 1024 the following:
‘‘Subtitle D—National Intelligence
University
‘‘Sec. 1031. Transfer date.
‘‘Sec. 1032. Degree-granting authority.
‘‘Sec. 1033. Faculty members; employment
and compensation.
‘‘Sec. 1034. Acceptance of faculty research
grants.
‘‘Sec. 1035. Continued applicability of the
Federal Advisory Committee
Act to the Board of Visitors.’’.
SEC. 9307. REQUIRING FACILITATION OF ESTAB-
LISHMENT OF SOCIAL MEDIA DATA
AND THREAT ANALYSIS CENTER.
(a) REQUIREMENT TO FACILITATE ESTABLISH-
MENT.—Subsection (c)(1) of section 5323 of
the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92) is
amended, by striking ‘‘may’’ and inserting
‘‘shall’’.
(b) DEADLINE TO FACILITATE ESTABLISH-
MENT.—Such subsection is further amended
by striking ‘‘The Director’’ and inserting
‘‘Not later than 180 days after the date of the
enactment of the Intelligence Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2021, the Director’’.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) REPORTING.—Subsection (d) of such sec-
tion is amended—
(A) in the matter before paragraph (1), by
striking ‘‘If the Director’’ and all that fol-
lows through ‘‘the Center, the’’ and inserting
‘‘The’’; and
(B) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act’’
and inserting ‘‘180 days after the date of the
enactment of the Intelligence Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2021’’.
(2) FUNDING.—Subsection (f) of such section
is amended by striking ‘‘fiscal year 2020 and
2021’’ and inserting ‘‘fiscal year 2021 and
2022’’.
(3) CLERICAL.—Subsection (c) of such sec-
tion is amended—
(A) in the subsection heading, by striking
‘‘AUTHORITY’’ and inserting ‘‘REQUIREMENT’’;
and
(B) in paragraph (1), in the paragraph head-
ing, by striking ‘‘AUTHORITY’’ and inserting
‘‘REQUIREMENT’’.
SEC. 9308. DATA COLLECTION ON ATTRITION IN
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.
(a) STANDARDS FOR DATA COLLECTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence shall
establish standards for collecting data relat-
ing to attrition in the intelligence commu-
nity workforce across demographics, speci-
alities, and length of service.
(2) INCLUSION OF CERTAIN CANDIDATES.—The
Director shall include, in the standards es-
tablished under paragraph (1), standards for
collecting data from candidates who accept-
ed conditional offers of employment but
chose to withdraw from the hiring process
before entering into service, including data
with respect to the reasons such candidates
chose to withdraw.
(b) COLLECTION OF DATA.—Not later than
120 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, each element of the intelligence
community shall begin collecting data on
workforce and candidate attrition in accord-
ance with the standards established under
subsection (a).
(c) ANNUAL REPORT.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
and annually thereafter, the Director shall
submit to the congressional intelligence
committees a report on workforce and can-
didate attrition in the intelligence commu-
nity that includes—
(1) the findings of the Director based on
the data collected under subsection (b);
(2) recommendations for addressing any
issues identified in those findings; and
(3) an assessment of timeliness in proc-
essing hiring applications of individuals pre-
viously employed by an element of the intel-
ligence community, consistent with the
Trusted Workforce 2.0 initiative sponsored
by the Security Clearance, Suitability, and
Credentialing Performance Accountability
Council.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00280 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6967
November 16, 2020
SEC. 9309. LIMITATION ON DELEGATION OF RE-
SPONSIBILITY FOR PROGRAM MAN-
AGEMENT OF INFORMATION-SHAR-
ING ENVIRONMENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1016(b) of the In-
telligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention
Act of 2004 (6 U.S.C. 485(b)), as amended by
section 6402(a) of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public
Law 116–92), is further amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), in the matter before
subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘Director of
National Intelligence’’ and inserting ‘‘Presi-
dent’’;
(2) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘Director
of National Intelligence’’ both places it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘President’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(3) DELEGATION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B), the President may delegate responsi-
bility for carrying out this subsection.
‘‘(B) LIMITATION.—The President may not
delegate responsibility for carrying out this
subsection to the Director of National Intel-
ligence.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by subsection (a) shall take effect on
October 1, 2020.
SEC. 9310. IMPROVEMENTS TO PROVISIONS RE-
LATING TO INTELLIGENCE COMMU-
NITY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
ENVIRONMENT.
Section 6312 of the National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public
Law 116–92) is amended by striking sub-
sections (e) through (i) and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(e) LONG-TERM ROADMAP.—Not later than
180 days after the date of the enactment of
the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2021, the Director of National Intel-
ligence shall develop and maintain a long-
term roadmap for the intelligence commu-
nity information technology environment.
‘‘(f) BUSINESS PLAN.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of the
Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2021, the Director of National Intel-
ligence shall develop and maintain a busi-
ness plan to implement the long-term road-
map required by subsection (e).’’.
SEC. 9311. REQUIREMENTS AND AUTHORITIES
FOR DIRECTOR OF THE CENTRAL IN-
TELLIGENCE AGENCY TO IMPROVE
EDUCATION IN SCIENCE, TECH-
NOLOGY, ENGINEERING, ARTS, AND
MATHEMATICS.
The Central Intelligence Agency Act of
1949 (50 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.) is amended by
adding the following:
‘‘SEC. 24. IMPROVEMENT OF EDUCATION IN
SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, ENGINEER-
ING, ARTS, AND MATHEMATICS.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) ELIGIBLE ENTITY.—The term ‘eligible
entity’ includes a department or agency of
the Federal Government, a State, a political
subdivision of a State, an individual, and a
not-for-profit or other organization in the
private sector.
‘‘(2) EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION.—The term
‘educational institution’ includes any public
or private elementary school or secondary
school, institution of higher education, col-
lege, university, or any other profit or non-
profit institution that is dedicated to im-
proving science, technology, engineering, the
arts, mathematics, business, law, medicine,
or other fields that promote development
and education relating to science, tech-
nology, engineering, the arts, or mathe-
matics.
‘‘(3) STATE.—The term ‘State’ means each
of the several States, the District of Colum-
bia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Is-
lands, and any other territory or possession
of the United States.
‘‘(b) REQUIREMENTS.—The Director shall,
on a continuing basis—
‘‘(1) identify actions that the Director may
take to improve education in the scientific,
technology, engineering, arts, and mathe-
matics (known as ‘STEAM’) skills necessary
to meet the long-term national security
needs of the United States for personnel pro-
ficient in such skills; and
‘‘(2) establish and conduct programs to
carry out such actions.
‘‘(c) AUTHORITIES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Director, in support
of educational programs in science, tech-
nology, engineering, the arts, and mathe-
matics, may—
‘‘(A) award grants to eligible entities;
‘‘(B) provide cash awards and other items
to eligible entities;
‘‘(C) accept voluntary services from eligi-
ble entities;
‘‘(D) support national competition judging,
other educational event activities, and asso-
ciated award ceremonies in connection with
such educational programs; and
‘‘(E) enter into one or more education part-
nership agreements with educational institu-
tions in the United States for the purpose of
encouraging and enhancing study in science,
technology, engineering, the arts, and math-
ematics disciplines at all levels of education.
‘‘(2) EDUCATION PARTNERSHIP AGREE-
MENTS.—
‘‘(A) NATURE OF ASSISTANCE PROVIDED.—
Under an education partnership agreement
entered into with an educational institution
under paragraph (1)(E), the Director may
provide assistance to the educational insti-
tution by—
‘‘(i) loaning equipment to the educational
institution for any purpose and duration in
support of such agreement that the Director
considers appropriate;
‘‘(ii) making personnel available to teach
science courses or to assist in the develop-
ment of science courses and materials for the
educational institution;
‘‘(iii) providing sabbatical opportunities
for faculty and internship opportunities for
students;
‘‘(iv) involving faculty and students of the
educational institution in Agency projects,
including research and technology transfer
or transition projects;
‘‘(v) cooperating with the educational in-
stitution in developing a program under
which students may be given academic cred-
it for work on Agency projects, including re-
search and technology transfer for transition
projects; and
‘‘(vi) providing academic and career advice
and assistance to students of the educational
institution.
‘‘(B) PRIORITIES.—In entering into edu-
cation partnership agreements under para-
graph (1)(E), the Director shall prioritize en-
tering into education partnership agree-
ments with the following:
‘‘(i) Historically Black colleges and univer-
sities and other minority-serving institu-
tions, as described in section 371(a) of the
Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
1067q(a)).
‘‘(ii) Educational institutions serving
women, members of minority groups, and
other groups of individuals who traditionally
are involved in the science, technology, engi-
neering, arts, and mathematics professions
in disproportionately low numbers.
‘‘(d) DESIGNATION OF ADVISOR.—The Direc-
tor shall designate one or more individuals
within the Agency to advise and assist the
Director regarding matters relating to
science, technology, engineering, the arts,
and mathematics education and training.’’.
Subtitle B—Reports and Assessments
Pertaining to Intelligence Community
SEC. 9321. ASSESSMENT BY THE COMPTROLLER
GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES
ON EFFORTS OF THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY AND THE DEPARTMENT
OF DEFENSE TO IDENTIFY AND MITI-
GATE RISKS POSED TO THE INTEL-
LIGENCE COMMUNITY AND THE DE-
PARTMENT BY THE USE OF DIRECT-
TO-CONSUMER GENETIC TESTING BY
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE PEO-
PLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA.
(a) ASSESSMENT REQUIRED.—The Comp-
troller General of the United States shall as-
sess the efforts of the intelligence commu-
nity and the Department of Defense to iden-
tify and mitigate the risks posed to the in-
telligence community and the Department
by the use of direct-to-consumer genetic
testing by the Government of the People’s
Republic of China.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—
(1) DEFINITION OF UNITED STATES DIRECT-TO-
CONSUMER GENETIC TESTING COMPANY.—In this
subsection, the term ‘‘United States direct-
to-consumer genetic testing company’’
means a private entity that—
(A) carries out direct-to-consumer genetic
testing; and
(B) is organized under the laws of the
United States or any jurisdiction within the
United States.
(2) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Comptroller General shall submit to
Congress, including the congressional intel-
ligence committees, the Committee on
Armed Services of the Senate, and the Com-
mittee on Armed Services of the House of
Representatives, a report on the assessment
required by subsection (a).
(3) ELEMENTS.—The report required by
paragraph (2) shall include the following:
(A) A description of key national security
risks and vulnerabilities associated with di-
rect-to-consumer genetic testing, includ-
ing—
(i) how the Government of the People’s Re-
public of China may be using data provided
by personnel of the intelligence community
and the Department through direct-to-con-
sumer genetic tests; and
(ii) how ubiquitous technical surveillance
may amplify those risks.
(B) An assessment of the extent to which
the intelligence community and the Depart-
ment have identified risks and
vulnerabilities posed by direct-to-consumer
genetic testing and have sought to mitigate
such risks and vulnerabilities, or have plans
for such mitigation, including the extent to
which the intelligence community has deter-
mined—
(i) in which United States direct-to-con-
sumer genetic testing companies the Govern-
ment of the People’s Republic of China or en-
tities owned or controlled by the Govern-
ment of the People’s Republic of China have
an ownership interest; and
(ii) which United States direct-to-con-
sumer genetic testing companies may have
sold data to the Government of the People’s
Republic of China or entities owned or con-
trolled by the Government of the People’s
Republic of China.
(C) Such recommendations as the Comp-
troller General may have for action by the
intelligence community and the Department
to improve the identification and mitigation
of risks and vulnerabilities posed by the use
of direct-to-consumer genetic testing by the
Government of the People’s Republic of
China.
(4) FORM.—The report required by para-
graph (2) shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may include a classified annex.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00281 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6968 November 16, 2020
(c) COOPERATION.—The heads of relevant
elements of the intelligence community and
components of the Department shall—
(1) fully cooperate with the Comptroller
General in conducting the assessment re-
quired by subsection (a); and
(2) provide any information and data re-
quired by the Comptroller General to con-
duct the assessment.
SEC. 9322. REPORT ON USE BY INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY OF HIRING FLEXIBILI-
TIES AND EXPEDITED HUMAN RE-
SOURCES PRACTICES TO ASSURE
QUALITY AND DIVERSITY IN THE
WORKFORCE OF THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence shall
submit to the congressional intelligence
committees a report on how elements of the
intelligence community are exercising hiring
flexibilities and expedited human resources
practices afforded under section 3326 of title
5, United States Code, and subpart D of part
315 of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, or
successor regulation, to assure quality and
diversity in the workforce of the intelligence
community.
(b) OBSTACLES.—The report submitted
under subsection (a) shall include identifica-
tion of any obstacles encountered by the in-
telligence community in exercising the au-
thorities described in such subsection.
SEC. 9323. REPORT ON SIGNALS INTELLIGENCE
PRIORITIES AND REQUIREMENTS.
(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 30
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report on signals intel-
ligence priorities and requirements subject
to Presidential Policy Directive 28.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall cover the following:
(1) The implementation of the annual proc-
ess for advising the Director on signals intel-
ligence priorities and requirements described
in section 3 of Presidential Policy Directive
28.
(2) The signals intelligence priorities and
requirements as of the most recent annual
process.
(3) The application of such priorities and
requirements to the signals intelligence col-
lection efforts of the intelligence commu-
nity.
(4) The contents of the classified annex ref-
erenced in section 3 of Presidential Policy
Directive 28.
(c) FORM.—The report submitted under
subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassi-
fied form, but may include a classified
annex.
SEC. 9324. ASSESSMENT OF DEMAND FOR STU-
DENT LOAN REPAYMENT PROGRAM
BENEFIT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the head of each element of the intelligence
community shall—
(1) calculate the number of personnel of
that element who qualify for a student loan
repayment program benefit;
(2) compare the number calculated under
paragraph (1) to the number of personnel
who apply for such a benefit;
(3) provide recommendations for how to
structure such a program to optimize par-
ticipation and enhance the effectiveness of
the benefit as a retention tool, including
with respect to the amount of the benefit of-
fered and the length of time an employee re-
ceiving a benefit is required to serve under a
continuing service agreement; and
(4) identify any shortfall in funds or au-
thorities needed to provide such a benefit.
(b) INCLUSION IN FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET
SUBMISSION.—The Director of National Intel-
ligence shall include in the budget justifica-
tion materials submitted to Congress in sup-
port of the budget for the intelligence com-
munity for fiscal year 2022 (as submitted
with the budget of the President under sec-
tion 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code) a
report on the findings of the elements of the
intelligence community under subsection
(a).
SEC. 9325. ASSESSMENT OF INTELLIGENCE COM-
MUNITY DEMAND FOR CHILD CARE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence, in co-
ordination with the heads of the elements of
the intelligence community specified in sub-
section (b), shall submit to the congressional
intelligence committees a report that in-
cludes—
(1) a calculation of the total annual de-
mand for child care by employees of such
elements, at or near the workplaces of such
employees, including a calculation of the de-
mand for early morning and evening child
care;
(2) an identification of any shortfall be-
tween the demand calculated under para-
graph (1) and the child care supported by
such elements as of the date of the report;
(3) an assessment of options for addressing
any such shortfall, including options for pro-
viding child care at or near the workplaces
of employees of such elements;
(4) an identification of the advantages, dis-
advantages, security requirements, and costs
associated with each such option;
(5) a plan to meet, by the date that is 5
years after the date of the report—
(A) the demand calculated under paragraph
(1); or
(B) an alternative standard established by
the Director for child care available to em-
ployees of such elements; and
(6) an assessment of needs of specific ele-
ments of the intelligence community, in-
cluding any Government-provided child care
that could be collocated with a workplace of
employees of such an element and any avail-
able child care providers in the proximity of
such a workplace.
(b) ELEMENTS SPECIFIED.—The elements of
the intelligence community specified in this
subsection are the following:
(1) The Central Intelligence Agency.
(2) The National Security Agency.
(3) The Defense Intelligence Agency.
(4) The National Geospatial-Intelligence
Agency.
(5) The National Reconnaissance Office.
(6) The Office of the Director of National
Intelligence.
SEC. 9326. OPEN SOURCE INTELLIGENCE STRATE-
GIES AND PLANS FOR THE INTEL-
LIGENCE COMMUNITY.
(a) REQUIREMENT FOR SURVEY AND EVALUA-
TION OF CUSTOMER FEEDBACK.—Not later
than 90 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Director of National Intel-
ligence, in coordination with the head of
each element of the intelligence community,
shall—
(1) conduct a survey of the open source in-
telligence requirements, goals, monetary
and property investments, and capabilities
for each element of the intelligence commu-
nity; and
(2) evaluate the usability and utility of the
Open Source Enterprise by soliciting cus-
tomer feedback and evaluating such feed-
back.
(b) REQUIREMENT FOR OVERALL STRATEGY
AND FOR INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY, PLAN FOR
IMPROVING USABILITY OF OPEN SOURCE EN-
TERPRISE, AND RISK ANALYSIS OF CREATING
OPEN SOURCE CENTER.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director, in coordination with the
head of each element of the intelligence
community and using the findings of the Di-
rector with respect to the survey conducted
under subsection (a), shall—
(1) develop a strategy for open source intel-
ligence collection, analysis, and production
that defines the overarching goals, roles, re-
sponsibilities, and processes for such collec-
tion, analysis, and production for the intel-
ligence community;
(2) develop a plan for improving usability
and utility of the Open Source Enterprise
based on the customer feedback solicited
under subsection (a)(2); and
(3) conduct a risk and benefit analysis of
creating an open source center independent
of any current intelligence community ele-
ment.
(c) REQUIREMENT FOR PLAN FOR CENTRAL-
IZED DATA REPOSITORY.—Not later than 270
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act and using the findings of the Director
with respect to the survey and evaluation
conducted under subsection (a), the strategy
and plan developed under subsection (b), and
the risk and benefit analysis conducted
under such subsection, the Director shall de-
velop a plan for a centralized data repository
of open source intelligence that enables all
elements of the intelligence community—
(1) to use such repository for their specific
requirements; and
(2) to derive open source intelligence ad-
vantages.
(d) REQUIREMENT FOR COST-SHARING
MODEL.—Not later than 1 year after the date
of the enactment of this Act and using the
findings of the Director with respect to the
survey and evaluation conducted under sub-
section (a), the strategy and plan developed
under subsection (b), the risk and benefit
analysis conducted under such subsection,
and the plan developed under subsection (c),
the Director shall develop a cost-sharing
model that leverages the open source intel-
ligence investments of each element of the
intelligence community for the beneficial
use of the entire intelligence community.
(e) CONGRESSIONAL BRIEFING.—Not later
than 1 year after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Director of National Intel-
ligence, the Director of the Central Intel-
ligence Agency, the Director of the Defense
Intelligence Agency, the Director of the Na-
tional Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, and
the Director of the National Security Agen-
cy shall jointly brief the congressional intel-
ligence committees on—
(1) the strategy developed under paragraph
(1) of subsection (b);
(2) the plan developed under paragraph (2)
of such subsection;
(3) the plan developed under subsection (c);
and
(4) the cost-sharing model developed under
subsection (d).
TITLE XCIV—SECURITY CLEARANCES AND
TRUSTED WORKFORCE
SEC. 9401. EXCLUSIVITY, CONSISTENCY, AND
TRANSPARENCY IN SECURITY
CLEARANCE PROCEDURES, AND
RIGHT TO APPEAL.
(a) EXCLUSIVITY OF PROCEDURES.—Section
801 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50
U.S.C. 3161) is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(c) EXCLUSIVITY.—Except as provided in
subsection (b) and subject to sections 801A
and 801B, the procedures established pursu-
ant to subsection (a) and promulgated and
set forth under subpart A of title 32, Code of
Federal Regulations, or successor regula-
tions, shall be the exclusive procedures by
which decisions about eligibility for access
to classified information are governed.’’.
(b) TRANSPARENCY.—Such section is fur-
ther amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00282 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6969
November 16, 2020
‘‘(d) PUBLICATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this sub-
section, the President shall—
‘‘(A) publish in the Federal Register the
procedures established pursuant to sub-
section (a); or
‘‘(B) submit to Congress a certification
that the procedures currently in effect that
govern access to classified information as de-
scribed in subsection (a)—
‘‘(i) are published in the Federal Register;
and
‘‘(ii) comply with the requirements of sub-
section (a).
‘‘(2) UPDATES.—Whenever the President
makes a revision to a procedure established
pursuant to subsection (a), the President
shall publish such revision in the Federal
Register not later than 30 days before the
date on which the revision becomes effec-
tive.’’.
(c) CONSISTENCY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Title VIII of the National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3161 et seq.) is
amended by inserting after section 801 the
following:
‘‘SEC. 801A. DECISIONS RELATING TO ACCESS TO
CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) AGENCY.—The term ‘agency’ has the
meaning given the term ‘Executive agency’
in section 105 of title 5, United States Code.
‘‘(2) CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.—The term
‘classified information’ includes sensitive
compartmented information, restricted data,
restricted handling information, and other
compartmented information.
‘‘(3) ELIGIBILITY FOR ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED
INFORMATION.—The term ‘eligibility for ac-
cess to classified information’ has the mean-
ing given such term in the procedures estab-
lished pursuant to section 801(a).
‘‘(b) IN GENERAL.—Each head of an agency
that makes a determination regarding eligi-
bility for access to classified information
shall ensure that in making the determina-
tion, the head of the agency or any person
acting on behalf of the head of the agency—
‘‘(1) does not violate any right or protec-
tion enshrined in the Constitution of the
United States, including rights articulated
in the First, Fifth, and Fourteenth Amend-
ments;
‘‘(2) does not discriminate for or against an
individual on the basis of race, ethnicity,
color, religion, sex, national origin, age, or
handicap;
‘‘(3) is not carrying out—
‘‘(A) retaliation for political activities or
beliefs; or
‘‘(B) a coercion or reprisal described in sec-
tion 2302(b)(3) of title 5, United States Code;
and
‘‘(4) does not violate section 3001(j)(1) of
the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Pre-
vention Act of 2004 (50 U.S.C. 3341(j)(1)).’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in the matter preceding section 2 of
the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C.
3002) is amended by inserting after the item
relating to section 801 the following:
‘‘Sec. 801A. Decisions relating to access to
classified information.’’.
(d) RIGHT TO APPEAL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Such title, as amended by
subsection (c), is further amended by insert-
ing after section 801A the following:
‘‘SEC. 801B. RIGHT TO APPEAL.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) AGENCY.—The term ‘agency’ has the
meaning given the term ‘Executive agency’
in section 105 of title 5, United States Code.
‘‘(2) COVERED PERSON.—The term ‘covered
person’ means a person, other than the
President and Vice President, currently or
formerly employed in, detailed to, assigned
to, or issued an authorized conditional offer
of employment for a position that requires
access to classified information by an agen-
cy, including the following:
‘‘(A) A member of the Armed Forces.
‘‘(B) A civilian.
‘‘(C) An expert or consultant with a con-
tractual or personnel obligation to an agen-
cy.
‘‘(D) Any other category of person who acts
for or on behalf of an agency as determined
by the head of the agency.
‘‘(3) ELIGIBILITY FOR ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED
INFORMATION.—The term ‘eligibility for ac-
cess to classified information’ has the mean-
ing given such term in the procedures estab-
lished pursuant to section 801(a).
‘‘(4) NEED FOR ACCESS.—The term ‘need for
access’ has such meaning as the President
may define in the procedures established
pursuant to section 801(a).
‘‘(5) RECIPROCITY OF CLEARANCE.—The term
‘reciprocity of clearance’, with respect to a
denial by an agency, means that the agency,
with respect to a covered person—
‘‘(A) failed to accept a security clearance
background investigation as required by
paragraph (1) of section 3001(d) of the Intel-
ligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention
Act of 2004 (50 U.S.C. 3341(d));
‘‘(B) failed to accept a transferred security
clearance background investigation required
by paragraph (2) of such section;
‘‘(C) subjected the covered person to an ad-
ditional investigative or adjudicative re-
quirement in violation of paragraph (3) of
such section; or
‘‘(D) conducted an investigation in viola-
tion of paragraph (4) of such section.
‘‘(6) SECURITY EXECUTIVE AGENT.—The term
‘Security Executive Agent’ means the officer
serving as the Security Executive Agent pur-
suant to section 803.
‘‘(b) AGENCY REVIEW.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of the Intel-
ligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2021, each head of an agency shall, consistent
with the interest of national security, estab-
lish and publish in the Federal Register a
process by which a covered person to whom
eligibility for access to classified informa-
tion was denied or revoked by the agency or
for whom reciprocity of clearance was denied
by the agency can appeal that denial or rev-
ocation within the agency.
‘‘(2) ELEMENTS.—The process required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
‘‘(A) In the case of a covered person to
whom eligibility for access to classified in-
formation or reciprocity of clearance is de-
nied or revoked by an agency, the following:
‘‘(i) The head of the agency shall provide
the covered person with a written—
‘‘(I) detailed explanation of the basis for
the denial or revocation as the head of the
agency determines is consistent with the in-
terests of national security and as permitted
by other applicable provisions of law; and
‘‘(II) notice of the right of the covered per-
son to a hearing and appeal under this sub-
section.
‘‘(ii) Not later than 30 days after receiving
a request from the covered person for copies
of the documents that formed the basis of
the agency’s decision to revoke or deny, in-
cluding the investigative file, the head of the
agency shall provide to the covered person
copies of such documents as—
‘‘(I) the head of the agency determines is
consistent with the interests of national se-
curity; and
‘‘(II) permitted by other applicable provi-
sions of law, including—
‘‘(aa) section 552 of title 5, United States
Code (commonly known as the ‘Freedom of
Information Act’);
‘‘(bb) section 552a of such title (commonly
known as the ‘Privacy Act of 1974’); and
‘‘(cc) such other provisions of law relating
to the protection of confidential sources and
privacy of individuals.
‘‘(iii)(I) The covered person shall have the
opportunity to retain counsel or other rep-
resentation at the covered person’s expense.
‘‘(II) Upon the request of the covered per-
son, and a showing that the ability to review
classified information is essential to the res-
olution of an appeal under this subsection,
counsel or other representation retained
under this clause shall be considered for ac-
cess to classified information for the limited
purposes of such appeal.
‘‘(iv)(I) The head of the agency shall pro-
vide the covered person an opportunity, at a
point in the process determined by the agen-
cy head—
‘‘(aa) to appear personally before an adju-
dicative or other authority, other than the
investigating entity, and to present to such
authority relevant documents, materials,
and information, including evidence that
past problems relating to the denial or rev-
ocation have been overcome or sufficiently
mitigated; and
‘‘(bb) to call and cross-examine witnesses
before such authority, unless the head of the
agency determines that calling and cross-ex-
amining witnesses is not consistent with the
interests of national security.
‘‘(II) The head of the agency shall make, as
part of the security record of the covered
person, a written summary, transcript, or re-
cording of any appearance under item (aa) of
subclause (I) or of any calling or cross-exam-
ining of witnesses under item (bb) of such
subclause.
‘‘(v) On or before the date that is 30 days
after the date on which the covered person
receives copies of documents under clause
(ii), the covered person may request a hear-
ing of the decision to deny or revoke by fil-
ing a written appeal with the head of the
agency.
‘‘(B) A requirement that each review of a
decision under this subsection is completed
on average not later than 180 days after the
date on which a hearing is requested under
subparagraph (A)(v).
‘‘(3) AGENCY REVIEW PANELS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Each head of an agency
shall establish a panel to hear and review ap-
peals under this subsection.
‘‘(B) MEMBERSHIP.—
‘‘(i) COMPOSITION.—Each panel established
by the head of an agency under subparagraph
(A) shall be composed of at least three em-
ployees of the agency selected by the agency
head, two of whom shall not be members of
the security field.
‘‘(ii) TERMS.—A term of service on a panel
established by the head of an agency under
subparagraph (A) shall not exceed 2 years.
‘‘(C) DECISIONS.—
‘‘(i) WRITTEN.—Each decision of a panel es-
tablished under subparagraph (A) shall be in
writing and contain a justification of the de-
cision.
‘‘(ii) CONSISTENCY.—Each head of an agency
that establishes a panel under subparagraph
(A) shall ensure that each decision of the
panel is consistent with the interests of na-
tional security and applicable provisions of
law.
‘‘(iii) OVERTURN.—The head of an agency
may overturn a decision of the panel if, not
later than 30 days after the date on which
the panel issues the decision, the agency
head personally exercises the authority
granted by this clause to overturn such deci-
sion.
‘‘(iv) FINALITY.—Each decision of a panel
established under subparagraph (A) or over-
turned pursuant to clause (iii) of this sub-
paragraph shall be final.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00283 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6970 November 16, 2020
‘‘(D) ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.—
The head of an agency that establishes a
panel under subparagraph (A) shall afford ac-
cess to classified information to the mem-
bers of the panel as the agency head deter-
mines—
‘‘(i) necessary for the panel to hear and re-
view an appeal under this subsection; and
‘‘(ii) consistent with the interests of na-
tional security.
‘‘(4) REPRESENTATION BY COUNSEL.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Each head of an agency
shall ensure that, under this subsection, a
covered person appealing a decision of the
head’s agency under this subsection has an
opportunity to retain counsel or other rep-
resentation at the covered person’s expense.
‘‘(B) ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Upon the request of a
covered person appealing a decision of an
agency under this subsection and a showing
that the ability to review classified informa-
tion is essential to the resolution of the ap-
peal under this subsection, the head of the
agency shall sponsor an application by the
counsel or other representation retained
under this paragraph for access to classified
information for the limited purposes of such
appeal.
‘‘(ii) EXTENT OF ACCESS.—Counsel or an-
other representative who is cleared for ac-
cess under this subparagraph may be af-
forded access to relevant classified materials
to the extent consistent with the interests of
national security.
‘‘(5) PUBLICATION OF DECISIONS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Each head of an agency
shall publish each final decision on an appeal
under this subsection.
‘‘(B) REQUIREMENTS.—In order to ensure
transparency, oversight by Congress, and
meaningful information for those who need
to understand how the clearance process
works, each publication under subparagraph
(A) shall be—
‘‘(i) made in a manner that is consistent
with section 552 of title 5, United States
Code, as amended by the Electronic Freedom
of Information Act Amendments of 1996
(Public Law 104–231);
‘‘(ii) published to explain the facts of the
case, redacting personally identifiable infor-
mation and sensitive program information;
and
‘‘(iii) made available on a website that is
searchable by members of the public.
‘‘(c) PERIOD OF TIME FOR THE RIGHT TO AP-
PEAL.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), any covered person who has
been the subject of a decision made by the
head of an agency to deny or revoke eligi-
bility for access to classified information
shall retain all rights to appeal under this
section until the conclusion of the appeals
process under this section.
‘‘(2) WAIVER OF RIGHTS.—
‘‘(A) PERSONS.—Any covered person may
voluntarily waive the covered person’s right
to appeal under this section and such waiver
shall be conclusive.
‘‘(B) AGENCIES.—The head of an agency
may not require a covered person to waive
the covered person’s right to appeal under
this section for any reason.
‘‘(d) WAIVER OF AVAILABILITY OF PROCE-
DURES FOR NATIONAL SECURITY INTEREST.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—If the head of an agency
determines that a procedure established
under subsection (b) cannot be made avail-
able to a covered person in an exceptional
case without damaging a national security
interest of the United States by revealing
classified information, such procedure shall
not be made available to such covered per-
son.
‘‘(2) FINALITY.—A determination under
paragraph (1) shall be final and conclusive
and may not be reviewed by any other offi-
cial or by any court.
‘‘(3) REPORTING.—
‘‘(A) CASE-BY-CASE.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—In each case in which the
head of an agency determines under para-
graph (1) that a procedure established under
subsection (b) cannot be made available to a
covered person, the agency head shall, not
later than 30 days after the date on which
the agency head makes such determination,
submit to the Security Executive Agent and
to the congressional intelligence committees
a report stating the reasons for the deter-
mination.
‘‘(ii) FORM.—A report submitted under
clause (i) may be submitted in classified
form as necessary.
‘‘(B) ANNUAL REPORTS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Not less frequently than
once each fiscal year, the Security Executive
Agent shall submit to the congressional in-
telligence committees a report on the deter-
minations made under paragraph (1) during
the previous fiscal year.
‘‘(ii) CONTENTS.—Each report submitted
under clause (i) shall include, for the period
covered by the report, the following:
‘‘(I) The number of cases and reasons for
determinations made under paragraph (1),
disaggregated by agency.
‘‘(II) Such other matters as the Security
Executive Agent considers appropriate.
‘‘(e) DENIALS AND REVOCATIONS UNDER
OTHER PROVISIONS OF LAW.—
‘‘(1) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed to limit or af-
fect the responsibility and power of the head
of an agency to deny or revoke eligibility for
access to classified information or to deny
reciprocity of clearance in the interest of na-
tional security.
‘‘(2) DENIALS AND REVOCATION.—The power
and responsibility to deny or revoke eligi-
bility for access to classified information or
to deny reciprocity of clearance pursuant to
any other provision of law or Executive
order may be exercised only when the head
of an agency determines that an applicable
process established under this section cannot
be invoked in a manner that is consistent
with national security.
‘‘(3) FINALITY.—A determination under
paragraph (2) shall be final and conclusive
and may not be reviewed by any other offi-
cial or by any court.
‘‘(4) REPORTING.—
‘‘(A) CASE-BY-CASE.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—In each case in which the
head of an agency determines under para-
graph (2) that a determination relating to a
denial or revocation of eligibility for access
to classified information or denial of reci-
procity of clearance could not be made pur-
suant to a process established under this sec-
tion, the agency head shall, not later than 30
days after the date on which the agency head
makes such a determination under para-
graph (2), submit to the Security Executive
Agent and to the congressional intelligence
committees a report stating the reasons for
the determination.
‘‘(ii) FORM.—A report submitted under
clause (i) may be submitted in classified
form as necessary.
‘‘(B) ANNUAL REPORTS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Not less frequently than
once each fiscal year, the Security Executive
Agent shall submit to the congressional in-
telligence committees a report on the deter-
minations made under paragraph (2) during
the previous fiscal year.
‘‘(ii) CONTENTS.—Each report submitted
under clause (i) shall include, for the period
covered by the report, the following:
‘‘(I) The number of cases and reasons for
determinations made under paragraph (2),
disaggregated by agency.
‘‘(II) Such other matters as the Security
Executive Agent considers appropriate.
‘‘(f) RELATIONSHIP TO SUITABILITY.—No per-
son may use a determination of suitability
under part 731 of title 5, Code of Federal Reg-
ulations, or successor regulation, for the
purpose of denying a covered person the re-
view proceedings of this section where there
has been a denial or revocation of eligibility
for access to classified information or a de-
nial of reciprocity of clearance.
‘‘(g) PRESERVATION OF ROLES AND RESPON-
SIBILITIES UNDER EXECUTIVE ORDER 10865 AND
OF THE DEFENSE OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND AP-
PEALS.—Nothing in this section shall be con-
strued to diminish or otherwise affect the
procedures in effect on the day before the
date of the enactment of this Act for denial
and revocation procedures provided to indi-
viduals by Executive Order 10865 (50 U.S.C.
3161 note; relating to safeguarding classified
information within industry), or successor
order, including those administered through
the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals of
the Department of Defense under Depart-
ment of Defense Directive 5220.6, or successor
directive.
‘‘(h) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION RELATING TO
CERTAIN OTHER PROVISIONS OF LAW.—This
section and the processes and procedures es-
tablished under this section shall not be con-
strued to apply to paragraphs (6) and (7) of
section 3001(j) of the Intelligence Reform and
Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (50 U.S.C.
3341(j)).’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in the matter preceding section 2 of
the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C.
3002), as amended by subsection (c), is fur-
ther amended by inserting after the item re-
lating to section 801A the following:
‘‘Sec. 801B. Right to appeal.’’.
SEC. 9402. ESTABLISHING PROCESS PARITY FOR
SECURITY CLEARANCE REVOCA-
TIONS.
Subparagraph (C) of section 3001(j)(4) of the
Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Preven-
tion Act of 2004 (50 U.S.C. 3341(j)(4)) is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘(C) BURDENS OF PROOF.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Subject to clause (iii), in
determining whether the adverse security
clearance or access determination violated
paragraph (1), the agency shall find that
paragraph (1) was violated if the individual
has demonstrated that a disclosure described
in paragraph (1) was a contributing factor in
the adverse security clearance or access de-
termination taken against the individual.
‘‘(ii) CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE.—An indi-
vidual under clause (i) may demonstrate that
the disclosure was a contributing factor in
the adverse security clearance or access de-
termination taken against the individual
through circumstantial evidence, such as
evidence that—
‘‘(I) the official making the determination
knew of the disclosure; and
‘‘(II) the determination occurred within a
period such that a reasonable person could
conclude that the disclosure was a contrib-
uting factor in the determination.
‘‘(iii) DEFENSE.—In determining whether
the adverse security clearance or access de-
termination violated paragraph (1), the agen-
cy shall not find that paragraph (1) was vio-
lated if, after a finding that a disclosure was
a contributing factor, the agency dem-
onstrates by clear and convincing evidence
that it would have made the same security
clearance or access determination in the ab-
sence of such disclosure.’’.
SEC. 9403. FEDERAL POLICY ON SHARING OF DE-
ROGATORY INFORMATION PER-
TAINING TO CONTRACTOR EMPLOY-
EES IN THE TRUSTED WORKFORCE.
(a) POLICY REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00284 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6971
November 16, 2020
Act, the Security Executive Agent, in co-
ordination with the principal members of the
Performance Accountability Council and the
Attorney General, shall issue a policy for the
Federal Government on sharing of deroga-
tory information pertaining to contractor
employees engaged by the Federal Govern-
ment.
(b) CONSENT REQUIREMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The policy issued under
subsection (a) shall require, as a condition of
accepting a security clearance with the Fed-
eral Government, that a contractor em-
ployee provide prior written consent for the
Federal Government to share covered derog-
atory information with the chief security of-
ficer of the contractor employer that em-
ploys the contractor employee.
(2) COVERED DEROGATORY INFORMATION.—
For purposes of this section, covered deroga-
tory information—
(A) is information that—
(i) contravenes National Security Adju-
dicative Guidelines as specified in Security
Executive Agent Directive 4 (10 C.F.R. 710
app. A), or any successor Federal policy;
(ii) a Federal Government agency certifies
is accurate and reliable;
(iii) is relevant to a contractor’s ability to
protect against insider threats as required
by section 1–202 of the National Industrial
Security Program Operating Manual
(NISPOM), or successor manual; and
(iv) may have a bearing on the contractor
employee’s suitability for a position of pub-
lic trust or to receive credentials to access
certain facilities of the Federal Government;
and
(B) shall include any negative information
considered in the adjudicative process, in-
cluding information provided by the con-
tractor employee on forms submitted for the
processing of the contractor employee’s se-
curity clearance.
(c) ELEMENTS.—The policy issued under
subsection (a) shall—
(1) require Federal agencies, except under
exceptional circumstances specified by the
Security Executive Agent, to share with the
contractor employer of a contractor em-
ployee engaged with the Federal Government
the existence of potentially derogatory in-
formation and which National Security Ad-
judicative Guideline it falls under, with the
exception that the Security Executive Agent
may waive such requirement in cir-
cumstances the Security Executive Agent
considers extraordinary;
(2) require that covered derogatory infor-
mation shared with a contractor employer as
described in subsection (b)(1) be used by the
contractor employer exclusively for risk
mitigation purposes under section 1–202 of
the National Industrial Security Program
Operating Manual, or successor manual;
(3) require Federal agencies to share any
mitigation measures in place to address the
derogatory information;
(4) establish standards for timeliness for
sharing the derogatory information;
(5) specify the methods by which covered
derogatory information will be shared with
the contractor employer of the contractor
employee;
(6) allow the contractor employee, within a
specified timeframe, the right—
(A) to contest the accuracy and reliability
of covered derogatory information;
(B) to address or remedy any concerns
raised by the covered derogatory informa-
tion; and
(C) to provide documentation pertinent to
subparagraph (A) or (B) for an agency to
place in relevant security clearance data-
bases;
(7) establish a procedure by which the con-
tractor employer of the contractor employee
may consult with the Federal Government
prior to taking any remedial action under
section 1–202 of the National Industrial Secu-
rity Program Operating Manual, or successor
manual, to address the derogatory informa-
tion the Federal agency has provided;
(8) stipulate that the chief security officer
of the contractor employer is prohibited
from sharing or discussing covered deroga-
tory information with other parties, includ-
ing nonsecurity professionals at the con-
tractor employer; and
(9) require companies in the National In-
dustrial Security Program to comply with
the policy.
(d) CONSIDERATION OF LESSONS LEARNED
FROM INFORMATION-SHARING PROGRAM FOR
POSITIONS OF TRUST AND SECURITY CLEAR-
ANCES.—In developing the policy issued
under subsection (a), the Director shall con-
sider, to the extent available, lessons learned
from actions taken to carry out section
6611(f) of the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116–92).
TITLE XCV—REPORTS AND OTHER
MATTERS
SEC. 9501. REPORT ON ATTEMPTS BY FOREIGN
ADVERSARIES TO BUILD TELE-
COMMUNICATIONS AND CYBERSE-
CURITY EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES
FOR, OR TO PROVIDE SUCH EQUIP-
MENT AND SERVICES TO, CERTAIN
ALLIES OF THE UNITED STATES.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CON-
GRESS.—The term ‘‘appropriate committees
of Congress’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Select Committee on Intelligence of the
Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Permanent Select Committee on Intel-
ligence of the House of Representatives.
(2) FIVE EYES COUNTRY.—The term ‘‘Five
Eyes country’’ means any of the following:
(A) Australia.
(B) Canada.
(C) New Zealand.
(D) The United Kingdom.
(E) The United States.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 90
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of the Central Intelligence
Agency, the Director of the National Secu-
rity Agency, and the Director of the Defense
Intelligence Agency shall jointly submit to
the appropriate committees of Congress a re-
port on attempts by foreign adversaries to
build telecommunications and cybersecurity
equipment and services for, or to provide
such equipment and services to, Five Eyes
countries.
(c) ELEMENTS.—The report submitted
under subsection (b) shall include the fol-
lowing:
(1) An assessment of United States intel-
ligence sharing and intelligence and military
force posture in any Five Eyes country that
currently uses or intends to use tele-
communications or cybersecurity equipment
or services provided by a foreign adversary of
the United States, including China and Rus-
sia.
(2) A description and assessment of mitiga-
tion of any potential compromises or risks
for any circumstance described in paragraph
(1).
(d) FORM.—The report required by sub-
section (b) shall include an unclassified exec-
utive summary, and may include a classified
annex.
SEC. 9502. REPORT ON THREATS POSED BY USE
BY FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS AND
ENTITIES OF COMMERCIALLY AVAIL-
ABLE CYBER INTRUSION AND SUR-
VEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY.
(a) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report on the threats
posed by the use by foreign governments and
entities of commercially available cyber in-
trusion and other surveillance technology.
(b) CONTENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall include the following:
(1) Matters relating to threats described in
subsection (a) as they pertain to the fol-
lowing:
(A) The threat posed to United States per-
sons and persons inside the United States.
(B) The threat posed to United States per-
sonnel overseas.
(C) The threat posed to employees of the
Federal Government, including through both
official and personal accounts and devices.
(2) A description of which foreign govern-
ments and entities pose the greatest threats
from the use of technology described in sub-
section (a) and the nature of those threats.
(3) An assessment of the source of the com-
mercially available cyber intrusion and
other surveillance technology that poses the
threats described in subsection (a), including
whether such technology is made by United
States companies or companies in the United
States or by foreign companies.
(4) An assessment of actions taken, as of
the date of the enactment of this Act, by the
Federal Government and foreign govern-
ments to limit the export of technology de-
scribed in subsection (a) from the United
States or foreign countries to foreign gov-
ernments and entities in ways that pose the
threats described in such subsection.
(5) Matters relating to how the Federal
Government, Congress, and foreign govern-
ments can most effectively mitigate the
threats described in subsection (a), including
matters relating to the following:
(A) Working with the technology and tele-
communications industry to identify and im-
prove the security of consumer software and
hardware used by United States persons and
persons inside the United States that is tar-
geted by commercial cyber intrusion and
surveillance software.
(B) Export controls.
(C) Diplomatic pressure.
(D) Trade agreements.
(c) FORM.—The report submitted under
subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassi-
fied form, but may include a classified
annex.
SEC. 9503. REPORTS ON RECOMMENDATIONS OF
THE CYBERSPACE SOLARIUM COM-
MISSION.
(a) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CON-
GRESS.—In this section, the term ‘‘appro-
priate committees of Congress’’ means—
(1) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Select Committee on Intelligence, the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs, the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation, and the
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources
of the Senate; and
(2) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Permanent Select Committee on Intel-
ligence, the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity, the Committee on Science, Space, and
Technology, and the Committee on Energy
and Commerce of the House of Representa-
tives.
(b) REPORTS REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, each head of an agency described in sub-
section (c) shall submit to the appropriate
committees of Congress a report on the rec-
ommendations included in the report issued
by the Cyberspace Solarium Commission
under section 1652(k) of the John S. McCain
National Defense Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232).
(c) AGENCIES DESCRIBED.—The agencies de-
scribed in this subsection are the following:
(1) The Office of the Director of National
Intelligence.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00285 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6972 November 16, 2020
(2) The Department of Homeland Security.
(3) The Department of Energy.
(4) The Department of Commerce.
(5) The Department of Defense.
(d) CONTENTS.—Each report submitted
under subsection (b) by the head of an agen-
cy described in subsection (c) shall include
the following:
(1) An evaluation of the recommendations
in the report described in subsection (b) that
the agency identifies as pertaining directly
to the agency.
(2) A description of the actions taken, or
the actions that the head of the agency may
consider taking, to implement any of the
recommendations (including a comprehen-
sive estimate of requirements for appropria-
tions to take such actions).
SEC. 9504. ASSESSMENT OF CRITICAL TECH-
NOLOGY TRENDS RELATING TO AR-
TIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE,
MICROCHIPS, AND SEMICONDUC-
TORS AND RELATED SUPPLY
CHAINS.
(a) ASSESSMENT REQUIRED.—Not later than
180 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Director of National Intel-
ligence shall complete a detailed assessment
of critical technology trends relating to arti-
ficial intelligence, microchips, and semi-
conductors and related supply chains.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The assessment required
by subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1) EXPORT CONTROLS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—An assessment of efforts
by partner countries to enact and implement
export controls and other technology trans-
fer measures with respect to artificial intel-
ligence, microchips, advanced manufacturing
equipment, and other artificial intelligence
enabled technologies critical to United
States supply chains.
(B) IDENTIFICATION OF OPPORTUNITIES FOR
COOPERATION.—The assessment under sub-
paragraph (A) shall identify opportunities
for further cooperation with international
partners on a multilateral and bilateral basis
to strengthen export control regimes and ad-
dress technology transfer threats.
(2) SEMICONDUCTOR SUPPLY CHAINS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—An assessment of global
semiconductor supply chains, including
areas to reduce United States vulnerabilities
and maximize points of leverage.
(B) ANALYSIS OF POTENTIAL EFFECTS.—The
assessment under subparagraph (A) shall in-
clude an analysis of the potential effects of
significant geopolitical shifts, including
those related to Taiwan.
(C) IDENTIFICATION OF OPPORTUNITIES FOR
DIVERSIFICATION.—The assessment under sub-
paragraph (A) shall also identify opportuni-
ties for diversification of United States sup-
ply chains, including an assessment of cost,
challenges, and opportunities to diversify
manufacturing capabilities on a multi-
national basis.
(3) COMPUTING POWER.—An assessment of
trends relating to computing power and the
effect of such trends on global artificial in-
telligence development and implementation,
in consultation with the Director of the In-
telligence Advanced Research Projects Ac-
tivity, the Director of the Defense Advanced
Research Projects Agency, and the Director
of the National Institute of Standards and
Technology, including forward-looking as-
sessments of how computing resources may
affect United States national security, inno-
vation, and implementation relating to arti-
ficial intelligence.
(c) REPORT.—
(1) DEFINITION OF APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES
OF CONGRESS.—In this subsection, the term
‘‘appropriate committees of Congress’’
means—
(A) the Select Committee on Intelligence,
the Committee on Armed Services, the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs, and the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions of the Senate; and
(B) the Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence, the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices, the Committee on Financial Services,
and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the
House of Representatives.
(2) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director shall submit to the appropriate
committees of Congress a report on the find-
ings of the Director with respect to the as-
sessment completed under subsection (a).
(3) FORM.—The report submitted under
paragraph (2) shall be submitted in unclassi-
fied form, but may include a classified
annex.
SEC. 9505. COMBATING CHINESE INFLUENCE OP-
ERATIONS IN THE UNITED STATES
AND STRENGTHENING CIVIL LIB-
ERTIES PROTECTIONS.
(a) UPDATES TO ANNUAL REPORTS ON INFLU-
ENCE OPERATIONS AND CAMPAIGNS IN THE
UNITED STATES BY THE CHINESE COMMUNIST
PARTY.—Section 1107(b) of the National Se-
curity Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3237(b)) is
amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraph (8) as para-
graph (9); and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (7) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(8) An identification of influence activi-
ties and operations employed by the Chinese
Communist Party against the United States
science and technology sectors, specifically
employees of the United States Government,
researchers, scientists, and students in the
science and technology sector in the United
States.’’.
(b) PLAN FOR FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVES-
TIGATION TO INCREASE PUBLIC AWARENESS
AND DETECTION OF INFLUENCE ACTIVITIES BY
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC
OF CHINA.—
(1) PLAN REQUIRED.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of the Federal Bureau of Inves-
tigation shall submit to the congressional
intelligence committees a plan—
(A) to increase public awareness of influ-
ence activities by the Government of the
People’s Republic of China; and
(B) to publicize mechanisms that members
of the public can use—
(i) to detect such activities; and
(ii) to report such activities to the Bureau.
(2) CONSULTATION.—In carrying out para-
graph (1), the Director shall consult with the
following:
(A) The Director of the Office of Science
and Technology Policy.
(B) Such other stakeholders outside the in-
telligence community, including professional
associations, institutions of higher edu-
cation, businesses, and civil rights and
multicultural organizations, as the Director
determines relevant.
(c) RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FEDERAL BU-
REAU OF INVESTIGATION TO STRENGTHEN RE-
LATIONSHIPS AND BUILD TRUST WITH COMMU-
NITIES OF INTEREST.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Director of the Fed-
eral Bureau of Investigation, in consultation
with the Assistant Attorney General for the
Civil Rights Division and the Chief Privacy
and Civil Liberties Officer of the Department
of Justice, shall develop recommendations to
strengthen relationships with communities
targeted by influence activities of the Gov-
ernment of the People’s Republic of China
and build trust with such communities
through local and regional grassroots out-
reach.
(2) SUBMITTAL TO CONGRESS.—Not later
than 1 year after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Director shall submit to Con-
gress the recommendations developed under
paragraph (1).
(d) TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.—The National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.) is
amended—
(1) in section 1107 (50 U.S.C. 3237)—
(A) in the section heading, by striking
‘‘COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHINA’’ and inserting
‘‘CHINESE COMMUNIST PARTY’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘Communist Party of
China’’ both places it appears and inserting
‘‘Chinese Communist Party’’; and
(2) in the table of contents before section 2
(50 U.S.C. 3002), by striking the item relating
to section 1107 and inserting the following
new item:
‘‘Sec. 1107. Annual reports on influence oper-
ations and campaigns in the
United States by the Chinese
Communist Party.’’.
SEC. 9506. ANNUAL REPORT ON CORRUPT ACTIVI-
TIES OF SENIOR OFFICIALS OF THE
CHINESE COMMUNIST PARTY.
(a) DEFINITION OF APPROPRIATE COMMIT-
TEES OF CONGRESS.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate committees of Congress’’
means—
(1) the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs, the Committee on Fi-
nance, the Committee on Foreign Relations,
and the Select Committee on Intelligence of
the Senate; and
(2) the Committee on Financial Services,
the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means, and the Perma-
nent Select Committee on Intelligence of the
House of Representatives.
(b) ANNUAL REPORT REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
and annually thereafter through 2025, the Di-
rector of the Central Intelligence Agency
shall submit to the appropriate committees
of Congress a report on the corruption and
corrupt activities of senior officials of the
Chinese Communist Party.
(2) ELEMENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Each report under para-
graph (1) shall include the following:
(i) A description of the wealth of, and cor-
ruption and corrupt activities among, senior
officials of the Chinese Communist Party.
(ii) A description of any recent actions of
the officials described in clause (i) that could
be considered a violation, or potential viola-
tion, of United States law.
(iii) A description and assessment of tar-
geted financial measures, including potential
targets for designation of the officials de-
scribed in clause (i) for the corruption and
corrupt activities described in that clause
and for the actions described in clause (ii).
(B) SCOPE OF REPORTS.—The first report
under paragraph (1) shall include comprehen-
sive information on the matters described in
subparagraph (A). Any succeeding report
under paragraph (1) may consist of an update
or supplement to the preceding report under
that subsection.
(3) COORDINATION.—In preparing each re-
port, update, or supplement under this sub-
section, the Director of the Central Intel-
ligence Agency shall coordinate as follows:
(A) In preparing the description required
by clause (i) of paragraph (2)(A), the Director
of the Central Intelligence Agency shall co-
ordinate with the head of the Office of Intel-
ligence and Analysis of the Department of
the Treasury and the Director of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation.
(B) In preparing the descriptions required
by clauses (ii) and (iii) of such paragraph, the
Director of the Central Intelligence Agency
shall coordinate with the head of the Office
of Intelligence and Analysis of the Depart-
ment of the Treasury.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00286 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6973
November 16, 2020
(4) FORM.—Each report under paragraph (1)
shall include an unclassified executive sum-
mary, and may include a classified annex.
(c) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that the United States should un-
dertake every effort and pursue every oppor-
tunity to expose the corruption and illicit
practices of senior officials of the Chinese
Communist Party, including President Xi
Jinping.
SEC. 9507. REPORT ON CORRUPT ACTIVITIES OF
RUSSIAN AND OTHER EASTERN EU-
ROPEAN OLIGARCHS.
(a) DEFINITION OF APPROPRIATE COMMIT-
TEES OF CONGRESS.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate committees of Congress’’
means—
(1) the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs, the Committee on Fi-
nance, the Committee on Foreign Relations,
and the Select Committee on Intelligence of
the Senate; and
(2) the Committee on Financial Services,
the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means, and the Perma-
nent Select Committee on Intelligence of the
House of Representatives.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 100
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of the Central Intelligence
Agency shall submit to the appropriate com-
mittees of Congress and the Undersecretary
of State for Public Diplomacy and Public Af-
fairs a report on the corruption and corrupt
activities of Russian and other Eastern Eu-
ropean oligarchs.
(c) ELEMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each report under sub-
section (b) shall include the following:
(A) A description of corruption and corrupt
activities among Russian and other Eastern
European oligarchs who support the Govern-
ment of the Russian Federation, including
estimates of the total assets of such
oligarchs.
(B) An assessment of the impact of the cor-
ruption and corrupt activities described pur-
suant to subparagraph (A) on the economy
and citizens of Russia.
(C) A description of any connections to, or
support of, organized crime, drug smuggling,
or human trafficking by an oligarch covered
by subparagraph (A).
(D) A description of any information that
reveals corruption and corrupt activities in
Russia among oligarchs covered by subpara-
graph (A).
(E) A description and assessment of poten-
tial sanctions actions that could be imposed
upon oligarchs covered by subparagraph (A)
who support the leadership of the Govern-
ment of Russia, including President Vladi-
mir Putin.
(2) SCOPE OF REPORTS.—The first report
under subsection (a) shall include com-
prehensive information on the matters de-
scribed in paragraph (1). Any succeeding re-
port under subsection (a) may consist of an
update or supplement to the preceding report
under that subsection.
(d) COORDINATION.—In preparing each re-
port, update, or supplement under this sec-
tion, the Director of the Central Intelligence
Agency shall coordinate as follows:
(1) In preparing the assessment and de-
scriptions required by subparagraphs (A)
through (D) of subsection (c)(1), the Director
of the Central Intelligence Agency shall co-
ordinate with the head of the Office of Intel-
ligence and Analysis of the Department of
the Treasury and the Director of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation.
(2) In preparing the description and assess-
ment required by subparagraph (E) of such
subsection, the Director of the Central Intel-
ligence Agency shall coordinate with the
head of the Office of Intelligence and Anal-
ysis of the Department of the Treasury.
(e) FORM.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
each report under subsection (b) shall in-
clude an unclassified executive summary,
and may include a classified annex.
(2) UNCLASSIFIED FORM OF CERTAIN INFOR-
MATION.—The information described in sub-
section (c)(1)(D) in each report under sub-
section (b) shall be submitted in unclassified
form.
SEC. 9508. REPORT ON BIOSECURITY RISK AND
DISINFORMATION BY THE CHINESE
COMMUNIST PARTY AND THE GOV-
ERNMENT OF THE PEOPLE’S REPUB-
LIC OF CHINA.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CON-
GRESS.—The term ‘‘appropriate committees
of Congress’’ means—
(A) the Select Committee on Intelligence,
the Committee on Armed Services, the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations, the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions,
and the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
(B) the Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence, the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices, the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, the Committee on Foreign Affairs,
and the Committee on Homeland Security of
the House of Representatives.
(2) CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE.—The term
‘‘critical infrastructure’’ has the meaning
given such term in section 1016(e) of the
Uniting and Strengthening America by Pro-
viding Appropriate Tools Required to Inter-
cept and Obstruct Terrorism (USA PATRIOT
ACT) Act of 2001 (42 U.S.C. 5195c(e)).
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 90
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall submit to the appropriate committees
of Congress a report identifying whether and
how officials of the Chinese Communist
Party and the Government of the People’s
Republic of China may have sought—
(1) to suppress information about—
(A) the outbreak of the novel coronavirus
in Wuhan;
(B) the spread of the virus through China;
and
(C) the transmission of the virus to other
countries;
(2) to spread disinformation relating to the
pandemic; or
(3) to exploit the pandemic to advance
their national security interests.
(c) ASSESSMENTS.—The report required by
subsection (b) shall include assessments of
reported actions and the effect of those ac-
tions on efforts to contain the novel
coronavirus pandemic, including each of the
following:
(1) The origins of the novel coronavirus
outbreak, the time and location of initial in-
fections, and the mode and speed of early
viral spread.
(2) Actions taken by the Government of
China to suppress, conceal, or misinform the
people of China and those of other countries
about the novel coronavirus outbreak in
Wuhan.
(3) The effect of disinformation or the fail-
ure of the Government of China to fully dis-
close details of the outbreak on response ef-
forts of local governments in China and
other countries.
(4) Diplomatic, political, economic, intel-
ligence, or other pressure on other countries
and international organizations to conceal
information about the spread of the novel
coronavirus and the response of the Govern-
ment of China to the contagion, as well as to
influence or coerce early responses to the
pandemic by other countries.
(5) Efforts by officials of the Government
of China to deny access to health experts and
international health organizations to af-
flicted individuals in Wuhan, pertinent areas
of the city, or laboratories of interest in
China, including the Wuhan Institute of Vi-
rology.
(6) Efforts by the Government of China, or
those acting at its direction or with its as-
sistance, to conduct cyber operations against
international, national, or private health or-
ganizations conducting research relating to
the novel coronavirus or operating in re-
sponse to the pandemic.
(7) Efforts to control, restrict, or manipu-
late relevant segments of global supply
chains, particularly in the sale, trade, or
provision of relevant medicines, medical sup-
plies, or medical equipment as a result of the
pandemic.
(8) Efforts to advance the economic, intel-
ligence, national security, and political ob-
jectives of the Government of China by ex-
ploiting vulnerabilities of foreign govern-
ments, economies, and companies under fi-
nancial duress as a result of the pandemic or
to accelerate economic espionage and intel-
lectual property theft.
(9) Efforts to exploit the disruption of the
pharmaceutical and telecommunications in-
dustries as well as other industries tied to
critical infrastructure and bilateral trade be-
tween China and the United States and be-
tween China and allies and partners of the
United States in order to advance the eco-
nomic and political objectives of the Govern-
ment of China following the pandemic.
(d) FORM.—The report required under sub-
section (b) shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 9509. REPORT ON EFFECT OF LIFTING OF
UNITED NATIONS ARMS EMBARGO
ON ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN.
(a) DEFINITION OF APPROPRIATE COMMIT-
TEES OF CONGRESS.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate committees of Congress’’
means—
(1) the Select Committee on Intelligence,
the Committee on Armed Services, and the
Committee on Foreign Relations of the Sen-
ate; and
(2) the Permanent Select Committee on In-
telligence, the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs
of the House of Representatives.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 90
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of the Defense Intelligence
Agency, in consultation with such heads of
other elements of the intelligence commu-
nity as the Director considers appropriate,
shall submit to the appropriate committees
of Congress a report on—
(1) the plans of the Government of the Is-
lamic Republic of Iran to acquire military
arms if the ban on arms transfers to or from
such government under United Nations Secu-
rity Council resolutions are lifted; and
(2) the effect such arms acquisitions may
have on regional security and stability.
(c) CONTENTS.—The report submitted under
subsection (b) shall include assessments re-
lating to plans of the Government of the Is-
lamic Republic of Iran to acquire additional
weapons, the intention of other countries to
provide such weapons, and the effect such ac-
quisition and provision would have on re-
gional stability, including with respect to
each of the following:
(1) The type and quantity of weapon sys-
tems under consideration for acquisition.
(2) The countries of origin of such systems.
(3) Likely reactions of other countries in
the region to such acquisition, including the
potential for proliferation by other countries
in response.
(4) The threat that such acquisition could
present to international commerce and en-
ergy supplies in the region, and the potential
implications for the national security of the
United States.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00287 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6974 November 16, 2020
(5) The threat that such acquisition could
present to the Armed Forces of the United
States, of countries allied with the United
States, and of countries partnered with the
United States stationed in or deployed in the
region.
(6) The potential that such acquisition
could be used to deliver chemical, biological,
or nuclear weapons.
(7) The potential for the Government of the
Islamic Republic of Iran to proliferate weap-
ons acquired in the absence of an arms em-
bargo to regional groups, including Shi’a mi-
litia groups backed by such government.
(d) FORM.—The report submitted under
subsection (b) shall be submitted in unclassi-
fied form, but may include a classified
annex.
SEC. 9510. REPORT ON IRANIAN ACTIVITIES RE-
LATING TO NUCLEAR NON-
PROLIFERATION.
(a) DEFINITION OF APPROPRIATE COMMIT-
TEES OF CONGRESS.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate committees of Congress’’
means—
(1) the Select Committee on Intelligence,
the Committee on Armed Services, and the
Committee on Foreign Relations of the Sen-
ate; and
(2) the Permanent Select Committee on In-
telligence, the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs
of the House of Representatives.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 90
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall submit to the appropriate committees
of Congress a report assessing—
(1) any relevant activities potentially re-
lating to nuclear weapons research and de-
velopment by the Islamic Republic of Iran;
and
(2) any relevant efforts to afford or deny
international access in accordance with
international nonproliferation agreements.
(c) ASSESSMENTS.—The report required by
subsection (b) shall include assessments, for
the period beginning on January 1, 2018, and
ending on the date of the submittal of the re-
port, of the following:
(1) Activities to research, develop, or en-
rich uranium or reprocess plutonium with
the intent or capability of creating weapons-
grade nuclear material.
(2) Research, development, testing, or de-
sign activities that could contribute to or in-
form construction of a device intended to
initiate or capable of initiating a nuclear ex-
plosion.
(3) Efforts to receive, transmit, store, de-
stroy, relocate, archive, or otherwise pre-
serve research, processes, products, or ena-
bling materials relevant or relating to any
efforts assessed under paragraph (1) or (2).
(4) Efforts to afford or deny international
access, in accordance with international
nonproliferation agreements, to locations,
individuals, and materials relating to activi-
ties described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3).
(d) FORM.—The report required under sub-
section (b) shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 9511. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THIRD OP-
TION FOUNDATION.
It is the sense of the Congress that—
(1) the work of the Third Option Founda-
tion to heal, help, and honor members of the
special operations community of the Central
Intelligence Agency and their families is in-
valuable; and
(2) the Director of the Central Intelligence
Agency should work closely with the Third
Option Foundation in implementing section
19A of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of
1949 (50 U.S.C. 3519b), as added by section 6412
of the Damon Paul Nelson and Matthew
Young Pollard Intelligence Authorization
Act for Fiscal Years 2018, 2019, and 2020 (Pub-
lic Law 116–92).
SA 2683. Mr. CORNYN (for Mr. SUL-
LIVAN) proposed an amendment to the
bill S. 2981, to reauthorize and amend
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration Commissioned Officer
Corps Act of 2002, and for other pur-
poses; as follows:
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘National Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration Commissioned Officer Corps
Amendments Act of 2020’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. References to National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration
Commissioned Officer Corps
Act of 2002.
TITLE I—GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 101. Strength and distribution in grade.
Sec. 102. Recalled officers.
Sec. 103. Obligated service requirement.
Sec. 104. Training and physical fitness.
Sec. 105. Aviation accession training pro-
grams.
Sec. 106. Recruiting materials.
Sec. 107. Technical correction.
TITLE II—PARITY AND RECRUITMENT
Sec. 201. Education loans.
Sec. 202. Interest payments.
Sec. 203. Student pre-commissioning pro-
gram.
Sec. 204. Limitation on educational assist-
ance.
Sec. 205. Applicability of certain provisions
of title 10, United States Code,
and extension of certain au-
thorities applicable to members
of the Armed Forces to com-
missioned officer corps.
Sec. 206. Applicability of certain provisions
of title 37, United States Code.
Sec. 207. Prohibition on retaliatory per-
sonnel actions.
Sec. 208. Employment and reemployment
rights.
Sec. 209. Treatment of commission in com-
missioned officer corps for pur-
poses of certain hiring deci-
sions.
TITLE III—APPOINTMENTS AND
PROMOTION OF OFFICERS
Sec. 301. Appointments.
Sec. 302. Personnel boards.
Sec. 303. Positions of importance and re-
sponsibility.
Sec. 304. Temporary appointments.
Sec. 305. Officer candidates.
Sec. 306. Procurement of personnel.
Sec. 307. Career intermission program.
TITLE IV—SEPARATION AND
RETIREMENT OF OFFICERS
Sec. 401. Involuntary retirement or separa-
tion.
Sec. 402. Separation pay.
TITLE V—OTHER NATIONAL OCEANIC
AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION
MATTERS
Sec. 501. Charting and survey services.
Sec. 502. Co-location agreements.
Sec. 503. Satellite and data management.
Sec. 504. Improvements relating to sexual
harassment and assault preven-
tion at the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administra-
tion.
SEC. 2. REFERENCES TO NATIONAL OCEANIC
AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRA-
TION COMMISSIONED OFFICER
CORPS ACT OF 2002.
Except as otherwise expressly provided,
whenever in this Act an amendment or re-
peal is expressed in terms of an amendment
to, or repeal of, a section or other provision,
the reference shall be considered to be made
to a section or other provision of the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion Commissioned Officer Corps Act of 2002
(33 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.).
TITLE I—GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 101. STRENGTH AND DISTRIBUTION IN
GRADE.
Section 214 (33 U.S.C. 3004) is amended to
read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 214. STRENGTH AND DISTRIBUTION IN
GRADE.
‘‘(a) GRADES.—The commissioned grades in
the commissioned officer corps of the Ad-
ministration are the following, in relative
rank with officers of the Navy:
‘‘(1) Vice admiral.
‘‘(2) Rear admiral.
‘‘(3) Rear admiral (lower half).
‘‘(4) Captain.
‘‘(5) Commander.
‘‘(6) Lieutenant commander.
‘‘(7) Lieutenant.
‘‘(8) Lieutenant (junior grade).
‘‘(9) Ensign.
‘‘(b) GRADE DISTRIBUTION.—The Secretary
shall prescribe, with respect to the distribu-
tion on the lineal list in grade, the percent-
ages applicable to the grades set forth in
subsection (a).
‘‘(c) ANNUAL COMPUTATION OF NUMBER IN
GRADE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not less frequently than
once each year, the Secretary shall make a
computation to determine the number of of-
ficers on the lineal list authorized to be serv-
ing in each grade.
‘‘(2) METHOD OF COMPUTATION.—The number
in each grade shall be computed by applying
the applicable percentage to the total num-
ber of such officers serving on active duty on
the date the computation is made.
‘‘(3) FRACTIONS.—If a final fraction occurs
in computing the authorized number of offi-
cers in a grade, the nearest whole number
shall be taken. If the fraction is one-half, the
next higher whole number shall be taken.
‘‘(d) TEMPORARY INCREASE IN NUMBERS.—
The total number of officers authorized by
law to be on the lineal list during a fiscal
year may be temporarily exceeded if the av-
erage number on that list during that fiscal
year does not exceed the authorized number.
‘‘(e) POSITIONS OF IMPORTANCE AND RESPON-
SIBILITY.—Officers serving in positions des-
ignated under section 228(a) and officers re-
called from retired status shall not be count-
ed when computing authorized strengths
under subsection (c) and shall not count
against those strengths.
‘‘(f) PRESERVATION OF GRADE AND PAY.—No
officer may be reduced in grade or pay or
separated from the commissioned officer
corps of the Administration as the result of
a computation made to determine the au-
thorized number of officers in the various
grades.’’.
SEC. 102. RECALLED OFFICERS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 215 (33 U.S.C.
3005) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 215. NUMBER OF AUTHORIZED COMMIS-
SIONED OFFICERS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The total number of au-
thorized commissioned officers on the lineal
list of the commissioned officer corps of the
Administration shall not exceed 500.
‘‘(b) POSITIONS OF IMPORTANCE AND RESPON-
SIBILITY.—Officers serving in positions des-
ignated under section 228 and officers re-
called from retired status or detailed to an
agency other than the Administration—
‘‘(1) may not be counted in determining the
total number of authorized officers on the
lineal list under this section; and
‘‘(2) may not count against such number.’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00288 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.002 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6975
November 16, 2020
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to reauthorize the Hydrographic Serv-
ices Improvement Act of 1998, and for other
purposes’’ (Public Law 107–372) is amended by
striking the item relating to section 215 and
inserting the following:
‘‘Sec. 215. Number of authorized commis-
sioned officers.’’.
SEC. 103. OBLIGATED SERVICE REQUIREMENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle A (33 U.S.C. 3001
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘SEC. 216. OBLIGATED SERVICE REQUIREMENT.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—
‘‘(1) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary shall
prescribe the obligated service requirements
for appointments, training, promotions, sep-
arations, continuations, and retirements of
officers not otherwise covered by law.
‘‘(2) WRITTEN AGREEMENTS.—The Secretary
and officers shall enter into written agree-
ments that describe the officers’ obligated
service requirements prescribed under para-
graph (1) in return for such appointments,
training, promotions, separations, continu-
ations, and retirements as the Secretary
considers appropriate.
‘‘(b) REPAYMENT FOR FAILURE TO SATISFY
REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may re-
quire an officer who fails to meet the service
requirements prescribed under subsection
(a)(1) to reimburse the Secretary in an
amount that bears the same ratio to the
total costs of the training provided to that
officer by the Secretary as the unserved por-
tion of active duty bears to the total period
of active duty the officer agreed to serve.
‘‘(2) OBLIGATION AS DEBT TO UNITED
STATES.—An obligation to reimburse the
Secretary under paragraph (1) is, for all pur-
poses, a debt owed to the United States.
‘‘(3) DISCHARGE IN BANKRUPTCY.—A dis-
charge in bankruptcy under title 11 that is
entered less than five years after the termi-
nation of a written agreement entered into
under subsection (a)(2) does not discharge
the individual signing the agreement from a
debt arising under such agreement.
‘‘(c) WAIVER OR SUSPENSION OF COMPLI-
ANCE.—The Secretary may waive the service
obligation of an officer who—
‘‘(1) becomes unqualified to serve on active
duty in the commissioned officer corps of the
Administration because of a circumstance
not within the control of that officer; or
‘‘(2) is—
‘‘(A) not physically qualified for appoint-
ment; and
‘‘(B) determined to be unqualified for serv-
ice in the commissioned officer corps of the
Administration because of a physical or
medical condition that was not the result of
the officer’s own misconduct or grossly neg-
ligent conduct.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to reauthorize the Hydrographic Serv-
ices Improvement Act of 1998, and for other
purposes’’ (Public Law 107–372) is amended by
inserting after the item relating to section
215 the following:
‘‘Sec. 216. Obligated service requirement.’’.
SEC. 104. TRAINING AND PHYSICAL FITNESS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle A (33 U.S.C. 3001
et seq.), as amended by section 103(a), is fur-
ther amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 217. TRAINING AND PHYSICAL FITNESS.
‘‘(a) TRAINING.—The Secretary may take
such measures as may be necessary to ensure
that officers are prepared to carry out their
duties in the commissioned officer corps of
the Administration and proficient in the
skills necessary to carry out such duties.
Such measures may include the following:
‘‘(1) Carrying out training programs and
correspondence courses, including estab-
lishing and operating a basic officer training
program to provide initial indoctrination
and maritime vocational training for officer
candidates as well as refresher training, mid-
career training, aviation training, and such
other training as the Secretary considers
necessary for officer development and pro-
ficiency.
‘‘(2) Providing officers and officer can-
didates with educational materials.
‘‘(3) Acquiring such equipment as may be
necessary for training and instructional pur-
poses.
‘‘(b) PHYSICAL FITNESS.—The Secretary
shall ensure that officers maintain a high
physical state of readiness by establishing
standards of physical fitness for officers that
are substantially equivalent to those pre-
scribed for officers in the Coast Guard.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to reauthorize the Hydrographic Serv-
ices Improvement Act of 1998, and for other
purposes’’ (Public Law 107–372), as amended
by section 103(b), is further amended by in-
serting after the item relating to section 216
the following:
‘‘Sec. 217. Training and physical fitness.’’.
SEC. 105. AVIATION ACCESSION TRAINING PRO-
GRAMS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle A (33 U.S.C. 3001
et seq.), as amended by section 104(a), is fur-
ther amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 218. AVIATION ACCESSION TRAINING PRO-
GRAMS.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) ADMINISTRATOR.—The term ‘Adminis-
trator’ means the Under Secretary of Com-
merce for Oceans and Atmosphere and the
Administrator of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration.
‘‘(2) MEMBER OF THE PROGRAM.—The term
‘member of the program’ means a student
who is enrolled in the program.
‘‘(3) PROGRAM.—The term ‘program’ means
an aviation accession training program of
the commissioned officer corps of the Ad-
ministration established pursuant to sub-
section (b).
‘‘(b) AVIATION ACCESSION TRAINING PRO-
GRAMS.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT AUTHORIZED.—The Ad-
ministrator, under regulations prescribed by
the Secretary, shall establish and maintain
one or more aviation accession training pro-
grams for the commissioned officer corps of
the Administration at institutions described
in paragraph (2).
‘‘(2) INSTITUTIONS DESCRIBED.—An institu-
tion described in this paragraph is an edu-
cational institution—
‘‘(A) that requests to enter into an agree-
ment with the Administrator providing for
the establishment of the program at the in-
stitution;
‘‘(B) that has, as a part of its curriculum,
a four-year baccalaureate program of profes-
sional flight and piloting instruction that is
accredited by the Aviation Accreditation
Board International;
‘‘(C) that is located in a geographic area
that—
‘‘(i) experiences a wide variation in cli-
mate-related activity, including frequent
high winds, convective activity (including
tornadoes), periods of low visibility, heat,
and snow and ice episodes, to provide oppor-
tunities for pilots to demonstrate skill in all
weather conditions compatible with future
encounters during their service in the com-
missioned officer corps of the Administra-
tion; and
‘‘(ii) has a climate that can accommodate
both primary and advanced flight training
activity at least 75 percent of the year; and
‘‘(D) at which the Administrator deter-
mines that—
‘‘(i) there will be at least one student en-
rolled in the program; and
‘‘(ii) the provisions of this section are oth-
erwise satisfied.
‘‘(3) LIMITATIONS IN CONNECTION WITH PAR-
TICULAR INSTITUTIONS.—The program may
not be established or maintained at an insti-
tution unless—
‘‘(A) the senior commissioned officer or
employee of the commissioned officer corps
of the Administration who is assigned as an
advisor to the program at that institution is
given the academic rank of adjunct pro-
fessor; and
‘‘(B) the institution fulfills the terms of its
agreement with the Administrator.
‘‘(4) MEMBERSHIP IN CONNECTION WITH STA-
TUS AS STUDENT.—At institutions at which
the program is established, the membership
of students in the program shall be elective,
as provided by State law or the authorities
of the institution concerned.
‘‘(c) MEMBERSHIP.—
‘‘(1) ELIGIBILITY.—To be eligible for mem-
bership in the program, an individual must—
‘‘(A) be a student at an institution at
which the program is established;
‘‘(B) be a citizen of the United States;
‘‘(C) contract in writing, with the consent
of a parent or guardian if a minor, with the
Administrator, to—
‘‘(i) accept an appointment, if offered, as a
commissioned officer in the commissioned
officer corps of the Administration; and
‘‘(ii) serve in the commissioned officer
corps of the Administration for not fewer
than four years;
‘‘(D) enroll in—
‘‘(i) a four-year baccalaureate program of
professional flight and piloting instruction;
and
‘‘(ii) other training or education, including
basic officer training, which is prescribed by
the Administrator as meeting the prelimi-
nary requirement for admission to the com-
missioned officer corps of the Administra-
tion; and
‘‘(E) execute a certificate or take an oath
relating to morality and conduct in such
form as the Administrator prescribes.
‘‘(2) COMPLETION OF PROGRAM.—A member
of the program may be appointed as a reg-
ular officer in the commissioned officer
corps of the Administration if the member
meets all requirements for appointment as
such an officer.
‘‘(d) FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FOR QUALIFIED
MEMBERS.—
‘‘(1) EXPENSES OF COURSE OF INSTRUCTION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a member
of the program who meets such qualifica-
tions as the Administrator establishes for
purposes of this subsection, the Adminis-
trator may pay the expenses of the member
in connection with pursuit of a course of pro-
fessional flight and piloting instruction
under the program, including tuition, fees,
educational materials such as books, train-
ing, certifications, travel, and laboratory ex-
penses.
‘‘(B) ASSISTANCE AFTER FOURTH ACADEMIC
YEAR.—In the case of a member of the pro-
gram described in subparagraph (A) who is
enrolled in a course described in that sub-
paragraph that has been approved by the Ad-
ministrator and requires more than four aca-
demic years for completion, including elec-
tive requirements of the program, assistance
under this subsection may also be provided
during a fifth academic year or during a
combination of a part of a fifth academic
year and summer sessions.
‘‘(2) ROOM AND BOARD.—In the case of a
member eligible to receive assistance under
paragraph (1), the Administrator may, in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00289 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.001 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6976 November 16, 2020
lieu of payment of all or part of such assist-
ance, pay the room and board expenses of the
member, and other educational expenses, of
the educational institution concerned.
‘‘(3) FAILURE TO COMPLETE PROGRAM OR AC-
CEPT COMMISSION.—A member of the program
who receives assistance under this sub-
section and who does not complete the
course of instruction, or who completes the
course but declines to accept a commission
in the commissioned officer corps of the Ad-
ministration when offered, shall be subject
to the repayment provisions of subsection
(e).
‘‘(e) REPAYMENT OF UNEARNED PORTION OF
FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE WHEN CONDITIONS OF
PAYMENT NOT MET.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A member of the pro-
gram who receives or benefits from assist-
ance under subsection (d), and whose receipt
of or benefit from such assistance is subject
to the condition that the member fully sat-
isfy the requirements of subsection (c), shall
repay to the United States an amount equal
to the assistance received or benefitted from
if the member fails to fully satisfy such re-
quirements and may not receive or benefit
from any unpaid amounts of such assistance
after the member fails to satisfy such re-
quirements, unless the Administrator deter-
mines that the imposition of the repayment
requirement and the termination of payment
of unpaid amounts of such assistance with
regard to the member would be—
‘‘(A) contrary to a personnel policy or
management objective;
‘‘(B) against equity and good conscience; or
‘‘(C) contrary to the best interests of the
United States.
‘‘(2) REGULATIONS.—The Administrator
may establish, by regulations, procedures for
determining the amount of the repayment
required under this subsection and the cir-
cumstances under which an exception to re-
payment may be granted. The Administrator
may specify in the regulations the condi-
tions under which financial assistance to be
paid to a member of the program will not be
made if the member no longer satisfies the
requirements in subsection (c) or qualifica-
tions in subsection (d) for such assistance.
‘‘(3) OBLIGATION AS DEBT TO UNITED
STATES.—An obligation to repay the United
States under this subsection is, for all pur-
poses, a debt owed to the United States.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to reauthorize the Hydrographic Serv-
ices Improvement Act of 1998, and for other
purposes’’ (Public Law 107–372), as amended
by section 104(b), is further amended by in-
serting after the item relating to section 217
the following:
‘‘Sec. 218. Aviation accession training pro-
grams.’’.
SEC. 106. RECRUITING MATERIALS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle A (33 U.S.C. 3001
et seq.), as amended by section 105(a), is fur-
ther amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 219. USE OF RECRUITING MATERIALS FOR
PUBLIC RELATIONS.
‘‘The Secretary may use for public rela-
tions purposes of the Department of Com-
merce any advertising materials developed
for use for recruitment and retention of per-
sonnel for the commissioned officer corps of
the Administration. Any such use shall be
under such conditions and subject to such re-
strictions as the Secretary shall prescribe.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to reauthorize the Hydrographic Serv-
ices Improvement Act of 1998, and for other
purposes’’ (Public Law 107–372), as amended
by section 105(b), is further amended by in-
serting after the item relating to section 218
the following:
‘‘Sec. 219. Use of recruiting materials for
public relations.’’.
SEC. 107. TECHNICAL CORRECTION.
Section 101(21)(C) of title 38, United States
Code, is amended by inserting ‘‘in the com-
missioned officer corps’’ before ‘‘of the Na-
tional’’.
TITLE II—PARITY AND RECRUITMENT
SEC. 201. EDUCATION LOANS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle E (33 U.S.C. 3071
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘SEC. 267. EDUCATION LOAN REPAYMENT PRO-
GRAM.
‘‘(a) AUTHORITY TO REPAY EDUCATION
LOANS.—For the purpose of maintaining ade-
quate numbers of officers of the commis-
sioned officer corps of the Administration on
active duty who have skills required by the
commissioned officer corps, the Secretary
may repay, in the case of a person described
in subsection (b), a loan that—
‘‘(1) was used by the person to finance edu-
cation; and
‘‘(2) was obtained from a governmental en-
tity, private financial institution, edu-
cational institution, or other authorized en-
tity.
‘‘(b) ELIGIBLE PERSONS.—To be eligible to
obtain a loan repayment under this section,
a person must—
‘‘(1) satisfy one of the requirements speci-
fied in subsection (c);
‘‘(2) be fully qualified for, or hold, an ap-
pointment as a commissioned officer in the
commissioned officer corps of the Adminis-
tration; and
‘‘(3) sign a written agreement to serve on
active duty, or, if on active duty, to remain
on active duty for a period in addition to any
other incurred active duty obligation.
‘‘(c) ACADEMIC AND PROFESSIONAL REQUIRE-
MENTS.—One of the following academic re-
quirements must be satisfied for purposes of
determining the eligibility of an individual
for a loan repayment under this section:
‘‘(1) The person is fully qualified in a pro-
fession that the Secretary has determined to
be necessary to meet identified skill short-
ages in the commissioned officer corps of the
Administration.
‘‘(2) The person is enrolled as a full-time
student in the final year of a course of study
at an accredited educational institution (as
determined by the Secretary of Education)
leading to a degree in a profession that will
meet identified skill shortages in the com-
missioned officer corps of the Administra-
tion.
‘‘(d) LOAN REPAYMENTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the limits es-
tablished under paragraph (2), a loan repay-
ment under this section may consist of the
payment of the principal, interest, and re-
lated expenses of a loan obtained by a person
described in subsection (b).
‘‘(2) LIMITATION ON AMOUNT.—For each year
of obligated service that a person agrees to
serve in an agreement described in sub-
section (b)(3), the Secretary may pay not
more than the amount specified in section
2173(e)(2) of title 10, United States Code.
‘‘(e) ACTIVE DUTY SERVICE OBLIGATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A person entering into
an agreement described in subsection (b)(3)
incurs an active duty service obligation.
‘‘(2) LENGTH OF OBLIGATION DETERMINED
UNDER REGULATIONS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), the length of the obliga-
tion under paragraph (1) shall be determined
under regulations prescribed by the Sec-
retary.
‘‘(B) MINIMUM OBLIGATION.—The regula-
tions prescribed under subparagraph (A) may
not provide for a period of obligation of less
than one year for each maximum annual
amount, or portion thereof, paid on behalf of
the person for qualified loans.
‘‘(3) PERSONS ON ACTIVE DUTY BEFORE EN-
TERING INTO AGREEMENT.—The active duty
service obligation of persons on active duty
before entering into the agreement shall be
served after the conclusion of any other obli-
gation incurred under the agreement.
‘‘(4) CONCURRENT COMPLETION OF SERVICE
OBLIGATIONS.—A service obligation under
this section may be completed concurrently
with a service obligation under section 216.
‘‘(f) EFFECT OF FAILURE TO COMPLETE OBLI-
GATION.—
‘‘(1) ALTERNATIVE OBLIGATIONS.—An officer
who is relieved of the officer’s active duty
obligation under this section before the com-
pletion of that obligation may be given any
alternative obligation, at the discretion of
the Secretary.
‘‘(2) REPAYMENT.—An officer who does not
complete the period of active duty specified
in the agreement entered into under sub-
section (b)(3), or the alternative obligation
imposed under paragraph (1), shall be subject
to the repayment provisions under section
216.
‘‘(g) RULEMAKING.—The Secretary shall
prescribe regulations to carry out this sec-
tion, including—
‘‘(1) standards for qualified loans and au-
thorized payees; and
‘‘(2) other terms and conditions for the
making of loan repayments.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to reauthorize the Hydrographic Serv-
ices Improvement Act of 1998, and for other
purposes’’ (Public Law 107–372) is amended by
inserting after the item relating to section
266 the following:
‘‘Sec. 267. Education loan repayment pro-
gram.’’.
SEC. 202. INTEREST PAYMENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle E (33 U.S.C. 3071
et seq.), as amended by section 201(a), is fur-
ther amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 268. INTEREST PAYMENT PROGRAM.
‘‘(a) AUTHORITY.—The Secretary may pay
the interest and any special allowances that
accrue on one or more student loans of an el-
igible officer, in accordance with this sec-
tion.
‘‘(b) ELIGIBLE OFFICERS.—An officer is eli-
gible for the benefit described in subsection
(a) while the officer—
‘‘(1) is serving on active duty;
‘‘(2) has not completed more than three
years of service on active duty;
‘‘(3) is the debtor on one or more unpaid
loans described in subsection (c); and
‘‘(4) is not in default on any such loan.
‘‘(c) STUDENT LOANS.—The authority to
make payments under subsection (a) may be
exercised with respect to the following loans:
‘‘(1) A loan made, insured, or guaranteed
under part B of title IV of the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1071 et seq.).
‘‘(2) A loan made under part D of such title
(20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq.).
‘‘(3) A loan made under part E of such title
(20 U.S.C. 1087aa et seq.).
‘‘(d) MAXIMUM BENEFIT.—Interest and any
special allowance may be paid on behalf of
an officer under this section for any of the 36
consecutive months during which the officer
is eligible under subsection (b).
‘‘(e) COORDINATION WITH SECRETARY OF
EDUCATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall con-
sult with the Secretary of Education regard-
ing the administration of this section.
‘‘(2) REIMBURSEMENT AUTHORIZED.—The
Secretary is authorized to reimburse the
Secretary of Education—
‘‘(A) for the funds necessary to pay inter-
est and special allowances on student loans
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00290 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.001 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6977
November 16, 2020
under this section (in accordance with sec-
tions 428(o), 455(l), and 464(j) of the Higher
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1078(o),
1087e(l), and 1087dd(j)); and
‘‘(B) for any reasonable administrative
costs incurred by the Secretary of Education
in coordinating the program under this sec-
tion with the administration of the student
loan programs under parts B, D, and E of
title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965
(20 U.S.C. 1071 et seq., 1087a et seq., 1087aa et
seq.).
‘‘(f) SPECIAL ALLOWANCE DEFINED.—In this
section, the term ‘special allowance’ means a
special allowance that is payable under sec-
tion 438 of the Higher Education Act of 1965
(20 U.S.C. 1087–1).’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) Section 428(o) of the Higher Education
Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1078(o)) is amended—
(A) by striking the subsection heading and
inserting ‘‘ARMED FORCES AND NOAA COM-
MISSIONED OFFICER CORPS STUDENT LOAN IN-
TEREST PAYMENT PROGRAMS’’; and
(B) in paragraph (1)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘or section 268 of the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion Commissioned Officer Corps Act of 2002’’
after ‘‘Code,’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘or an officer in the com-
missioned officer corps of the National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration, re-
spectively,’’ after ‘‘Armed Forces’’.
(2) Sections 455(l) and 464(j) of the Higher
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087e(l) and
1087dd(j)) are each amended—
(A) by striking the subsection heading and
inserting ‘‘ARMED FORCES AND NOAA COM-
MISSIONED OFFICER CORPS STUDENT LOAN IN-
TEREST PAYMENT PROGRAMS’’; and
(B) in paragraph (1)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘or section 268 of the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion Commissioned Officer Corps Act of 2002’’
after ‘‘Code,’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘or an officer in the com-
missioned officer corps of the National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration, re-
spectively’’ after ‘‘Armed Forces’’.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to reauthorize the Hydrographic Serv-
ices Improvement Act of 1998, and for other
purposes’’ (Public Law 107–372), as amended
by section 201(b), is further amended by in-
serting after the item relating to section 267
the following:
‘‘Sec. 268. Interest payment program.’’.
SEC. 203. STUDENT PRE-COMMISSIONING PRO-
GRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle E (33 U.S.C. 3071
et seq.), as amended by section 202(a), is fur-
ther amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 269. STUDENT PRE-COMMISSIONING EDU-
CATION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.
‘‘(a) AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE FINANCIAL AS-
SISTANCE.—For the purpose of maintaining
adequate numbers of officers of the commis-
sioned officer corps of the Administration on
active duty, the Secretary may provide fi-
nancial assistance to a person described in
subsection (b) for expenses of the person
while the person is pursuing on a full-time
basis at an accredited educational institu-
tion (as determined by the Secretary of Edu-
cation) a program of education approved by
the Secretary that leads to—
‘‘(1) a baccalaureate degree in not more
than five academic years; or
‘‘(2) a postbaccalaureate degree.
‘‘(b) ELIGIBLE PERSONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A person is eligible to
obtain financial assistance under subsection
(a) if the person—
‘‘(A) is enrolled on a full-time basis in a
program of education referred to in sub-
section (a) at any educational institution de-
scribed in such subsection;
‘‘(B) meets all of the requirements for ac-
ceptance into the commissioned officer corps
of the Administration except for the comple-
tion of a baccalaureate degree; and
‘‘(C) enters into a written agreement with
the Secretary described in paragraph (2).
‘‘(2) AGREEMENT.—A written agreement re-
ferred to in paragraph (1)(C) is an agreement
between the person and the Secretary in
which the person—
‘‘(A) agrees to accept an appointment as an
officer, if tendered; and
‘‘(B) upon completion of the person’s edu-
cational program, agrees to serve on active
duty, immediately after appointment, for—
‘‘(i) up to three years if the person received
less than three years of assistance; and
‘‘(ii) up to five years if the person received
at least three years of assistance.
‘‘(c) QUALIFYING EXPENSES.—Expenses for
which financial assistance may be provided
under subsection (a) are the following:
‘‘(1) Tuition and fees charged by the edu-
cational institution involved.
‘‘(2) The cost of educational materials.
‘‘(3) In the case of a program of education
leading to a baccalaureate degree, labora-
tory expenses.
‘‘(4) Such other expenses as the Secretary
considers appropriate.
‘‘(d) LIMITATION ON AMOUNT.—The Sec-
retary shall prescribe the amount of finan-
cial assistance provided to a person under
subsection (a), which may not exceed the
amount specified in section 2173(e)(2) of title
10, United States Code, for each year of obli-
gated service that a person agrees to serve in
an agreement described in subsection (b)(2).
‘‘(e) DURATION OF ASSISTANCE.—Financial
assistance may be provided to a person under
subsection (a) for not more than five con-
secutive academic years.
‘‘(f) SUBSISTENCE ALLOWANCE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A person who receives fi-
nancial assistance under subsection (a) shall
be entitled to a monthly subsistence allow-
ance at a rate prescribed under paragraph (2)
for the duration of the period for which the
person receives such financial assistance.
‘‘(2) DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT.—The Sec-
retary shall prescribe monthly rates for sub-
sistence allowance provided under paragraph
(1), which shall be equal to the amount speci-
fied in section 2144(a) of title 10, United
States Code.
‘‘(g) INITIAL CLOTHING ALLOWANCE.—
‘‘(1) TRAINING.—The Secretary may pre-
scribe a sum which shall be credited to each
person who receives financial assistance
under subsection (a) to cover the cost of the
person’s initial clothing and equipment
issue.
‘‘(2) APPOINTMENT.—Upon completion of
the program of education for which a person
receives financial assistance under sub-
section (a) and acceptance of appointment in
the commissioned officer corps of the Ad-
ministration, the person may be issued a
subsequent clothing allowance equivalent to
that normally provided to a newly appointed
officer.
‘‘(h) TERMINATION OF FINANCIAL ASSIST-
ANCE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ter-
minate the assistance provided to a person
under this section if—
‘‘(A) the Secretary accepts a request by the
person to be released from an agreement de-
scribed in subsection (b)(2);
‘‘(B) the misconduct of the person results
in a failure to complete the period of active
duty required under the agreement; or
‘‘(C) the person fails to fulfill any term or
condition of the agreement.
‘‘(2) REIMBURSEMENT.—The Secretary may
require a person who receives assistance de-
scribed in subsection (c), (f), or (g) under an
agreement entered into under subsection
(b)(1)(C) to reimburse the Secretary in an
amount that bears the same ratio to the
total costs of the assistance provided to that
person as the unserved portion of active duty
bears to the total period of active duty the
officer agreed to serve under the agreement.
‘‘(3) WAIVER.—The Secretary may waive
the service obligation of a person through an
agreement entered into under subsection
(b)(1)(C) if the person—
‘‘(A) becomes unqualified to serve on ac-
tive duty in the commissioned officer corps
of the Administration because of a cir-
cumstance not within the control of that
person; or
‘‘(B) is—
‘‘(i) not physically qualified for appoint-
ment; and
‘‘(ii) determined to be unqualified for serv-
ice in the commissioned officer corps of the
Administration because of a physical or
medical condition that was not the result of
the person’s own misconduct or grossly neg-
ligent conduct.
‘‘(4) OBLIGATION AS DEBT TO UNITED
STATES.—An obligation to reimburse the
Secretary imposed under paragraph (2) is, for
all purposes, a debt owed to the United
States.
‘‘(5) DISCHARGE IN BANKRUPTCY.—A dis-
charge in bankruptcy under title 11, United
States Code, that is entered less than five
years after the termination of a written
agreement entered into under subsection
(b)(1)(C) does not discharge the person sign-
ing the agreement from a debt arising under
such agreement or under paragraph (2).
‘‘(i) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary may
prescribe such regulations and orders as the
Secretary considers appropriate to carry out
this section.
‘‘(j) CONCURRENT COMPLETION OF SERVICE
OBLIGATIONS.—A service obligation under
this section may be completed concurrently
with a service obligation under section 216.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to reauthorize the Hydrographic Serv-
ices Improvement Act of 1998, and for other
purposes’’ (Public Law 107–372), as amended
by section 202(c), is further amended by in-
serting after the item relating to section 268
the following:
‘‘Sec. 269. Student pre-commissioning edu-
cation assistance program.’’.
SEC. 204. LIMITATION ON EDUCATIONAL ASSIST-
ANCE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Each fiscal year, begin-
ning with the fiscal year in which this Act is
enacted, the Secretary of Commerce shall
ensure that the total amount expended by
the Secretary under section 267 of the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion Commissioned Officer Corps Act of 2002
(as added by section 201(a)), section 268 of
such Act (as added by section 202(a)), and
section 269 of such Act (as added by section
203(a)) does not exceed the amount by
which—
(1) the total amount the Secretary would
pay in that fiscal year to officer candidates
under section 203(f)(1) of title 37, United
States Code (as added by section 305(d)), if
such section entitled officer candidates to
pay at monthly rates equal to the basic pay
of a commissioned officer in the pay grade O–
1 with less than 2 years of service, exceeds
(2) the total amount the Secretary actu-
ally pays in that fiscal year to officer can-
didates under section 203(f)(1) of such title
(as so added).
(b) OFFICER CANDIDATE DEFINED.—In this
section, the term ‘‘officer candidate’’ has the
meaning given the term in paragraph (4) of
section 212(b) of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration Commissioned
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00291 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.001 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6978 November 16, 2020
Officer Corps Act of 2002 (33 U.S.C. 3002), as
added by section 305(c).
SEC. 205. APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN PROVI-
SIONS OF TITLE 10, UNITED STATES
CODE, AND EXTENSION OF CERTAIN
AUTHORITIES APPLICABLE TO MEM-
BERS OF THE ARMED FORCES TO
COMMISSIONED OFFICER CORPS.
(a) APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS
OF TITLE 10.—Section 261(a) (33 U.S.C. 3071(a))
is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (13)
through (16) as paragraphs (22) through (25),
respectively;
(2) by redesignating paragraphs (7) through
(12) as paragraphs (14) through (19), respec-
tively;
(3) by redesignating paragraphs (4) through
(6) as paragraphs (8) through (10), respec-
tively;
(4) by inserting after paragraph (3) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(4) Section 771, relating to unauthorized
wearing of uniforms.
‘‘(5) Section 774, relating to wearing reli-
gious apparel while in uniform.
‘‘(6) Section 982, relating to service on
State and local juries.
‘‘(7) Section 1031, relating to administra-
tion of oaths.’’;
(5) by inserting after paragraph (10), as re-
designated, the following:
‘‘(11) Section 1074n, relating to annual
mental health assessments.
‘‘(12) Section 1090a, relating to referrals for
mental health evaluations.
‘‘(13) Chapter 58, relating to the Benefits
and Services for members being separated or
recently separated.’’; and
(6) by inserting after paragraph (19), as re-
designated, the following:
‘‘(20) Subchapter I of chapter 88, relating to
Military Family Programs, applicable on an
as-available and fully reimbursable basis.
‘‘(21) Section 2005, relating to advanced
education assistance, active duty agree-
ments, and reimbursement requirements.’’.
(b) EXTENSION OF CERTAIN AUTHORITIES.—
(1) NOTARIAL SERVICES.—Section 1044a of
title 10, United States Code, is amended—
(A) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ‘‘armed
forces’’ and inserting ‘‘uniformed services’’;
and
(B) in subsection (b)(4), by striking ‘‘armed
forces’’ both places it appears and inserting
‘‘uniformed services’’.
(2) ACCEPTANCE OF VOLUNTARY SERVICES
FOR PROGRAMS SERVING MEMBERS AND THEIR
FAMILIES.—Section 1588 of such title is
amended—
(A) in subsection (a)(3), in the matter be-
fore subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘armed
forces’’ and inserting ‘‘uniformed services’’;
and
(B) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(g) SECRETARY CONCERNED FOR ACCEPT-
ANCE OF SERVICES FOR PROGRAMS SERVING
MEMBERS OF NOAA CORPS AND THEIR FAMI-
LIES.—For purposes of the acceptance of
services described in subsection (a)(3), the
term ‘Secretary concerned’ in subsection (a)
shall include the Secretary of Commerce
with respect to members of the commis-
sioned officer corps of the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration.’’.
(3) CAPSTONE COURSE FOR NEWLY SELECTED
FLAG OFFICERS.—Section 2153 of such title is
amended—
(A) in subsection (a)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘or the commissioned offi-
cer corps of the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration’’ after ‘‘in the case of
the Navy’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘other armed forces’’ and
inserting ‘‘other uniformed services’’; and
(B) in subsection (b)(1), in the matter be-
fore subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘or the
Secretary of Commerce, as applicable,’’ after
‘‘the Secretary of Defense’’.
SEC. 206. APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN PROVI-
SIONS OF TITLE 37, UNITED STATES
CODE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle E (33 U.S.C. 3071
et seq.) is amended by inserting after section
261 the following:
‘‘SEC. 261A. APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN PROVI-
SIONS OF TITLE 37, UNITED STATES
CODE.
‘‘The provisions of law applicable to the
Armed Forces under the following provisions
of title 37, United States Code, shall apply to
the commissioned officer corps of the Ad-
ministration:
‘‘(1) Section 403(l), relating to temporary
continuation of housing allowance for de-
pendents of members dying on active duty.
‘‘(2) Section 415, relating to initial uniform
allowances.
‘‘(3) Section 488, relating to allowances for
recruiting expenses.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to reauthorize the Hydrographic Serv-
ices Improvement Act of 1998, and for other
purposes’’ (Public Law 107–372) is amended by
inserting after the item relating to section
261 the following:
‘‘Sec. 261A. Applicability of certain provi-
sions of title 37, United States
Code.’’.
SEC. 207. PROHIBITION ON RETALIATORY PER-
SONNEL ACTIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (a) of section
261 (33 U.S.C. 3071), as amended by section
205(a), is further amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (8) through
(25) as paragraphs (9) through (26), respec-
tively; and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (7) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(8) Section 1034, relating to protected
communications and prohibition of retalia-
tory personnel actions.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Subsection
(b) of such section 261 is amended by adding
at the end the following: ‘‘For purposes of
paragraph (8) of subsection (a), the term ‘In-
spector General’ in section 1034 of such title
10 shall mean the Inspector General of the
Department of Commerce.’’.
(c) REGULATIONS.—Such section is further
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(c) REGULATIONS REGARDING PROTECTED
COMMUNICATIONS AND PROHIBITION OF RETAL-
IATORY PERSONNEL ACTIONS.—The Secretary
may prescribe regulations to carry out the
application of section 1034 of title 10, United
States Code, to the commissioned officer
corps of the Administration, including by
prescribing such administrative procedures
for investigation and appeal within the com-
missioned officer corps as the Secretary con-
siders appropriate.’’.
SEC. 208. EMPLOYMENT AND REEMPLOYMENT
RIGHTS.
Section 4303(16) of title 38, United States
Code, is amended by inserting ‘‘the commis-
sioned officer corps of the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration,’’ after
‘‘Public Health Service,’’.
SEC. 209. TREATMENT OF COMMISSION IN COM-
MISSIONED OFFICER CORPS FOR
PURPOSES OF CERTAIN HIRING DE-
CISIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle E (33 U.S.C. 3071
et seq.), as amended by this Act, is further
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 269A. TREATMENT OF COMMISSION IN COM-
MISSIONED OFFICER CORPS AS EM-
PLOYMENT IN ADMINISTRATION
FOR PURPOSES OF CERTAIN HIRING
DECISIONS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—In any case in which the
Secretary accepts an application for a posi-
tion of employment with the Administration
and limits consideration of applications for
such position to applications submitted by
individuals serving in a career or career-con-
ditional position in the competitive service
within the Administration, the Secretary
shall deem an officer who has served as an
officer in the commissioned officer corps of
the Administration for at least three years
to be serving in a career or career-condi-
tional position in the competitive service
within the Administration for purposes of
such limitation.
‘‘(b) CAREER APPOINTMENTS.—If the Sec-
retary selects an application submitted by
an officer described in subsection (a) for a
position described in such subsection, the
Secretary shall give such officer a career or
career-conditional appointment in the com-
petitive service, as appropriate.
‘‘(c) COMPETITIVE SERVICE DEFINED.—In
this section, the term ‘competitive service’
has the meaning given the term in section
2102 of title 5, United States Code.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to reauthorize the Hydrographic Serv-
ices Improvement Act of 1998, and for other
purposes’’ (Public Law 107–372) is amended by
inserting after the item relating to section
269, as added by section 203(b), the following
new item:
‘‘Sec. 269A. Treatment of commission in
commissioned officer corps as
employment in Administration
for purposes of certain hiring
decisions.’’.
TITLE III—APPOINTMENTS AND
PROMOTION OF OFFICERS
SEC. 301. APPOINTMENTS.
(a) ORIGINAL APPOINTMENTS.—Section 221
(33 U.S.C. 3021) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 221. ORIGINAL APPOINTMENTS AND RE-
APPOINTMENTS.
‘‘(a) ORIGINAL APPOINTMENTS.—
‘‘(1) GRADES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), an original appointment of
an officer may be made in such grades as
may be appropriate for—
‘‘(i) the qualification, experience, and
length of service of the appointee; and
‘‘(ii) the commissioned officer corps of the
Administration.
‘‘(B) APPOINTMENT OF OFFICER CAN-
DIDATES.—
‘‘(i) LIMITATION ON GRADE.—An original ap-
pointment of an officer candidate, upon grad-
uation from the basic officer training pro-
gram of the commissioned officer corps of
the Administration, may not be made in any
other grade than ensign.
‘‘(ii) RANK.—Officer candidates receiving
appointments as ensigns upon graduation
from the basic officer training program shall
take rank according to their proficiency as
shown by the order of their merit at date of
graduation.
‘‘(2) SOURCE OF APPOINTMENTS.—An original
appointment may be made from among the
following:
‘‘(A) Graduates of the basic officer training
program of the commissioned officer corps of
the Administration.
‘‘(B) Subject to the approval of the Sec-
retary of Defense, graduates of the military
service academies of the United States who
otherwise meet the academic standards for
enrollment in the training program de-
scribed in subparagraph (A).
‘‘(C) Graduates of the State maritime acad-
emies who—
‘‘(i) otherwise meet the academic stand-
ards for enrollment in the training program
described in subparagraph (A);
‘‘(ii) completed at least three years of regi-
mented training while at a State maritime
academy; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00292 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.001 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6979
November 16, 2020
‘‘(iii) obtained an unlimited tonnage or un-
limited horsepower Merchant Mariner Cre-
dential from the United States Coast Guard.
‘‘(D) Licensed officers of the United States
merchant marine who have served two or
more years aboard a vessel of the United
States in the capacity of a licensed officer,
who otherwise meet the academic standards
for enrollment in the training program de-
scribed in subparagraph (A).
‘‘(3) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
‘‘(A) MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMIES OF THE
UNITED STATES.—The term ‘military service
academies of the United States’ means the
following:
‘‘(i) The United States Military Academy,
West Point, New York.
‘‘(ii) The United States Naval Academy,
Annapolis, Maryland.
‘‘(iii) The United States Air Force Acad-
emy, Colorado Springs, Colorado.
‘‘(iv) The United States Coast Guard Acad-
emy, New London, Connecticut.
‘‘(v) The United States Merchant Marine
Academy, Kings Point, New York.
‘‘(B) STATE MARITIME ACADEMY.—The term
‘State maritime academy’ has the meaning
given the term in section 51102 of title 46,
United States Code.
‘‘(b) REAPPOINTMENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), an individual who previously
served in the commissioned officer corps of
the Administration may be appointed by the
Secretary to the grade the individual held
prior to separation.
‘‘(2) REAPPOINTMENTS TO HIGHER GRADES.—
An appointment under paragraph (1) to a po-
sition of importance and responsibility des-
ignated under section 228 may only be made
by the President.
‘‘(c) QUALIFICATIONS.—An appointment
under subsection (a) or (b) may not be given
to an individual until the individual’s men-
tal, moral, physical, and professional fitness
to perform the duties of an officer has been
established under such regulations as the
Secretary shall prescribe.
‘‘(d) ORDER OF PRECEDENCE.—Appointees
under this section shall take precedence in
the grade to which appointed in accordance
with the dates of their commissions as com-
missioned officers in such grade. The order of
precedence of appointees whose dates of com-
mission are the same shall be determined by
the Secretary.
‘‘(e) INTER-SERVICE TRANSFERS.—For inter-
service transfers (as described in Department
of Defense Directive 1300.4 (dated December
27, 2006)) the Secretary shall—
‘‘(1) coordinate with the Secretary of De-
fense and the Secretary of the Department in
which the Coast Guard is operating to pro-
mote and streamline inter-service transfers;
‘‘(2) give preference to such inter-service
transfers for recruitment purposes as deter-
mined appropriate by the Secretary; and
‘‘(3) reappoint such inter-service transfers
to the equivalent grade in the commissioned
officer corps of the Administration.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to reauthorize the Hydrographic Serv-
ices Improvement Act of 1998, and for other
purposes’’ (Public Law 107–372) is amended by
striking the item relating to section 221 and
inserting the following:
‘‘Sec. 221. Original appointments and re-
appointments.’’.
SEC. 302. PERSONNEL BOARDS.
Section 222 (33 U.S.C. 3022) is amended to
read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 222. PERSONNEL BOARDS.
‘‘(a) CONVENING.—Not less frequently than
once each year and at such other times as
the Secretary determines necessary, the Sec-
retary shall convene a personnel board.
‘‘(b) MEMBERSHIP.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A board convened under
subsection (a) shall consist of five or more
officers who are serving in or above the per-
manent grade of the officers under consider-
ation by the board.
‘‘(2) RETIRED OFFICERS.—Officers on the re-
tired list may be recalled to serve on such
personnel boards as the Secretary considers
necessary.
‘‘(3) NO MEMBERSHIP ON TWO SUCCESSIVE
BOARDS.—No officer may be a member of two
successive personnel boards convened to con-
sider officers of the same grade for pro-
motion or separation.
‘‘(c) DUTIES.—Each personnel board shall—
‘‘(1) recommend to the Secretary such
changes as may be necessary to correct any
erroneous position on the lineal list that was
caused by administrative error; and
‘‘(2) make selections and recommendations
to the Secretary and the President for the
appointment, promotion, involuntary sepa-
ration, continuation, and involuntary retire-
ment of officers in the commissioned officer
corps of the Administration as prescribed in
this title.
‘‘(d) ACTION ON RECOMMENDATIONS NOT AC-
CEPTABLE.—If any recommendation by a
board convened under subsection (a) is not
accepted by the Secretary or the President,
the board shall make such further rec-
ommendations as the Secretary or the Presi-
dent considers appropriate.
‘‘(e) AUTHORITY FOR OFFICERS TO OPT OUT
OF PROMOTION CONSIDERATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Director of the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion Commissioned Officer Corps may pro-
vide that an officer, upon the officer’s re-
quest and with the approval of the Director,
be excluded from consideration for pro-
motion by a personnel board convened under
this section.
‘‘(2) APPROVAL.—The Director shall ap-
prove a request made by an officer under
paragraph (1) only if—
‘‘(A) the basis for the request is to allow
the officer to complete a broadening assign-
ment, advanced education, another assign-
ment of significant value to the Administra-
tion, a career progression requirement de-
layed by the assignment or education, or a
qualifying personal or professional cir-
cumstance, as determined by the Director;
‘‘(B) the Director determines the exclusion
from consideration is in the best interest of
the Administration; and
‘‘(C) the officer has not previously failed
selection for promotion to the grade for
which the officer requests the exclusion from
consideration.’’.
SEC. 303. POSITIONS OF IMPORTANCE AND RE-
SPONSIBILITY.
Section 228 (33 U.S.C. 3028) is amended—
(1) in subsection (c)—
(A) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘The
Secretary shall designate one position under
this section’’ and inserting ‘‘The President
shall designate one position’’; and
(B) in the second sentence, by striking
‘‘That position shall be filled by’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘The President shall fill that position by
appointing, by and with the advice and con-
sent of the Senate,’’;
(2) in subsection (d)(2), by inserting ‘‘or im-
mediately beginning a period of terminal
leave’’ after ‘‘for which a higher grade is des-
ignated’’;
(3) by amending subsection (e) to read as
follows:
‘‘(e) LIMIT ON NUMBER OF OFFICERS AP-
POINTED.—The total number of officers serv-
ing on active duty at any one time in the
grade of rear admiral (lower half) or above
may not exceed five, with only one serving in
the grade of vice admiral.’’; and
(4) in subsection (f), by inserting ‘‘or in a
period of annual leave used at the end of the
appointment’’ after ‘‘serving in that grade’’.
SEC. 304. TEMPORARY APPOINTMENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 229 (33 U.S.C.
3029) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 229. TEMPORARY APPOINTMENTS.
‘‘(a) APPOINTMENTS BY PRESIDENT.—Tem-
porary appointments in the grade of ensign,
lieutenant junior grade, or lieutenant may
be made by the President.
‘‘(b) TERMINATION.—A temporary appoint-
ment to a position under subsection (a) shall
terminate upon approval of a permanent ap-
pointment for such position made by the
President.
‘‘(c) ORDER OF PRECEDENCE.—Appointees
under subsection (a) shall take precedence in
the grade to which appointed in accordance
with the dates of their appointments as offi-
cers in such grade. The order of precedence
of appointees who are appointed on the same
date shall be determined by the Secretary.
‘‘(d) ANY ONE GRADE.—When determined by
the Secretary to be in the best interest of
the commissioned officer corps of the Ad-
ministration, officers in any permanent
grade may be temporarily promoted one
grade by the President. Any such temporary
promotion terminates upon the transfer of
the officer to a new assignment.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to reauthorize the Hydrographic Serv-
ices Improvement Act of 1998, and for other
purposes’’ (Public Law 107–372) is amended by
striking the item relating to section 229 and
inserting the following:
‘‘Sec. 229. Temporary appointments.’’.
SEC. 305. OFFICER CANDIDATES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle B (33 U.S.C. 3021
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘SEC. 234. OFFICER CANDIDATES.
‘‘(a) DETERMINATION OF NUMBER.—The Sec-
retary shall determine the number of ap-
pointments of officer candidates.
‘‘(b) APPOINTMENT.—Appointment of officer
candidates shall be made under regulations,
which the Secretary shall prescribe, includ-
ing regulations with respect to determining
age limits, methods of selection of officer
candidates, term of service as an officer can-
didate before graduation from the basic offi-
cer training program of the Administration,
and all other matters affecting such appoint-
ment.
‘‘(c) DISMISSAL.—The Secretary may dis-
miss from the basic officer training program
of the Administration any officer candidate
who, during the officer candidate’s term as
an officer candidate, the Secretary considers
unsatisfactory in either academics or con-
duct, or not adapted for a career in the com-
missioned officer corps of the Administra-
tion. Officer candidates shall be subject to
rules governing discipline prescribed by the
Director of the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration Commissioned Officer
Corps.
‘‘(d) AGREEMENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Each officer candidate
shall sign an agreement with the Secretary
in accordance with section 216(a)(2) regard-
ing the officer candidate’s term of service in
the commissioned officer corps of the Ad-
ministration.
‘‘(2) ELEMENTS.—An agreement signed by
an officer candidate under paragraph (1)
shall provide that the officer candidate
agrees to the following:
‘‘(A) That the officer candidate will com-
plete the course of instruction at the basic
officer training program of the Administra-
tion.
‘‘(B) That upon graduation from such pro-
gram, the officer candidate—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00293 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.001 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6980 November 16, 2020
‘‘(i) will accept an appointment, if ten-
dered, as an officer; and
‘‘(ii) will serve on active duty for at least
four years immediately after such appoint-
ment.
‘‘(e) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary shall
prescribe regulations to carry out this sec-
tion. Such regulations shall include—
‘‘(1) standards for determining what con-
stitutes a breach of an agreement signed
under subsection (d)(1); and
‘‘(2) procedures for determining whether
such a breach has occurred.
‘‘(f) REPAYMENT.—An officer candidate or
former officer candidate who does not fulfill
the terms of the obligation to serve as speci-
fied under subsection (d) shall be subject to
the repayment provisions of section 216(b).’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to reauthorize the Hydrographic Serv-
ices Improvement Act of 1998, and for other
purposes’’ (Public Law 107–372) is amended by
inserting after the item relating to section
233 the following:
‘‘Sec. 234. Officer candidates.’’.
(c) OFFICER CANDIDATE DEFINED.—Section
212(b) (33 U.S.C. 3002(b)) is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (4) through
(6) as paragraphs (5) through (7), respec-
tively; and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (3) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(4) OFFICER CANDIDATE.—The term ‘officer
candidate’ means an individual who is en-
rolled in the basic officer training program
of the Administration and is under consider-
ation for appointment as an officer under
section 221(a)(2)(A).’’.
(d) PAY FOR OFFICER CANDIDATES.—Section
203 of title 37, United States Code, is amend-
ed by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(f)(1) An officer candidate enrolled in the
basic officer training program of the com-
missioned officer corps of the National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration is en-
titled, while participating in such program,
to monthly officer candidate pay at monthly
rates equal to the basic pay of an enlisted
member in the pay grade E–5 with less than
two years of service.
‘‘(2) An individual who graduates from
such program shall receive credit for the
time spent participating in such program as
if such time were time served while on active
duty as a commissioned officer. If the indi-
vidual does not graduate from such program,
such time shall not be considered creditable
for active duty or pay.’’.
SEC. 306. PROCUREMENT OF PERSONNEL.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle B (33 U.S.C. 3021
et seq.), as amended by section 305(a), is fur-
ther amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 235. PROCUREMENT OF PERSONNEL.
‘‘The Secretary may take such measures as
the Secretary determines necessary in order
to obtain recruits for the commissioned offi-
cer corps of the Administration, including
advertising.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to reauthorize the Hydrographic Serv-
ices Improvement Act of 1998, and for other
purposes’’ (Public Law 107–372), as amended
by section 305(b), is further amended by in-
serting after the item relating to section 234
the following:
‘‘Sec. 235. Procurement of personnel.’’.
SEC. 307. CAREER INTERMISSION PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle B (33 U.S.C. 3021
et seq.), as amended by section 306(a), is fur-
ther amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 236. CAREER FLEXIBILITY TO ENHANCE RE-
TENTION OF OFFICERS.
‘‘(a) PROGRAMS AUTHORIZED.—The Sec-
retary may carry out a program under which
officers may be inactivated from active duty
in order to meet personal or professional
needs and returned to active duty at the end
of such period of inactivation from active
duty.
‘‘(b) PERIOD OF INACTIVATION FROM ACTIVE
DUTY; EFFECT OF INACTIVATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The period of inactiva-
tion from active duty under a program under
this section of an officer participating in the
program shall be such period as the Sec-
retary shall specify in the agreement of the
officer under subsection (c), except that such
period may not exceed three years.
‘‘(2) EXCLUSION FROM RETIREMENT.—Any pe-
riod of participation of an officer in a pro-
gram under this section shall not count to-
ward eligibility for retirement or computa-
tion of retired pay under subtitle C.
‘‘(c) AGREEMENT.—Each officer who partici-
pates in a program under this section shall
enter into a written agreement with the Sec-
retary under which that officer shall agree
as follows:
‘‘(1) To undergo during the period of the in-
activation of the officer from active duty
under the program such inactive duty train-
ing as the Director of the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration Commis-
sioned Officer Corps shall require in order to
ensure that the officer retains proficiency, at
a level determined by the Director to be suf-
ficient, in the technical skills, professional
qualifications, and physical readiness of the
officer during the inactivation of the officer
from active duty.
‘‘(2) Following completion of the period of
the inactivation of the officer from active
duty under the program, to serve two
months on active duty for each month of the
period of the inactivation of the officer from
active duty under the program.
‘‘(d) CONDITIONS OF RELEASE.—The Sec-
retary shall—
‘‘(1) prescribe regulations specifying the
guidelines regarding the conditions of re-
lease that must be considered and addressed
in the agreement required by subsection (c);
and
‘‘(2) at a minimum, prescribe the proce-
dures and standards to be used to instruct an
officer on the obligations to be assumed by
the officer under paragraph (1) of such sub-
section while the officer is released from ac-
tive duty.
‘‘(e) ORDER TO ACTIVE DUTY.—Under regu-
lations prescribed by the Secretary, an offi-
cer participating in a program under this
section may, in the discretion of the Sec-
retary, be required to terminate participa-
tion in the program and be ordered to active
duty.
‘‘(f) PAY AND ALLOWANCES.—
‘‘(1) BASIC PAY.—During each month of par-
ticipation in a program under this section,
an officer who participates in the program
shall be paid basic pay in an amount equal to
two-thirtieths of the amount of monthly
basic pay to which the officer would other-
wise be entitled under section 204 of title 37,
United States Code, as a member of the uni-
formed services on active duty in the grade
and years of service of the officer when the
officer commences participation in the pro-
gram.
‘‘(2) SPECIAL OR INCENTIVE PAY OR BONUS.—
‘‘(A) PROHIBITION.—An officer who partici-
pates in a program under this section shall
not, while participating in the program, be
paid any special or incentive pay or bonus to
which the officer is otherwise entitled under
an agreement under chapter 5 of title 37,
United States Code, that is in force when the
officer commences participation in the pro-
gram.
‘‘(B) NOT TREATED AS FAILURE TO PERFORM
SERVICES.—The inactivation from active
duty of an officer participating in a program
under this section shall not be treated as a
failure of the officer to perform any period of
service required of the officer in connection
with an agreement for a special or incentive
pay or bonus under chapter 5 of title 37,
United States Code, that is in force when the
officer commences participation in the pro-
gram.
‘‘(3) RETURN TO ACTIVE DUTY.—
‘‘(A) SPECIAL OR INCENTIVE PAY OR BONUS.—
Subject to subparagraph (B), upon the return
of an officer to active duty after completion
by the officer of participation in a program
under this section—
‘‘(i) any agreement entered into by the of-
ficer under chapter 5 of title 37, United
States Code, for the payment of a special or
incentive pay or bonus that was in force
when the officer commenced participation in
the program shall be revived, with the term
of such agreement after revival being the pe-
riod of the agreement remaining to run when
the officer commenced participation in the
program; and
‘‘(ii) any special or incentive pay or bonus
shall be payable to the officer in accordance
with the terms of the agreement concerned
for the term specified in clause (i).
‘‘(B) LIMITATION.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (A) shall
not apply to any special or incentive pay or
bonus otherwise covered by that subpara-
graph with respect to an officer if, at the
time of the return of the officer to active
duty as described in that subparagraph—
‘‘(I) such pay or bonus is no longer author-
ized by law; or
‘‘(II) the officer does not satisfy eligibility
criteria for such pay or bonus as in effect at
the time of the return of the officer to active
duty.
‘‘(ii) PAY OR BONUS CEASES BEING AUTHOR-
IZED.—Subparagraph (A) shall cease to apply
to any special or incentive pay or bonus oth-
erwise covered by that subparagraph with re-
spect to an officer if, during the term of the
revived agreement of the officer under sub-
paragraph (A)(i), such pay or bonus ceases
being authorized by law.
‘‘(C) REPAYMENT.—An officer who is ineli-
gible for payment of a special or incentive
pay or bonus otherwise covered by this para-
graph by reason of subparagraph (B)(i)(II)
shall be subject to the requirements for re-
payment of such pay or bonus in accordance
with the terms of the applicable agreement
of the officer under chapter 5 of title 37,
United States Code.
‘‘(D) REQUIRED SERVICE IS ADDITIONAL.—
Any service required of an officer under an
agreement covered by this paragraph after
the officer returns to active duty as de-
scribed in subparagraph (A) shall be in addi-
tion to any service required of the officer
under an agreement under subsection (c).
‘‘(4) TRAVEL AND TRANSPORTATION ALLOW-
ANCE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B), an officer who participates in a program
under this section is entitled, while partici-
pating in the program, to the travel and
transportation allowances authorized by sec-
tion 474 of title 37, United States Code, for—
‘‘(i) travel performed from the residence of
the officer, at the time of release from active
duty to participate in the program, to the lo-
cation in the United States designated by
the officer as the officer’s residence during
the period of participation in the program;
and
‘‘(ii) travel performed to the residence of
the officer upon return to active duty at the
end of the participation of the officer in the
program.
‘‘(B) SINGLE RESIDENCE.—An allowance is
payable under this paragraph only with re-
spect to travel of an officer to and from a
single residence.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00294 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.001 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6981
November 16, 2020
‘‘(5) LEAVE BALANCE.—An officer who par-
ticipates in a program under this section is
entitled to carry forward the leave balance
existing as of the day on which the officer
begins participation and accumulated in ac-
cordance with section 701 of title 10, United
States Code, but not to exceed 60 days.
‘‘(g) PROMOTION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—An officer participating
in a program under this section shall not,
while participating in the program, be eligi-
ble for consideration for promotion under
subtitle B.
‘‘(2) RETURN TO SERVICE.—Upon the return
of an officer to active duty after completion
by the officer of participation in a program
under this section—
‘‘(A) the Secretary may adjust the date of
rank of the officer in such manner as the
Secretary shall prescribe in regulations for
purposes of this section; and
‘‘(B) the officer shall be eligible for consid-
eration for promotion when officers of the
same competitive category, grade, and se-
niority are eligible for consideration for pro-
motion.
‘‘(h) CONTINUED ENTITLEMENTS.—An officer
participating in a program under this section
shall, while participating in the program, be
treated as a member of the uniformed serv-
ices on active duty for a period of more than
30 days for purposes of—
‘‘(1) the entitlement of the officer and of
the dependents of the officer to medical and
dental care under the provisions of chapter
55 of title 10, United States Code; and
‘‘(2) retirement or separation for physical
disability under the provisions of subtitle
C.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘‘An
Act to reauthorize the Hydrographic Serv-
ices Improvement Act of 1998, and for other
purposes’’ (Public Law 107–372), as amended
by section 306(b), is further amended by in-
serting after the item relating to section 235
the following:
‘‘Sec. 236. Career flexibility to enhance re-
tention of officers.’’.
TITLE IV—SEPARATION AND RETIREMENT
OF OFFICERS
SEC. 401. INVOLUNTARY RETIREMENT OR SEPA-
RATION.
Section 241 (33 U.S.C. 3041) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) DEFERMENT OF RETIREMENT OR SEPA-
RATION FOR MEDICAL REASONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—If the Secretary deter-
mines that the evaluation of the medical
condition of an officer requires hospitaliza-
tion or medical observation that cannot be
completed with confidence in a manner con-
sistent with the officer’s well-being before
the date on which the officer would other-
wise be required to retire or be separated
under this section, the Secretary may defer
the retirement or separation of the officer.
‘‘(2) CONSENT REQUIRED.—A deferment may
only be made with the written consent of the
officer involved. If the officer does not pro-
vide written consent to the deferment, the
officer shall be retired or separated as sched-
uled.
‘‘(3) LIMITATION.—A deferment of retire-
ment or separation under this subsection
may not extend for more than 30 days after
completion of the evaluation requiring hos-
pitalization or medical observation.’’.
SEC. 402. SEPARATION PAY.
Section 242 (33 U.S.C. 3042) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) EXCEPTION.—An officer discharged for
twice failing selection for promotion to the
next higher grade is not entitled to separa-
tion pay under this section if the officer—
‘‘(1) expresses a desire not to be selected
for promotion; or
‘‘(2) requests removal from the list of se-
lectees.’’.
TITLE V—OTHER NATIONAL OCEANIC AND
ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION MAT-
TERS
SEC. 501. CHARTING AND SURVEY SERVICES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 270 days
after the development of the strategy re-
quired by section 1002(b) of the Frank LoBi-
ondo Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018
(33 U.S.C. 892a note), the Secretary of Com-
merce shall enter into not fewer than 2
multi-year contracts with 1 or more private
entities for the performance of charting and
survey services by vessels.
(b) CHARTING AND SURVEYS IN THE ARCTIC.—
In soliciting and engaging the services of
vessels under subsection (a), the Secretary
shall particularly emphasize the need for
charting and surveys in the Arctic.
SEC. 502. CO-LOCATION AGREEMENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—During fiscal years 2021
through 2030, and subject to the availability
of appropriations, the Administrator of the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration may execute noncompetitive co-loca-
tion agreements for real property and inci-
dental goods and services with entities de-
scribed in subsection (b) for periods of not
more than 20 years, if each such agreement
is supported by a price reasonableness anal-
ysis.
(b) ENTITIES DESCRIBED.—An entity de-
scribed in this subsection is—
(1) the government of any State, territory,
possession, or locality of the United States;
(2) any Tribal organization (as defined in
section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination
and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C.
5304));
(3) any subdivision of—
(A) a government described in paragraph
(1); or
(B) an organization described in paragraph
(2); or
(4) any organization that is—
(A) organized under the laws of the United
States or any jurisdiction within the United
States; and
(B) described in section 501(c) of the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from
tax under section 501(a) of such Code.
(c) COLLABORATION AGREEMENTS.—Upon the
execution of an agreement authorized by
subsection (a) with an entity, the Adminis-
trator may enter into agreements with the
entity to collaborate or engage in projects or
programs on matters of mutual interest for
periods not to exceed the term of the agree-
ment. The cost of such agreements shall be
apportioned equitably, as determined by the
Administrator.
(d) SAVINGS CLAUSE.—Nothing in this sec-
tion shall be construed—
(1) to affect the authority of the Adminis-
trator of General Services; or
(2) to grant the Administrator of the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion any additional authority to enter into a
lease without approval of the General Serv-
ices Administration.
SEC. 503. SATELLITE AND DATA MANAGEMENT.
Section 301 of the Weather Research and
Forecasting Innovation Act of 2017 (15 U.S.C.
8531) is amended—
(1) in subsection (c)(1), by striking subpara-
graph (D) and inserting the following:
‘‘(D) improve—
‘‘(i) weather and climate forecasting and
predictions; and
‘‘(ii) the understanding, management, and
exploration of the ocean.’’; and
(2) in subsection (d)—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) by striking ‘‘data and satellite systems’’
and inserting ‘‘data, satellite, and other ob-
serving systems’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘to carry out’’ and all that
follows and inserting the following: ‘‘to
carry out—
‘‘(A) basic, applied, and advanced research
projects and ocean exploration missions to
meet the objectives described in subpara-
graphs (A) through (D) of subsection (c)(1); or
‘‘(B) any other type of project to meet
other mission objectives, as determined by
the Under Secretary.’’;
(B) in paragraph (2)(B)(i), by striking ‘‘sat-
ellites’’ and all that follows and inserting
‘‘systems, including satellites, instrumenta-
tion, ground stations, data, and data proc-
essing;’’; and
(C) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘2023’’ and
inserting ‘‘2030’’.
SEC. 504. IMPROVEMENTS RELATING TO SEXUAL
HARASSMENT AND ASSAULT PRE-
VENTION AT THE NATIONAL OCE-
ANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINIS-
TRATION.
(a) REPORTING.—Subtitle C of title XXXV
of the National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2017 (33 U.S.C. 894 et seq.) is
amended—
(1) in section 3541(b)(3)(B) (33 U.S.C.
894(b)(3)(B)), by striking ‘‘can be confiden-
tially reported’’ and inserting ‘‘can be re-
ported on a restricted or unrestricted basis’’;
and
(2) in section 3542(b)(5)(B) (33 U.S.C.
894a(b)(5)(B)), by striking ‘‘can be confiden-
tially reported’’ and inserting ‘‘can be re-
ported on a restricted or unrestricted basis’’.
(b) INVESTIGATIVE REQUIREMENT.—Such
subtitle is amended—
(1) by redesignating sections 3546 and 3547
as sections 3548 and 3549, respectively; and
(2) by inserting after section 3545 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 3546. INVESTIGATION REQUIREMENT.
‘‘(a) REQUIREMENT TO INVESTIGATE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Com-
merce, acting through the Under Secretary
for Oceans and Atmosphere, shall ensure
that each allegation of sexual harassment re-
ported under section 3541 and each allegation
of sexual assault reported under section 3542
is investigated thoroughly and promptly.
‘‘(2) SENSE OF CONGRESS ON COMMENCEMENT
OF INVESTIGATION.—It is the sense of Con-
gress that the Secretary should ensure that
an investigation of alleged sexual harass-
ment reported under section 3541 or sexual
assault reported under section 3542 com-
mences not later than 48 hours after the
time at which the allegation was reported.
‘‘(b) NOTIFICATION OF DELAY.—In any case
in which the time between the reporting of
alleged sexual harassment or sexual assault
under section 3541 or 3542, respectively, and
commencement of an investigation of the al-
legation exceeds 48 hours, the Secretary
shall notify the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives of the delay.
‘‘SEC. 3547. CRIMINAL REFERRAL.
‘‘If the Secretary of Commerce finds, pur-
suant to an investigation under section 3546,
evidence that a crime may have been com-
mitted, the Secretary shall refer the matter
to the appropriate law enforcement authori-
ties, including the appropriate United States
Attorney.’’.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 2(b) of such Act is
amended by striking the items relating to
sections 3546 and 3547 and inserting the fol-
lowing new items:
‘‘Sec. 3546. Investigation requirement.
‘‘Sec. 3547. Criminal referral.
‘‘Sec. 3548. Annual report on sexual assaults
in the National Oceanic and At-
mospheric Administration.
‘‘Sec. 3549. Sexual assault defined.’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00295 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.001 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6982 November 16, 2020
SA 2684. Mr. CORNYN proposed an
amendment to the bill S. 3312, to estab-
lish a crisis stabilization and commu-
nity reentry grant program, and for
other purposes; as follows:
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Crisis Sta-
bilization and Community Reentry Act of
2020’’.
SEC. 2. MENTAL HEALTH CRISIS STABILIZATION.
(a) PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTATION
GRANTS.—Title I of the Omnibus Crime Con-
trol and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C.
10101 et seq.) is amended by inserting after
part NN the following:
‘‘PART OO—CRISIS STABILIZATION AND
COMMUNITY REENTRY PROGRAM.
‘‘SEC. 3051. GRANT AUTHORIZATION.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Attorney General
may make grants under this part to States,
for use by State and local correctional facili-
ties, for the purpose of providing clinical
services for people with serious mental ill-
ness and substance use disorders that estab-
lish treatment, suicide prevention, and con-
tinuity of recovery in the community upon
release from the correctional facility.
‘‘(b) USE OF FUNDS.—A grant awarded
under this part shall be used to support—
‘‘(1) programs involving criminal and juve-
nile justice agencies, mental health agen-
cies, community-based organizations that
focus on reentry, and community-based be-
havioral health providers that improve clin-
ical stabilization during pre-trial detention
and incarceration and continuity of care
leading to recovery in the community by
providing services and supports that may in-
clude peer support services, enrollment in
healthcare, and introduction to long-acting
injectable medications or, as clinically indi-
cated, other medications, by—
‘‘(A) providing training and education for
criminal and juvenile justice agencies, men-
tal health agencies, and community-based
behavioral health providers on interventions
that support—
‘‘(i) engagement in recovery supports and
services;
‘‘(ii) access to medication while in an in-
carcerated setting; and
‘‘(iii) continuity of care during reentry
into the community;
‘‘(B) ensuring that offenders with serious
mental illness are provided appropriate ac-
cess to evidence-based recovery supports
that may include peer support services,
medication (including long-acting injectable
medications where clinically appropriate),
and psycho-social therapies;
‘‘(C) offering technical assistance to crimi-
nal justice agencies on how to modify their
administrative and clinical processes to ac-
commodate evidence-based interventions,
such as long-acting injectable medications
and other recovery supports; and
‘‘(D) participating in data collection ac-
tivities specified by the Attorney General, in
consultation with the Secretary of Health
and Human Services;
‘‘(2) programs that support cooperative ef-
forts between criminal and juvenile justice
agencies, mental health agencies, and com-
munity-based behavioral health providers to
establish or enhance serious mental illness
recovery support by—
‘‘(A) strengthening or establishing crisis
response services delivered by hotlines, mo-
bile crisis teams, crisis stabilization and
triage centers, peer support specialists, pub-
lic safety officers, community-based behav-
ioral health providers, and other stake-
holders, including by providing technical
support for interventions that promote long-
term recovery;
‘‘(B) engaging criminal and juvenile justice
agencies, mental health agencies and com-
munity-based behavioral health providers,
preliminary qualified offenders, and family
and community members in program design,
program implementation, and training on
crisis response services, including connec-
tion to recovery services and supports;
‘‘(C) examining health care reimbursement
issues that may pose a barrier to ensuring
the long-term financial sustainability of cri-
sis response services and interventions that
promote long-term engagement with recov-
ery services and supports; and
‘‘(D) participating in data collection ac-
tivities specified by the Attorney General, in
consultation with the Secretary of Health
and Human Services; and
‘‘(3) programs that provide training and ad-
ditional resources to criminal and juvenile
justice agencies, mental health agencies, and
community-based behavioral health pro-
viders on serious mental illness, suicide pre-
vention strategies, recovery engagement
strategies, and the special health and social
needs of justice-involved individuals who are
living with serious mental illness.
‘‘(c) CONSULTATION.—The Attorney General
shall consult with the Secretary of Health
and Human Services to ensure that serious
mental illness treatment and recovery sup-
port services provided under this grant pro-
gram incorporate evidence-based approaches
that facilitate long-term engagement in re-
covery services and supports.
‘‘(d) BEHAVIORAL HEALTH PROVIDER DE-
FINED.—In this section, the term ‘behavioral
health provider’ means—
‘‘(1) a community mental health center
that meets the criteria under section 1913(c)
of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C.
300x–2(c)); or
‘‘(2) a certified community behavioral
health clinic described in section 223(d) of
the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of
2014 (42 U.S.C. 1396a note).
‘‘SEC. 3052. STATE APPLICATIONS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—To request a grant
under this part, the chief executive of a
State, or such agency as the chief executive
may designate, shall submit an application
to the Attorney General—
‘‘(1) in such form and containing such in-
formation as the Attorney General may rea-
sonably require;
‘‘(2) that includes assurances that Federal
funds received under this part shall be used
to supplement, not supplant, non-Federal
funds that would otherwise be available for
activities funded under this part; and
‘‘(3) that describes the coordination be-
tween State criminal and juvenile justice
agencies, mental health agencies and com-
munity-based behavioral health providers,
preliminary qualified offenders, and family
and community members in—
‘‘(A) program design;
‘‘(B) program implementation; and
‘‘(C) training on crisis response, medica-
tion adherence, and continuity of recovery in
the community.
‘‘(b) ELIGIBILITY FOR PREFERENCE WITH
COMMUNITY CARE COMPONENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In awarding grants under
this part, the Attorney General shall give
preference to a State that ensures that indi-
viduals who participate in a program, funded
by a grant under this part will be provided
with continuity of care, in accordance with
paragraph (2), in a community care provider
program upon release from a correctional fa-
cility.
‘‘(2) REQUIREMENTS.—For purposes of para-
graph (1), the continuity of care shall involve
the coordination of the correctional facility
treatment program with qualified commu-
nity behavioral health providers and other
recovery supports, pre-trial release pro-
grams, parole supervision programs, half-
way house programs, and participation in
peer recovery group programs, which may
aid in ongoing recovery after the individual
is released from the correctional facility.
‘‘(3) COMMUNITY CARE PROVIDER PROGRAM
DEFINED.—For purposes of this subsection,
the term ‘community care provider program’
means a community mental health center or
certified community behavioral health clinic
that directly provides to an individual, or as-
sists in connecting an individual to the pro-
vision of, appropriate community-based
treatment, medication management, and
other recovery supports, when the individual
leaves a correctional facility at the end of a
sentence or on parole.
‘‘(c) COORDINATION OF FEDERAL ASSIST-
ANCE.—Each application submitted for a
grant under this part shall include a descrip-
tion of how the funds made available under
this part will be coordinated with Federal as-
sistance for behavioral health services cur-
rently provided by the Department of Health
and Human Services’ Substance Abuse and
Mental Health Services Administration.
‘‘SEC. 3053. REVIEW OF STATE APPLICATIONS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Attorney General
shall make a grant under section 3051 to
carry out the projects described in the appli-
cation submitted under section 3052 upon de-
termining that—
‘‘(1) the application is consistent with the
requirements of this part; and
‘‘(2) before the approval of the application,
the Attorney General has made an affirma-
tive finding in writing that the proposed
project has been reviewed in accordance with
this part.
‘‘(b) APPROVAL.—Each application sub-
mitted under section 3052 shall be considered
approved, in whole or in part, by the Attor-
ney General not later than 90 days after first
received, unless the Attorney General in-
forms the applicant of specific reasons for
disapproval.
‘‘(c) RESTRICTION.—Grant funds received
under this part shall not be used for land ac-
quisition or construction projects.
‘‘(d) DISAPPROVAL NOTICE AND RECONSIDER-
ATION.—The Attorney General may not dis-
approve any application without first afford-
ing the applicant reasonable notice and an
opportunity for reconsideration.
‘‘SEC. 3054. EVALUATION.
‘‘Each State that receives a grant under
this part shall submit to the Attorney Gen-
eral an evaluation not later than 1 year after
receipt of the grant in such form and con-
taining such information as the Attorney
General, in consultation with the Secretary
of Health and Human Services, may reason-
ably require.
‘‘SEC. 3055. AUTHORIZATION OF FUNDING.
‘‘For purposes of carrying out this part,
the Attorney General is authorized to award
not more than $10,000,000 of funds appro-
priated to the Department of Justice for
State and local law enforcement activities
for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2025.’’.
(b) NATIONAL CRIMINAL JUSTICE AND MEN-
TAL HEALTH TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSIST-
ANCE.—Section 2992(c)(3) of title I of the Om-
nibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of
1968 (34 U.S.C. 10652(c)(3)) is amended by in-
serting before the semicolon at the end the
following: ‘‘, which may include interven-
tions designed to enhance access to medica-
tion.’’.
SA 2685. Mr. CORNYN proposed an
amendment to the bill S. 2174, to ex-
pand the grants authorized under
Jennifer’s Law and Kristen’s Act to in-
clude processing of unidentified re-
mains, resolving missing persons cases,
and for other purposes; as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00296 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.012 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6983
November 16, 2020
On page 2, lines 7 and 8, strike ‘‘, with pri-
ority given to eligible entities in southern
border States,’’.
SA 2686. Mr. CORNYN (for Mr. ROB-
ERTS) proposed an amendment to the
bill S. 4054, to reauthorize the United
States Grain Standards Act, and for
other purposes; as follows:
On page 5, strike lines 10 and 11 and insert
the following:
(2) in subsection (a) (as so designated)—
(A) by striking ‘‘such sums as are nec-
essary’’ and inserting ‘‘$23,000,000’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘1988 through 2020’’ and in-
serting ‘‘2021 through 2025’’; and
SA 2687. Mr. CORNYN (for Mr. SCHU-
MER) proposed an amendment to the
bill H.R. 1830, to require the Secretary
of the Treasury to mint coins in com-
memoration of the National Purple
Heart Hall of Honor; as follows:
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘National
Purple Heart Hall of Honor Commemorative
Coin Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
The Congress finds the following:
(1) The National Purple Heart Hall of Hon-
or’s mission is—
(A) to commemorate the extraordinary
sacrifice of America’s servicemen and serv-
icewomen who were killed or wounded by
enemy action; and
(B) to collect and preserve the stories of
Purple Heart recipients from all branches of
service and across generations to ensure that
all recipients are represented.
(2) The National Purple Heart Hall of
Honor first opened its doors on November 10,
2006, in New Windsor, NY.
(3) The National Purple Heart Hall of
Honor is co-located with the New Windsor
Cantonment State Historic Site.
(4) The National Purple Heart Hall of
Honor is the first to recognize the estimated
1.8 million U.S. servicemembers wounded or
killed in action representing recipients from
the Civil War to the present day, serving as
a living memorial to their sacrifice by shar-
ing their stories through interviews, exhibits
and the Roll of Honor, an interactive com-
puter database of each recipient enrolled.
SEC. 3. COIN SPECIFICATIONS.
(a) DENOMINATIONS.—The Secretary of the
Treasury (hereafter in this Act referred to as
the ‘‘Secretary’’) shall mint and issue the
following coins:
(1) $5 GOLD COINS.—Not more than 50,000 $5
coins, which shall—
(A) weigh 8.359 grams;
(B) have a diameter of 0.850 inches; and
(C) contain 90 percent gold and 10 percent
alloy.
(2) $1 SILVER COINS.—Not more than 400,000
$1 coins, which shall—
(A) weigh 26.73 grams;
(B) have a diameter of 1.500 inches; and
(C) contain not less than 90 percent silver.
(3) HALF-DOLLAR CLAD COINS.—Not more
than 750,000 half-dollar coins which shall—
(A) weigh 11.34 grams;
(B) have a diameter of 1.205 inches; and
(C) be minted to the specifications for half-
dollar coins contained in section 5112(b) of
title 31, United States Code.
(b) LEGAL TENDER.—The coins minted
under this Act shall be legal tender, as pro-
vided in section 5103 of title 31, United States
Code.
(c) NUMISMATIC ITEMS.—For purposes of
section 5134 of title 31, United States Code,
all coins minted under this Act shall be con-
sidered to be numismatic items.
SEC. 4. DESIGNS OF COINS.
(a) DESIGNS REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The designs of the coins
minted under this Act shall be emblematic
of the National Purple Heart Hall of Honor.
(2) DESIGNATION AND INSCRIPTIONS.—On
each coin minted under this Act there shall
be—
(A) a designation of the value of the coin;
(B) an inscription of the year ‘‘2022’’; and
(C) inscriptions of the words ‘‘Liberty’’,
‘‘In God We Trust’’, ‘‘United States of Amer-
ica’’, and ‘‘E Pluribus Unum’’.
(b) SELECTION.—The design for the coins
minted under this Act shall be—
(1) selected by the Secretary after con-
sultation with the Commission of Fine Arts
and the National Purple Heart Hall of Honor,
Inc.; and
(2) reviewed by the Citizens Coinage Advi-
sory Committee.
SEC. 5. ISSUANCE OF COINS.
(a) QUALITY OF COINS.—Coins minted under
this Act shall be issued in uncirculated and
proof qualities.
(b) MINT FACILITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Only 1 facility of the
United States Mint may be used to strike
any particular quality of the coins minted
under this Act.
(2) USE OF THE UNITED STATES MINT AT WEST
POINT, NEW YORK.—It is the sense of Congress
that the coins minted under this Act should
be struck at the United States Mint at West
Point, New York, to the greatest extent pos-
sible.
(c) PERIOD FOR ISSUANCE.—The Secretary
may issue coins minted under this Act only
during the 1-year period beginning on Janu-
ary 1, 2022.
SEC. 6. SALE OF COINS.
(a) SALE PRICE.—The coins issued under
this Act shall be sold by the Secretary at a
price equal to the sum of—
(1) the face value of the coins;
(2) the surcharge provided in section 7(a)
with respect to such coins; and
(3) the cost of designing and issuing the
coins (including labor, materials, dies, use of
machinery, overhead expenses, marketing,
and shipping).
(b) BULK SALES.—The Secretary shall
make bulk sales of the coins issued under
this Act at a reasonable discount.
(c) PREPAID ORDERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ac-
cept prepaid orders for the coins minted
under this Act before the issuance of such
coins.
(2) DISCOUNT.—Sale prices with respect to
prepaid orders under paragraph (1) shall be
at a reasonable discount.
SEC. 7. SURCHARGES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—All sales of coins issued
under this Act shall include a surcharge of—
(1) $35 per coin for the $5 coin;
(2) $10 per coin for the $1 coin; and
(3) $5 per coin for the half-dollar coin.
(b) DISTRIBUTION.—Subject to section
5134(f)(1) of title 31, United States Code, all
surcharges received by the Secretary from
the sale of coins issued under this Act shall
be promptly paid by the Secretary to the Na-
tional Purple Heart Hall of Honor, Inc., to
support the mission of the National Purple
Heart Hall of Honor, Inc., including capital
improvements to the National Purple Heart
Hall of Honor facilities.
(c) AUDITS.—The National Purple Heart
Hall of Honor, Inc., shall be subject to the
audit requirements of section 5134(f)(2) of
title 31, United States Code, with regard to
the amounts received under subsection (b).
(d) LIMITATION.—Notwithstanding sub-
section (a), no surcharge may be included
with respect to the issuance under this Act
of any coin during a calendar year if, as of
the time of such issuance, the issuance of
such coin would result in the number of com-
memorative coin programs issued during
such year to exceed the annual 2 commemo-
rative coin program issuance limitation
under section 5112(m)(1) of title 31, United
States Code (as in effect on the date of the
enactment of this Act). The Secretary of the
Treasury may issue guidance to carry out
this subsection.
SEC. 8. FINANCIAL ASSURANCES. The Secretary
shall take such actions as may be nec-
essary to ensure that—
(1) minting and issuing coins under this
Act result in no net cost to the Federal Gov-
ernment; and
(2) no funds, including applicable sur-
charges, are disbursed to any recipient des-
ignated in section 7(b) until the total cost of
designing and issuing all of the coins author-
ized by this Act, including labor, materials,
dies, use of machinery, overhead expenses,
marketing, and shipping, is recovered by the
United States Treasury, consistent with sec-
tions 5112(m) and 5134(f) of title 31, United
States Code.
f
NOTICE OF PROPOSED
RULEMAKING
U.S. CONGRESS,
OFFICE OF CONGRESSIONAL
WORKPLACE RIGHTS,
Washington, DC, November 16, 2020.
Hon. CHARLES GRASSLEY,
President Pro Tempore, U.S. Senate,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. PRESIDENT: Section 202(d) of the
Congressional Accountability Act (CAA), 2
U.S.C. 1312(d), requires the Board of Direc-
tors of the Office of Congressional Workplace
Rights (‘‘the Board’’) to issue regulations
implementing Section 202 of the CAA relat-
ing to sections 101 through 105 of the Family
and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (‘‘FMLA’’), 29
U.S.C. 2611 through 2615, made applicable to
the legislative branch by the CAA. 2 U.S.C.
1312(a)(1).
Section 304(b)(1) of the CAA, 2 U.S.C.
1384(b)(1), requires that the Board issue a
general notice of proposed rulemaking by
transmitting ‘‘such notice to the Speaker of
the House of Representatives and the Presi-
dent Pro Tempore of the Senate for publica-
tion in the Congressional Record on the first
day of which both Houses are in session fol-
lowing such transmittal.’’
On behalf of the Board, I am hereby trans-
mitting the attached notice of proposed rule-
making to the President Pro Tempore of the
Senate. I request that this notice be pub-
lished in the Senate section of the Congres-
sional Record on the first day on which both
Houses are in session following receipt of
this transmittal. In compliance with Section
304(b)(2) of the CAA, a comment period of 30
days after the publication of this notice of
proposed rulemaking is being provided before
adoption of the rules.
Any inquiries regarding this notice should
be addressed to Susan Tsui Grundmann, Ex-
ecutive Director of the Office of Congres-
sional Workplace Rights, Room LA–200, 110
Second Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20540–
1999; 202–724–9250.
Sincerely,
BARBARA CHILDS WALLACE,
Chair of the Board of Directors,
Office of Congressional Workplace Rights.
Attachment.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00297 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.012 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6984 November 16, 2020
NOTICE OF PROPOSED RULEMAKING
FROM THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF
THE OFFICE OF CONGRESSIONAL
WORKPLACE RIGHTS AND REQUEST
FOR COMMENTS FROM INTERESTED
PARTIES.
MODIFICATIONS TO THE RIGHTS AND PROTEC-
TIONS UNDER THE FAMILY AND MEDICAL
LEAVE ACT OF 1993 (FMLA), NOTICE OF PRO-
POSED RULEMAKING, AS REQUIRED BY 2 U.S.C.
1312, CONGRESSIONAL ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF
1995, AS AMENDED (CAA).
Background:
The purpose of this Notice is to propose
modifications to the existing legislative
branch FMLA substantive regulations under
section 202 of the CAA (2 U.S.C. 1302 et seq.),
which applies the rights and protections of
sections 101 through 105 of the FMLA to cov-
ered employees. On December 20, 2019, Con-
gress enacted the Federal Employee Paid
Leave Act (subtitle A of title LXXVI of divi-
sion F of the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2020, Public Law 116–92,
December 20, 2019) (FEPLA). FEPLA amend-
ed the FMLA to allow most civilian Federal
employees, including eligible employees in
the legislative branch, to substitute up to 12
weeks of paid parental leave (PPL) for un-
paid FMLA leave granted in connection with
the birth of an employee’s son or daughter or
for the placement of a son or daughter with
an employee for adoption or foster care.
These modifications are necessary in order
to bring existing legislative branch FMLA
regulations (issued April 19, 1996) in line with
these recent statutory changes.
What is the authority under the CAA for
these proposed substantive regulations?
Section 202(a) of the CAA provides that the
rights and protections established by sec-
tions 101 through 105 of the FMLA (29 U.S.C.
2611–2615) shall apply to covered employees
in the legislative branch. Section 202(d)(1)
and (2) of the CAA require that the Office of
Congressional Workplace Rights Board of Di-
rectors (the Board), pursuant to section 304
of the CAA, issue regulations implementing
the rights and protections of the FMLA and
that those regulations shall be ‘‘the same as
substantive regulations promulgated by the
Secretary of Labor to implement the statu-
tory provisions referred to in the subsection
(a) [of section 202 of the CAA] except insofar
as the Board may determine, for good cause
shown . . . that a modification of such regu-
lations would be more effective for the im-
plementation of the rights and protections
under this section.’’ The modifications to the
regulations proposed by the Board herein are
on all matters for which section 202 of the
CAA requires regulations to be issued.
Are there currently FMLA regulations in ef-
fect?
Yes. On January 22, 1996, the OCWR Board
adopted and submitted for publication in the
Congressional Record the original FMLA
final regulations implementing section 202 of
the CAA, which applies certain rights and
protections of the FMLA. On April 15, 1996,
pursuant to section 304(c) of the CAA, the
House and the Senate passed resolutions ap-
proving the final regulations. Specifically,
the Senate passed S. Res. 242, providing for
approval of the final regulations applicable
to the Senate and the employees of the Sen-
ate; the House passed H. Res. 400 providing
for approval of the final regulations applica-
ble to the House and the employees of the
House; and the House and the Senate passed
S. Con. Res. 51, providing for approval of the
final regulations applicable to employing of-
fices and employees other than those offices
and employees of the House and the Senate.
After the Senate and the House passed these
resolutions, the OCWR Board formally issued
the FMLA regulations on April 19, 1996.
Note: On June 22, 2016, the Board adopted
and submitted for publication in the Con-
gressional Record additional amendments to
its substantive regulations regarding the
FMLA. 162 Cong. Rec. H4128–H4168, S4475–
S4516 (daily ed. June 22, 2016). The 2016
amendments provide needed clarity on cer-
tain aspects of the FMLA. First, they add
the military leave provisions of the FMLA,
enacted under the National Defense Author-
ization Acts for Fiscal Years 2008 and 2010,
Pub. L. 110–181, Div. A, Title V 585(a)(2),
(3)(A)–(D) and Pub. L. 111–84, Div. A, Title V
565(a)(1)(B) and (4), which extend the avail-
ability of FMLA leave to family members of
the Regular Armed Forces for qualifying ex-
igencies arising out of a service member’s
deployment. They also define those deploy-
ments covered under these provisions, extend
FMLA military caregiver leave for family
members of current service members to in-
clude an injury or illness that existed prior
to service and was aggravated in the line of
duty on active duty, and extend FMLA mili-
tary caregiver leave to family members of
certain veterans with serious injuries or ill-
nesses. Second, the amendments set forth
the revised definition of ‘‘spouse’’ under the
FMLA in light of the Department of Labor’s
February 25, 2015 Final Rule on the defini-
tion of spouse, and the United States Su-
preme Court’s decision in Obergefell, et al., v.
Hodges, 135 S. Ct. 2584 (2015), which requires a
state to license a marriage between two peo-
ple of the same sex and to recognize a mar-
riage between two people of the same sex
when their marriage was lawfully licensed
and performed out-of-state. Because Con-
gress has not acted on the Board’s request
for approval of these amendments, the Board
will resubmit them for congressional ap-
proval when it submits its request for ap-
proval of its FEPLA amendments to its sub-
stantive FMLA regulations.
What does the FMLA provide?
In general, the FMLA provides eligible em-
ployees the right to take a total of 12 work-
weeks of unpaid leave during any 12–month
period for specified family and medical rea-
sons and for specified circumstances relating
to a family member’s military service. Em-
ploying offices in the legislative branch cov-
ered by FMLA provisions of the CAA must
provide unpaid leave to eligible employees:
(1) for the birth of a son or daughter and to
care for the newborn son or daughter; or (2)
for placement with the employee of a son or
daughter for adoption or foster care; (3) to
care for the employee’s spouse, son, daugh-
ter, or parent with a serious health condi-
tion; (4) because of a serious health condition
that makes the employee unable to perform
the functions of the employee’s job; (5) be-
cause of any qualifying exigency arising out
of the fact that the employee’s spouse, son,
daughter, or parent is a military member on
covered active duty status; and (6) to care
for a covered servicemember with a serious
injury or illness if the employee is the
spouse, son, daughter, parent, or next of kin
of the covered servicemember.
How do the FEPLA amendments affect the
FMLA as applied to the legislative
branch?
The FEPLA amendments to the FMLA in-
clude provisions expressly applicable to the
legislative branch that both: (1) change the
eligibility rules for employees to take pro-
tected leave for births or placements under
the FMLA; and (2) permit employees to sub-
stitute PPL and other paid accrued leave for
unpaid FMLA leave for such births or place-
ments. The FEPLA amendments are summa-
rized below.
For purposes of FMLA leave with respect
to any birth or placement, all covered em-
ployees in the legislative branch are eligible
for job-protected leave under the FMLA im-
mediately upon commencement of employ-
ment. ‘‘Covered employee’’ means any em-
ployee of: (1) the House of Representatives;
(2) the Senate; (3) the Office of Congressional
Accessibility Services; (4) the Capitol Police;
(5) the Congressional Budget Office; (6) the
Office of the Architect of the Capitol; (7) the
Office of the Attending Physician; (8) the Of-
fice of Congressional Workplace Rights; (9)
the Office of Technology Assessment; (10) the
Library of Congress; (11) the Stennis Center
for Public Service; (12) the China Review
Commission; (13) the Congressional Execu-
tive China Commission; or (14) the Helsinki
Commission. See 2 U.S.C. 1301(a)(3).
Generally, FMLA leave is unpaid leave.
However, under certain circumstances, the
FEPLA amendments to the FMLA, as made
applicable by the CAA, permit an eligible
employee to choose to substitute PPL and
accrued paid leave (such as paid annual, va-
cation, personal, family, medical, or sick
leave) for unpaid FMLA leave. The term
‘‘substitute’’ means that paid leave will run
concurrently with the unpaid FMLA leave.
Accordingly, the employee receives pay dur-
ing the period of otherwise unpaid FMLA
leave. For leave taken for a birth or place-
ment, an employee may elect to substitute
for unpaid FMLA leave—(1) up to 12 work-
weeks of PPL in connection with the occur-
rence of a birth or placement; and (2) any ad-
ditional paid annual, vacation, personal,
family, medical, or sick leave provided by
the employing office to such employee. Paid
parental leave may be used only ‘‘in connec-
tion with the birth or placement involved.’’
See 2 U.S.C. 1312(d)(2)(A).
By law, unpaid FMLA leave is generally
limited to a total of 12 weeks in any 12-
month period. Accordingly, any use of un-
paid FMLA leave for a purpose other than
birth or placement may reduce an employ-
ee’s ability to substitute PPL for a birth or
placement. Thus, for example, if an em-
ployee has used 3 weeks of unpaid FMLA
leave before the birth or placement, that em-
ployee’s entitlement to 12 weeks of PPL may
be reduced to 9 weeks.
Paid parental leave may be used no later
than the end of the 12-month period begin-
ning on the date of the birth or placement
involved. There are no carryover provisions
for unused PPL. An employee may not be
paid for unused or expired PPL. Paid paren-
tal leave may not be considered annual leave
for purposes of making a lump-sum payment
for annual leave or for any other purpose.
FEPLA expressly provides that legislative
branch employees using parental leave under
the FMLA are not subject to the limitations
that apply in the executive branch whereby
employees may be required to agree in writ-
ing to work for the executive branch agency
for at least 12 weeks after returning from
leave. FEPLA also expressly provides that
PPL applies to covered employees in the leg-
islative branch without regard to the limita-
tions that may apply in the executive
branch, state and local governments, and
private sector, whereby an employer may re-
cover the premiums for maintaining cov-
erage under a group health plan if the em-
ployee fails to return from PPL.
When are the Paid Parental Leave provisions
of FEPLA effective?
FEPLA provides that the amendments to
the CAA concerning PPL are not effective
with respect to any birth or placement for
adoption or foster care occurring before Oc-
tober 1, 2020. Thus, by law, PPL will be avail-
able to covered employees only in connec-
tion with a birth or placement that occurs
on or after October 1, 2020.
How does FEPLA address active duty service
in the National Guard or Reserves?
Effective December 20, 2019, FEPLA
amended the general eligibility provisions of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00298 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6985
November 16, 2020
the FMLA (as applied by the CAA) to provide
that, for purposes of determining whether a
covered employee has been employed by any
employing office for at least 12 months and
for at least 1,250 hours of service during the
12-month period immediately preceding the
commencement of the leave, any service on
active duty (as defined in 29 U.S.C. 2611(14))
by a member of the National Guard or Re-
serves shall be counted as time during which
such employee has been employed by an em-
ploying office.
Why are these changes to the FMLA regula-
tions necessary?
The CAA requires that the FMLA regula-
tions applicable to the legislative branch and
promulgated by the OCWR be the same as
substantive regulations promulgated by the
Secretary of Labor to implement FMLA title
I, except insofar as the Board may deter-
mine, for good cause shown and stated to-
gether with the regulation, that a modifica-
tion of such regulations would be more effec-
tive for the implementation of the rights and
protections under the CAA. 2 U.S.C. 1312(e).
FMLA title I covers employees of most pri-
vate sector employers, state and local gov-
ernments, and certain quasi-governmental
entities, such as the U.S. Postal Service.
These employees are governed by Depart-
ment of Labor regulations at 29 C.F.R. 601
and part 825. The Secretary of Labor will not
be promulgating FEPLA regulations because
FEPLA does not extend PPL to private sec-
tor employees or other employees directly
covered by FMLA title I. The Board has de-
termined that these circumstances con-
stitute good cause for modification of its
substantive FMLA regulations in order to ef-
fectively implement FEPLA’s rights and
protections to Federal civilian employees in
the legislative branch.
Procedural Summary:
How are substantive regulations proposed
and approved under the CAA?
Pursuant to section 304 of the CAA, 2
U.S.C. 1384, the procedure for proposing and
approving substantive regulations provides
that:
(1) the Board of Directors proposes sub-
stantive regulations and publishes a general
notice of proposed rulemaking in the Con-
gressional Record;
(2) there be a comment period of at least 30
days after the date of publication of the gen-
eral notice of proposed rulemaking;
(3) after consideration of comments by the
Board of Directors, the Board adopts regula-
tions and transmits notice of such action
(together with the regulations and a rec-
ommendation regarding the method for con-
gressional approval of the regulations) to the
Speaker of the House and President Pro
Tempore of the Senate for publication in the
Congressional Record;
(4) there be committee referral and action
on the proposed regulations by resolution in
each House, concurrent resolution, or by
joint resolution; and
(5) there be final publication of the ap-
proved regulations in the Congressional
Record, with an effective date prescribed in
the final publication. For more detail, please
reference the text of 2 U.S.C. 1384.
What is the approach taken by these pro-
posed substantive regulations?
The Board will follow the procedures as
enumerated above and as required by stat-
ute. This Notice of Proposed Rulemaking is
step (1) of the outline set forth above. The
Board will review and respond to any com-
ments received under step (2) of the outline
above, and make any changes necessary to
ensure that the regulations fully implement
section 202 of the CAA and reflect the prac-
tices and policies particular to the legisla-
tive branch.
Are there substantive differences in the pro-
posed regulations for the House of Rep-
resentatives, the Senate and other em-
ploying offices?
No. The Board of Directors has identified
no ‘‘good cause’’ for varying the text of these
regulations. Therefore, if these regulations
are approved as proposed, there will be one
text applicable to all employing offices and
covered employees. See 2 U.S.C. 1312(e)(2).
Are these proposed regulations also rec-
ommended by the OCWR’s Executive Di-
rector, the Deputy Executive Director for
the Senate, and the Deputy Executive Di-
rector for the House of Representatives?
As required by section 304(b)(1) of the CAA,
2 U.S.C. 1384(b)(1), these proposed regulations
are also recommended by the Executive Di-
rector, the Deputy Executive Director for
the Senate and the Deputy Executive Direc-
tor for the House of Representatives.
Are these proposed substantive regulations
available to persons with disabilities in
an alternate format?
In addition to being posted on the OCWR’s
website (www.ocwr.gov), this Notice is also
available in alternative formats. Requests
for this Notice in an alternative format
should be made to the Office of Congres-
sional Workplace Rights, at 202–724–9250
(voice).
How long do I have to submit comments re-
garding the proposed regulations?
Comments regarding the OCWR’s proposed
regulations set forth in this Notice are in-
vited for a period of thirty (30) days fol-
lowing the date of the appearance of this No-
tice in the Congressional Record.
How do I submit comments?
Submission of comments must be made in
writing to the Executive Director, Office of
Congressional Workplace Rights, 110 Second
Street, S.E., Room LA–200, Washington, D.C.
20540–1999. It is requested, but not required,
that an electronic version of any comments
be provided via e-mail to: Alexander
Ruvinsky, Alexander.Ruvinsky@ocwr.gov.
Comments may also be submitted by fac-
simile to the Executive Director at 202–426–
1913 (a non toll-free number). Those wishing
to receive confirmation of the receipt of
their comments are requested to provide a
self-addressed, stamped post card with their
submission.
Am I allowed to view copies of comments
submitted by others?
Yes. Copies of submitted comments will be
available for review on the OCWR’s public
website at www.ocwr.gov.
Summary:
The Congressional Accountability Act of
1995 (CAA), PL 104–1, was enacted into law on
January 23, 1995. The CAA, as amended, ap-
plies the rights and protections of 13 federal
labor and employment statutes to covered
employees and employing offices within the
legislative branch of the federal government.
Section 202 of the CAA applies to employees
covered by the CAA, the rights and protec-
tions established by sections 101 through 105
of the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993
(FMLA), 29 U.S.C. 2611–2615. The above provi-
sions of section 202 became effective on Jan-
uary 1, 1997. 2 U.S.C. 1312. The Board of Di-
rectors of the Office of Congressional Work-
place Rights (OCWR) is now publishing pro-
posed amended regulations to implement
section 202 of the CAA, 2 U.S.C. 1301–1438, as
applied to covered employees of the House of
Representatives, the Senate, and certain
congressional instrumentalities listed below.
The purpose of these amended regulations
is to implement section 202 of the CAA. In
this Notice of Proposed Rulemaking the
Board proposes that virtually identical regu-
lations be adopted for the Senate, the House
of Representatives, and certain congres-
sional instrumentalities. Accordingly:
(1) Senate. It is proposed that the amended
regulations as described in this Notice be in-
cluded in the body of regulations that shall
apply to entities within the Senate, and this
proposal regarding the Senate entities is rec-
ommended by the OCWR’s Deputy Executive
Director for the Senate.
(2) House of Representatives. It is further
proposed that the amended regulations as de-
scribed in this Notice be included in the body
of regulations that shall apply to entities
within the House of Representatives, and
this proposal regarding the House of Rep-
resentatives entities is recommended by the
OCWR’s Deputy Executive Director for the
House of Representatives.
(3) Certain congressional instrumentalities. It
is further proposed that the amended regula-
tions as described in this Notice be included
in the body of regulations that shall apply to
the Office of Congressional Accessibility
Services; the Capitol Police; the Congres-
sional Budget Office; the Office of the Archi-
tect of the Capitol; the Office of the Attend-
ing Physician; the Office of Congressional
Workplace Rights; the Office of Technology
Assessment; the Library of Congress; the
Stennis Center for Public Service; the China
Review Commission; the Congressional Exec-
utive China Commission; and the Helsinki
Commission; and this proposal regarding
these congressional instrumentalities is rec-
ommended by the OCWR Executive Director.
Dates: Comments are due within 30 days
after the date of publication of this Notice in
the Congressional Record.
Section-by-Section Discussion of Proposed
Changes to the FMLA Regulations
The following is a section-by-section dis-
cussion of the proposed revisions to the
Board’s substantive FMLA regulations that
it adopted and submitted for publication in
the Congressional Record on June 22, 2016.
162 Cong. Rec. H4128–H4168, S4475–4516 (daily
ed. June 22, 2016). As noted above, because
Congress has not acted on the Board’s re-
quest for approval of its 2016 amendments,
the Board will resubmit them for congres-
sional approval when it submits its request
for approval of its FEPLA amendments to its
substantive FMLA regulations. Because the
Board’s 2016 amendments were adopted pur-
suant to the procedures for proposing and ap-
proving substantive regulations in section
304 of the CAA, 2 U.S.C. 1384, including pro-
viding a comment period of 60 days after
publication of the proposed amendments in
the Congressional Record, the Board is not
soliciting additional comments on those
adopted amendments, except as indicated
below.
The Board’s proposed amendments to its
substantive FMLA regulations will provide
more detail regarding the implementation of
the statutory provisions summarized above.
In order to implement FEPLA, the Board
proposes to amend part 825 of its substantive
regulations (Family and Medical Leave) by
amending subparts A–C and adding a new
subpart E (Paid Parental Leave). The Board
is making changes in subparts A–C to estab-
lish how the FMLA provisions will now oper-
ate, since the appropriate substitution of
paid parental leave for unpaid FMLA leave
hinges on the standards for granting unpaid
FMLA leave. Below we provide a section-by-
section explanation of the proposed changes
in subparts A–C and the proposed provisions
in the new subpart E.
Part 825—Family and Medical Leave
825.1 Purpose and Scope.
The Board proposes to amend 825.1 to in-
sert a new paragraph (c), which describes the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00299 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6986 November 16, 2020
FEPLA amendments to the FMLA provisions
of the CAA; states that the Board is amend-
ing its substantive FMLA regulations pursu-
ant to the CAA rulemaking procedures set
forth at sections 202(d) and 304 of the CAA;
and further states that because the Sec-
retary of Labor has not promulgated FEPLA
regulations under FMLA title I, the Board
has determined that these circumstances
constitute good cause for modification of its
substantive FMLA regulations in order to ef-
fectively implement FEPLA’s rights and
protections to Federal civilian employees in
the legislative branch.
SUBPART A—COVERAGE UNDER THE FAM-
ILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE ACT
825.100 The Family and Medical Leave Act.
The Board proposes to amend paragraph (b)
of 825.100 to clarify that the authority of an
employing office, disbursing or other finan-
cial office to recover the premiums for main-
taining coverage under a group health plan
is subject to 825.504, which provides that paid
parental leave applies to covered employees
in the legislative branch without regard to
such limitations.
825.102 Definitions.
The Board proposes to amend 825.102 to: (1)
add definitions of birth, family and medical
leave, and placement; and (2) amend the defi-
nitions of covered employee and eligible
employee. The new definition of placement
clarifies that it refers to a new placement.
Thus, the term excludes the adoption of
a stepchild or a foster child who has already
been a member of the employee’s household
and has an existing parent-child relationship
with an adopting parent. This definition
of placement is consistent with Department
of Labor FMLA guidance at
https://www.dol.gov/sites/dolgov/files/WHD/
legacy/files/2005_08_26_1A_FMLA.pdf. If a fos-
ter child is later adopted, the placement has
already occurred; there is no new placement
with a family that would warrant another
use of FMLA leave for the same child. The
proposed definitions of birth and placement
clarify that the terms may refer to an antici-
pated birth or placement. This aligns with
825.120 and 825.121, which provide that unpaid
FMLA leave based on birth or placement of
a child may be used prior to the actual birth
or placement. The revised definition of fam-
ily and medical leave includes new language
addressing leave to care for covered
servicemembers.
The amended definition of covered employee
includes any employee of the Library of Con-
gress; the Stennis Center for Public Service;
the China Review Commission; the Congres-
sional Executive China Commission; or the
Helsinki Commission. The amended defini-
tion of eligible employee adds a new paragraph
(1), which clarifies that for purposes of births
or placements, an eligible employee is any
covered employee as defined in the CAA, ir-
respective of whether the employee meets
the length of service requirements in para-
graph (2). Paragraph (3) of that definition,
which concerns eligibility for unpaid FMLA
leave for reasons other than births or place-
ments, is amended to clarify that, for pur-
poses of determining whether a covered em-
ployee has been employed by any employing
office for at least 12 months and for at least
1,250 hours of service during the 12-month pe-
riod immediately preceding the commence-
ment of the leave, any service on active duty
by a member of the National Guard or Re-
serves shall be counted as time during which
such employee has been employed by an em-
ploying office.
825.104 Covered employing offices.
The Board proposes to amend 825.104 to: (1)
designate paragraphs (1)–(4) as paragraphs
(a)–(d); and (2) amend paragraph (d) to in-
clude the Library of Congress; the Stennis
Center for Public Service; the China Review
Commission; the Congressional Executive
China Commission; or the Helsinki Commis-
sion.
825.110 Eligible employee, general rule.
825.111 Eligible employee, birth or placement.
The Board proposes to: (1) amend 825.110 to
create a general rule for eligibility for un-
paid FMLA leave for reasons other than
births or placements; and (2) add a new
825.111 to create a rule for eligibility for un-
paid FMLA leave for births or placements.
The amendments to 825.110 clarify that its
provisions are subject to the exceptions set
forth at 825.111; and they provide that for
purposes of determining whether a covered
employee has been employed by any employ-
ing office for at least 12 months and for at
least 1,250 hours of service during the 12-
month period immediately preceding the
commencement of the leave, any service on
active duty by a member of the National
Guard or Reserves shall be counted as time
during which such employee has been em-
ployed by an employing office.
The new 825.111 clarifies that, for purposes
of births or placements, an eligible employee
is any covered employee as defined in the
CAA, irrespective of whether the employee
meets the length or hours of service require-
ments in the general rule at 825.110.
825.112 Qualifying reasons for leave, general
rule.
The Board proposes to amend subpara-
graph (a)(2) of 825.112 to clarify that employ-
ing offices are required to grant leave to eli-
gible employees for the placement of a son or
daughter with the employee for adoption or
foster care, including the care of such son or
daughter.
825.120 Leave for pregnancy or birth.
The Board proposes to amend subpara-
graph (a)(1) of 825.120 to clarify that FMLA
leave for pregnancy or the birth of a son or
daughter includes leave for the care of the
newborn child. The Board proposes to amend
subparagraph (a)(2) to add a sentence stating
that leave for a birth or placement must be
concluded by the expiration of the 12-month
period beginning on the date of birth. Fi-
nally, the Board proposes to add a new sub-
paragraph (7) stating that leave taken be-
cause of a birth includes leave necessary for
an employee who is the birth mother to re-
cover from giving birth, or for an employee
who is the other parent to care for the birth
mother during her recovery period, even if
the employee is not involved in caring for
the son or daughter during portions of that
recovery period.
825.121 Leave for adoption or foster care.
The Board proposes to amend paragraph (a)
of 825.121 to clarify that FMLA leave for
placement with the employee of a son or
daughter for adoption or foster care includes
leave to care for the newly placed child.
SUBPART B—EMPLOYEE LEAVE ENTITLE-
MENTS UNDER THE FAMILY AND MED-
ICAL LEAVE ACT, AS MADE APPLICABLE
BY THE CONGRESSIONAL ACCOUNT-
ABILITY ACT
825.207 Substitution of paid leave, generally.
825.208 Substitution of paid leave—special rule
for paid parental leave.
The Board proposes to: (1) amend 825.207 to
create a general rule for substitution of paid
leave for unpaid FMLA leave for reasons
other than births or placements; and (2) add
a new 825.208 to create a rule for substitution
of paid leave for unpaid FMLA leave for
births or placements. The amendments to
825.207 clarify that its provisions are subject
to the exceptions set forth at 825.208.
The new paid leave substitution rules,
which concern birth events and the place-
ment of a child for adoption or foster care,
are now addressed in a new 825.208. 825.208
provides that paid parental leave may be
substituted for unpaid FMLA leave based on
a birth or placement event as provided in the
new subpart E.
Paragraph (b) of 825.208 addresses the possi-
bility of substituting paid annual, vacation,
personal, family, medical, or sick leave for
unpaid FMLA leave based on a birth or
placement. If an employee has not already
(before birth or placement) begun a 12-month
FMLA period (as established under 825.200),
the employee could have no more than 12
weeks of unpaid FMLA leave between the
date of birth or placement and the date that
is 12 months after the date of birth or place-
ment. Thus, using the 12 weeks of paid pa-
rental leave would completely replace any
unpaid FMLA leave for birth or placement
purposes, and there would be no opportunity
to substitute paid annual, vacation, per-
sonal, family, medical, or sick leave. How-
ever, if an employee has a 12-month FMLA
period in progress at the time of birth or
placement, that 12-month FMLA period
would end after birth or placement but be-
fore the date that is 12 months after the
birth or placement. When that 12-month
FMLA period ends, the employee will be eli-
gible to start a new 12-month FMLA period,
and the employee will be able to use up to 12
weeks of unpaid FMLA leave during that pe-
riod. If that new FMLA period begins during
the 12-month period following the birth or
placement, it would be possible for the em-
ployee to use more than 12 weeks of unpaid
FMLA leave for birth or placement purposes
before the date that is 12 months after the
date of birth or placement. In that case, a
maximum of 12 weeks of paid parental leave
may be substituted for unpaid FMLA leave
taken in either FMLA period, since FEPLA
provides for only 12 weeks of paid parental
leave in connection with any given birth or
placement. However, an employee would be
able to substitute available paid annual, va-
cation, personal, family, medical, or sick
leave, as appropriate, for any remaining un-
paid FMLA leave.
Paragraph (c) of 825.208 sets forth various
general rules related to an employee’s enti-
tlement to substitute paid leave. An em-
ployee is entitled to elect whether or not to
substitute paid leave for unpaid FMLA leave,
subject to applicable law and regulation.
Thus, an employing office may not deny an
employee’s election to make a substitution
permitted under this section. Nor may an
employing office require an employee to sub-
stitute paid leave for FMLA leave without
pay. Subparagraph (c)(4) adds a statement,
not previously included in the FMLA regula-
tions, indicating that an employee may re-
quest to use annual leave or sick leave with-
out invoking family and medical leave, and,
in that case, the agency exercises its normal
authority with respect to approving or dis-
approving the timing of when the leave may
be used. In general, an employing office has
the right to deny the scheduling of an em-
ployee’s leave requested outside of an FMLA
request, but if the employee’s scheduling of
FMLA leave is approved, the employee’s re-
quest to substitute annual leave for FMLA
leave without pay may not be denied.
Paragraph (d) of 825.208 addresses an em-
ployee’s obligation to generally give advance
notice of the employee’s election to sub-
stitute paid leave for unpaid FMLA leave.
The general rule is that retroactive substi-
tution is not allowed. However, subpara-
graphs (d)(2) through (d)(4) set forth limited
exceptions. Paragraph (d)(4) addresses the
retroactive substitution of paid parental
leave and links to 825.505, which allows retro-
active substitution only if an employee is
physically or mentally incapacitated.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00300 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6987
November 16, 2020
825.213 Employing office recovery of benefit
costs.
The Board proposes to amend paragraph (a)
of 825.213 to clarify that the authority of an
employing office, disbursing or other finan-
cial office to recover the premiums for main-
taining coverage under a group health plan
is subject to 825.504, which provides that paid
parental leave applies to covered employees
in the legislative branch without regard to
such limitations.
SUBPART C—EMPLOYEE AND EMPLOYING
OFFICE RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS
UNDER THE FMLA, AS MADE APPLICA-
BLE BY THE CAA
825.300 Employing office notice requirements.
The Board proposes to amend subpara-
graph (c)(iii) of 825.300 to add a requirement
that the employing office’s rights and re-
sponsibilities notice to the employee in-
clude, where applicable, notice of the em-
ployee’s right to substitute paid parental
leave for unpaid FMLA leave for a birth or
placement.
The Board also proposes to amend subpara-
graph (d)(6) of 825.300 to clarify that the em-
ploying office must notify the employee of
the amount of leave counted against the em-
ployee’s FMLA leave entitlement, and, if ap-
plicable, the employee’s paid parental leave
entitlement.
SUBPART D—ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESS
825.400 Administrative process, general rules.
The Board proposes to amend 825.400 to
omit obsolete references to the OCWR’s ad-
ministrative dispute resolution procedures,
which were significantly amended by the
CAA of 1995 Reform Act of 2018, Pub. L. No.
115–397. The revised 825.400 refers to the
Board’s revised Procedural Rules, which
apply to matters filed with the OCWR on or
after June 19, 2019.
SUBPART E—PAID PARENTAL LEAVE
The Board proposes to amend part 825 of its
substantive FMLA regulations to add a new
subpart E.
825.500 Purpose, applicability, and employing
office responsibilities.
Paragraph (a) of 825.500 addresses the pur-
pose of the new subpart E.
Subparagraph (b)(1) of 825.500 provides that
subpart E applies to employees to whom sub-
part B (Employee Leave Entitlements under
the Family and Medical Leave Act, as made
Applicable By The Congressional Account-
ability Act) applies. Subparagraph (b)(2) pro-
vides that the OCWR will defer to supple-
mental regulations on PPL issued by the Li-
brary of Congress pursuant to the authority
in 29 USC 2617, provided those supplemental
regulations are consistent with the regula-
tions herein. Subparagraph (b)(3) clarifies
that the PPL provisions of the FMLA apply
to births or placements occurring on or after
October 1, 2020.
Paragraph (c) of 825.500 clarifies that the
head of an employing office is responsible for
the proper administration of subpart E, in-
cluding the responsibility of informing em-
ployees of their entitlements and obliga-
tions.
825.501 Definitions.
Paragraph (a) of 825.501 provides that the
definitions in the FMLA regulations in sub-
part B are applicable in subpart E, except
that, to the extent any definitions of terms
have been further revised in paragraph (b),
the provisions of that paragraph shall apply
for purposes of subpart E.
Paragraph (b) provides definitions of addi-
tional terms used in subpart E—employing of-
fice, child, paid parental leave, and unpaid
FMLA leave. The definition of paid parental
leave makes clear that paid parental leave is
a type of leave that is used when an em-
ployee has a ‘‘parental’’ role. A parent who
does not maintain a continuing parental role
with respect to a newly born or placed child
would not be eligible for paid parental leave
once the parental role has ended.
825.502 Leave entitlement.
825.502 sets forth various rules related to
the entitlement to paid parental leave. Para-
graph (a) provides that an employee may
elect to substitute available paid parental
leave for any unpaid FMLA leave granted
based on the occurrence of a birth or place-
ment.
Paragraph (b) of 825.502 states that the paid
parental leave that is available for substi-
tution is 12 administrative workweeks in
connection with the birth or placement in-
volved. In other words, an employee can re-
ceive up to 12 administrative workweeks of
paid parental leave for each birth or place-
ment event. Paid parental leave continues to
be available only as long as the employee has
a continuing parental role with respect to
the newly born or placed child. Because paid
parental leave is substituting for unpaid
FMLA leave, use of paid parental leave is
constrained by the use of unpaid FMLA
leave, which is limited to 12 weeks in any 12-
month FMLA period (as established under
825.200). Paragraph (b) explains that, with re-
spect to FMLA leave under 825.200(a) that is
limited to a total of 12 weeks in any 12-
month period, any use of unpaid FMLA leave
for a purpose other than birth or placement
may affect an employee’s ability to use the
full 12 weeks of paid parental leave during
the 12-month period following a birth or
placement. In other words, an employee will
be able to use the full amount of paid paren-
tal leave only to the extent that there are 12
weeks of available unpaid FMLA leave
granted based on birth or placement. For ex-
ample, if an employee uses 6 consecutive
weeks of unpaid FMLA leave based on the
employee’s own serious health condition, the
employee could only use 6 weeks of unpaid
FMLA leave based on birth or placement (for
which paid parental leave could be sub-
stituted) during the 12-month period that
began when the employee commenced using
unpaid FMLA leave based on the employee’s
serious health condition.
We note that the 12-week entitlement to
paid parental leave under FEPLA is applied
on a per-employee basis without regard to
movements between different employing of-
fices during the 12-month period following a
birth or placement. As long as the employee
is covered by the FMLA provisions of the
CAA while serving in different employing of-
fices, the employee would be limited to a
total of 12 weeks of paid parental leave per
qualifying birth or placement. However, if an
employee has received paid parental leave
benefits in connection with a given birth or
placement under a different paid parental
leave authority applicable to Federal em-
ployees (e.g., the paid parental leave benefit
for executive branch employees in 5 USC
6382) and moves to a position covered by the
title II paid parental leave authority during
the 12-month period following birth or place-
ment, there is no basis for limiting or offset-
ting title II paid parental leave benefits
based on receipt of leave benefits under an-
other authority.
Subparagraph (c)(1) of 825.502 provides that
an employing office may not require an em-
ployee to use annual leave or sick leave for
a birth or placement before allowing the em-
ployee to use paid parental leave. Subpara-
graph (c)(1) also clarifies that an employee
may request to use annual leave or sick
leave without invoking unpaid FMLA leave
for a birth or placement under subpart B. As
discussed earlier in connection with 825.208,
if a request to use paid annual, vacation, per-
sonal, family, medical, or sick leave without
invoking FMLA leave is granted by the em-
ploying office, an employee can preserve en-
titlement to use unpaid FMLA leave at an-
other time and to substitute paid parental
leave for that unpaid FMLA leave. If the re-
quest is granted, the employing office exer-
cises its normal authority with respect to
approving or disapproving the timing of
when the leave may be used. Subparagraph
(c)(2) clarifies that an employee with a sea-
sonal work schedule may not use PPL during
the off-season period designated by the em-
ploying office—the period during which the
employee is scheduled to be released from
work and placed in nonpay status. In other
words, paid parental leave cannot be used as
a basis for extending a seasonal employee’s
work season.
Paragraph (d) of 825.502 provides that, if an
employee has any unused balance of paid pa-
rental leave remaining at the end of the 12-
month period following the birth or place-
ment involved, the entitlement to the un-
used leave expires at that time. The unused
leave may not be rolled over for use in a fu-
ture period, nor may a payment be made to
the employee for unused paid parental leave
that has expired. Paid parental leave may
not be considered annual leave for purposes
of making a lump-sum payment for annual
leave or for any other purpose.
825.503 Pay during leave.
Paragraph (a) of 825.503 provides that the
pay an employee receives when using paid
parental leave shall be the same pay the em-
ployee would receive if the employee were
using annual leave. In other words, agency
payroll systems will apply the same rules
they apply in determining what pay con-
tinues during annual leave.
Paragraph (b) provides that the pay re-
ceived during paid parental leave may not
include Sunday premium pay. This is con-
sistent with the statutory bar in section 624
of the Treasury and General Government Ap-
propriations Act, 1999 (Public Law 105–277,
div. A, § 101(h), October 21, 1998).
825.504 Work obligation.
Paragraph (a) of 825.504 clarifies that under
FEPLA, legislative branch employees using
PPL are not subject to the limitations that
apply in the executive branch whereby em-
ployees may be required to agree in writing
to work for the executive branch agency for
at least 12 weeks after returning from leave.
Paragraph (b) clarifies that under FEPLA,
PPL applies to covered employees in the leg-
islative branch without regard to the limita-
tions that may apply in the executive
branch, state and local governments, and
private sector, whereby an employer may re-
cover the premiums for maintaining cov-
erage under a group health plan if the em-
ployee fails to return from PPL.
825.505 Cases of employee incapacitation.
825.505 provides that the application of paid
parental leave in cases where an employee is
incapacitated at the time the use of paid pa-
rental leave would be permissible. Paragraph
(a) allows the employee to retroactively use
paid parental leave. This provision allows for
the retroactive election to use paid parental
leave under the FMLA if the employing of-
fice determines that an otherwise eligible
employee who could have made an election
during a past period to substitute paid pa-
rental leave was physically or mentally in-
capable of doing so during that past period.
Upon this determination, the employing of-
fice must allow the employee, when no
longer incapacitated, to make an election to
substitute paid parental leave for applicable
unpaid FMLA leave. The employee must
make this election within 5 workdays of re-
turning to work.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00301 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6988 November 16, 2020
Paragraph (b) allows an employee’s per-
sonal representative to elect, on behalf of
the employee, to substitute paid parental
leave for applicable unpaid FMLA leave (i.e.,
approved FMLA leave based on birth or
placement of a child). If an employing office
determines that an otherwise eligible em-
ployee is physically or mentally incapable of
making an election to substitute paid paren-
tal leave, the employing office must, upon
the request of the employee’s personal rep-
resentative, provide conditional approval of
substitution of paid parental leave for appli-
cable unpaid FMLA leave on a prospective
basis.
825.506 Cases of multiple children born or placed
in the same time period.
825.506 addresses the application of paid pa-
rental leave in cases in which an employee
has multiple children newly born or placed
in the same time period. Paragraph (a) pro-
vides that if an employee has multiple chil-
dren born or placed on the same day, that
event will be treated as a single event trig-
gering a single entitlement of up to 12 weeks
of paid parental leave during the 12-month
period following the event.
Paragraph (b) provides that, if an employee
has one or more births or placements during
the 12-month period following the date of an
earlier birth or placement, each subsequent
birth or placement event will result in a 12-
month period commencing on the date of
birth or placement with its own 12-week
limit. Any use of paid parental leave during
a given 12-month period will count toward
that period’s 12-week limit. Thus, when such
12-month periods overlap, any use of paid pa-
rental leave during the overlap will count to-
ward each affected 12-month period’s 12-week
limit. For example, if an employee has a
child born on June 1 and another child
placed for adoption on October 1 of the same
year, each event would generate entitlement
to substitute up to 12 weeks of paid parental
leave during the separate 12-month periods
beginning on the date of the birth and on the
date of the placement. Those two 12-month
periods would be June 1–May 31 and October
1–September 30, respectively. The overlap pe-
riod for these two 12-month periods would be
October 1–May 31. If the employee sub-
stitutes paid parental leave during that over-
lap period, that amount of paid parental
leave would count towards both the 12-week
limit associated with the birth event and the
12-week limit associated with the placement
event.
825.507 Records and reports.
825.507 provides that an employing office
must maintain an accurate record of an em-
ployee’s usage of paid parental leave.
SUBPART G—EFFECT OF OTHER LAWS,
EMPLOYING OFFICE PRACTICES, AND
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS
ON EMPLOYEE RIGHTS UNDER THE
FMLA, AS MADE APPLICABLE BY THE
CAA.
825.702 Interaction with anti-discrimination
laws, as applied by section 201 of the CAA.
The Board proposes to amend paragraph (f)
of 825.702 to delete the parenthetical phrase
‘‘(and, therefore, not an ‘‘eligible’’ employee
under FMLA, as made applicable by the
CAA).’’ It remains the case that under Title
VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amend-
ed by the Pregnancy Discrimination Act, and
as made applicable by the CAA, an employ-
ing office should provide the same benefits
for women who are pregnant as the employ-
ing office provides to other employees with
short-term disabilities, as stated in para-
graph (f). However, as a result of FEPLA, an
employee employed for less than 12 months
is now an ‘‘eligible’’ employee for purposes of
unpaid FMLA leave for births and place-
ments. See 825.111.
REGULATIONS PROPOSED BY THE BOARD OF DI-
RECTORS OF THE OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE EX-
TENDING RIGHTS AND PROTECTIONS UNDER
THE FAMILY AND MEDICAL ACT OF 1996, AS
AMENDED
Part 825—Family and Medical Leave
825.1 Purpose and Scope.
SUBPART A—COVERAGE UNDER THE FAM-
ILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE ACT, AS MADE
APPLICABLE BY THE CONGRESSIONAL
ACCOUNTABILITY ACT
825.100 The Family and Medical Leave Act.
825.101 Purpose of the FMLA.
825.102 Definitions.
825.103 [Reserved]
825.104 Covered employing offices.
825.105 [Reserved]
825.106 Joint employer coverage.
825.107–825.109 [Reserved]
825.110 Eligible employee, general rule.
825.111 Eligible employee, birth or place-
ment.
825.112 Qualifying reasons for leave, general
rule.
825.113 Serious health condition.
825.114 Inpatient care.
825.115 Continuing treatment.
825.116–825.118 [Reserved]
825.119 Leave for treatment of substance
abuse.
825.120 Leave for pregnancy or birth.
825.121 Leave for adoption or foster care.
825.122 Definitions of covered servicemem-
ber, spouse, parent, son or daughter, next
of kin of a covered servicemember, adop-
tion, foster care, son or daughter on cov-
ered active duty or call to covered active
duty status, son or daughter of a covered
servicemember, and parent of a covered
servicemember.
825.123 Unable to perform the functions of
the position.
825.124 Needed to care for a family member
or covered servicemember.
825.125 Definition of health care provider.
825.126 Leave because of a qualifying exi-
gency.
825.127 Leave to care for a covered service-
member with a serious injury or illness
(military caregiver leave).
SUBPART B—EMPLOYEE LEAVE ENTITLE-
MENTS UNDER THE FAMILY AND MED-
ICAL LEAVE ACT, AS MADE APPLICABLE
BY THE CONGRESSIONAL ACCOUNT-
ABILITY ACT
825.200 Amount of leave.
825.201 Leave to care for a parent.
825.202 Intermittent leave or reduced leave
schedule.
825.203 Scheduling of intermittent or re-
duced schedule leave.
825.204 Transfer of an employee to an alter-
native position during intermittent leave
or reduced schedule leave.
825.205 Increments of FMLA leave for inter-
mittent or reduced schedule leave.
825.206 Interaction with the FLSA.
825.207 Substitution of paid leave—leave for
reasons other than birth or placement.
825.208 Substitution of paid leave—leave con-
nected to birth or placement.
825.209 Maintenance of employee benefits.
825.210 Employee payment of group health
benefit premiums.
825.211 Maintenance of benefits under multi-
employer health plans.
825.212 Employee failure to pay health plan
premium payments.
825.213 Employing office recovery of benefit
costs.
825.214 Employee right to reinstatement.
825.215 Equivalent position.
825.216 Limitations on an employee’s right to
reinstatement.
825.217 Key employee, general rule.
825.218 Substantial and grievous economic
injury.
825.219 Rights of a key employee.
825.220 Protection for employees who request
leave or otherwise assert FMLA rights.
SUBPART C—EMPLOYEE AND EMPLOYING
OFFICE RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS
UNDER THE FMLA, AS MADE APPLICA-
BLE BY THE CAA.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00302 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 8472 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6989
November 16, 2020
825.300 Employing office notice require-
ments.
825.301 Designation of FMLA leave.
825.302 Employee notice requirements for
foreseeable FMLA leave.
825.303 Employee notice requirements for un-
foreseeable FMLA leave.
825.304 Employee failure to provide notice.
825.305 Certification, general rule.
825.306 Content of medical certification for
leave taken because of an employee’s own
serious health condition or the serious
health condition of a family member.
825.307 Authentication and clarification of
medical certification for leave taken be-
cause of an employee’s own serious
health condition or the serious health
condition of a family member; second and
third opinions.
825.308 Recertifications for leave taken be-
cause of an employee’s own serious
health condition or the serious health
condition of a family member.
825.309 Certification for leave taken because
of a qualifying exigency.
825.310 Certification for leave taken to care
for a covered servicemember (military
caregiver leave).
825.311 Intent to return to work.
825.312 Fitness-for-duty certification.
825.313 Failure to provide certification.
SUBPART D—ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESS
825.400 Administrative process, general rules.
825.401–825.404 [Reserved]
SUBPART E—PAID PARENTAL LEAVE
825.500 Purpose, applicability, and employing
office responsibilities.
825.501 Definitions.
825.502 Leave entitlement.
825.503 Pay during leave.
825.504 Work Obligations.
825.505 Cases of employee incapacitation.
825.506 Cases of multiple children born or
placed in the same time period.
825.507 Records.
825.508 [Reserved]
SUBPART F—SPECIAL RULES APPLICABLE
TO EMPLOYEES OF SCHOOLS
825.600 Special rules for school employees,
definitions.
825.601 Special rules for school employees,
limitations on intermittent leave.
825.602 Special rules for school employees,
limitations on leave near the end of an
academic term.
825.603 Special rules for school employees,
duration of FMLA leave.
825.604 Special rules for school employees,
restoration to an equivalent position.
SUBPART G—EFFECT OF OTHER LAWS,
EMPLOYING OFFICE PRACTICES, AND
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREE-
MENTS ON EMPLOYEE RIGHTS UNDER
THE FMLA, AS MADE APPLICABLE BY
THE CAA
825.700 Interaction with employing office’s
policies.
825.701 [Reserved]
825.702 Interaction with anti-discrimination
laws as applied by section 201 of the CAA.
SUBPART H—[Reserved]
FORMS
Form A: Certification of Health Care Pro-
vider for Employee’s Serious Health Con-
dition;
Form B: Certification of Health Care Pro-
vider for Family Member’s Serious Health
Condition;
Form C: Notice of Eligibility and Rights &
Responsibilities;
Form D: Designation Notice to Employee of
FMLA Leave;
Form E: Certification of Qualifying Exigency
for Military Family Leave;
Form F: Certification for Serious Injury or
Illness of Covered Servicemember for
Military Family Leave;
Form G: Certification for Serious Injury or
Illness of a Veteran for Military Care-
giver Leave.
825.1 Purpose and scope.
(a) Section 202 of the Congressional Ac-
countability Act (CAA) (2 U.S.C. 1312) applies
the rights and protections of sections 101
through 105 of the Family and Medical Leave
Act of 1993 (FMLA) (29 U.S.C. 2611–2615) to
covered employees. (The term ‘‘covered em-
ployee’’ is defined in section 101(3) of the
CAA (2 U.S.C. 1301(3)). See 825.102 of these
regulations for that definition.) The purpose
of this part is to set forth the regulations to
carry out the provisions of section 202 of the
CAA.
(b) These regulations are issued by the
Board of Directors (Board) of the Office of
Congressional Workplace Rights, pursuant to
sections 202(d) and 304 of the CAA, which di-
rect the Board to promulgate regulations im-
plementing section 202 that are ‘‘the same as
substantive regulations promulgated by the
Secretary of Labor to implement the statu-
tory provisions referred to in subsection (a)
[of section 202 of the CAA] except insofar as
the Board may determine, for good cause
shown . . . that a modification of such regu-
lations would be more effective for the im-
plementation of the rights and protections
under this section.’’ The regulations issued
by the Board herein are on all matters for
which section 202 of the CAA requires regula-
tions to be issued. Specifically, it is the
Board’s considered judgment, based on the
information available to it at the time of the
promulgation of these regulations, that,
with the exception of regulations adopted
and set forth herein, there are no other ‘‘sub-
stantive regulations promulgated by the Sec-
retary of Labor to implement the statutory
provisions referred to in subsection (a) [of
section 202 of the CAA].’’
(c) On December 20, 2019, Congress enacted
the Federal Employee Paid Leave Act (sub-
title A of title LXXVI of division F of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2020, Public Law 116–92, December
20, 2019) (FEPLA). FEPLA amended the
FMLA to allow most civilian Federal em-
ployees, including eligible employees in the
legislative branch, to substitute up to 12
weeks of paid parental leave (PPL) for un-
paid FMLA leave granted in connection with
the birth of an employee’s son or daughter or
for the placement of a son or daughter with
an employee for adoption or foster care.
In order to implement FEPLA in the legis-
lative branch, the Board is amending its sub-
stantive FMLA regulations pursuant to the
CAA rulemaking procedures set forth at sec-
tions 202(d) and 304 of the CAA. The Sec-
retary of Labor has not promulgated FEPLA
regulations, however, because FEPLA does
not extend PPL to private sector employees
or other employees directly covered by
FMLA title I. The Board has determined
that these circumstances constitute good
cause for modification of its substantive
FMLA regulations in order to effectively im-
plement FEPLA’s rights and protections to
Federal civilian employees in the legislative
branch.
(d) In promulgating these regulations, the
Board has made certain technical and no-
menclature changes to the regulations as
promulgated by the Secretary. Such changes
are intended to make the provisions adopted
accord more naturally to situations in the
legislative branch. However, by making
these changes, the Board does not intend a
substantive difference between these regula-
tions and those of the Secretary from which
they are derived. Moreover, such changes, in
and of themselves, are not intended to con-
stitute an interpretation of the regulation or
of the statutory provisions of the CAA upon
which they are based.
(e) Pursuant to section 304(b)(4) of the
CAA, 2 U.S.C. 1384(b)(4), the Board of Direc-
tors is required to recommend to Congress a
method of approval for these regulations. As
the Board has adopted the same regulations
for the Senate, the House of Representatives,
and the other covered entities and facilities,
it therefore recommends that the adopted
regulations be approved by concurrent reso-
lution of the Congress.
SUBPART A—COVERAGE UNDER THE FAM-
ILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE ACT, AS MADE
APPLICABLE BY THE CONGRESSIONAL
ACCOUNTABILITY ACT
825.100 The Family and Medical Leave Act.
(a) The Family and Medical Leave Act of
1993 (FMLA), as made applicable by the Con-
gressional Accountability Act (CAA), allows
eligible employees of an employing office to
take job-protected, unpaid leave, or to sub-
stitute appropriate paid leave if the em-
ployee has earned or accrued it, for up to a
total of 12 workweeks in any 12 months (See
825.200(b)) because of the birth of a child and
to care for the newborn child, because of the
placement of a child with the employee for
adoption or foster care, because the em-
ployee is needed to care for a family member
(child, spouse, or parent) with a serious
health condition, because the employee’s
own serious health condition makes the em-
ployee unable to perform the functions of his
or her job, or because of any qualifying exi-
gency arising out of the fact that the em-
ployee’s spouse, son, daughter, or parent is a
military member on active duty or call to
covered active duty status (or has been noti-
fied of an impending call or order to covered
active duty). In addition, eligible employees
of a covered employing office may take job-
protected, unpaid leave, or substitute appro-
priate paid leave if the employee has earned
or accrued it, for up to a total of 26 work-
weeks in a single 12-month period to care for
a covered servicemember with a serious in-
jury or illness. In certain cases, FMLA leave
may be taken on an intermittent basis rath-
er than all at once, or the employee may
work a part-time schedule.
(b) An employee on FMLA leave is also en-
titled to have health benefits maintained
while on leave as if the employee had contin-
ued to work instead of taking the leave. If an
employee was paying all or part of the pre-
mium payments prior to leave, the employee
would continue to pay his or her share dur-
ing the leave period. Subject to 825.504, the
employing office or a disbursing or other fi-
nancial office may recover its share only if
the employee does not return to work for a
reason other than the serious health condi-
tion of the employee or the employee’s cov-
ered family member, the serious injury or
illness of a covered servicemember, or an-
other reason beyond the employee’s control.
(c) An employee generally has a right to
return to the same position or an equivalent
position with equivalent pay, benefits, and
working conditions at the conclusion of the
leave. The taking of FMLA leave cannot re-
sult in the loss of any benefit that accrued
prior to the start of the leave.
(d) The employing office generally has a
right to advance notice from the employee.
In addition, the employing office may re-
quire an employee to submit certification to
substantiate that the leave is due to the seri-
ous health condition of the employee or the
employee’s covered family member, due to
the serious injury or illness of a covered
servicemember, or because of a qualifying
exigency. Failure to comply with these re-
quirements may result in a delay in the start
of FMLA leave. Pursuant to a uniformly ap-
plied policy, the employing office may also
require that an employee present a certifi-
cation of fitness to return to work when the
absence was caused by the employee’s seri-
ous health condition (See 825.312 and 825.313)).
The employing office may delay restoring
the employee to employment without such
certificate relating to the health condition
which caused the employee’s absence.
825.101 Purpose of the FMLA.
(a) FMLA is intended to allow employees
to balance their work and family life by tak-
ing reasonable unpaid leave for medical rea-
sons, for the birth or adoption of a child, for
the care of a child, spouse, or parent who has
a serious health condition, for the care of a
covered servicemember with a serious injury
or illness, or because of a qualifying exi-
gency arising out of the fact that the em-
ployee’s spouse, son, daughter, or parent is a
military member on covered active duty or
call to covered active duty status. The
FMLA is intended to balance the demands of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00303 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 8472 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6990 November 16, 2020
the workplace with the needs of families, to
promote the stability and economic security
of families, and to promote national inter-
ests in preserving family integrity. It was in-
tended that the FMLA accomplish these pur-
poses in a manner that accommodates the le-
gitimate interests of employing offices, and
in a manner consistent with the Equal Pro-
tection Clause of the Fourteenth Amend-
ment in minimizing the potential for em-
ployment discrimination on the basis of sex,
while promoting equal employment oppor-
tunity for men and women.
(b) The FMLA was predicated on two fun-
damental concerns—the needs of the Amer-
ican workforce, and the development of high-
performance organizations. Increasingly,
America’s children and elderly are dependent
upon family members who must spend long
hours at work. When a family emergency
arises, requiring workers to attend to seri-
ously-ill children or parents, or to newly-
born or adopted infants, or even to their own
serious illness, workers need reassurance
that they will not be asked to choose be-
tween continuing their employment, and
meeting their personal and family obliga-
tions or tending to vital needs at home.
(c) The FMLA is both intended and ex-
pected to benefit employing offices as well as
their employees. A direct correlation exists
between stability in the family and produc-
tivity in the workplace. FMLA will encour-
age the development of high-performance or-
ganizations. When workers can count on du-
rable links to their workplace they are able
to make their own full commitments to their
jobs. The record of hearings on family and
medical leave indicate the powerful produc-
tive advantages of stable workplace relation-
ships, and the comparatively small costs of
guaranteeing that those relationships will
not be dissolved while workers attend to
pressing family health obligations or their
own serious illness.
825.102 Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
ADA means the Americans with Disabil-
ities Act (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq., as amended),
as made applicable by the Congressional Ac-
countability Act.
Birth means the delivery of a child. When
the term ‘‘birth’’ under this subpart is used
in connection with the use of leave before
birth, it refers to an anticipated birth.
CAA means the Congressional Account-
ability Act of 1995 (Pub. Law 104–1, 109 Stat.
3, 2 U.S.C. 1301 et seq., as amended).
COBRA means the continuation coverage
requirements of Title X of the Consolidated
Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1986
(Pub. Law 99–272, title X, section 10002; 100
Stat. 227; 29 U.S.C. 1161–1168).
Contingency operation means a military op-
eration that:
(1) Is designated by the Secretary of De-
fense as an operation in which members of
the Armed Forces are or may become in-
volved in military actions, operations, or
hostilities against an enemy of the United
States or against an opposing military force;
or
(2) Results in the call or order to, or reten-
tion on, active duty of members of the uni-
formed services under section 688, 12301(a),
12302, 12304, 12305, or 12406 of Title 10 of the
United States Code, chapter 15 of Title 10 of
the United States Code, or any other provi-
sion of law during a war or during a national
emergency declared by the President or Con-
gress. See also 825.126(a)(2).
Continuing treatment by a health care pro-
vider means any one of the following:
(1) Incapacity and treatment. A period of in-
capacity of more than three consecutive, full
calendar days, and any subsequent treat-
ment or period of incapacity relating to the
same condition, that also involves:
(i) Treatment two or more times, within 30
days of the first day of incapacity, unless ex-
tenuating circumstances exist, by a health
care provider, by a nurse under direct super-
vision of a health care provider, or by a pro-
vider of health care services (e.g., physical
therapist) under orders of, or on referral by,
a health care provider; or
(ii) Treatment by a health care provider on
at least one occasion, which results in a regi-
men of continuing treatment under the su-
pervision of the health care provider.
(iii) The requirement in paragraphs (i) and
(ii) of this definition for treatment by a
health care provider means an in-person visit
to a health care provider. The first in-person
treatment visit must take place within seven
days of the first day of incapacity.
(iv) Whether additional treatment visits or
a regimen of continuing treatment is nec-
essary within the 30-day period shall be de-
termined by the health care provider.
(v) The term ‘‘extenuating circumstances’’
in paragraph (i) means circumstances beyond
the employee’s control that prevent the fol-
low-up visit from occurring as planned by
the health care provider. Whether a given set
of circumstances are extenuating depends on
the facts. See also 825.115(a)(5).
(2) Pregnancy or prenatal care. Any period of
incapacity due to pregnancy, or for prenatal
care. 825.120.
(3) Chronic conditions. Any period of inca-
pacity or treatment for such incapacity due
to a chronic serious health condition. A
chronic serious health condition is one
which:
(i) Requires periodic visits (defined as at
least twice a year) for treatment by a health
care provider, or by a nurse under direct su-
pervision of a health care provider;
(ii) Continues over an extended period of
time (including recurring episodes of a single
underlying condition); and
(iii) May cause episodic rather than a con-
tinuing period of incapacity (e.g., asthma,
diabetes, epilepsy, etc.).
(4) Permanent or long-term conditions. A pe-
riod of incapacity which is permanent or
long-term due to a condition for which treat-
ment may not be effective. The employee or
family member must be under the con-
tinuing supervision of, but need not be re-
ceiving active treatment by, a health care
provider. Examples include Alzheimer’s, a
severe stroke, or the terminal stages of a dis-
ease.
(5) Conditions requiring multiple treatments.
Any period of absence to receive multiple
treatments (including any period of recovery
therefrom) by a health care provider or by a
provider of health care services under orders
of, or on referral by, a health care provider,
for:
(i) Restorative surgery after an accident or
other injury; or
(ii) A condition that would likely result in
a period of incapacity of more than three
consecutive full calendar days in the absence
of medical intervention or treatment, such
as cancer (chemotherapy, radiation, etc.), se-
vere arthritis (physical therapy), kidney dis-
ease (dialysis).
(6) Absences attributable to incapacity
under paragraphs (2) or (3) of this definition
qualify for FMLA leave even though the em-
ployee or the covered family member does
not receive treatment from a health care
provider during the absence, and even if the
absence does not last more than three con-
secutive, full calendar days. For example, an
employee with asthma may be unable to re-
port for work due to the onset of an asthma
attack or because the employee’s health care
provider has advised the employee to stay
home when the pollen count exceeds a cer-
tain level. An employee who is pregnant may
be unable to report to work because of severe
morning sickness.
Covered active duty or call to covered active
duty status means:
(1) In the case of a member of the Regular
Armed Forces, duty during the deployment
of the member with the Armed Forces to a
foreign country; and,
(2) In the case of a member of the Reserve
components of the Armed Forces, duty dur-
ing the deployment of the member with the
Armed Forces to a foreign country under a
Federal call or order to active duty in sup-
port of a contingency operation pursuant to:
Section 688 of Title 10 of the United States
Code, which authorizes ordering to active
duty retired members of the Regular Armed
Forces and members of the retired Reserve
who retired after completing at least 20
years of active service; Section 12301(a) of
Title 10 of the United States Code, which au-
thorizes ordering all reserve component
members to active duty in the case of war or
national emergency; Section 12302 of Title 10
of the United States Code, which authorizes
ordering any unit or unassigned member of
the Ready Reserve to active duty; Section
12304 of Title 10 of the United States Code,
which authorizes ordering any unit or unas-
signed member of the Selected Reserve and
certain members of the Individual Ready Re-
serve to active duty; Section 12305 of Title 10
of the United States Code, which authorizes
the suspension of promotion, retirement or
separation rules for certain Reserve compo-
nents; Section 12406 of Title 10 of the United
States Code, which authorizes calling the
National Guard into Federal service in cer-
tain circumstances; chapter 15 of Title 10 of
the United States Code, which authorizes
calling the National Guard and state mili-
tary into Federal service in the case of insur-
rections and national emergencies; or any
other provision of law during a war or during
a national emergency declared by the Presi-
dent or Congress so long as it is in support of
a contingency operation. See 10 U.S.C.
101(a)(13)(B). See also 825.126(a).
Covered employee as defined in the CAA,
means any employee of—(1) the House of
Representatives; (2) the Senate; (3) the Office
of Congressional Accessibility Services; (4)
the Capitol Police; (5) the Congressional
Budget Office; (6) the Office of the Architect
of the Capitol; (7) the Office of the Attending
Physician; (8) the Office of Congressional
Workplace Rights; (9) the Library of Con-
gress; (10) the Stennis Center for Public
Service; (11) the Office of Technology Assess-
ment; (12) the China Review Commission; (13)
the Congressional Executive China Commis-
sion; or (14) the Helsinki Commission.
Covered servicemember means:
(1) A current member of the Armed Forces,
including a member of the National Guard or
Reserves, who is undergoing medical treat-
ment, recuperation, or therapy, is otherwise
in outpatient status, or is otherwise on the
temporary disability retired list, for a seri-
ous injury or illness, or
(2) A covered veteran who is undergoing
medical treatment, recuperation, or therapy
for a serious injury or illness.
Covered veteran means an individual who
was a member of the Armed Forces (includ-
ing a member of the National Guard or Re-
serves), and was discharged or released under
conditions other than dishonorable at any
time during the five-year period prior to the
first date the eligible employee takes FMLA
leave to care for the covered veteran. See
825.127(b)(2).
Eligible employee as defined in the CAA,
means:
(1) For purposes of leave under subpara-
graphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of section 85.112 [or sub-
sections (A) or (B) of section 102(a)(1) of the
FMLA], a covered employee as defined in the
CAA.
(2) For purposes of leave under subpara-
graphs (a)(3)–(6) of section 825.112 [or sub-
sections (C)–(F) of section 102(a)(1) of the
FMLA], a covered employee who has been
employed for a total of at least 12 months in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00304 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6991
November 16, 2020
any employing office on the date on which
any FMLA leave is to commence, except that
an employing office need not consider any
period of previous employment that occurred
more than seven years before the date of the
most recent hiring of the employee, unless:
(i) The break in service is occasioned by
the fulfillment of the employee’s Uniformed
Services Employment and Reemployment
Rights Act (USERRA), 38 U.S.C. 4301, et seq.,
covered service obligation (the period of ab-
sence from work due to or necessitated by
USERRA-covered service must be also count-
ed in determining whether the employee has
been employed for at least 12 months by any
employing office, but this section does not
provide any greater entitlement to the em-
ployee than would be available under the
USERRA, as made applicable by the CAA);
or
(ii) A written agreement, including a col-
lective bargaining agreement, exists con-
cerning the employing office’s intention to
rehire the employee after the break in serv-
ice (e.g., for purposes of the employee fur-
thering his or her education or for
childrearing purposes); and
(3) Who, on the date on which any FMLA
leave is to commence, has met the hours of
service requirement by having been em-
ployed for at least 1,250 hours of service with
an employing office during the previous 12-
month period, except that:
(i) An employee returning from fulfilling
his or her USERRA-covered service obliga-
tion shall be credited with the hours of serv-
ice that would have been performed but for
the period of absence from work due to or ne-
cessitated by USERRA-covered service in de-
termining whether the employee met the
hours of service requirement (accordingly, a
person reemployed following absence from
work due to or necessitated by USERRA-cov-
ered service has the hours that would have
been worked for the employing office added
to any hours actually worked during the pre-
vious 12-month period to meet the hours of
service requirement);
(ii) To determine the hours that would
have been worked during the period of ab-
sence from work due to or necessitated by
USERRA-covered service, the employee’s
pre-service work schedule can generally be
used for calculations; and
(iii) Any service on active duty (as defined
in 29 U.S.C. 2611(14)) by a covered employee
who is a member of the National Guard or
Reserves shall be counted as time during
which such employee has been employed in
an employing office for purposes of para-
graph (3) of this section.
Employ means to suffer or permit to work.
Employee means an employee as defined by
the CAA and includes an applicant for em-
ployment and a former employee.
Employee employed in an instructional capac-
ity. See the definition of Teacher in this sec-
tion.
Employee of the Capitol Police means any
member or officer of the Capitol Police.
Employee of the House of Representatives
means an individual occupying a position the
pay for which is disbursed by the Clerk of
the House of Representatives, or another of-
ficial designated by the House of Representa-
tives, or any employment position in an en-
tity that is paid with funds derived from the
clerk-hire allowance of the House of Rep-
resentatives but not any such individual em-
ployed by any entity listed in subparagraphs
(3) through (9) under the definition of cov-
ered employee above.
Employee of the Office of the Architect of the
Capitol means any employee of the Office of
the Architect of the Capitol or the Botanic
Garden.
Employee of the Senate means any employee
whose pay is disbursed by the Secretary of
the Senate, but not any such individual em-
ployed by any entity listed in subparagraphs
(3) through (9) under the definition of cov-
ered employee above.
Employing Office, as defined by the CAA,
means:
(1) The personal office of a Member of the
House of Representatives or of a Senator;
(2) A committee of the House of Represent-
atives or the Senate or a joint committee;
(3) Any other office headed by a person
with the final authority to appoint, hire, dis-
charge, and set the terms, conditions, or
privileges of the employment of an employee
of the House of Representatives or the Sen-
ate; or
(4) The Office of Congressional Accessi-
bility Services, the United States Capitol
Police, the Congressional Budget Office, the
Office of the Architect of the Capitol, the Of-
fice of the Attending Physician, the Office of
Congressional Workplace Rights, the Library
of Congress, the Stennis Center for Public
Service, the Office of Technology Assess-
ment, the China Review Commission, the
Congressional Executive China Commission,
and the Helsinki Commission.
Employment benefits means all benefits pro-
vided or made available to employees by an
employing office, including group life insur-
ance, health insurance, disability insurance,
sick leave, annual leave, educational bene-
fits, and pensions, regardless of whether such
benefits are provided by a practice or written
policy of an employing office or through an
employee benefit plan. The term does not in-
clude non-employment related obligations
paid by employees through voluntary deduc-
tions such as supplemental insurance cov-
erage. See also 825.209(a).
Family and medical leave means an employ-
ee’s entitlement to 12 workweeks (or 26
workweeks in the case of leave under 825.127)
of unpaid leave for certain family and med-
ical needs, as prescribed under the FMLA, as
made applicable by the CAA.
FLSA means the Fair Labor Standards Act
(29 U.S.C. 201 et seq.), as made applicable by
the CAA.
FMLA means the Family and Medical
Leave Act of 1993, Public Law 103–3 (Feb-
ruary 5, 1993), 107 Stat. 6 (29 U.S.C. 2601 et
seq., as amended), as made applicable by the
CAA.
Group health plan means the Federal Em-
ployees Health Benefits Program and any
other plan of, or contributed to by, an em-
ploying office (including a self-insured plan)
to provide health care (directly or otherwise)
to the employing office’s employees, former
employees, or the families of such employees
or former employees. For purposes of FMLA,
as made applicable by the CAA, the term
group health plan shall not include an insur-
ance program providing health coverage
under which employees purchase individual
policies from insurers provided that:
(1) No contributions are made by the em-
ploying office;
(2) Participation in the program is com-
pletely voluntary for employees;
(3) The sole functions of the employing of-
fice with respect to the program are, without
endorsing the program, to permit the insurer
to publicize the program to employees, to
collect premiums through payroll deductions
and to remit them to the insurer;
(4) The employing office receives no con-
sideration in the form of cash or otherwise in
connection with the program, other than
reasonable compensation, excluding any
profit, for administrative services actually
rendered in connection with payroll deduc-
tion; and,
(5) The premium charged with respect to
such coverage does not increase in the event
the employment relationship terminates.
Health care provider means:
(1) The FMLA, as made applicable by the
CAA, defines health care provider as:
(i) A doctor of medicine or osteopathy who
is authorized to practice medicine or surgery
(as appropriate) by the State in which the
doctor practices; or
(ii) Any other person determined by the
Department of Labor to be capable of pro-
viding health care services.
(2) Others ‘‘capable of providing health
care services’’ include only:
(i) Podiatrists, dentists, clinical psycholo-
gists, optometrists, and chiropractors (lim-
ited to treatment consisting of manual ma-
nipulation of the spine to correct a sub-
luxation as demonstrated by X-ray to exist)
authorized to practice in the State and per-
forming within the scope of their practice as
defined under State law;
(ii) Nurse practitioners, nurse-midwives
and clinical social workers and physician as-
sistants who are authorized to practice
under State law and who are performing
within the scope of their practice as defined
under State law;
(iii) Christian Science practitioners listed
with the First Church of Christ, Scientist in
Boston, Massachusetts. Where an employee
or family member is receiving treatment
from a Christian Science practitioner, an
employee may not object to any requirement
from an employing office that the employee
or family member submit to examination
(though not treatment) to obtain a second or
third certification from a health care pro-
vider other than a Christian Science practi-
tioner except as otherwise provided under
applicable State or local law or collective
bargaining agreement;
(iv) Any health care provider from whom
an employing office or a group health plan’s
benefits manager will accept certification of
the existence of a serious health condition to
substantiate a claim for benefits; and
(v) A health care provider listed above who
practices in a country other than the United
States, who is authorized to practice in ac-
cordance with the law of that country, and
who is performing within the scope of his or
her practice as defined under such law.
(3) The phrase ‘‘authorized to practice in
the State’’ as used in this section means that
the provider must be authorized to diagnose
and treat physical or mental health condi-
tions.
Incapable of self-care means that the indi-
vidual requires active assistance or super-
vision to provide daily self-care in several of
the ‘‘activities of daily living’’ (ADLs) or
‘‘instrumental activities of daily living’’
(IADLs). Activities of daily living include
adaptive activities such as caring appro-
priately for one’s grooming and hygiene,
bathing, dressing and eating. Instrumental
activities of daily living include cooking,
cleaning, shopping, taking public transpor-
tation, paying bills, maintaining a residence,
using telephones and directories, using a
post office, etc.
Instructional employee: See the definition of
Teacher in this section.
Intermittent leave means leave taken in sep-
arate periods of time due to a single illness
or injury, rather than for one continuous pe-
riod of time, and may include leave of peri-
ods from an hour or more to several weeks.
Examples of intermittent leave would in-
clude leave taken on an occasional basis for
medical appointments, or leave taken sev-
eral days at a time spread over a period of
six months, such as for chemotherapy.
Invitational travel authorization (ITA) or In-
vitational travel order (ITO) mean orders
issued by the Armed Forces to a family
member to join an injured or ill servicemem-
ber at his or her bedside. See also 825.310(e).
Key employee means a salaried FMLA-eligi-
ble employee who is among the highest paid
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00305 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6992 November 16, 2020
10 percent of all the employees employed by
the employing office within 75 miles of the
employee’s worksite. See also 825.217.
Mental disability: See the definition of
Physical or mental disability in this section.
Military caregiver leave means leave taken
to care for a covered servicemember with a
serious injury or illness under the Family
and Medical Leave Act of 1993. See also
825.127.
Next of kin of a covered servicemember means
the nearest blood relative other than the
covered servicemember’s spouse, parent, son,
or daughter, in the following order of pri-
ority: blood relatives who have been granted
legal custody of the covered servicemember
by court decree or statutory provisions,
brothers and sisters, grandparents, aunts and
uncles, and first cousins, unless the covered
servicemember has specifically designated in
writing another blood relative as his or her
nearest blood relative for purposes of mili-
tary caregiver leave under the FMLA. When
no such designation is made, and there are
multiple family members with the same
level of relationship to the covered service-
member, all such family members shall be
considered the covered servicemember’s next
of kin and may take FMLA leave to provide
care to the covered servicemember, either
consecutively or simultaneously. When such
designation has been made, the designated
individual shall be deemed to be the covered
servicemember’s only next of kin. See also
825.127(d)(3).
Office of Congressional Workplace Rights
means the independent office established in
the legislative branch under section 301 of
the CAA (2 U.S.C. 1381).
Outpatient status means, with respect to a
covered servicemember who is a current
member of the Armed Forces, the status of a
member of the Armed Forces assigned to ei-
ther a military medical treatment facility as
an outpatient; or a unit established for the
purpose of providing command and control of
members of the Armed Forces receiving med-
ical care as outpatients. See also 825.127(b)(1).
Parent means a biological, adoptive, step
or foster father or mother or any other indi-
vidual who stood in loco parentis to the em-
ployee when the employee was a son or
daughter as defined below. This term does
not include parents ‘‘in law.’’
Parent of a covered servicemember means a
covered servicemember’s biological, adop-
tive, step or foster father or mother, or any
other individual who stood in loco parentis
to the covered servicemember. This term
does not include parents ‘‘in law.’’ See also
825.127(d)(2).
Physical or mental disability means a phys-
ical or mental impairment that substan-
tially limits one or more of the major life ac-
tivities of an individual. Regulations at 29
CFR part 1630, issued by the Equal Employ-
ment Opportunity Commission under the
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), 42
U.S.C. 12101 et seq., as amended, provide
guidance for these terms.
Placement means a new placement of a son
or daughter with an employee for adoption
or foster care. For example, this excludes the
adoption of a stepchild or a foster child who
has already been a member of the employee’s
household and has an existing parent-child
relationship with an adopting parent. When
the term ‘‘placement’’ is used under this sub-
part in connection with the use of leave be-
fore placement has occurred, it refers to a
planned or anticipated placement.
Reduced leave schedule means a leave sched-
ule that reduces the usual number of hours
per workweek, or hours per workday, of an
employee.
Reserve components of the Armed Forces, for
purposes of qualifying exigency leave, in-
clude the Army National Guard of the
United States, Army Reserve, Navy Reserve,
Marine Corps Reserve, Air National Guard of
the United States, Air Force Reserve, and
Coast Guard Reserve, and retired members of
the Regular Armed Forces or Reserves who
are called up in support of a contingency op-
eration. See also 825.126(a)(2)(i).
Secretary means the Secretary of Labor or
authorized representative.
Serious health condition means an illness,
injury, impairment, or physical or mental
condition that involves inpatient care as de-
fined in 825.114 or continuing treatment by a
health care provider as defined in 825.115.
Conditions for which cosmetic treatments
are administered (such as most treatments
for acne or plastic surgery) are not serious
health conditions unless inpatient hospital
care is required or unless complications de-
velop. Restorative dental or plastic surgery
after an injury or removal of cancerous
growths are serious health conditions pro-
vided all the other conditions of this regula-
tion are met. Mental illness or allergies may
be serious health conditions, but only if all
the conditions of 825.113 are met.
Serious injury or illness means:
(1) In the case of a current member of the
Armed Forces, including a member of the
National Guard or Reserves, an injury or ill-
ness that was incurred by the covered serv-
icemember in the line of duty on active duty
in the Armed Forces or that existed before
the beginning of the member’s active duty
and was aggravated by service in the line of
duty on active duty in the Armed Forces and
that may render the servicemember medi-
cally unfit to perform the duties of the mem-
ber’s office, grade, rank, or rating; and
(2) In the case of a covered veteran, an in-
jury or illness that was incurred by the
member in the line of duty on active duty in
the Armed Forces (or existed before the be-
ginning of the member’s active duty and was
aggravated by service in the line of duty on
active duty in the Armed Forces) and mani-
fested itself before or after the member be-
came a veteran, and is:
(i) A continuation of a serious injury or ill-
ness that was incurred or aggravated when
the covered veteran was a member of the
Armed Forces and rendered the servicemem-
ber unable to perform the duties of the
servicemember’s office, grade, rank, or rat-
ing; or
(ii) A physical or mental condition for
which the covered veteran has received a
U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Service-
Related Disability Rating (VASRD) of 50 per-
cent or greater, and such VASRD rating is
based, in whole or in part, on the condition
precipitating the need for military caregiver
leave; or
(iii) A physical or mental condition that
substantially impairs the covered veteran’s
ability to secure or follow a substantially
gainful occupation by reason of a disability
or disabilities related to military service, or
would do so absent treatment; or
(iv) An injury, including a psychological
injury, on the basis of which the covered vet-
eran has been enrolled in the Department of
Veterans Affairs Program of Comprehensive
Assistance for Family Caregivers. See also
825.127(c).
Son or daughter means a biological, adopt-
ed, or foster child, a stepchild, a legal ward,
or a child of a person standing in loco
parentis, who is either under age 18, or age 18
or older and ‘‘incapable of self-care because
of a mental or physical disability’’ at the
time that FMLA leave is to commence.
Son or daughter of a covered servicemember
means a covered servicemember’s biological,
adopted, or foster child, stepchild, legal
ward, or a child for whom the covered serv-
icemember stood in loco parentis, and who is
of any age. See also 825.127(d)(1).
Son or daughter on covered active duty or call
to covered active duty status means the em-
ployee’s biological, adopted, or foster child,
stepchild, legal ward, or a child for whom the
employee stood in loco parentis, who is on
covered active duty or call to covered active
duty status, and who is of any age. See also
825.126(a)(5).
Spouse means a husband or wife. For pur-
poses of this definition, husband or wife re-
fers to the other person with whom an indi-
vidual entered into marriage as defined or
recognized under state law for purposes of
marriage in the State in which the marriage
was entered into or, in the case of a marriage
entered into outside of any State, if the mar-
riage is valid in the place where entered into
and could have been entered into in at least
one State. This definition includes an indi-
vidual in a same-sex or common law mar-
riage that either:
(1) Was entered into in a State that recog-
nizes such marriages; or
(2) If entered into outside of any State, is
valid in the place where entered into and
could have been entered into in at least one
State.
Teacher (or employee employed in an in-
structional capacity, or instructional em-
ployee) means an employee employed prin-
cipally in an instructional capacity by an
educational agency or school whose principal
function is to teach and instruct students in
a class, a small group, or an individual set-
ting, and includes athletic coaches, driving
instructors, and special education assistants
such as signers for the hearing impaired. The
term does not include teacher assistants or
aides who do not have as their principal
function actual teaching or instructing, nor
auxiliary personnel such as counselors, psy-
chologists, curriculum specialists, cafeteria
workers, maintenance workers, bus drivers,
or other primarily noninstructional employ-
ees.
TRICARE is the health care program serv-
ing active duty servicemembers, National
Guard and Reserve members, retirees, their
families, survivors, and certain former
spouses worldwide.
825.103 [Reserved]
825.104 Covered employing offices.
The FMLA, as made applicable by the
CAA, covers all employing offices. As used in
the CAA, the term employing office means:
(a) The personal office of a Member of the
House of Representatives or of a Senator;
(b) A committee of the House of Represent-
atives or the Senate or a joint committee;
(c) Any other office headed by a person
with the final authority to appoint, hire, dis-
charge, and set the terms, conditions, or
privileges of the employment of an employee
of the House of Representatives or the Sen-
ate; or
(d) The Office of Congressional Accessi-
bility Services, the United States Capitol
Police, the Congressional Budget Office, the
Office of the Architect of the Capitol, the Of-
fice of the Attending Physician, the Office of
Congressional Workplace Rights, the Library
of Congress, the Stennis Center for Public
Service, the China Review Commission, the
Congressional Executive China Commission,
the Helsinki Commission, and the Office of
Technology Assessment.
825.105 [Reserved].
825.106 Joint employer coverage.
(a) Where two or more employing offices
exercise some control over the work or work-
ing conditions of the employee, the employ-
ing offices may be joint employers under
FMLA, as made applicable by the CAA.
Where the employee performs work which si-
multaneously benefits two or more employ-
ing offices, or works for two or more employ-
ing offices at different times during the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00306 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6993
November 16, 2020
workweek, a joint employment relationship
generally will be considered to exist in situa-
tions such as:
(1) Where there is an arrangement between
employing offices to share an employee’s
services or to interchange employees;
(2) Where one employing office acts di-
rectly or indirectly in the interest of the
other employing office in relation to the em-
ployee; or
(3) Where the employing offices are not
completely disassociated with respect to the
employee’s employment and may be deemed
to share control of the employee, directly or
indirectly, because one employing office con-
trols, is controlled by, or is under common
control with the other employing office.
(b) A determination of whether or not a
joint employment relationship exists is not
determined by the application of any single
criterion, but rather the entire relationship
is to be viewed in its totality. For example,
joint employment will ordinarily be found to
exist when:
(1) An employee, who is employed by an
employing office other than the personal of-
fice of a Member of the House of Representa-
tives or of a Senator, is under the actual di-
rection and control of the Member of the
House of Representatives or Senator; or
(2) Two or more employing offices employ
an individual to work on common issues or
other matters for both or all of them.
(c) When employing offices employ a cov-
ered employee jointly, they may designate
one of themselves to be the primary employ-
ing office, and the other or others to be the
secondary employing office(s). Such a des-
ignation shall be made by written notice to
the covered employee.
(d) If an employing office is designated a
primary employing office pursuant to para-
graph (c) of this section, only that employ-
ing office is responsible for giving required
notices to the covered employee, providing
FMLA leave, and maintenance of health ben-
efits. Job restoration is the primary respon-
sibility of the primary employing office, and
the secondary employing office(s) may, sub-
ject to the limitations in 825.216, be respon-
sible for accepting the employee returning
from FMLA leave.
(e) If employing offices employ an em-
ployee jointly, but fail to designate a pri-
mary employing office pursuant to para-
graph (c) of this section, then all of these
employing offices shall be jointly and sever-
ally liable for giving required notices to the
employee, for providing FMLA leave, for as-
suring that health benefits are maintained,
and for job restoration. The employee may
give notice of need for FMLA leave, as de-
scribed in 825.302 and 825.303, to whichever of
these employing offices the employee choos-
es. If the employee makes a written request
for restoration to one of these employing of-
fices, that employing office shall be pri-
marily responsible for job restoration, and
the other employing office(s) may, subject to
the limitations in 825.216, be responsible for
accepting the employee returning from
FMLA leave.
825.107 [Reserved]
825.108 [Reserved]
825.109 [Reserved]
825.110 Eligible employee, general rule.
(a) Subject to the exceptions provided in
825.111, an eligible employee is a covered em-
ployee of an employing office who:
(1) Has been employed by any employing
office for at least 12 months, and
(2) Has been employed for at least 1,250
hours of service during the 12–month period
immediately preceding the commencement
of the leave.
(b) Any service on active duty (as defined
in 29 U.S.C. 2611(14)) by a covered employee
who is a member of the National Guard or
Reserves shall be counted as time during
which such employee has been employed in
an employing office for purposes of para-
graph (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(c) The 12 months an employee must have
been employed by any employing office need
not be consecutive months, provided:
(1) Subject to the exceptions provided in
paragraph (c)(2) of this section, employment
periods prior to a break in service of seven
years or more need not be counted in deter-
mining whether the employee has been em-
ployed by any employing office for at least 12
months.
(2) Employment periods preceding a break
in service of more than seven years must be
counted in determining whether the em-
ployee has been employed by any employing
office for at least 12 months where:
(i) The employee’s break in service is occa-
sioned by the fulfillment of his or her Uni-
formed Services Employment and Reemploy-
ment Rights Act (USERRA), 38 U.S.C. 4301,
et seq., covered service obligation. The pe-
riod of absence from work due to or neces-
sitated by USERRA-covered service must be
also counted in determining whether the em-
ployee has been employed for at least 12
months by any employing office. However,
this section does not provide any greater en-
titlement to the employee than would be
available under the USERRA; or
(ii) A written agreement, including a col-
lective bargaining agreement, exists con-
cerning the employing office’s intention to
rehire the employee after the break in serv-
ice (e.g., for purposes of the employee fur-
thering his or her education or for
childrearing purposes).
(3) If an employee worked for two or more
employing offices sequentially, the time
worked will be aggregated to determine
whether it equals 12 months.
(4) If an employee is maintained on the
payroll for any part of a week, including any
periods of paid or unpaid leave (sick, vaca-
tion) during which other benefits or com-
pensation are provided by the employing of-
fice (e.g., Federal Employees’ Compensation,
group health plan benefits, etc.), the week
counts as a week of employment. For pur-
poses of determining whether intermittent/
occasional/casual employment qualifies as at
least 12 months, 52 weeks is deemed to be
equal to 12 months.
(5) Nothing in this section prevents em-
ploying offices from considering employment
prior to a continuous break in service of
more than seven years when determining
whether an employee has met the 12-month
employment requirement. However, if an
employing office chooses to recognize such
prior employment, the employing office
must do so uniformly, with respect to all em-
ployees with similar breaks in service.
(d)(1) If an employee was employed by two
or more employing offices, either sequen-
tially or concurrently, the hours of service
will be aggregated to determine whether the
minimum of 1,250 hours has been reached.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of
this section, whether an employee has
worked the minimum 1,250 hours of service is
determined according to the principles es-
tablished under the Fair Labor Standards
Act (FLSA), as applied by section 203 of the
CAA (2 U.S.C. 1313), for determining compen-
sable hours of work. The determining factor
is the number of hours an employee has
worked for one or more employing offices as
defined by the CAA. The determination is
not limited by methods of recordkeeping, or
by compensation agreements that do not ac-
curately reflect all of the hours an employee
has worked for or been in service to the em-
ploying office. Any accurate accounting of
actual hours worked under the FLSA’s prin-
ciples, as made applicable by the CAA (2
U.S.C. 1313), may be used.
(3) An employee returning from USERRA-
covered service shall be credited with the
hours of service that would have been per-
formed but for the period of absence from
work due to or necessitated by USERRA-cov-
ered service in determining the employee’s
eligibility for FMLA-qualifying leave. Ac-
cordingly, a person reemployed following
USERRA-covered service has the hours that
would have been worked for the employing
office added to any hours actually worked
during the previous 12 month period to meet
the hours of service requirement. In order to
determine the hours that would have been
worked during the period of absence from
work due to or necessitated by USERRA-cov-
ered service, the employee’s pre-service work
schedule can generally be used for calcula-
tions.
(4) In the event an employing office does
not maintain an accurate record of hours
worked by an employee, including for em-
ployees who are exempt from the overtime
requirements of the FLSA, as made applica-
ble by the CAA and its regulations, the em-
ploying office has the burden of showing that
the employee has not worked the requisite
hours. An employing office must be able to
clearly demonstrate, for example, that full
time teachers (See 825.102 for definition) of an
elementary or secondary school system, or
institution of higher education, or other edu-
cational establishment or institution (who
often work outside the classroom or at their
homes) did not work 1,250 hours during the
previous 12 months in order to claim that
the teachers are not covered or eligible for
FMLA leave.
(e) The determination of whether an em-
ployee meets the hours of service require-
ment for any employing office and has been
employed by any employing office for a total
of at least 12 months, must be made as of the
date the FMLA leave is to start. An em-
ployee may be on non-FMLA leave at the
time he or she meets the 12-month eligibility
requirement, and in that event, any portion
of the leave taken for an FMLA-qualifying
reason after the employee meets the eligi-
bility requirement would be FMLA leave.
See 825.300(b) for rules governing the content
of the eligibility notice given to employees.
(f) If, before beginning employment with
an employing office, an employee had been
employed by another employing office, the
subsequent employing office may count
against the employee’s FMLA leave entitle-
ment FMLA leave taken from the prior em-
ploying office, so long as the prior employing
office properly designated the leave as
FMLA under these regulations or other ap-
plicable requirements.
825.111 Eligible employee, birth or place-
ment.
For purposes of leave under subparagraphs
(a)(1) or (a)(2) of 825.112 [or subsections (A) or
(B) of section 102(a)(1) of the FMLA]:
(a) an eligible employee is a covered em-
ployee of an employing office; and
(b) the eligibility requirements of section
825.110 shall not apply. See also 825.120–21.
825.112 Qualifying reasons for leave, general
rule.
(a) Circumstances qualifying for leave.
Employing offices covered by FMLA as made
applicable by the CAA are required to grant
leave to eligible employees:
(1) For birth of a son or daughter, and to
care for the newborn child (See 825.120);
(2) For the placement of a son or daughter
with the employee for adoption or foster care
and the care of such son or daughter (See
825.121);
(3) To care for the employee’s spouse, son,
daughter, or parent with a serious health
condition (See 825.113 and 825.122);
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00307 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6994 November 16, 2020
(4) Because of a serious health condition
that makes the employee unable to perform
the functions of the employee’s job (See
825.113 and 825.123);
(5) Because of any qualifying exigency aris-
ing out of the fact that the employee’s
spouse, son, daughter, or parent is a military
member on covered active duty (or has been
notified of an impending call or order to cov-
ered active duty status) (See 825.122 and
825.126); and
(6) To care for a covered servicemember
with a serious injury or illness if the em-
ployee is the spouse, son, daughter, parent,
or next of kin of the covered servicemember
(See 825.122 and 825.127).
(b) Equal Application. The right to take
leave under FMLA, as made applicable by
the CAA, applies equally to male and female
employees. A father, as well as a mother, can
take family leave for the birth, placement
for adoption, or foster care of a child.
(c) Active employee. In situations where the
employing office/employee relationship has
been interrupted, such as an employee who
has been on layoff, the employee must be re-
called or otherwise be re-employed before
being eligible for FMLA leave. Under such
circumstances, an eligible employee is im-
mediately entitled to further FMLA leave
for a qualifying reason.
825.113 Serious health condition.
(a) For purposes of FMLA, serious health
condition entitling an employee to FMLA leave
means an illness, injury, impairment, or
physical or mental condition that involves
inpatient care as defined in 825.114 or con-
tinuing treatment by a health care provider
as defined in 825.115.
(b) The term incapacity means inability to
work, attend school or perform other regular
daily activities due to the serious health
condition, treatment therefore, or recovery
therefrom.
(c) The term treatment includes (but is not
limited to) examinations to determine if a
serious health condition exists and evalua-
tions of the condition. Treatment does not
include routine physical examinations, eye
examinations, or dental examinations. A reg-
imen of continuing treatment includes, for
example, a course of prescription medication
(e.g., an antibiotic) or therapy requiring spe-
cial equipment to resolve or alleviate the
health condition (e.g., oxygen). A regimen of
continuing treatment that includes the tak-
ing of over-the-counter medications such as
aspirin, antihistamines, or salves; or bed-
rest, drinking fluids, exercise, and other
similar activities that can be initiated with-
out a visit to a health care provider, is not,
by itself, sufficient to constitute a regimen
of continuing treatment for purposes of
FMLA leave.
(d) Conditions for which cosmetic treat-
ments are administered (such as most treat-
ments for acne or plastic surgery) are not se-
rious health conditions unless inpatient hos-
pital care is required or unless complications
develop. Ordinarily, unless complications
arise, the common cold, the flu, ear aches,
upset stomach, minor ulcers, headaches
other than migraine, routine dental or or-
thodontia problems, periodontal disease,
etc., are examples of conditions that do not
meet the definition of a serious health condi-
tion and do not qualify for FMLA leave. Re-
storative dental or plastic surgery after an
injury or removal of cancerous growths are
serious health conditions provided all the
other conditions of this regulation are met.
Mental illness or allergies may be serious
health conditions, but only if all the condi-
tions of this section are met.
825.114 Inpatient care.
Inpatient care means an overnight stay in
a hospital, hospice, or residential medical
care facility, including any period of inca-
pacity as defined in 825.113(b), or any subse-
quent treatment in connection with such in-
patient care.
825.115 Continuing treatment.
A serious health condition involving con-
tinuing treatment by a health care provider
includes any one or more of the following:
(a) Incapacity and treatment. A period of in-
capacity of more than three consecutive, full
calendar days, and any subsequent treat-
ment or period of incapacity relating to the
same condition, that also involves:
(1) Treatment two or more times, within 30
days of the first day of incapacity, unless ex-
tenuating circumstances exist, by a health
care provider, by a nurse under direct super-
vision of a health care provider, or by a pro-
vider of health care services (e.g., physical
therapist) under orders of, or on referral by,
a health care provider; or
(2) Treatment by a health care provider on
at least one occasion, which results in a regi-
men of continuing treatment under the su-
pervision of the health care provider.
(3) The requirement in paragraphs (a)(1)
and (2) of this section for treatment by a
health care provider means an in-person visit
to a health care provider. The first (or only)
in-person treatment visit must take place
within seven days of the first day of inca-
pacity.
(4) Whether additional treatment visits or
a regimen of continuing treatment is nec-
essary within the 30-day period shall be de-
termined by the health care provider.
(5) The term extenuating circumstances in
paragraph (a)(1) of this section means cir-
cumstances beyond the employee’s control
that prevent the follow-up visit from occur-
ring as planned by the health care provider.
Whether a given set of circumstances are ex-
tenuating depends on the facts. For example,
extenuating circumstances exist if a health
care provider determines that a second in-
person visit is needed within the 30-day pe-
riod, but the health care provider does not
have any available appointments during that
time period.
(b) Pregnancy or prenatal care. Any period
of incapacity due to pregnancy, or for pre-
natal care. See also 825.120.
(c) Chronic conditions. Any period of inca-
pacity or treatment for such incapacity due
to a chronic serious health condition. A
chronic serious health condition is one
which:
(1) Requires periodic visits (defined as at
least twice a year) for treatment by a health
care provider, or by a nurse under direct su-
pervision of a health care provider;
(2) Continues over an extended period of
time (including recurring episodes of a single
underlying condition); and
(3) May cause episodic rather than a con-
tinuing period of incapacity (e.g., asthma,
diabetes, epilepsy, etc.).
(d) Permanent or long-term conditions. A pe-
riod of incapacity which is permanent or
long-term due to a condition for which treat-
ment may not be effective. The employee or
family member must be under the con-
tinuing supervision of, but need not be re-
ceiving active treatment by, a health care
provider. Examples include Alzheimer’s, a
severe stroke, or the terminal stages of a dis-
ease.
(e) Conditions requiring multiple treatments.
Any period of absence to receive multiple
treatments (including any period of recovery
therefrom) by a health care provider or by a
provider of health care services under orders
of, or on referral by, a health care provider,
for:
(1) Restorative surgery after an accident or
other injury; or
(2) A condition that would likely result in
a period of incapacity of more than three
consecutive, full calendar days in the ab-
sence of medical intervention or treatment,
such as cancer (chemotherapy, radiation,
etc.), severe arthritis (physical therapy), or
kidney disease (dialysis).
(f) Absences attributable to incapacity
under paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section
qualify for FMLA leave even though the em-
ployee or the covered family member does
not receive treatment from a health care
provider during the absence, and even if the
absence does not last more than three con-
secutive, full calendar days. For example, an
employee with asthma may be unable to re-
port for work due to the onset of an asthma
attack or because the employee’s health care
provider has advised the employee to stay
home when the pollen count exceeds a cer-
tain level. An employee who is pregnant may
be unable to report to work because of severe
morning sickness.
825.116 [Reserved]
825.117 [Reserved]
825.118 [Reserved]
825.119 Leave for treatment of substance
abuse.
(a) Substance abuse may be a serious
health condition if the conditions of 825.113
through 825.115 are met. However, FMLA
leave may only be taken for treatment for
substance abuse by a health care provider or
by a provider of health care services on refer-
ral by a health care provider. On the other
hand, absence because of the employee’s use
of the substance, rather than for treatment,
does not qualify for FMLA leave.
(b) Treatment for substance abuse does not
prevent an employing office from taking em-
ployment action against an employee. The
employing office may not take action
against the employee because the employee
has exercised his or her right to take FMLA
leave for treatment. However, if the employ-
ing office has an established policy, applied
in a non-discriminatory manner that has
been communicated to all employees, that
provides under certain circumstances an em-
ployee may be terminated for substance
abuse, pursuant to that policy the employee
may be terminated whether or not the em-
ployee is presently taking FMLA leave. An
employee may also take FMLA leave to care
for a covered family member who is receiv-
ing treatment for substance abuse. The em-
ploying office may not take action against
an employee who is providing care for a cov-
ered family member receiving treatment for
substance abuse.
825.120 Leave for pregnancy or birth.
(a) General rules. Eligible employees are en-
titled to FMLA leave for pregnancy or birth
of a son or daughter and to care for the new-
born child as follows:
(1) Both parents are entitled to FMLA
leave for the birth of their child.
(2) Both parents are entitled to FMLA
leave to be with the healthy newborn child
(i.e., bonding time) during the 12-month pe-
riod beginning on the date of birth. An em-
ployee’s entitlement to FMLA leave for a
birth expires at the end of the 12-month pe-
riod beginning on the date of the birth.
Leave for a birth must be concluded within
this 12-month period. If the employing office
permits bonding leave to be taken beyond
this period, such leave will not qualify as
FMLA leave. Under this section, both par-
ents are entitled to FMLA leave even if the
newborn does not have a serious health con-
dition.
(3) Spouses who are eligible for FMLA
leave and are employed by the same employ-
ing office may be limited to a combined total
of 12 weeks of leave during any 12-month pe-
riod if the leave is taken for birth of the em-
ployee’s son or daughter or to care for the
child after birth, for placement of a son or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00308 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6995
November 16, 2020
daughter with the employee for adoption or
foster care or to care for the child after
placement, or to care for the employee’s par-
ent with a serious health condition. This
limitation on the total weeks of leave ap-
plies to leave taken for the reasons specified
as long as the spouses are employed by the
same employing office. It would apply, for
example, even though the spouses are em-
ployed at two different worksites of an em-
ploying office. On the other hand, if one
spouse is ineligible for FMLA leave, the
other spouse would be entitled to a full 12
weeks of FMLA leave. Where spouses both
use a portion of the total 12-week FMLA
leave entitlement for either the birth of a
child, for placement for adoption or foster
care, or to care for a parent, the spouses
would each be entitled to the difference be-
tween the amount he or she has taken indi-
vidually and 12 weeks for FMLA leave for
other purposes. For example, if each spouse
took six weeks of leave to care for a healthy,
newborn child, each could use an additional
six weeks due to his or her own serious
health condition or to care for a child with
a serious health condition.
(4) The expectant mother is entitled to
FMLA leave for incapacity due to pregnancy,
for prenatal care, or for her own serious
health condition following the birth of the
child. An expectant mother may take FMLA
leave before the birth of the child for pre-
natal care or if her condition makes her un-
able to work. The expectant mother is enti-
tled to leave for incapacity due to pregnancy
even though she does not receive treatment
from a health care provider during the ab-
sence, and even if the absence does not last
for more than three consecutive calendar
days.
(5) A spouse is entitled to FMLA leave if
needed to care for a pregnant spouse who is
incapacitated or if needed to care for her
during her prenatal care, or if needed to care
for her following the birth of a child if she
has a serious health condition. See 825.124.
(6) Both parents are entitled to FMLA
leave if needed to care for a child with a seri-
ous health condition if the requirements of
825.113 through 825.115 and 825.122 (d) are met.
Thus, spouses may each take 12 weeks of
FMLA leave if needed to care for their new-
born child with a serious health condition,
even if both are employed by the same em-
ploying office, provided they have not ex-
hausted their entitlements during the appli-
cable 12-month FMLA leave period.
(7) Leave taken because of the birth of a
son or daughter of the employee includes
leave necessary for an employee who is the
birth mother to recover from giving birth, or
for an employee who is the other parent to
care for the birth mother during her recov-
ery period, even if the employee is not in-
volved in caring for the son or daughter dur-
ing portions of that recovery period.
(b) Intermittent and reduced schedule leave.
An eligible employee may use intermittent
or reduced schedule leave after the birth to
be with a healthy newborn child only if the
employing office agrees. For example, an em-
ploying office and employee may agree to a
part-time work schedule after the birth. If
the employing office agrees to permit inter-
mittent or reduced schedule leave for the
birth of a child, the employing office may re-
quire the employee to transfer temporarily,
during the period the intermittent or re-
duced leave schedule is required, to an avail-
able alternative position for which the em-
ployee is qualified and which better accom-
modates recurring periods of leave than does
the employee’s regular position. Transfer to
an alternative position may require compli-
ance with any applicable collective bar-
gaining agreement and federal law (such as
the Americans with Disabilities Act, as made
applicable by the CAA). Transfer to an alter-
native position may include altering an ex-
isting job to better accommodate the em-
ployee’s need for intermittent or reduced
leave. The employing office’s agreement is
not required for intermittent leave required
by the serious health condition of the ex-
pectant mother or newborn child. See 825.202–
825.205 for general rules governing the use of
intermittent and reduced schedule leave. See
825.121 for rules governing leave for adoption
or foster care. See 825.601 for special rules ap-
plicable to instructional employees of
schools.
825.121 Leave for adoption or foster care.
(a) General rules. Eligible employees are en-
titled to FMLA leave for placement with the
employee of a son or daughter for adoption
or foster care and to care for the newly
placed child as follows as follows:
(1) Employees may take FMLA leave be-
fore the actual placement or adoption of a
child if an absence from work is required for
the placement for adoption or foster care to
proceed. For example, the employee may be
required to attend counseling sessions, ap-
pear in court, consult with his or her attor-
ney or the doctor(s) representing the birth
parent, submit to a physical examination, or
travel to another country to complete an
adoption. The source of an adopted child
(e.g., whether from a licensed placement
agency or otherwise) is not a factor in deter-
mining eligibility for leave for this purpose.
(2) An employee’s entitlement to leave for
adoption or foster care expires at the end of
the 12-month period beginning on the date of
the placement. If the employing office per-
mits leave for adoption or foster care to be
taken beyond this period, such leave will not
qualify as FMLA leave. Under this section,
the employee is entitled to FMLA leave even
if the adopted or foster child does not have a
serious health condition.
(3) Spouses who are eligible for FMLA
leave and are employed by the same covered
employing office may be limited to a com-
bined total of 12 weeks of leave during any
12-month period if the leave is taken for the
placement of the employee’s son or daughter
or to care for the child after placement, for
the birth of the employee’s son or daughter
or to care for the child after birth, or to care
for the employee’s parent with a serious
health condition. This limitation on the
total weeks of leave applies to leave taken
for the reasons specified as long as the
spouses are employed by the same employing
office. It would apply, for example, even
though the spouses are employed at two dif-
ferent worksites of an employing office. On
the other hand, if one spouse is ineligible for
FMLA leave, the other spouse would be enti-
tled to a full 12 weeks of FMLA leave. Where
spouses both use a portion of the total 12-
week FMLA leave entitlement for either the
birth of a child, for placement for adoption
or foster care, or to care for a parent, the
spouses would each be entitled to the dif-
ference between the amount he or she has
taken individually and 12 weeks for FMLA
leave for other purposes. For example, if
each spouse took six weeks of leave to care
for a healthy, newly placed child, each could
use an additional six weeks due to his or her
own serious health condition or to care for a
child with a serious health condition.
(4) An eligible employee is entitled to
FMLA leave in order to care for an adopted
or foster child with a serious health condi-
tion if the requirements of 825.113 through
825.115 and 825.122(d) are met. Thus, spouses
may each take 12 weeks of FMLA leave if
needed to care for an adopted or foster child
with a serious health condition, even if both
are employed by the same employing office,
provided they have not exhausted their enti-
tlements during the applicable 12-month
FMLA leave period.
(b) Use of intermittent and reduced schedule
leave. An eligible employee may use inter-
mittent or reduced schedule leave after the
placement of a healthy child for adoption or
foster care only if the employing office
agrees. Thus, for example, the employing of-
fice and employee may agree to a part-time
work schedule after the placement for bond-
ing purposes. If the employing office agrees
to permit intermittent or reduced schedule
leave for the placement for adoption or fos-
ter care, the employing office may require
the employee to transfer temporarily, during
the period the intermittent or reduced leave
schedule is required, to an available alter-
native position for which the employee is
qualified and which better accommodates re-
curring periods of leave than does the em-
ployee’s regular position. Transfer to an al-
ternative position may require compliance
with any applicable collective bargaining
agreement and federal law (such as the
Americans with Disabilities Act, as made ap-
plicable by the CAA). Transfer to an alter-
native position may include altering an ex-
isting job to better accommodate the em-
ployee’s need for intermittent or reduced
leave. The employing office’s agreement is
not required for intermittent leave required
by the serious health condition of the adopt-
ed or foster child. See 825.202—825.205 for gen-
eral rules governing the use of intermittent
and reduced schedule leave. See 825.120 for
general rules governing leave for pregnancy
and birth of a child. See 825.601 for special
rules applicable to instructional employees
of schools.
825.122 Definitions of covered service mem-
ber, spouse, parent, son or daughter, next
of kin of a covered service member, adop-
tion, foster care, son or daughter on cov-
ered active duty or call to covered active
duty status, son or daughter of a covered
service member, and parent of a covered
service member.
(a) Covered service member means:
(1) A current member of the Armed Forces,
including a member of the National Guard or
Reserves, who is undergoing medical treat-
ment, recuperation or therapy, is otherwise
in outpatient status, or is otherwise on the
temporary disability retired list, for a seri-
ous injury or illness; or
(2) A covered veteran who is undergoing
medical treatment, recuperation, or therapy
for a serious injury or illness. Covered vet-
eran means an individual who was a member
of the Armed Forces (including a member of
the National Guard or Reserves), and was
discharged or released under conditions
other than dishonorable at any time during
the five-year period prior to the first date
the eligible employee takes FMLA leave to
care for the covered veteran. See 825.127(b)(2).
(b) Spouse means a husband or wife. For
purposes of this definition, husband or wife
refers to the other person with whom an in-
dividual entered into marriage as defined or
recognized under state law for purposes of
marriage in the State in which the marriage
was entered into or, in the case of a marriage
entered into outside of any State, if the mar-
riage is valid in the place where entered into
and could have been entered into in at least
one State. This definition includes an indi-
vidual in a same-sex or common law mar-
riage that either:
(1) Was entered into in a State that recog-
nizes such marriages; or
(2) If entered into outside of any State, is
valid in the place where entered into and
could have been entered into in at least one
State.
(c) Parent. Parent means a biological,
adoptive, step or foster father or mother, or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00309 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6996 November 16, 2020
any other individual who stood in loco
parentis to the employee when the employee
was a son or daughter as defined in para-
graph (d) of this section. This term does not
include parents ‘‘in law.’’
(d) Son or daughter. For purposes of FMLA
leave taken for birth or adoption, or to care
for a family member with a serious health
condition, son or daughter means a biologi-
cal, adopted, or foster child, a stepchild, a
legal ward, or a child of a person standing in
loco parentis, who is either under age 18, or
age 18 or older and ‘‘incapable of self-care be-
cause of a mental or physical disability’’ at
the time that FMLA leave is to commence.
(1) Incapable of self-care means that the in-
dividual requires active assistance or super-
vision to provide daily self-care in three or
more of the activities of daily living (ADLs)
or instrumental activities of daily living
(IADLs). Activities of daily living include
adaptive activities such as caring appro-
priately for one’s grooming and hygiene,
bathing, dressing and eating. Instrumental
activities of daily living include cooking,
cleaning, shopping, taking public transpor-
tation, paying bills, maintaining a residence,
using telephones and directories, using a
post office, etc.
(2) Physical or mental disability means a
physical or mental impairment that substan-
tially limits one or more of the major life ac-
tivities of an individual. Regulations at 29
CFR 1630.2(h), (i), and (j), issued by the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission under
the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA),
42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq., provide guidance for
these terms.
(3) Persons who are ‘‘in loco parentis’’ in-
clude those with day-to-day responsibilities
to care for and financially support a child,
or, in the case of an employee, who had such
responsibility for the employee when the em-
ployee was a child. A biological or legal rela-
tionship is not necessary.
(e) Next of kin of a covered servicemember
means the nearest blood relative other than
the covered servicemember’s spouse, parent,
son, or daughter, in the following order of
priority: blood relatives who have been
granted legal custody of the covered service-
member by court decree or statutory provi-
sions, brothers and sisters, grandparents,
aunts and uncles, and first cousins, unless
the covered servicemember has specifically
designated in writing another blood relative
as his or her nearest blood relative for pur-
poses of military caregiver leave under the
FMLA. When no such designation is made,
and there are multiple family members with
the same level of relationship to the covered
servicemember, all such family members
shall be considered the covered
servicemember’s next of kin and may take
FMLA leave to provide care to the covered
servicemember, either consecutively or si-
multaneously. When such designation has
been made, the designated individual shall
be deemed to be the covered servicemember’s
only next of kin. See 825.127(d)(3).
(f) Adoption means legally and perma-
nently assuming the responsibility of raising
a child as one’s own. The source of an adopt-
ed child (e.g., whether from a licensed place-
ment agency or otherwise) is not a factor in
determining eligibility for FMLA leave. See
825.121 for rules governing leave for adoption.
(g) Foster care means 24-hour care for chil-
dren in substitution for, and away from,
their parents or guardian. Such placement is
made by or with the agreement of the State
as a result of a voluntary agreement between
the parent or guardian that the child be re-
moved from the home, or pursuant to a judi-
cial determination of the necessity for foster
care, and involves agreement between the
State and foster family that the foster fam-
ily will take care of the child. Although fos-
ter care may be with relatives of the child,
State action is involved in the removal of
the child from parental custody. See 825.121
for rules governing leave for foster care.
(h) Son or daughter on covered active duty
or call to covered active duty status means
the employee’s biological, adopted, or foster
child, stepchild, legal ward, or a child for
whom the employee stood in loco parentis,
who is on covered active duty or call to cov-
ered active duty status, and who is of any
age. See 825.126(a)(5).
(i) Son or daughter of a covered service-
member means the covered servicemember’s
biological, adopted, or foster child, stepchild,
legal ward, or a child for whom the covered
servicemember stood in loco parentis, and
who is of any age. See 825.127(d)(1).
(j) Parent of a covered servicemember means
a covered servicemember’s biological, adop-
tive, step or foster father or mother, or any
other individual who stood in loco parentis
to the covered servicemember. This term
does not include parents ‘‘in law.’’ See
825.127(d)(2).
(k) Documenting relationships. For purposes
of confirmation of family relationship, the
employing office may require the employee
giving notice of the need for leave to provide
reasonable documentation or statement of
family relationship. This documentation
may take the form of a simple statement
from the employee, or a child’s birth certifi-
cate, a court document, etc. The employing
office is entitled to examine documentation
such as a birth certificate, etc., but the em-
ployee is entitled to the return of the official
document submitted for this purpose.
825.123 Unable to perform the functions of
the position.
(a) Definition. An employee is unable to
perform the functions of the position where
the health care provider finds that the em-
ployee is unable to work at all or is unable
to perform any one of the essential functions
of the employee’s position within the mean-
ing of the Americans with Disabilities Act
(ADA), as amended and made applicable by
Section 201(a) of the CAA (2 U.S.C. 1311(a)(3)).
An employee who must be absent from work
to receive medical treatment for a serious
health condition is considered to be unable
to perform the essential functions of the po-
sition during the absence for treatment.
(b) Statement of functions. An employing of-
fice has the option, in requiring certification
from a health care provider, to provide a
statement of the essential functions of the
employee’s position for the health care pro-
vider to review. A sufficient medical certifi-
cation must specify what functions of the
employee’s position the employee is unable
to perform so that the employing office can
then determine whether the employee is un-
able to perform one or more essential func-
tions of the employee’s position. For pur-
poses of the FMLA, the essential functions of
the employee’s position are to be determined
with reference to the position the employee
held at the time notice is given or leave
commenced, whichever is earlier. See 825.306.
825.124 Needed to care for a family member
or covered servicemember.
(a) The medical certification provision
that an employee is needed to care for a fam-
ily member or covered servicemember en-
compasses both physical and psychological
care. It includes situations where, for exam-
ple, because of a serious health condition,
the family member is unable to care for his
or her own basic medical, hygienic, or nutri-
tional needs or safety, or is unable to trans-
port himself or herself to the doctor. The
term also includes providing psychological
comfort and reassurance which would be ben-
eficial to a child, spouse or parent with a se-
rious health condition who is receiving inpa-
tient or home care.
(b) The term also includes situations where
the employee may be needed to substitute
for others who normally care for the family
member or covered servicemember, or to
make arrangements for changes in care, such
as transfer to a nursing home. The employee
need not be the only individual or family
member available to care for the family
member or covered servicemember.
(c) An employee’s intermittent leave or a
reduced leave schedule necessary to care for
a family member or covered servicemember
includes not only a situation where the con-
dition of the family member or covered serv-
icemember itself is intermittent, but also
where the employee is only needed intermit-
tently—such as where other care is normally
available, or care responsibilities are shared
with another member of the family or a
third party. See 825.202–825.205 for rules gov-
erning the use of intermittent or reduced
schedule leave.
825.125 Definition of health care provider.
(a) The FMLA, as made applicable by the
CAA, defines health care provider as:
(1) A doctor of medicine or osteopathy who
is authorized to practice medicine or surgery
(as appropriate) by the State in which the
doctor practices; or
(2) Any other person determined by the Of-
fice of Congressional Workplace Rights to be
capable of providing health care services.
(3) In making a determination referred to
in subparagraph (a)(2), and absent good cause
shown to do otherwise, the Office of Congres-
sional Workplace Rights will follow any de-
termination made by the Department of
Labor (under section 101(6)(B) of FMLA (29
U.S.C. 2611(6)(B))) that a person is capable of
providing health care services, provided the
determination by the Department of Labor
was not made at the request of a person who
was then a covered employee.
(b) Others capable of providing health care
services include only:
(1) Podiatrists, dentists, clinical psycholo-
gists, optometrists, and chiropractors (lim-
ited to treatment consisting of manual ma-
nipulation of the spine to correct a sub-
luxation as demonstrated by X-ray to exist)
authorized to practice in the State and per-
forming within the scope of their practice as
defined under State law;
(2) Nurse practitioners, nurse-midwives,
clinical social workers and physician assist-
ants who are authorized to practice under
State law and who are performing within the
scope of their practice as defined under State
law;
(3) Christian Science Practitioners listed
with the First Church of Christ, Scientist in
Boston, Massachusetts. Where an employee
or family member is receiving treatment
from a Christian Science practitioner, an
employee may not object to any requirement
from an employing office that the employee
or family member submit to examination
(though not treatment) to obtain a second or
third certification from a health care pro-
vider other than a Christian Science practi-
tioner except as otherwise provided under
applicable State or local law or collective
bargaining agreement;
(4) Any health care provider from whom an
employing office or the employing office’s
group health plan’s benefits manager will ac-
cept certification of the existence of a seri-
ous health condition to substantiate a claim
for benefits; and
(5) A health care provider listed above who
practices in a country other than the United
States, who is authorized to practice in ac-
cordance with the law of that country, and
who is performing within the scope of his or
her practice as defined under such law.
(c) The phrase authorized to practice in the
State as used in this section means that the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00310 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6997
November 16, 2020
provider must be authorized to diagnose and
treat physical or mental health conditions.
825.126 Leave because of a qualifying exi-
gency.
(a) Eligible employees may take FMLA
leave for a qualifying exigency while the em-
ployee’s spouse, son, daughter, or parent (the
military member or member) is on covered
active duty or call to covered active duty
status (or has been notified of an impending
call or order to covered active duty).
(1) Covered active duty or call to covered ac-
tive duty status in the case of a member of the
Regular Armed Forces means duty during
the deployment of the member with the
Armed Forces to a foreign country. The ac-
tive duty orders of a member of the Regular
components of the Armed Forces will gen-
erally specify if the member is deployed to a
foreign country.
(2) Covered active duty or call to covered ac-
tive duty status in the case of a member of the
Reserve components of the Armed Forces
means duty during the deployment of the
member with the Armed Forces to a foreign
country under a Federal call or order to ac-
tive duty in support of a contingency oper-
ation pursuant to: Section 688 of Title 10 of
the United States Code, which authorizes or-
dering to active duty retired members of the
Regular Armed Forces and members of the
retired Reserve who retired after completing
at least 20 years of active service; Section
12301(a) of Title 10 of the United States Code,
which authorizes ordering all reserve compo-
nent members to active duty in the case of
war or national emergency; Section 12302 of
Title 10 of the United States Code, which au-
thorizes ordering any unit or unassigned
member of the Ready Reserve to active duty;
Section 12304 of Title 10 of the United States
Code, which authorizes ordering any unit or
unassigned member of the Selected Reserve
and certain members of the Individual Ready
Reserve to active duty; Section 12305 of Title
10 of the United States Code, which author-
izes the suspension of promotion, retirement
or separation rules for certain Reserve com-
ponents; Section 12406 of Title 10 of the
United States Code, which authorizes calling
the National Guard into Federal service in
certain circumstances; chapter 15 of Title 10
of the United States Code, which authorizes
calling the National Guard and state mili-
tary into Federal service in the case of insur-
rections and national emergencies; or any
other provision of law during a war or during
a national emergency declared by the Presi-
dent or Congress so long as it is in support of
a contingency operation. See 10 U.S.C.
101(a)(13)(B).
(i) For purposes of covered active duty or
call to covered active duty status, the Re-
serve components of the Armed Forces in-
clude the Army National Guard of the
United States, Army Reserve, Navy Reserve,
Marine Corps Reserve, Air National Guard of
the United States, Air Force Reserve and
Coast Guard Reserve, and retired members of
the Regular Armed Forces or Reserves who
are called up in support of a contingency op-
eration pursuant to one of the provisions of
law identified in paragraph (a)(2).
(ii) The active duty orders of a member of
the Reserve components will generally speci-
fy if the military member is serving in sup-
port of a contingency operation by citation
to the relevant section of Title 10 of the
United States Code and/or by reference to
the specific name of the contingency oper-
ation and will specify that the deployment is
to a foreign country.
(3) Deployment of the member with the Armed
Forces to a foreign country means deployment
to areas outside of the United States, the
District of Columbia, or any Territory or
possession of the United States, including
international waters.
(4) A call to covered active duty for pur-
poses of leave taken because of a qualifying
exigency refers to a Federal call to active
duty. State calls to active duty are not cov-
ered unless under order of the President of
the United States pursuant to one of the pro-
visions of law identified in paragraph (a)(2)
of this section.
(5) Son or daughter on covered active duty or
call to covered active duty status means the
employee’s biological, adopted, or foster
child, stepchild, legal ward, or a child for
whom the employee stood in loco parentis,
who is on covered active duty or call to cov-
ered active duty status, and who is of any
age.
(b) An eligible employee may take FMLA
leave for one or more of the following quali-
fying exigencies:
(1) Short-notice deployment. (i) To address
any issue that arises from the fact that the
military member is notified of an impending
call or order to covered active duty seven or
less calendar days prior to the date of de-
ployment;
(ii) Leave taken for this purpose can be
used for a period of seven calendar days be-
ginning on the date the military member is
notified of an impending call or order to cov-
ered active duty;
(2) Military events and related activities. (i)
To attend any official ceremony, program, or
event sponsored by the military that is re-
lated to the covered active duty or call to
covered active duty status of the military
member; and
(ii) To attend family support or assistance
programs and informational briefings spon-
sored or promoted by the military, military
service organizations, or the American Red
Cross that are related to the covered active
duty or call to covered active duty status of
the military member;
(3) Childcare and school activities. For the
purposes of leave for childcare and school ac-
tivities listed in (i) through (iv) of this para-
graph, a child of the military member must
be the military member’s biological, adopt-
ed, or foster child, stepchild, legal ward, or
child for whom the military member stands
in loco parentis, who is either under 18 years
of age or 18 years of age or older and incapa-
ble of self-care because of a mental or phys-
ical disability at the time that FMLA leave
is to commence. As with all instances of
qualifying exigency leave, the military mem-
ber must be the spouse, son, daughter, or
parent of the employee requesting qualifying
exigency leave.
(i) To arrange for alternative childcare for
a child of the military member when the cov-
ered active duty or call to covered active
duty status of the military member neces-
sitates a change in the existing childcare ar-
rangement;
(ii) To provide childcare for a child of the
military member on an urgent, immediate
need basis (but not on a routine, regular, or
everyday basis) when the need to provide
such care arises from the covered active duty
or call to covered active duty status of the
military member;
(iii) To enroll in or transfer to a new
school or day care facility a child of the
military member when enrollment or trans-
fer is necessitated by the covered active duty
or call to covered active duty status of the
military member; and
(iv) To attend meetings with staff at a
school or a daycare facility, such as meet-
ings with school officials regarding discipli-
nary measures, parent-teacher conferences,
or meetings with school counselors, for a
child of the military member, when such
meetings are necessary due to circumstances
arising from the covered active duty or call
to covered active duty status of the military
member;
(4) Financial and legal arrangements. (i) To
make or update financial or legal arrange-
ments to address the military member’s ab-
sence while on covered active duty or call to
covered active duty status, such as preparing
and executing financial and healthcare pow-
ers of attorney, transferring bank account
signature authority, enrolling in the Defense
Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System
(DEERS), obtaining military identification
cards, or preparing or updating a will or liv-
ing trust; and
(ii) To act as the military member’s rep-
resentative before a federal, state, or local
agency for purposes of obtaining, arranging,
or appealing military service benefits while
the military member is on covered active
duty or call to covered active duty status,
and for a period of 90 days following the ter-
mination of the military member’s covered
active duty status;
(5) Counseling. To attend counseling pro-
vided by someone other than a health care
provider, for oneself, for the military mem-
ber, or for the biological, adopted, or foster
child, a stepchild, or a legal ward of the mili-
tary member, or a child for whom the mili-
tary member stands in loco parentis, who is
either under age 18, or age 18 or older and in-
capable of self-care because of a mental or
physical disability at the time that FMLA
leave is to commence, provided that the need
for counseling arises from the covered active
duty or call to covered active duty status of
the military member;
(6) Rest and Recuperation. (i) To spend time
with the military member who is on short-
term, temporary, Rest and Recuperation
leave during the period of deployment;
(ii) Leave taken for this purpose can be
used for a period of 15 calendar days begin-
ning on the date the military member com-
mences each instance of Rest and Recuper-
ation leave;
(7) Post-deployment activities. (i) To attend
arrival ceremonies, reintegration briefings
and events, and any other official ceremony
or program sponsored by the military for a
period of 90 days following the termination
of the military member’s covered active
duty status; and
(ii) To address issues that arise from the
death of the military member while on cov-
ered active duty status, such as meeting and
recovering the body of the military member,
making funeral arrangements, and attending
funeral services;
(8) Parental care. For purposes of leave for
parental care listed in (i) through (iv) of this
paragraph, the parent of the military mem-
ber must be incapable of self-care and must
be the military member’s biological, adop-
tive, step, or foster father or mother, or any
other individual who stood in loco parentis
to the military member when the member
was under 18 years of age. A parent who is in-
capable of self-care means that the parent
requires active assistance or supervision to
provide daily self-care in three or more of
the activities of daily living or instrumental
activities of daily living. Activities of daily
living include adaptive activities such as
caring appropriately for one’s grooming and
hygiene, bathing, dressing, and eating. In-
strumental activities of daily living include
cooking, cleaning, shopping, taking public
transportation, paying bills, maintaining a
residence, using telephones and directories,
using a post office, etc. As with all instances
of qualifying exigency leave, the military
member must be the spouse, son, daughter,
or parent of the employee requesting quali-
fying exigency leave.
(i) To arrange for alternative care for a
parent of the military member when the par-
ent is incapable of self-care and the covered
active duty or call to covered active duty
status of the military member necessitates a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00311 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6998 November 16, 2020
change in the existing care arrangement for
the parent;
(ii) To provide care for a parent of the
military member on an urgent, immediate
need basis (but not on a routine, regular, or
everyday basis) when the parent is incapable
of self-care and the need to provide such care
arises from the covered active duty or call to
covered active duty status of the military
member;
(iii) To admit to or transfer to a care facil-
ity a parent of the military member when
admittance or transfer is necessitated by the
covered active duty or call to covered active
duty status of the military member; and
(iv) To attend meetings with staff at a care
facility, such as meetings with hospice or so-
cial service providers for a parent of the
military member, when such meetings are
necessary due to circumstances arising from
the covered active duty or call to covered ac-
tive duty status of the military member but
not for routine or regular meetings;
(9) Additional activities. To address other
events which arise out of the military mem-
ber’s covered active duty or call to covered
active duty status provided that the employ-
ing office and employee agree that such
leave shall qualify as an exigency, and agree
to both the timing and duration of such
leave.
825.127 Leave to care for a covered service-
member with a serious injury or illness
(military caregiver leave).
(a) Eligible employees are entitled to
FMLA leave to care for a covered service-
member with a serious illness or injury.
(b) Covered servicemember means:
(1) A current member of the Armed Forces,
including a member of the National Guard or
Reserves, who is undergoing medical treat-
ment, recuperation, or therapy, is otherwise
in outpatient status; or is otherwise on the
temporary disability retired list, for a seri-
ous injury or illness. Outpatient status
means the status of a member of the Armed
Forces assigned to either a military medical
treatment facility as an outpatient or a unit
established for the purpose of providing com-
mand and control of members of the Armed
Forces receiving medical care as out-
patients.
(2) A covered veteran who is undergoing
medical treatment, recuperation or therapy
for a serious injury or illness. Covered vet-
eran means an individual who was a member
of the Armed Forces (including a member of
the National Guard or Reserves), and was
discharged or released under conditions
other than dishonorable at any time during
the five-year period prior to the first date
the eligible employee takes FMLA leave to
care for the covered veteran. An eligible em-
ployee must commence leave to care for a
covered veteran within five years of the vet-
eran’s active duty service, but the single 12-
month period described in paragraph (e)(1) of
this section may extend beyond the five-year
period.
(i) For an individual who was a member of
the Armed Forces (including a member of
the National Guard or Reserves) and who was
discharged or released under conditions
other than dishonorable prior to the effec-
tive date of this Final Rule, the period be-
tween October 28, 2009 and the effective date
of this Final Rule shall not count towards
the determination of the five-year period for
covered veteran status.
(c) A serious injury or illness means:
(1) In the case of a current member of the
Armed Forces, including a member of the
National Guard or Reserves, means an injury
or illness that was incurred by the covered
servicemember in the line of duty on active
duty in the Armed Forces or that existed be-
fore the beginning of the member’s active
duty and was aggravated by service in the
line of duty on active duty in the Armed
Forces, and that may render the member
medically unfit to perform the duties of the
member’s office, grade, rank or rating; and,
(2) In the case of a covered veteran, means
an injury or illness that was incurred by the
member in the line of duty on active duty in
the Armed Forces (or existed before the be-
ginning of the member’s active duty and was
aggravated by service in the line of duty on
active duty in the Armed Forces), and mani-
fested itself before or after the member be-
came a veteran, and is:
(i) A continuation of a serious injury or ill-
ness that was incurred or aggravated when
the covered veteran was a member of the
Armed Forces and rendered the servicemem-
ber unable to perform the duties of the
servicemember’s office, grade, rank, or rat-
ing; or
(ii) A physical or mental condition for
which the covered veteran has received a
U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Service-
Related Disability Rating (VASRD) of 50 per-
cent or greater, and such VASRD rating is
based, in whole or in part, on the condition
precipitating the need for military caregiver
leave; or
(iii) A physical or mental condition that
substantially impairs the covered veteran’s
ability to secure or follow a substantially
gainful occupation by reason of a disability
or disabilities related to military service, or
would do so absent treatment; or
(iv) An injury, including a psychological
injury, on the basis of which the covered vet-
eran has been enrolled in the Department of
Veterans Affairs Program of Comprehensive
Assistance for Family Caregivers.
(d) In order to care for a covered service-
member, an eligible employee must be the
spouse, son, daughter, or parent, or next of
kin of a covered servicemember.
(1) Son or daughter of a covered service-
member means the covered servicemember’s
biological, adopted, or foster child, stepchild,
legal ward, or a child for whom the covered
servicemember stood in loco parentis, and
who is of any age.
(2) Parent of a covered servicemember
means a covered servicemember’s biological,
adoptive, step or foster father or mother, or
any other individual who stood in loco
parentis to the covered servicemember. This
term does not include parents ‘‘in law.’’
(3) Next of kin of a covered servicemember
means the nearest blood relative, other than
the covered servicemember’s spouse, parent,
son, or daughter, in the following order of
priority: blood relatives who have been
granted legal custody of the servicemember
by court decree or statutory provisions,
brothers and sisters, grandparents, aunts and
uncles, and first cousins, unless the covered
servicemember has specifically designated in
writing another blood relative as his or her
nearest blood relative for purposes of mili-
tary caregiver leave under the FMLA. When
no such designation is made, and there are
multiple family members with the same
level of relationship to the covered service-
member, all such family members shall be
considered the covered servicemember’s next
of kin and may take FMLA leave to provide
care to the covered servicemember, either
consecutively or simultaneously. When such
designation has been made, the designated
individual shall be deemed to be the covered
servicemember’s only next of kin. For exam-
ple, if a covered servicemember has three
siblings and has not designated a blood rel-
ative to provide care, all three siblings would
be considered the covered servicemember’s
next of kin. Alternatively, where a covered
servicemember has a sibling(s) and des-
ignates a cousin as his or her next of kin for
FMLA purposes, then only the designated
cousin is eligible as the covered
servicemember’s next of kin. An employing
office is permitted to require an employee to
provide confirmation of covered family rela-
tionship to the covered servicemember pur-
suant to 825.122(k).
(e) An eligible employee is entitled to 26
workweeks of leave to care for a covered
servicemember with a serious injury or ill-
ness during a single 12-month period.
(1) The single 12-month period described in
paragraph (e) of this section begins on the
first day the eligible employee takes FMLA
leave to care for a covered servicemember
and ends 12 months after that date, regard-
less of the method used by the employing of-
fice to determine the employee’s 12 work-
weeks of leave entitlement for other FMLA-
qualifying reasons. If an eligible employee
does not take all of his or her 26 workweeks
of leave entitlement to care for a covered
servicemember during this single 12-month
period, the remaining part of his or her 26
workweeks of leave entitlement to care for
the covered servicemember is forfeited.
(2) The leave entitlement described in
paragraph (e) of this section is to be applied
on a per-covered-servicemember, per-injury
basis such that an eligible employee may be
entitled to take more than one period of 26
workweeks of leave if the leave is to care for
different covered servicemembers or to care
for the same servicemember with a subse-
quent serious injury or illness, except that
no more than 26 workweeks of leave may be
taken within any single 12-month period. An
eligible employee may take more than one
period of 26 workweeks of leave to care for a
covered servicemember with more than one
serious injury or illness only when the seri-
ous injury or illness is a subsequent serious
injury or illness. When an eligible employee
takes leave to care for more than one cov-
ered servicemember or for a subsequent seri-
ous injury or illness of the same covered
servicemember, and the single 12-month pe-
riods corresponding to the different military
caregiver leave entitlements overlap, the
employee is limited to taking no more than
26 workweeks of leave in each single 12-
month period.
(3) An eligible employee is entitled to a
combined total of 26 workweeks of leave for
any FMLA-qualifying reason during the sin-
gle 12-month period described in paragraph
(e) of this section, provided that the em-
ployee is entitled to no more than 12 work-
weeks of leave for one or more of the fol-
lowing: because of the birth of a son or
daughter of the employee and in order to
care for such son or daughter; because of the
placement of a son or daughter with the em-
ployee for adoption or foster care; in order to
care for the spouse, son, daughter, or parent
with a serious health condition; because of
the employee’s own serious health condition;
or because of a qualifying exigency. Thus, for
example, an eligible employee may, during
the single 12-month period, take 16 work-
weeks of FMLA leave to care for a covered
servicemember and 10 workweeks of FMLA
leave to care for a newborn child. However,
the employee may not take more than 12
weeks of FMLA leave to care for the new-
born child during the single 12-month period,
even if the employee takes fewer than 14
workweeks of FMLA leave to care for a cov-
ered servicemember.
(4) In all circumstances, including for leave
taken to care for a covered servicemember,
the employing office is responsible for desig-
nating leave, paid or unpaid, as FMLA-quali-
fying, and for giving notice of the designa-
tion to the employee as provided in 825.300.
In the case of leave that qualifies as both
leave to care for a covered servicemember
and leave to care for a family member with
a serious health condition during the single
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00312 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6999
November 16, 2020
12-month period described in paragraph (e) of
this section, the employing office must des-
ignate such leave as leave to care for a cov-
ered servicemember in the first instance.
Leave that qualifies as both leave to care for
a covered servicemember and leave taken to
care for a family member with a serious
health condition during the single 12-month
period described in paragraph (e) of this sec-
tion must not be designated and counted as
both leave to care for a covered servicemem-
ber and leave to care for a family member
with a serious health condition. As is the
case with leave taken for other qualifying
reasons, employing offices may retroactively
designate leave as leave to care for a covered
servicemember pursuant to 825.301(d).
(f) Spouses who are eligible for FMLA
leave and are employed by the same covered
employing office may be limited to a com-
bined total of 26 workweeks of leave during
the single 12-month period described in para-
graph (e) of this section if the leave is taken
for birth of the employee’s son or daughter
or to care for the child after birth, for place-
ment of a son or daughter with the employee
for adoption or foster care, or to care for the
child after placement, to care for the em-
ployee’s parent with a serious health condi-
tion, or to care for a covered servicemember
with a serious injury or illness. This limita-
tion on the total weeks of leave applies to
leave taken for the reasons specified as long
as the spouses are employed by the same em-
ploying office. It would apply, for example,
even though the spouses are employed at two
different worksites. On the other hand, if one
spouse is ineligible for FMLA leave, the
other spouse would be entitled to a full 26
workweeks of FMLA leave.
SUBPART B—EMPLOYEE LEAVE ENTITLE-
MENTS UNDER THE FAMILY AND MED-
ICAL LEAVE ACT, AS MADE APPLICABLE
BY THE CONGRESSIONAL ACCOUNT-
ABILITY ACT
825.200 Amount of Leave.
(a) Except in the case of leave to care for
a covered servicemember with a serious in-
jury or illness, an eligible employee’s FMLA
leave entitlement is limited to a total of 12
workweeks of leave during any 12-month pe-
riod for any one, or more, of the following
reasons:
(1) The birth of the employee’s son or
daughter, and to care for the newborn child;
(2) The placement with the employee of a
son or daughter for adoption or foster care,
and to care for the newly placed child;
(3) To care for the employee’s spouse, son,
daughter, or parent with a serious health
condition;
(4) Because of a serious health condition
that makes the employee unable to perform
one or more of the essential functions of his
or her job; and
(5) Because of any qualifying exigency aris-
ing out of the fact that the employee’s
spouse, son, daughter, or parent is a military
member on covered active duty status (or
has been notified of an impending call or
order to covered active duty).
(b) An employing office is permitted to
choose any one of the following methods for
determining the 12–month period in which
the 12 weeks of leave entitlement described
in paragraph (a) of this section occurs:
(1) The calendar year;
(2) Any fixed 12-month leave year, such as
a fiscal year or a year starting on an employ-
ee’s anniversary date;
(3) The 12-month period measured forward
from the date any employee’s first FMLA
leave under paragraph (a) begins; or
(4) A ‘‘rolling’’ 12-month period measured
backward from the date an employee uses
any FMLA leave as described in paragraph
(a).
(c) Under methods in paragraphs (b)(1) and
(b)(2) of this section an employee would be
entitled to up to 12 weeks of FMLA leave at
any time in the fixed 12-month period se-
lected. An employee could, therefore, take 12
weeks of leave at the end of the year and 12
weeks at the beginning of the following year.
Under the method in paragraph (b)(3) of this
section, an employee would be entitled to 12
weeks of leave during the year beginning on
the first date FMLA leave is taken; the next
12-month period would begin the first time
FMLA leave is taken after completion of any
previous 12-month period. Under the method
in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the ‘‘roll-
ing’’ 12-month period, each time an employee
takes FMLA leave the remaining leave enti-
tlement would be any balance of the 12
weeks which has not been used during the
immediately preceding 12 months. For exam-
ple, if an employee has taken eight weeks of
leave during the past 12 months, an addi-
tional four weeks of leave could be taken. If
an employee used four weeks beginning Feb-
ruary 1, 2008, four weeks beginning June 1,
2008, and four weeks beginning December 1,
2008, the employee would not be entitled to
any additional leave until February 1, 2009.
However, beginning on February 1, 2009, the
employee would again be eligible to take
FMLA leave, recouping the right to take the
leave in the same manner and amounts in
which it was used in the previous year. Thus,
the employee would recoup (and be entitled
to use) one additional day of FMLA leave
each day for four weeks, commencing Feb-
ruary 1, 2009. The employee would also begin
to recoup additional days beginning on June
1, 2009, and additional days beginning on De-
cember 1, 2009. Accordingly, employing of-
fices using the rolling 12-month period may
need to calculate whether the employee is
entitled to take FMLA leave each time that
leave is requested, and employees taking
FMLA leave on such a basis may fall in and
out of FMLA protection based on their
FMLA usage in the prior 12 months. For ex-
ample, in the example above, if the employee
needs six weeks of leave for a serious health
condition commencing February 1, 2009, only
the first four weeks of the leave would be
FMLA-protected.
(d)(1) Employing offices will be allowed to
choose any one of the alternatives in para-
graph (b) of this section for the leave entitle-
ments described in paragraph (a) of this sec-
tion provided the alternative chosen is ap-
plied consistently and uniformly to all em-
ployees. An employing office wishing to
change to another alternative is required to
give at least 60 days’ notice to all employees,
and the transition must take place in such a
way that the employees retain the full ben-
efit of 12 weeks of leave under whichever
method affords the greatest benefit to the
employee. Under no circumstances may a
new method be implemented in order to
avoid the CAA’s FMLA leave requirements.
(2) [Reserved]
(e) If an employing office fails to select one
of the options in paragraph (b) of this section
for measuring the 12-month period for the
leave entitlements described in paragraph
(a), the option that provides the most bene-
ficial outcome for the employee will be used.
The employing office may subsequently se-
lect an option only by providing the 60-day
notice to all employees of the option the em-
ploying office intends to implement. During
the running of the 60-day period any other
employee who needs FMLA leave may use
the option providing the most beneficial out-
come to that employee. At the conclusion of
the 60-day period the employing office may
implement the selected option.
(f) An eligible employee’s FMLA leave en-
titlement is limited to a total of 26 work-
weeks of leave during a single 12-month pe-
riod to care for a covered servicemember
with a serious injury or illness. An employ-
ing office shall determine the single 12-
month period in which the 26 weeks of leave
entitlement described in this paragraph oc-
curs using the 12-month period measured for-
ward from the date an employee’s first
FMLA leave to care for the covered service-
member begins. See 825.127(e)(1).
(g) During the single 12-month period de-
scribed in paragraph (f), an eligible employ-
ee’s FMLA leave entitlement is limited to a
combined total of 26 workweeks of FMLA
leave for any qualifying reason. See
825.127(e)(3).
(h) For purposes of determining the
amount of leave used by an employee, the
fact that a holiday may occur within the
week taken as FMLA leave has no effect; the
week is counted as a week of FMLA leave.
However, if an employee is using FMLA
leave in increments of less than one week,
the holiday will not count against the em-
ployee’s FMLA entitlement unless the em-
ployee was otherwise scheduled and expected
to work during the holiday. Similarly, if for
some reason the employing office’s business
activity has temporarily ceased and employ-
ees generally are not expected to report for
work for one or more weeks (e.g., a school
closing two weeks for the Christmas/New
Year holiday or the summer vacation or an
employing office closing the office for re-
pairs), the days the employing office’s activi-
ties have ceased do not count against the
employee’s FMLA leave entitlement. Meth-
ods for determining an employee’s 12-week
leave entitlement are also described in
825.205.
(i)(1) If employing offices jointly employ
an employee, and if they designate a primary
employing office pursuant to 825.106(c), the
primary employing office may choose any
one of the alternatives in paragraph (b) of
this section for measuring the 12-month pe-
riod, provided that the alternative chosen is
applied consistently and uniformly to all
employees of the primary employing office
including the jointly employed employee.
(2) If employing offices fail to designate a
primary employing office pursuant to
825.106(c), an employee jointly employed by
the employing offices may, by so notifying
one of the employing offices, select that em-
ploying office to be the primary employing
office of the employee for purposes of the ap-
plication of paragraphs (d) and (e) of this sec-
tion.
825.201 Leave to care for a parent.
(a) General rule. An eligible employee is en-
titled to FMLA leave if needed to care for
the employee’s parent with a serious health
condition. Care for parents-in-law is not cov-
ered by the FMLA. See 825.122(c) for defini-
tion of parent.
(b) Same employing office limitation. Spouses
who are eligible for FMLA leave and are em-
ployed by the same covered employing office
may be limited to a combined total of 12
weeks of leave during any 12-month period if
the leave is taken to care for the employee’s
parent with a serious health condition, for
the birth of the employee’s son or daughter
or to care for the child after the birth, or for
placement of a son or daughter with the em-
ployee for adoption or foster care or to care
for the child after placement. This limita-
tion on the total weeks of leave applies to
leave taken for the reasons specified as long
as the spouses are employed by the same em-
ploying office. It would apply, for example,
even though the spouses are employed at two
different worksites of an employing office.
On the other hand, if one spouse is ineligible
for FMLA leave, the other spouse would be
entitled to a full 12 weeks of FMLA leave.
Where the spouses both use a portion of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00313 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7000 November 16, 2020
total 12-week FMLA leave entitlement for
either the birth of a child, for placement for
adoption or foster care, or to care for a par-
ent, the spouses would each be entitled to
the difference between the amount he or she
has taken individually and 12 weeks for
FMLA leave for other purposes. For example,
if each spouse took six weeks of leave to care
for a parent, each could use an additional six
weeks due to his or her own serious health
condition or to care for a child with a serious
health condition. See also 825.127(d).
825.202 Intermittent leave or reduced leave
schedule.
(a) Definition. FMLA leave may be taken
intermittently or on a reduced leave sched-
ule under certain circumstances. Intermit-
tent leave is FMLA leave taken in separate
blocks of time due to a single qualifying rea-
son. A reduced leave schedule is a leave
schedule that reduces an employee’s usual
number of working hours per workweek, or
hours per workday. A reduced leave schedule
is a change in the employee’s schedule for a
period of time, normally from full-time to
part-time.
(b) Medical necessity. For intermittent
leave or leave on a reduced leave schedule
taken because of one’s own serious health
condition, to care for a spouse, parent, son,
or daughter with a serious health condition,
or to care for a covered servicemember with
a serious injury or illness, there must be a
medical need for leave and it must be that
such medical need can be best accommo-
dated through an intermittent or reduced
leave schedule. The treatment regimen and
other information described in the certifi-
cation of a serious health condition and in
the certification of a serious injury or ill-
ness, if required by the employing office, ad-
dresses the medical necessity of intermittent
leave or leave on a reduced leave schedule.
See 825.306, 825.310. Leave may be taken inter-
mittently or on a reduced leave schedule
when medically necessary for planned and/or
unanticipated medical treatment of a serious
health condition or of a covered
servicemember’s serious injury or illness, or
for recovery from treatment or recovery
from a serious health condition or a covered
servicemember’s serious injury or illness. It
may also be taken to provide care or psycho-
logical comfort to a covered family member
with a serious health condition or a covered
servicemember with a serious injury or ill-
ness.
(1) Intermittent leave may be taken for a
serious health condition of a spouse, parent,
son, or daughter, for the employee’s own se-
rious health condition, or a serious injury or
illness of a covered servicemember which re-
quires treatment by a health care provider
periodically, rather than for one continuous
period of time, and may include leave of pe-
riods from an hour or more to several weeks.
Examples of intermittent leave would in-
clude leave taken on an occasional basis for
medical appointments, or leave taken sev-
eral days at a time spread over a period of
six months, such as for chemotherapy. A
pregnant employee may take leave intermit-
tently for prenatal examinations or for her
own condition, such as for periods of severe
morning sickness. An example of an em-
ployee taking leave on a reduced leave
schedule is an employee who is recovering
from a serious health condition and is not
strong enough to work a full-time schedule.
(2) Intermittent or reduced schedule leave
may be taken for absences where the em-
ployee or family member is incapacitated or
unable to perform the essential functions of
the position because of a chronic serious
health condition or a serious injury or ill-
ness of a covered servicemember, even if he
or she does not receive treatment by a
health care provider. See 825.113 and 825.127.
(c) Birth or placement. When leave is taken
after the birth of a healthy child or place-
ment of a healthy child for adoption or fos-
ter care, an employee may take leave inter-
mittently or on a reduced leave schedule
only if the employing office agrees. Such a
schedule reduction might occur, for example,
where an employee, with the employing of-
fice’s agreement, works part-time after the
birth of a child, or takes leave in several seg-
ments. The employing office’s agreement is
not required, however, for leave during
which the expectant mother has a serious
health condition in connection with the
birth of her child or if the newborn child has
a serious health condition. See 825.204 for
rules governing transfer to an alternative
position that better accommodates intermit-
tent leave. See also 825.120 (pregnancy) and
825.121 (adoption and foster care).
(d) Qualifying exigency. Leave due to a
qualifying exigency may be taken on an
intermittent or reduced leave schedule basis.
825.203 Scheduling of intermittent or re-
duced schedule leave.
Eligible employees may take FMLA leave
on an intermittent or reduced schedule basis
when medically necessary due to the serious
health condition of a covered family member
or the employee or the serious injury or ill-
ness of a covered servicemember. See 825.202.
Eligible employees may also take FMLA
leave on an intermittent or reduced schedule
basis when necessary because of a qualifying
exigency. If an employee needs leave inter-
mittently or on a reduced leave schedule for
planned medical treatment, then the em-
ployee must make a reasonable effort to
schedule the treatment so as not to disrupt
unduly the employing office’s operations.
825.204 Transfer of an employee to an alter-
native position during intermittent leave
or reduced schedule leave.
(a) Transfer or reassignment. If an employee
needs intermittent leave or leave on a re-
duced leave schedule that is foreseeable
based on planned medical treatment for the
employee, a family member, or a covered
servicemember, including during a period of
recovery from one’s own serious health con-
dition, a serious health condition of a
spouse, parent, son, or daughter, or a serious
injury or illness of a covered servicemember,
or if the employing office agrees to permit
intermittent or reduced schedule leave for
the birth of a child or for placement of a
child for adoption or foster care, the employ-
ing office may require the employee to
transfer temporarily, during the period the
intermittent or reduced leave schedule is re-
quired, to an available alternative position
for which the employee is qualified and
which better accommodates recurring peri-
ods of leave than does the employee’s regular
position. See 825.601 for special rules applica-
ble to instructional employees of schools.
(b) Compliance. Transfer to an alternative
position may require compliance with any
applicable collective bargaining agreement
and Federal law (such as the Americans with
Disabilities Act, as made applicable by the
CAA). Transfer to an alternative position
may include altering an existing job to bet-
ter accommodate the employee’s need for
intermittent or reduced scheduled leave.
(c) Equivalent pay and benefits. The alter-
native position must have equivalent pay
and benefits. An alternative position for
these purposes does not have to have equiva-
lent duties. The employing office may in-
crease the pay and benefits of an existing al-
ternative position, so as to make them
equivalent to the pay and benefits of the em-
ployee’s regular job. The employing office
may also transfer the employee to a part-
time job with the same hourly rate of pay
and benefits, provided the employee is not
required to take more leave than is medi-
cally necessary. For example, an employee
desiring to take leave in increments of four
hours per day could be transferred to a half-
time job, or could remain in the employee’s
same job on a part-time schedule, paying the
same hourly rate as the employee’s previous
job and enjoying the same benefits. The em-
ploying office may not eliminate benefits
which otherwise would not be provided to
part-time employees; however, an employing
office may proportionately reduce benefits
such as vacation leave where an employing
office’s normal practice is to base such bene-
fits on the number of hours worked.
(d) Employing office limitations. An employ-
ing office may not transfer the employee to
an alternative position in order to discour-
age the employee from taking leave or other-
wise work a hardship on the employee. For
example, a white collar employee may not be
assigned to perform laborer’s work; an em-
ployee working the day shift may not be re-
assigned to the graveyard shift; an employee
working in the headquarters facility may
not be reassigned to a branch a significant
distance away from the employee’s normal
job location. Any such attempt on the part
of the employing office to make such a
transfer will be held to be contrary to the
prohibited acts provisions of the FMLA, as
made applicable by the CAA.
(e) Reinstatement of employee. When an em-
ployee who is taking leave intermittently or
on a reduced leave schedule and has been
transferred to an alternative position no
longer needs to continue on leave and is able
to return to full-time work, the employee
must be placed in the same or equivalent job
as the job he or she left when the leave com-
menced. An employee may not be required to
take more leave than necessary to address
the circumstance that precipitated the need
for leave.
825.205 Increments of FMLA leave for inter-
mittent or reduced schedule leave.
(a) Minimum increment. (1) When an em-
ployee takes FMLA leave on an intermittent
or reduced leave schedule basis, the employ-
ing office must account for the leave using
an increment no greater than the shortest
period of time that the employing office uses
to account for use of other forms of leave
provided that it is not greater than one hour
and provided further that an employee’s
FMLA leave entitlement may not be reduced
by more than the amount of leave actually
taken. An employing office may not require
an employee to take more leave than is nec-
essary to address the circumstances that
precipitated the need for the leave, provided
that the leave is counted using the shortest
increment of leave used to account for any
other type of leave. See also 825.205(a)(2) for
the physical impossibility exception, and
825.600 and 825.601 for special rules applicable
to employees of schools. If an employing of-
fice uses different increments to account for
different types of leave, the employing office
must account for FMLA leave in the small-
est increment used to account for any other
type of leave. For example, if an employing
office accounts for the use of annual leave in
increments of one hour and the use of sick
leave in increments of one-half hour, then
FMLA leave use must be accounted for using
increments no larger than one-half hour. If
an employing office accounts for use of leave
in varying increments at different times of
the day or shift, the employing office may
also account for FMLA leave in varying in-
crements, provided that the increment used
for FMLA leave is no greater than the small-
est increment used for any other type of
leave during the period in which the FMLA
leave is taken. If an employing office ac-
counts for other forms of leave use in incre-
ments greater than one hour, the employing
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00314 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7001
November 16, 2020
office must account for FMLA leave use in
increments no greater than one hour. An em-
ploying office may account for FMLA leave
in shorter increments than used for other
forms of leave. For example, an employing
office that accounts for other forms of leave
in one hour increments may account for
FMLA leave in a shorter increment when the
employee arrives at work several minutes
late, and the employing office wants the em-
ployee to begin work immediately. Such ac-
counting for FMLA leave will not alter the
increment considered to be the shortest pe-
riod used to account for other forms of leave
or the use of FMLA leave in other cir-
cumstances. In all cases, employees may not
be charged FMLA leave for periods during
which they are working.
(2) Where it is physically impossible for an
employee using intermittent leave or work-
ing a reduced leave schedule to commence or
end work mid-way through a shift, such as
where a flight attendant or a railroad con-
ductor is scheduled to work aboard an air-
plane or train, or a laboratory employee is
unable to enter or leave a sealed ‘‘clean
room’’ during a certain period of time and no
equivalent position is available, the entire
period that the employee is forced to be ab-
sent is designated as FMLA leave and counts
against the employee’s FMLA entitlement.
The period of the physical impossibility is
limited to the period during which the em-
ploying office is unable to permit the em-
ployee to work prior to a period of FMLA
leave or return the employee to the same or
equivalent position due to the physical im-
possibility after a period of FMLA leave. See
825.214.
(b) Calculation of leave. (1) When an em-
ployee takes leave on an intermittent or re-
duced leave schedule, only the amount of
leave actually taken may be counted toward
the employee’s leave entitlement. The actual
workweek is the basis of leave entitlement.
Therefore, if an employee who would other-
wise work 40 hours a week takes off eight
hours, the employee would use one-fifth (1/5)
of a week of FMLA leave. Similarly, if a full-
time employee who would otherwise work
eight hour days works four-hour days under
a reduced leave schedule, the employee
would use one half (1/2) week of FMLA leave
each week. Where an employee works a part-
time schedule or variable hours, the amount
of FMLA leave that an employee uses is de-
termined on a pro rata or proportional basis.
If an employee who would otherwise work 30
hours per week, but works only 20 hours a
week under a reduced leave schedule, the
employee’s 10 hours of leave would con-
stitute one-third (1/3) of a week of FMLA
leave for each week the employee works the
reduced leave schedule. An employing office
may convert these fractions to their hourly
equivalent so long as the conversion equi-
tably reflects the employee’s total normally
scheduled hours. An employee does not ac-
crue FMLA-protected leave at any particular
hourly rate. An eligible employee is entitled
to up to a total of 12 workweeks of leave, or
26 workweeks in the case of military care-
giver leave, and the total number of hours
contained in those workweeks is necessarily
dependent on the specific hours the em-
ployee would have worked but for the use of
leave. See also 825.601 and 825.602 on special
rules for schools.
(2) If an employing office has made a per-
manent or long-term change in the employ-
ee’s schedule (for reasons other than FMLA,
and prior to the notice of need for FMLA
leave), the hours worked under the new
schedule are to be used for making this cal-
culation.
(3) If an employee’s schedule varies from
week to week to such an extent that an em-
ploying office is unable to determine with
any certainty how many hours the employee
would otherwise have worked (but for the
taking of FMLA leave), a weekly average of
the hours worked over the 12 months prior to
the beginning of the leave period (including
any hours for which the employee took leave
of any type) would be used for calculating
the employee’s leave entitlement.
(c) Overtime. If an employee would nor-
mally be required to work overtime, but is
unable to do so because of a FMLA-quali-
fying reason that limits the employee’s abil-
ity to work overtime, the hours which the
employee would have been required to work
may be counted against the employee’s
FMLA entitlement. In such a case, the em-
ployee is using intermittent or reduced
schedule leave. For example, if an employee
would normally be required to work for 48
hours in a particular week, but due to a seri-
ous health condition the employee is unable
to work more than 40 hours that week, the
employee would utilize eight hours of
FMLA-protected leave out of the 48–hour
workweek, or one-sixth (1/6) of a week of
FMLA leave. Voluntary overtime hours that
an employee does not work due to an FMLA-
qualifying reason may not be counted
against the employee’s FMLA leave entitle-
ment.
825.206 Interaction with the FLSA, as made
applicable by the Congressional Account-
ability Act.
(a) Leave taken under FMLA, as made ap-
plicable by the CAA, may be unpaid. If an
employee is otherwise exempt from min-
imum wage and overtime requirements of
the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), as
made applicable by the CAA, and as exempt
under regulations issued by the Board, at
part 541, providing unpaid FMLA-qualifying
leave to such an employee will not cause the
employee to lose the FLSA exemption. This
means that under regulations currently in
effect, where an employee meets the speci-
fied duties test, is paid on a salary basis, and
is paid a salary of at least the amount speci-
fied in the regulations, the employing office
may make deductions from the employee’s
salary for any hours taken as intermittent
or reduced FMLA leave within a workweek,
without affecting the exempt status of the
employee.
(b) For an employee paid in accordance
with a fluctuating workweek method of pay-
ment for overtime, where permitted by sec-
tion 203 of the CAA (2 U.S.C. 1313), the em-
ploying office, during the period in which
intermittent or reduced schedule FMLA
leave is scheduled to be taken, may com-
pensate an employee on an hourly basis and
pay only for the hours the employee works,
including time and one-half the employee’s
regular rate for overtime hours. The change
to payment on an hourly basis would include
the entire period during which the employee
is taking intermittent leave, including
weeks in which no leave is taken. The hourly
rate shall be determined by dividing the em-
ployee’s weekly salary by the employee’s
normal or average schedule of hours worked
during weeks in which FMLA leave is not
being taken. If an employing office chooses
to follow this exception from the fluctuating
workweek method of payment, the employ-
ing office must do so uniformly, with respect
to all employees paid on a fluctuating work-
week basis for whom FMLA leave is taken on
an intermittent or reduced leave schedule
basis. If an employing office does not elect to
convert the employee’s compensation to
hourly pay, no deduction may be taken for
FMLA leave absences. Once the need for
intermittent or reduced scheduled leave is
over, the employee may be restored to pay-
ment on a fluctuating workweek basis.
(c) This special exception to the salary
basis requirements of the FLSA exemption
or fluctuating workweek payment require-
ments applies only to employees of covered
employing offices who are eligible for FMLA
leave, and to leave which qualifies as FMLA
leave. Hourly or other deductions which are
not in accordance with the Board’s FLSA
regulations at part 541 or with a permissible
fluctuating workweek method of payment
for overtime may not be taken, for example,
where the employee has not worked long
enough to be eligible for FMLA leave with-
out potentially affecting the employee’s eli-
gibility for exemption. Nor may deductions
which are not permitted by the Board’s
FLSA regulations at part 541 or by a permis-
sible fluctuating workweek method of pay-
ment for overtime be taken from such an
employee’s salary for any leave which does
not qualify as FMLA leave, for example, de-
ductions from an employee’s pay for leave
required under an employing office’s policy
or practice for a reason which does not qual-
ify as FMLA leave, e.g., leave to care for a
grandparent or for a medical condition which
does not qualify as a serious health condi-
tion or serious injury or illness; or for leave
which is more generous than provided by the
FMLA, as made applicable by the CAA. Em-
ploying offices may comply with the employ-
ing office’s own policy/practice under these
circumstances and maintain the employee’s
eligibility for exemption or for the fluc-
tuating workweek method of pay by not tak-
ing hourly deductions from the employee’s
pay, in accordance with FLSA requirements,
as made applicable by the CAA, or may take
such deductions, treating the employee as an
hourly employee and pay overtime premium
pay for hours worked over 40 in a workweek.
825.207 Substitution of paid leave, generally.
(a) Generally, FMLA leave is unpaid leave.
However, under the circumstances described
in this section, the FMLA, as made applica-
ble by the CAA, permits an eligible employee
to choose to substitute accrued paid leave
for unpaid FMLA leave. Subject to 825.208, if
an employee does not choose to substitute
accrued paid leave, the employing office may
require the employee to substitute accrued
paid leave for unpaid FMLA leave. The term
substitute means that the paid leave pro-
vided by the employing office, and accrued
pursuant to established policies of the em-
ploying office, will run concurrently with
the unpaid FMLA leave. Accordingly, the
employee receives pay pursuant to the em-
ploying office’s applicable paid leave policy
during the period of otherwise unpaid FMLA
leave. An employee’s ability to substitute
accrued paid leave is determined by the
terms and conditions of the employing of-
fice’s normal leave policy. When an em-
ployee chooses, or an employing office re-
quires, substitution of accrued paid leave,
the employing office must inform the em-
ployee that the employee must satisfy any
procedural requirements of the paid leave
policy only in connection with the receipt of
such payment. See 825.300(c). If an employee
does not comply with the additional require-
ments in an employing office’s paid leave
policy, the employee is not entitled to sub-
stitute accrued paid leave, but the employee
remains entitled to take unpaid FMLA leave.
Employing offices may not discriminate
against employees on FMLA leave in the ad-
ministration of their paid leave policies.
(b) If neither the employee nor the employ-
ing office elects to substitute paid leave for
unpaid FMLA leave under the above condi-
tions and circumstances, the employee will
remain entitled to all the paid leave which is
earned or accrued under the terms of the em-
ploying office’s plan.
(c) If an employee uses paid leave under
circumstances which do not qualify as FMLA
leave, the leave will not count against the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00315 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7002 November 16, 2020
employee’s FMLA leave entitlement. For ex-
ample, paid sick leave used for a medical
condition which is not a serious health con-
dition or serious injury or illness does not
count against the employee’s FMLA leave
entitlement.
(d) Leave taken pursuant to a disability
leave plan would be considered FMLA leave
for a serious health condition and counted in
the leave entitlement permitted under
FMLA if it meets the criteria set forth above
in 825.112 through 825.115. In such cases, the
employing office may designate the leave as
FMLA leave and count the leave against the
employee’s FMLA leave entitlement. Be-
cause leave pursuant to a disability benefit
plan is not unpaid, the provision for substi-
tution of the employee’s accrued paid leave
is inapplicable, and neither the employee nor
the employing office may require the substi-
tution of paid leave. However, employing of-
fices and employees may agree to have paid
leave supplement the disability plan bene-
fits, such as in the case where a plan only
provides replacement income for two-thirds
of an employee’s salary.
(e) The FMLA, as made applicable by the
CAA, provides that a serious health condi-
tion may result from injury to the employee
on or off the job. If the employing office des-
ignates the leave as FMLA leave in accord-
ance with 825.300(d), the leave counts against
the employee’s FMLA leave entitlement. Be-
cause the workers’ compensation absence is
not unpaid, the provision for substitution of
the employee’s accrued paid leave is not ap-
plicable, and neither the employee nor the
employing office may require the substi-
tution of paid leave. However, employing of-
fices and employees may agree, to have paid
leave supplement workers’ compensation
benefits, such as in the case where workers’
compensation only provides replacement in-
come for two-thirds of an employee’s salary.
If the health care provider treating the em-
ployee for the workers’ compensation injury
certifies the employee is able to return to a
light duty job but is unable to return to the
same or equivalent job, the employee may
decline the employing office’s offer of a light
duty job. As a result, the employee may lose
workers’ compensation payments, but is en-
titled to remain on unpaid FMLA leave until
the employee’s FMLA leave entitlement is
exhausted. As of the date workers’ com-
pensation benefits cease, the substitution
provision becomes applicable and either the
employee may elect or the employing office
may require the use of accrued paid leave.
See also 825.210(f), 825.216(d), 825.220(d),
825.307(a) and 825.702 (d)(1) and (2) regarding
the relationship between workers’ compensa-
tion absences and FMLA leave.
(f) Under the FLSA, as made applicable by
the CAA, an employing office always has the
right to cash out an employee’s compen-
satory time or to require the employee to
use the time. Therefore, if an employee re-
quests and is permitted to use accrued com-
pensatory time to receive pay for time taken
off for an FMLA reason, or if the employing
office requires such use pursuant to the
FLSA, the time taken may be counted
against the employee’s FMLA leave entitle-
ment.
825.208 Substitution of paid leave—special
rule for paid parental leave.
(a) This section provides the basis for de-
termining the periods of unpaid leave for
which paid parental leave may be sub-
stituted under subpart E of this part, which
must be read with this subpart to establish
eligibility. This section addresses substi-
tution of accrued paid leave for unpaid
FMLA leave:
(1) For birth of a son or daughter, and to
care for the newborn child (See 825.120);
(2) For the placement of a son or daughter
with the employee for adoption or foster care
and the care of such son or daughter (See
825.121);
(b) Leave connected to birth or placement. (1)
For unpaid family and medical leave taken
under 825.120 or 825.121 (which correspond to
29 U.S.C. 2612(A) or (B), respectively) an em-
ployee may elect to substitute—
(i) Up to 12 workweeks of paid parental
leave in connection with the occurrence of a
birth or placement, as provided in subpart E
of this part; and
(ii) Any additional paid annual, vacation,
personal, family, medical, or sick leave pro-
vided by the employing office to such em-
ployee.
(c) Employee entitlement to substitute. (1) An
employee is entitled substitute paid leave for
leave without pay under this subpart, as per-
mitted in this section.
(2) An employing office may not require
that an employee first use all or any portion
of the leave described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)
of this section before being allowed to use
the leave described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of
this section.
(3) An employing office may not require an
employee to substitute paid leave for leave
without pay.
(4) An employee may request to use annual
leave or sick leave without invoking family
and medical leave, and, in that case, the em-
ploying office exercises its normal authority
with respect to approving or disapproving
the timing of when the leave may be used.
(d) Notification by employee and retroactive
substitution. (1) An employee must notify the
employing office of the employee’s election
to substitute paid leave for leave without
pay under this section prior to the date such
paid leave commences (i.e., no retroactive
substitution), except as provided in para-
graphs (d)(2) through (d)(4) of this section.
(2) An employee may retroactively sub-
stitute annual leave or sick leave for leave
without pay granted under this subpart cov-
ering a past period of time, if the substi-
tution is made in conjunction with the retro-
active granting of leave without pay.
(3) An employee may retroactively sub-
stitute transferred (donated) annual leave
for leave without pay granted under this sub-
part.
(4) An employee may retroactively sub-
stitute paid parental leave for applicable
leave without pay granted under this sub-
part, as provided in 825.505 and subject to the
requirements governing paid parental leave
in subpart E of this part. If the employee’s
leave without pay was not granted on a pro-
spective basis under this subpart, the retro-
active substitution of paid parental leave
may not be made unless the leave without
pay period has been retroactively designated
as leave under this subpart.
825.209 Maintenance of employee benefits.
(a) During any FMLA leave, an employing
office must maintain the employee’s cov-
erage under the Federal Employees Health
Benefits Program or any group health plan
(as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 at 26 U.S.C. 5000(b)(1)) on the same con-
ditions as coverage would have been provided
if the employee had been continuously em-
ployed during the entire leave period. All
employing offices are subject to the require-
ments of the FMLA, as made applicable by
the CAA, to maintain health coverage. The
definition of group health plan is set forth in
825.102. For purposes of FMLA, the term
group health plan shall not include an insur-
ance program providing health coverage
under which employees purchase individual
policies from insurers provided that:
(1) No contributions are made by the em-
ploying office;
(2) Participation in the program is com-
pletely voluntary for employees;
(3) The sole functions of the employing of-
fice with respect to the program are, without
endorsing the program, to permit the insurer
to publicize the program to employees, to
collect premiums through payroll deductions
and to remit them to the insurer;
(4) The employing office receives no con-
sideration in the form of cash or otherwise in
connection with the program, other than
reasonable compensation, excluding any
profit, for administrative services actually
rendered in connection with payroll deduc-
tion; and
(5) The premium charged with respect to
such coverage does not increase in the event
the employment relationship terminates.
(b) The same group health plan benefits
provided to an employee prior to taking
FMLA leave must be maintained during the
FMLA leave. For example, if family member
coverage is provided to an employee, family
member coverage must be maintained during
the FMLA leave. Similarly, benefit coverage
during FMLA leave for medical care, sur-
gical care, hospital care, dental care, eye
care, mental health counseling, substance
abuse treatment, etc., must be maintained
during leave if provided in an employing of-
fice’s group health plan, including a supple-
ment to a group health plan, whether or not
provided through a flexible spending account
or other component of a cafeteria plan.
(c) If an employing office provides a new
health plan or benefits or changes health
benefits or plans while an employee is on
FMLA leave, the employee is entitled to the
new or changed plan/benefits to the same ex-
tent as if the employee were not on leave.
For example, if an employing office changes
a group health plan so that dental care be-
comes covered under the plan, an employee
on FMLA leave must be given the same op-
portunity as other employees to receive (or
obtain) the dental care coverage. Any other
plan changes (e.g., in coverage, premiums,
deductibles, etc.) which apply to all employ-
ees of the workforce would also apply to an
employee on FMLA leave.
(d) Notice of any opportunity to change
plans or benefits must also be given to an
employee on FMLA leave. If the group
health plan permits an employee to change
from single to family coverage upon the
birth of a child or otherwise add new family
members, such a change in benefits must be
made available while an employee is on
FMLA leave. If the employee requests the
changed coverage it must be provided by the
employing office.
(e) An employee may choose not to retain
group health plan coverage during FMLA
leave. However, when an employee returns
from leave, the employee is entitled to be re-
instated on the same terms as prior to tak-
ing the leave, including family or dependent
coverages, without any qualifying period,
physical examination, exclusion of pre-exist-
ing conditions, etc. See 825.212(c).
(f) Except as required by the Consolidated
Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1986
(COBRA) or 5 U.S.C. 8905a, whichever is ap-
plicable, and for key employees (as discussed
below), an employing office’s obligation to
maintain health benefits during leave (and
to restore the employee to the same or
equivalent employment) under FMLA ceases
if and when the employment relationship
would have terminated if the employee had
not taken FMLA leave (e.g., if the employ-
ee’s position is eliminated as part of a non-
discriminatory reduction in force and the
employee would not have been transferred to
another position); an employee informs the
employing office of his or her intent not to
return from leave (including before starting
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00316 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7003
November 16, 2020
the leave if the employing office is so in-
formed before the leave starts); or the em-
ployee fails to return from leave or con-
tinues on leave after exhausting his or her
FMLA leave entitlement in the 12–month pe-
riod.
(g) If a key employee (See 825.218) does not
return from leave when notified by the em-
ploying office that substantial or grievous
economic injury will result from his or her
reinstatement, the employee’s entitlement
to group health plan benefits continues un-
less and until the employee advises the em-
ploying office that the employee does not de-
sire restoration to employment at the end of
the leave period, or the FMLA leave entitle-
ment is exhausted, or reinstatement is actu-
ally denied.
(h) An employee’s entitlement to benefits
other than group health benefits during a pe-
riod of FMLA leave (e.g., holiday pay) is to
be determined by the employing office’s es-
tablished policy for providing such benefits
when the employee is on other forms of leave
(paid or unpaid, as appropriate).
825.210 Employee payment of group health
benefit premiums.
(a) Group health plan benefits must be
maintained on the same basis as coverage
would have been provided if the employee
had been continuously employed during the
FMLA leave period. Therefore, any share of
group health plan premiums which had been
paid by the employee prior to FMLA leave
must continue to be paid by the employee
during the FMLA leave period. If premiums
are raised or lowered, the employee would be
required to pay the new premium rates.
Maintenance of health insurance policies
which are not a part of the employing of-
fice’s group health plan, as described in
825.209(a), are the sole responsibility of the
employee. The employee and the insurer
should make necessary arrangements for
payment of premiums during periods of un-
paid FMLA leave.
(b) If the FMLA leave is substituted paid
leave, the employee’s share of premiums
must be paid by the method normally used
during any paid leave, presumably as a pay-
roll deduction.
(c) If FMLA leave is unpaid, the employing
office has a number of options for obtaining
payment from the employee. The employing
office may require that payment be made to
the employing office or to the insurance car-
rier, but no additional charge may be added
to the employee’s premium payment for ad-
ministrative expenses. The employing office
may require employees to pay their share of
premium payments in any of the following
ways:
(1) Payment would be due at the same time
as it would be made if by payroll deduction;
(2) Payment would be due on the same
schedule as payments are made under
COBRA or 5 U.S.C. 8905a, whichever is appli-
cable;
(3) Payment would be prepaid pursuant to
a cafeteria plan at the employee’s option;
(4) The employing office’s existing rules for
payment by employees on leave without pay
would be followed, provided that such rules
do not require prepayment (i.e., prior to the
commencement of the leave) of the pre-
miums that will become due during a period
of unpaid FMLA leave or payment of higher
premiums than if the employee had contin-
ued to work instead of taking leave; or
(5) Another system voluntarily agreed to
between the employing office and the em-
ployee, which may include prepayment of
premiums (e.g., through increased payroll
deductions when the need for the FMLA
leave is foreseeable).
(d) The employing office must provide the
employee with advance written notice of the
terms and conditions under which these pay-
ments must be made. See 825. 300(c).
(e) An employing office may not require
more of an employee using unpaid FMLA
leave than the employing office requires of
other employees on leave without pay.
(f) An employee who is receiving payments
as a result of a workers’ compensation injury
must make arrangements with the employ-
ing office for payment of group health plan
benefits when simultaneously taking FMLA
leave. See 825.207(e).
825.211 Maintenance of benefits under multi-
employer health plans.
(a) A multi-employer health plan is a plan
to which more than one employing office is
required to contribute, and which is main-
tained pursuant to one or more collective
bargaining agreements between employee or-
ganization(s) and the employing offices.
(b) An employing office under a multi-em-
ployer plan must continue to make contribu-
tions on behalf of an employee using FMLA
leave as though the employee had been con-
tinuously employed, unless the plan contains
an explicit FMLA provision for maintaining
coverage such as through pooled contribu-
tions by all employing offices party to the
plan.
(c) During the duration of an employee’s
FMLA leave, coverage by the group health
plan, and benefits provided pursuant to the
plan, must be maintained at the level of cov-
erage and benefits which were applicable to
the employee at the time FMLA leave com-
menced.
(d) An employee using FMLA leave cannot
be required to use banked hours or pay a
greater premium than the employee would
have been required to pay if the employee
had been continuously employed.
(e) As provided in 825.209(f) of this part,
group health plan coverage must be main-
tained for an employee on FMLA leave until:
(1) The employee’s FMLA leave entitle-
ment is exhausted;
(2) The employing office can show that the
employee would have been laid off and the
employment relationship terminated; or
(3) The employee provides unequivocal no-
tice of intent not to return to work.
825.212 Employee failure to pay health plan
premium payments.
(a)(1) In the absence of an established em-
ploying office policy providing a longer grace
period, an employing office’s obligations to
maintain health insurance coverage cease
under FMLA if an employee’s premium pay-
ment is more than 30 days late. In order to
drop the coverage for an employee whose
premium payment is late, the employing of-
fice must provide written notice to the em-
ployee that the payment has not been re-
ceived. Such notice must be mailed to the
employee at least 15 days before coverage is
to cease, advising that coverage will be
dropped on a specified date at least 15 days
after the date of the letter unless the pay-
ment has been received by that date. If the
employing office has established policies re-
garding other forms of unpaid leave that pro-
vide for the employing office to cease cov-
erage retroactively to the date the unpaid
premium payment was due, the employing
office may drop the employee from coverage
retroactively in accordance with that policy,
provided the 15-day notice was given. In the
absence of such a policy, coverage for the
employee may be terminated at the end of
the 30-day grace period, where the required
15-day notice has been provided.
(2) An employing office has no obligation
regarding the maintenance of a health insur-
ance policy which is not a group health plan.
See 825.209(a).
(3) All other obligations of an employing
office under FMLA would continue; for ex-
ample, the employing office continues to
have an obligation to reinstate an employee
upon return from leave.
(b) The employing office may recover the
employee’s share of any premium payments
missed by the employee for any FMLA leave
period during which the employing office
maintains health coverage by paying the em-
ployee’s share after the premium payment is
missed.
(c) If coverage lapses because an employee
has not made required premium payments,
upon the employee’s return from FMLA
leave the employing office must still restore
the employee to coverage/benefits equivalent
to those the employee would have had if
leave had not been taken and the premium
payment(s) had not been missed, including
family or dependent coverage. See
825.215(d)(1)(5). In such case, an employee
may not be required to meet any qualifica-
tion requirements imposed by the plan, in-
cluding any new preexisting condition wait-
ing period, to wait for an open season, or to
pass a medical examination to obtain rein-
statement of coverage. If an employing office
terminates an employee’s insurance in ac-
cordance with this section and fails to re-
store the employee’s health insurance as re-
quired by this section upon the employee’s
return, the employing office may be liable
for benefits lost by reason of the violation,
for other actual monetary losses sustained
as a direct result of the violation, and for ap-
propriate equitable relief tailored to the
harm suffered.
825.213 Employing office recovery of benefit
costs.
(a) In addition to the circumstances dis-
cussed in 825.212(b), and subject to the excep-
tions provided in 825.504, an employing office
may recover its share of health plan pre-
miums during a period of unpaid FMLA leave
from an employee if the employee fails to re-
turn to work after the employee’s FMLA
leave entitlement has been exhausted or ex-
pires, unless the reason the employee does
not return is due to:
(1) The continuation, recurrence, or onset
of either a serious health condition of the
employee or the employee’s family member,
or a serious injury or illness of a covered
servicemember, which would otherwise enti-
tle the employee to leave under FMLA; or
(2) Other circumstances beyond the em-
ployee’s control. Examples of other cir-
cumstances beyond the employee’s control
are necessarily broad. They include such sit-
uations as where a parent chooses to stay
home with a newborn child who has a serious
health condition; an employee’s spouse is un-
expectedly transferred to a job location more
than 75 miles from the employee’s worksite;
a relative or individual other than a covered
family member has a serious health condi-
tion and the employee is needed to provide
care; the employee is laid off while on leave;
or, the employee is a key employee who de-
cides not to return to work upon being noti-
fied of the employing office’s intention to
deny restoration because of substantial and
grievous economic injury to the employing
office’s operations and is not reinstated by
the employing office. Other circumstances
beyond the employee’s control would not in-
clude a situation where an employee desires
to remain with a parent in a distant city
even though the parent no longer requires
the employee’s care, or a parent chooses not
to return to work to stay home with a well,
newborn child.
(3) When an employee fails to return to
work because of the continuation, recur-
rence, or onset of either a serious health con-
dition of the employee or employee’s family
member, or a serious injury or illness of a
covered servicemember, thereby precluding
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00317 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7004 November 16, 2020
the employing office from recovering its
(share of) health benefit premium payments
made on the employee’s behalf during a pe-
riod of unpaid FMLA leave, the employing
office may require medical certification of
the employee’s or the family member’s seri-
ous health condition or the covered
servicemember’s serious injury or illness.
Such certification is not required unless re-
quested by the employing office. The cost of
the certification shall be borne by the em-
ployee, and the employee is not entitled to
be paid for the time or travel costs spent in
acquiring the certification. The employee is
required to provide medical certification in a
timely manner which, for purposes of this
section, is within 30 days from the date of
the employing office’s request. For purposes
of medical certification, the employee may
use the optional forms developed for this
purpose. See 825.306(b), 825.310(c)–(d) and
Forms A, B, and F. If the employing office
requests medical certification and the em-
ployee does not provide such certification in
a timely manner (within 30 days), or the rea-
son for not returning to work does not meet
the test of other circumstances beyond the
employee’s control, the employing office
may recover 100 percent of the health benefit
premiums it paid during the period of unpaid
FMLA leave.
(b) Under some circumstances an employ-
ing office may elect to maintain other bene-
fits, e.g., life insurance, disability insurance,
etc., by paying the employee’s (share of) pre-
miums during periods of unpaid FMLA leave.
For example, to ensure the employing office
can meet its responsibilities to provide
equivalent benefits to the employee upon re-
turn from unpaid FMLA leave, it may be
necessary that premiums be paid continu-
ously to avoid a lapse of coverage. If the em-
ploying office elects to maintain such bene-
fits during the leave, at the conclusion of
leave, the employing office is entitled to re-
cover only the costs incurred for paying the
employee’s share of any premiums whether
or not the employee returns to work.
(c) An employee who returns to work for at
least 30 calendar days is considered to have
returned to work. An employee who trans-
fers directly from taking FMLA leave to re-
tirement, or who retires during the first 30
days after the employee returns to work, is
deemed to have returned to work.
(d) When an employee elects or an employ-
ing office requires paid leave to be sub-
stituted for FMLA leave, the employing of-
fice may not recover its (share of) health in-
surance or other non-health benefit pre-
miums for any period of FMLA leave covered
by paid leave. Because paid leave provided
under a plan covering temporary disabilities
(including workers’ compensation) is not un-
paid, recovery of health insurance premiums
does not apply to such paid leave.
(e) The amount that self-insured employ-
ing offices may recover is limited to only the
employing office’s share of allowable pre-
miums as would be calculated under COBRA,
excluding the two percent fee for administra-
tive costs.
(f) When an employee fails to return to
work, any health and non-health benefit pre-
miums which this section of the regulations
permits an employing office to recover are a
debt owed by the non-returning employee to
the employing office. The existence of this
debt caused by the employee’s failure to re-
turn to work does not alter the employing
office’s responsibilities for health benefit
coverage and, under a self-insurance plan,
payment of claims incurred during the pe-
riod of FMLA leave. To the extent recovery
is allowed, the employing office may recover
the costs through deduction from any sums
due to the employee (e.g., unpaid wages, va-
cation pay, etc.), provided such deductions
do not otherwise violate applicable wage
payment or other laws. Alternatively, the
employing office may initiate legal action
against the employee to recover such costs.
825.214 Employee right to reinstatement.
General Rule. On return from FMLA leave,
an employee is entitled to be returned to the
same position the employee held when leave
commenced, or to an equivalent position
with equivalent benefits, pay, and other
terms and conditions of employment. An em-
ployee is entitled to such reinstatement even
if the employee has been replaced or his or
her position has been restructured to accom-
modate the employee’s absence. See also
825.106(e) for the obligations of employing of-
fices that are joint employers.
825.215 Equivalent position.
(a) Equivalent position. An equivalent posi-
tion is one that is virtually identical to the
employee’s former position in terms of pay,
benefits and working conditions, including
privileges, prerequisites and status. It must
involve the same or substantially similar du-
ties and responsibilities, which must entail
substantially equivalent skill, effort, respon-
sibility, and authority.
(b) Conditions to qualify. If an employee is
no longer qualified for the position because
of the employee’s inability to attend a nec-
essary course, renew a license, etc., as a re-
sult of the leave, the employee shall be given
a reasonable opportunity to fulfill those con-
ditions upon return to work.
(c) Equivalent Pay. (1) An employee is enti-
tled to any unconditional pay increases
which may have occurred during the FMLA
leave period, such as cost of living increases.
Pay increases conditioned upon seniority,
length of service, or work performed must be
granted in accordance with the employing
office’s policy or practice with respect to
other employees on an equivalent leave sta-
tus for a reason that does not qualify as
FMLA leave. An employee is entitled to be
restored to a position with the same or
equivalent pay premiums, such as a shift dif-
ferential. If an employee departed from a po-
sition averaging ten hours of overtime (and
corresponding overtime pay) each week, an
employee is ordinarily entitled to such a po-
sition on return from FMLA leave.
(2) Equivalent pay includes any bonus or
payment, whether it is discretionary or non-
discretionary, made to employees consistent
with the provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this
section. However, if a bonus or other pay-
ment is based on the achievement of a speci-
fied goal such as hours worked, products sold
or perfect attendance, and the employee has
not met the goal due to FMLA leave, then
the payment may be denied, unless otherwise
paid to employees on an equivalent leave
status for a reason that does not qualify as
FMLA leave. For example, if an employee
who used paid vacation leave for a non-
FMLA purpose would receive the payment,
then the employee who used paid vacation
leave for an FMLA-protected purpose also
must receive the payment.
(d) Equivalent benefits. Benefits include all
benefits provided or made available to em-
ployees by an employing office, including
group life insurance, health insurance, dis-
ability insurance, sick leave, annual leave,
educational benefits, and pensions, regard-
less of whether such benefits are provided by
a practice or written policy of an employing
office through an employee benefit plan.
(1) At the end of an employee’s FMLA
leave, benefits must be resumed in the same
manner and at the same levels as provided
when the leave began, and subject to any
changes in benefit levels that may have
taken place during the period of FMLA leave
affecting the entire work force, unless other-
wise elected by the employee. Upon return
from FMLA leave, an employee cannot be re-
quired to requalify for any benefits the em-
ployee enjoyed before FMLA leave began (in-
cluding family or dependent coverages). For
example, if an employee was covered by a
life insurance policy before taking leave but
is not covered or coverage lapses during the
period of unpaid FMLA leave, the employee
cannot be required to meet any qualifica-
tions, such as taking a physical examina-
tion, in order to requalify for life insurance
upon return from leave. Accordingly, some
employing offices may find it necessary to
modify life insurance and other benefits pro-
grams in order to restore employees to
equivalent benefits upon return from FMLA
leave, make arrangements for continued
payment of costs to maintain such benefits
during unpaid FMLA leave, or pay these
costs subject to recovery from the employee
on return from leave. See 825.213(b).
(2) An employee may, but is not entitled
to, accrue any additional benefits or senior-
ity during unpaid FMLA leave. Benefits ac-
crued at the time leave began, however, (e.g.,
paid vacation, sick or personal leave to the
extent not substituted for FMLA leave) must
be available to an employee upon return
from leave.
(3) If, while on unpaid FMLA leave, an em-
ployee desires to continue life insurance, dis-
ability insurance, or other types of benefits
for which he or she typically pays, the em-
ploying office is required to follow estab-
lished policies or practices for continuing
such benefits for other instances of leave
without pay. If the employing office has no
established policy, the employee and the em-
ploying office are encouraged to agree upon
arrangements before FMLA leave begins.
(4) With respect to pension and other re-
tirement plans, any period of unpaid FMLA
leave shall not be treated as or counted to-
ward a break in service for purposes of vest-
ing and eligibility to participate. Also, if the
plan requires an employee to be employed on
a specific date in order to be credited with a
year of service for vesting, contributions or
participation purposes, an employee on un-
paid FMLA leave on that date shall be
deemed to have been employed on that date.
However, unpaid FMLA leave periods need
not be treated as credited service for pur-
poses of benefit accrual, vesting and eligi-
bility to participate.
(5) Employees on unpaid FMLA leave are
to be treated as if they continued to work for
purposes of changes to benefit plans. They
are entitled to changes in benefits plans, ex-
cept those which may be dependent upon se-
niority or accrual during the leave period,
immediately upon return from leave or to
the same extent they would have qualified if
no leave had been taken. For example if the
benefit plan is predicated on a pre-estab-
lished number of hours worked each year and
the employee does not have sufficient hours
as a result of taking unpaid FMLA leave, the
benefit is lost. (In this regard, 825.209 ad-
dresses health benefits.)
(e) Equivalent terms and conditions of em-
ployment. An equivalent position must have
substantially similar duties, conditions, re-
sponsibilities, privileges and status as the
employee’s original position.
(1) The employee must be reinstated to the
same or a geographically proximate worksite
(i.e., one that does not involve a significant
increase in commuting time or distance)
from where the employee had previously
been employed. If the employee’s original
worksite has been closed, the employee is en-
titled to the same rights as if the employee
had not been on leave when the worksite
closed. For example, if an employing office
transfers all employees from a closed work-
site to a new worksite in a different city, the
employee on leave is also entitled to transfer
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00318 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7005
November 16, 2020
under the same conditions as if he or she had
continued to be employed.
(2) The employee is ordinarily entitled to
return to the same shift or the same or an
equivalent work schedule.
(3) The employee must have the same or an
equivalent opportunity for bonuses, and
other similar discretionary and non-discre-
tionary payments.
(4) FMLA does not prohibit an employing
office from accommodating an employee’s
request to be restored to a different shift,
schedule, or position which better suits the
employee’s personal needs on return from
leave, or to offer a promotion to a better po-
sition. However, an employee cannot be in-
duced by the employing office to accept a
different position against the employee’s
wishes.
(f) De minimis exception. The requirement
that an employee be restored to the same or
equivalent job with the same or equivalent
pay, benefits, and terms and conditions of
employment does not extend to de minimis,
intangible, or unmeasurable aspects of the
job.
825.216 Limitations on an employee’s right to
reinstatement.
(a) An employee has no greater right to re-
instatement or to other benefits and condi-
tions of employment than if the employee
had been continuously employed during the
FMLA leave period. An employing office
must be able to show that an employee
would not otherwise have been employed at
the time reinstatement is requested in order
to deny restoration to employment. For ex-
ample:
(1) If an employee is laid off during the
course of taking FMLA leave and employ-
ment is terminated, the employing office’s
responsibility to continue FMLA leave,
maintain group health plan benefits and re-
store the employee ceases at the time the
employee is laid off, provided the employing
office has no continuing obligations under a
collective bargaining agreement or other-
wise. An employing office would have the
burden of proving that an employee would
have been laid off during the FMLA leave pe-
riod and, therefore, would not be entitled to
restoration. Restoration to a job slated for
lay-off when the employee’s original position
is not would not meet the requirements of an
equivalent position.
(2) If a shift has been eliminated, or over-
time has been decreased, an employee would
not be entitled to return to work that shift
or the original overtime hours upon restora-
tion. However, if a position on, for example,
a night shift has been filled by another em-
ployee, the employee is entitled to return to
the same shift on which employed before
taking FMLA leave.
(3) If an employee was hired for a specific
term or only to perform work on a discrete
project, the employing office has no obliga-
tion to restore the employee if the employ-
ment term or project is over and the employ-
ing office would not otherwise have contin-
ued to employ the employee. On the other
hand, if an employee was hired to perform
work for one employing office for a specific
time period, and after that time period has
ended, the work was assigned to another em-
ploying office, the successor employing of-
fice may be required to restore the employee
if it is a successor employing office.
(b) In addition to the circumstances ex-
plained above, an employing office may deny
job restoration to salaried eligible employees
(key employees, as defined in 825.217(c)), if
such denial is necessary to prevent substan-
tial and grievous economic injury to the op-
erations of the employing office; or may
delay restoration to an employee who fails
to provide a fitness-for-duty certificate to
return to work under the conditions de-
scribed in 825.312.
(c) If the employee is unable to perform an
essential function of the position because of
a physical or mental condition, including the
continuation of a serious health condition or
an injury or illness also covered by workers’
compensation, the employee has no right to
restoration to another position under the
FMLA. The employing office’s obligations
may, however, be governed by the Americans
with Disabilities Act (ADA), as amended and
as made applicable by the CAA. See 825.702.
(d) An employee who fraudulently obtains
FMLA leave from an employing office is not
protected by the job restoration or mainte-
nance of health benefits provisions of the
FMLA, as made applicable by the CAA.
(e) If the employing office has a uniformly-
applied policy governing outside or supple-
mental employment, such a policy may con-
tinue to apply to an employee while on
FMLA leave. An employing office which does
not have such a policy may not deny benefits
to which an employee is entitled under
FMLA, as made applicable by the CAA, on
this basis unless the FMLA leave was fraudu-
lently obtained as in paragraph (d) of this
section.
825.217 Key employee, general rule.
(a) A key employee is a salaried FMLA-eli-
gible employee who is among the highest
paid 10 percent of all the employees em-
ployed by the employing office within 75
miles of the employee’s worksite.
(b) The term salaried means paid on a sal-
ary basis, within the meaning of the Board’s
FLSA regulations at part 541, implementing
section 203 of the CAA (2 U.S.C. 1313), regard-
ing employees who may qualify as exempt
from the minimum wage and overtime re-
quirements of the FLSA, as made applicable
by the CAA.
(c) A key employee must be among the
highest paid 10 percent of all the employ-
ees—both salaried and non-salaried, eligible
and ineligible—who are employed by the em-
ploying office within 75 miles of the work-
site.
(1) In determining which employees are
among the highest paid 10 percent, year- to-
date earnings are divided by weeks worked
by the employee (including weeks in which
paid leave was taken). Earnings include
wages, premium pay, incentive pay, and non-
discretionary and discretionary bonuses.
Earnings do not include incentives whose
value is determined at some future date, e.g.,
benefits or prerequisites.
(2) The determination of whether a salaried
employee is among the highest paid 10 per-
cent shall be made at the time the employee
gives notice of the need for leave. No more
than 10 percent of the employing office’s em-
ployees within 75 miles of the worksite may
be key employees.
825.218 Substantial and grievous economic
injury.
(a) In order to deny restoration to a key
employee, an employing office must deter-
mine that the restoration of the employee to
employment will cause substantial and
grievous economic injury to the operations
of the employing office, not whether the ab-
sence of the employee will cause such sub-
stantial and grievous injury.
(b) An employing office may take into ac-
count its ability to replace on a temporary
basis (or temporarily do without) the em-
ployee on FMLA leave. If permanent replace-
ment is unavoidable, the cost of then rein-
stating the employee can be considered in
evaluating whether substantial and grievous
economic injury will occur from restoration;
in other words, the effect on the operations
of the employing office of reinstating the
employee in an equivalent position.
(c) A precise test cannot be set for the
level of hardship or injury to the employing
office which must be sustained. If the rein-
statement of a key employee threatens the
economic viability of the employing office,
that would constitute substantial and griev-
ous economic injury. A lesser injury which
causes substantial, long-term economic in-
jury would also be sufficient. Minor incon-
veniences and costs that the employing of-
fice would experience in the normal course
would certainly not constitute substantial
and grievous economic injury.
(d) FMLA’s substantial and grievous eco-
nomic injury standard is different from and
more stringent than the undue hardship test
under the ADA, as made applicable by the
CAA. See also 825.702.
825.219 Rights of a key employee.
(a) An employing office that believes that
reinstatement may be denied to a key em-
ployee, must give written notice to the em-
ployee at the time the employee gives notice
of the need for FMLA leave (or when FMLA
leave commences, if earlier) that he or she
qualifies as a key employee. At the same
time, the employing office must also fully
inform the employee of the potential con-
sequences with respect to reinstatement and
maintenance of health benefits if the em-
ploying office should determine that sub-
stantial and grievous economic injury to the
employing office’s operations will result if
the employee is reinstated from FMLA
leave. If such notice cannot be given imme-
diately because of the need to determine
whether the employee is a key employee, it
shall be given as soon as practicable after
being notified of a need for leave (or the
commencement of leave, if earlier). It is ex-
pected that in most circumstances there will
be no desire that an employee be denied res-
toration after FMLA leave and, therefore,
there would be no need to provide such no-
tice. However, an employing office who fails
to provide such timely notice will lose its
right to deny restoration even if substantial
and grievous economic injury will result
from reinstatement.
(b) As soon as an employing office makes a
good faith determination, based on the facts
available, that substantial and grievous eco-
nomic injury to its operations will result if
a key employee who has given notice of the
need for FMLA leave or is using FMLA leave
is reinstated, the employing office shall no-
tify the employee in writing of its deter-
mination, that it cannot deny FMLA leave,
and that it intends to deny restoration to
employment on completion of the FMLA
leave. It is anticipated that an employing of-
fice will ordinarily be able to give such no-
tice prior to the employee starting leave.
The employing office must serve this notice
either in person or by certified mail. This no-
tice must explain the basis for the employing
office’s finding that substantial and grievous
economic injury will result, and, if leave has
commenced, must provide the employee a
reasonable time in which to return to work,
taking into account the circumstances, such
as the length of the leave and the urgency of
the need for the employee to return.
(c) If an employee on leave does not return
to work in response to the employing office’s
notification of intent to deny restoration,
the employee continues to be entitled to
maintenance of health benefits and the em-
ploying office may not recover its cost of
health benefit premiums. A key employee’s
rights under FMLA continue unless and
until the employee either gives notice that
he or she no longer wishes to return to work,
or the employing office actually denies rein-
statement at the conclusion of the leave pe-
riod.
(d) After notice to an employee has been
given that substantial and grievous eco-
nomic injury will result if the employee is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00319 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7006 November 16, 2020
reinstated to employment, an employee is
still entitled to request reinstatement at the
end of the leave period even if the employee
did not return to work in response to the em-
ploying office’s notice. The employing office
must then again determine whether there
will be substantial and grievous economic in-
jury from reinstatement, based on the facts
at that time. If it is determined that sub-
stantial and grievous economic injury will
result, the employing office shall notify the
employee in writing (in person or by cer-
tified mail) of the denial of restoration.
825.220 Protection for employees who request
leave or otherwise assert FMLA rights.
(a) The FMLA, as made applicable by the
CAA, prohibits interference with an employ-
ee’s rights under the law, and with legal pro-
ceedings or inquiries relating to an employ-
ee’s rights. More specifically, the law con-
tains the following employee protections:
(1) An employing office is prohibited from
interfering with, restraining, or denying the
exercise of (or attempts to exercise) any
rights provided by the FMLA, as made appli-
cable by the CAA.
(2) An employing office is prohibited from
discharging or in any other way discrimi-
nating against any covered employee (wheth-
er or not an eligible employee) for opposing
or complaining about any unlawful practice
under the FMLA, as made applicable by the
CAA.
(3) All employing offices are prohibited
from discharging or in any other way dis-
criminating against any covered employee
(whether or not an eligible employee) be-
cause that covered employee has—
(i) Filed any charge, or has instituted (or
caused to be instituted) any proceeding
under or related to the FMLA, as made ap-
plicable by the CAA;
(ii) Given, or is about to give, any informa-
tion in connection with an inquiry or pro-
ceeding relating to a right under the FMLA,
as made applicable by the CAA;
(iii) Testified, or is about to testify, in any
inquiry or proceeding relating to a right
under the FMLA, as made applicable by the
CAA.
(b) Any violations of the FMLA, as made
applicable by the CAA, or of these regula-
tions constitute interfering with, restrain-
ing, or denying the exercise of rights pro-
vided by the FMLA, as made applicable by
the CAA. An employing office may be liable
for compensation and benefits lost by reason
of the violation, for other actual monetary
losses sustained as a direct result of the vio-
lation, and for appropriate equitable or other
relief, including employment, reinstatement,
promotion, or any other relief tailored to the
harm suffered. See 825.400(c). Interfering with
the exercise of an employee’s rights would
include, for example, not only refusing to au-
thorize FMLA leave, but discouraging an em-
ployee from using such leave. It would also
include manipulation by a covered employ-
ing office to avoid responsibilities under
FMLA, for example:
(1) [Reserved]
(2) Changing the essential functions of the
job in order to preclude the taking of leave;
or
(3) Reducing hours available to work in
order to avoid employee eligibility.
(c) The FMLA’s prohibition against inter-
ference prohibits an employing office from
discriminating or retaliating against an em-
ployee or prospective employee for having
exercised or attempted to exercise FMLA
rights. For example, if an employee on leave
without pay would otherwise be entitled to
full benefits (other than health benefits), the
same benefits would be required to be pro-
vided to an employee on unpaid FMLA leave.
By the same token, employing offices cannot
use the taking of FMLA leave as a negative
factor in employment actions, such as hir-
ing, promotions or disciplinary actions; nor
can FMLA leave be counted under no fault
attendance policies. See 825.215.
(d) Employees cannot waive, nor may em-
ploying offices induce employees to waive,
their rights under FMLA. For example, em-
ployees (or their collective bargaining rep-
resentatives) cannot trade off the right to
take FMLA leave against some other benefit
offered by the employing office. Except for
settlement agreements covered by 1414 and/
or 1415 of the Congressional Accountability
Act, this does not prevent the settlement or
release of FMLA claims by employees based
on past employing office conduct without
the approval of the Office of Congressional
Workplace Rights or a court. Nor does it pre-
vent an employee’s voluntary and uncoerced
acceptance (not as a condition of employ-
ment) of a light duty assignment while re-
covering from a serious health condition. See
825.702(d). An employee’s acceptance of such
light duty assignment does not constitute a
waiver of the employee’s prospective rights,
including the right to be restored to the
same position the employee held at the time
the employee’s FMLA leave commenced or
to an equivalent position. The employee’s
right to restoration, however, ceases at the
end of the applicable 12-month FMLA leave
year.
(e) Covered employees, and not merely eli-
gible employees, are protected from retalia-
tion for opposing (e.g., filing a complaint
about) any practice which is unlawful under
the FMLA, as made applicable by the CAA.
They are similarly protected if they oppose
any practice which they reasonably believe
to be a violation of the FMLA, as made ap-
plicable by the CAA, or regulations.
SUBPART C—EMPLOYEE AND EMPLOYING
OFFICE RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS
UNDER THE FMLA, AS MADE APPLICA-
BLE BY THE CAA
825.300 Employing office notice require-
ments.
(a)(1) If an employing office has any eligi-
ble employees and has any written guidance
to employees concerning employee benefits
or leave rights, such as in an employee hand-
book, information concerning both entitle-
ments and employee obligations under the
FMLA, as made applicable by the CAA, must
be included in the handbook or other docu-
ment. For example, if an employing office
provides an employee handbook to all em-
ployees that describes the employing office’s
policies regarding leave, wages, attendance,
and similar matters, the handbook must in-
corporate information on FMLA rights and
responsibilities and the employing office’s
policies regarding the FMLA, as made appli-
cable by the CAA. Informational publica-
tions describing the provisions of the FMLA,
as made applicable by the CAA, are available
from the Office of Congressional Workplace
Rights and may be incorporated in such em-
ploying office handbooks or written policies.
(2) If such an employing office does not
have written policies, manuals, or handbooks
describing employee benefits and leave pro-
visions, the employing office shall provide
written guidance to an employee concerning
all the employee’s rights and obligations
under the FMLA, as made applicable by the
CAA. This notice shall be provided to em-
ployees each time notice is given pursuant to
paragraph (c), and in accordance with the
provisions of that paragraph. Employing of-
fices may duplicate and provide the em-
ployee a copy of the FMLA Fact Sheet avail-
able from the Office of Congressional Work-
place Rights to provide such guidance.
(b) Eligibility notice. (1) When an employee
requests FMLA leave, or when the employing
office acquires knowledge that an employee’s
leave may be for an FMLA-qualifying reason,
the employing office must notify the em-
ployee of the employee’s eligibility to take
FMLA leave within five business days, ab-
sent extenuating circumstances. See 825.110
for definition of an eligible employee. Em-
ployee eligibility is determined (and notice
must be provided) at the commencement of
the first instance of leave for each FMLA-
qualifying reason in the applicable 12-month
period. See 825.127(c) and 825.200(b). All
FMLA absences for the same qualifying rea-
son are considered a single leave and em-
ployee eligibility as to that reason for leave
does not change during the applicable 12-
month period.
(2) The eligibility notice must state wheth-
er the employee is eligible for FMLA leave
as defined in 825.110. If the employee is not
eligible for FMLA leave, the notice must
state at least one reason why the employee
is not eligible, including as applicable the
number of months the employee has been
employed by the employing office and the
hours of service with the employing office
during the 12-month period. Notification of
eligibility may be oral or in writing; employ-
ing offices may use Form C to provide such
notification to employees.
(3) If, at the time an employee provides no-
tice of a subsequent need for FMLA leave
during the applicable 12-month period due to
a different FMLA-qualifying reason, and the
employee’s eligibility status has not
changed, no additional eligibility notice is
required. If, however, the employee’s eligi-
bility status has changed (e.g., if the em-
ployee has not met the hours of service re-
quirement in the 12 months preceding the
commencement of leave for the subsequent
qualifying reason), the employing office
must notify the employee of the change in
eligibility status within five business days,
absent extenuating circumstances.
(c) Rights and responsibilities notice. (1) Em-
ploying offices shall provide written notice
detailing the specific expectations and obli-
gations of the employee and explaining any
consequences of a failure to meet these obli-
gations. This notice shall be provided to the
employee each time the eligibility notice is
provided pursuant to paragraph (b) of this
section. If leave has already begun, the no-
tice should be mailed to the employee’s ad-
dress of record. Such specific notice must in-
clude, as appropriate:
(i) That the leave may be designated and
counted against the employee’s annual
FMLA leave entitlement if qualifying (See
825.300(c) and 825.301) and the applicable 12-
month period for FMLA entitlement (See
825.127(c), 825.200(b), (f), and (g));
(ii) Any requirements for the employee to
furnish certification of a serious health con-
dition, serious injury or illness, or qualifying
exigency arising out of covered active duty
or call to covered active duty status, and the
consequences of failing to do so (See 825.305,
825.309, 825.310, 825.313);
(iii) If applicable, the employee’s right to
substitute paid parental leave for unpaid
FMLA leave for a birth or placement (See
825.208) and the employee’s right to sub-
stitute paid leave generally, whether the em-
ploying office will require the substitution of
paid leave, the conditions related to any sub-
stitution, and the employee’s entitlement to
take unpaid FMLA leave if the employee
does not meet the conditions for paid leave
(See 825.207);
(iv) Any requirement for the employee to
make any premium payments to maintain
health benefits and the arrangements for
making such payments (See 825.210), and the
possible consequences of failure to make
such payments on a timely basis (i.e., the
circumstances under which coverage may
lapse);
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00320 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7007
November 16, 2020
(v) The employee’s status as a key em-
ployee and the potential consequence that
restoration may be denied following FMLA
leave, explaining the conditions required for
such denial (See 825.218);
(vi) The employee’s right to maintenance
of benefits during the FMLA leave and res-
toration to the same or an equivalent job
upon return from FMLA leave (See 825.214
and 825.604); and
(vii) The employee’s potential liability for
payment of health insurance premiums paid
by the employing office during the employ-
ee’s unpaid FMLA leave if the employee fails
to return to work after taking FMLA leave
(See 825.213, 825.504).
(2) The notice of rights and responsibilities
may include other information—e.g., wheth-
er the employing office will require periodic
reports of the employee’s status and intent
to return to work—but is not required to do
so.
(3) The notice of rights and responsibilities
may be accompanied by any required certifi-
cation form.
(4) If the specific information provided by
the notice of rights and responsibilities
changes, the employing office shall, within
five business days of receipt of the employ-
ee’s first notice of need for leave subsequent
to any change, provide written notice ref-
erencing the prior notice and setting forth
any of the information in the notice of rights
and responsibilities that has changed. For
example, if the initial leave period was paid
leave and the subsequent leave period would
be unpaid leave, the employing office may
need to give notice of the arrangements for
making premium payments.
(5) Employing offices are also expected to
responsively answer questions from employ-
ees concerning their rights and responsibil-
ities under the FMLA, as made applicable
under the CAA.
(6) A prototype notice of rights and respon-
sibilities may be obtained in Form C, or
from the Office of Congressional Workplace
Rights. Employing offices may adapt the
prototype notice as appropriate to meet
these notice requirements. The notice of
rights and responsibilities may be distrib-
uted electronically so long as it otherwise
meets the requirements of this section.
(d) Designation notice. (1) The employing of-
fice is responsible in all circumstances for
designating leave as FMLA-qualifying, and
for giving notice of the designation to the
employee as provided in this section. When
the employing office has enough information
to determine whether the leave is being
taken for a FMLA-qualifying reason (e.g.,
after receiving a certification), the employ-
ing office must notify the employee whether
the leave will be designated and will be
counted as FMLA leave within five business
days absent extenuating circumstances. Only
one notice of designation is required for each
FMLA-qualifying reason per applicable 12-
month period, regardless of whether the
leave taken due to the qualifying reason will
be a continuous block of leave or intermit-
tent or reduced schedule leave. If the em-
ploying office determines that the leave will
not be designated as FMLA-qualifying (e.g.,
if the leave is not for a reason covered by
FMLA or the FMLA leave entitlement has
been exhausted), the employing office must
notify the employee of that determination.
Subject to 825.208, if the employing office re-
quires paid leave to be substituted for unpaid
FMLA leave, or that paid leave taken under
an existing leave plan be counted as FMLA
leave, the employing office must inform the
employee of this designation at the time of
designating the FMLA leave.
(2) If the employing office has sufficient in-
formation to designate the leave as FMLA
leave immediately after receiving notice of
the employee’s need for leave, the employing
office may provide the employee with the
designation notice at that time.
(3) If the employing office will require the
employee to present a fitness-for-duty cer-
tification to be restored to employment, the
employing office must provide notice of such
requirement with the designation notice. If
the employing office will require that the
fitness-for-duty certification address the em-
ployee’s ability to perform the essential
functions of the employee’s position, the em-
ploying office must so indicate in the des-
ignation notice, and must include a list of
the essential functions of the employee’s po-
sition. See 825.312. If the employing office’s
handbook or other written documents (if
any) describing the employing office’s leave
policies clearly provide that a fitness-for-
duty certification will be required in specific
circumstances (e.g., by stating that fitness-
for-duty certification will be required in all
cases of back injuries for employees in a cer-
tain occupation), the employing office is not
required to provide written notice of the re-
quirement with the designation notice, but
must provide oral notice no later than with
the designation notice.
(4) The designation notice must be in writ-
ing. A prototype designation notice is con-
tained in Form D which may be obtained
from the Office of Congressional Workplace
Rights. If the leave is not designated as
FMLA leave because it does not meet the re-
quirements of the FMLA, as made applicable
by the CAA, the notice to the employee that
the leave is not designated as FMLA leave
may be in the form of a simple written state-
ment. The designation notice may be distrib-
uted electronically so long as it otherwise
meets the requirements of this section and
the employing office can demonstrate that
the employee (who may already be on leave
and who may not have access to employing
office-provided computers) has access to the
information electronically.
(5) If the information provided by the em-
ploying office to the employee in the des-
ignation notice changes (e.g., the employee
exhausts the FMLA leave entitlement), the
employing office shall provide, within five
business days of receipt of the employee’s
first notice of need for leave subsequent to
any change, written notice of the change.
(6) The employing office must notify the
employee of the amount of leave counted
against the employee’s FMLA leave entitle-
ment and, if applicable, the employee’s paid
parental leave entitlement. If the amount of
leave needed is known at the time the em-
ploying office designates the leave as FMLA-
qualifying, the employing office must notify
the employee of the number of hours, days,
or weeks that will be counted against the
employee’s FMLA leave entitlement in the
designation notice. If it is not possible to
provide the hours, days, or weeks that will
be counted against the employee’s FMLA
leave entitlement (such as in the case of un-
foreseeable intermittent leave), then the em-
ploying office must provide notice of the
amount of leave counted against the employ-
ee’s FMLA leave entitlement and, if applica-
ble, paid parental leave entitlement, upon
the request by the employee, but no more
often than once in a 30-day period and only
if leave was taken in that period. The notice
of the amount of leave counted against the
employee’s FMLA entitlement and, if appli-
cable, paid parental leave entitlement may
be oral or in writing. If such notice is oral,
it shall be confirmed in writing no later than
the following payday (unless the payday is
less than one week after the oral notice, in
which case the notice must be no later than
the subsequent payday). Such written notice
may be in any form, including a notation on
the employee’s pay stub.
(e) Consequences of failing to provide notice.
Failure to follow the notice requirements set
forth in this section may constitute an inter-
ference with, restraint, or denial of the exer-
cise of an employee’s FMLA rights. An em-
ploying office may be liable for compensa-
tion and benefits lost by reason of the viola-
tion, for other actual monetary losses sus-
tained as a direct result of the violation, and
for appropriate equitable or other relief, in-
cluding employment, reinstatement, pro-
motion, or any other relief tailored to the
harm suffered. See 825.400(c). 825.301 Designa-
tion of FMLA leave.
(a) Employing office responsibilities. The em-
ploying office’s decision to designate leave
as FMLA-qualifying must be based only on
information received from the employee or
the employee’s spokesperson (e.g., if the em-
ployee is incapacitated, the employee’s
spouse, adult child, parent, doctor, etc., may
provide notice to the employing office of the
need to take FMLA leave). In any cir-
cumstance where the employing office does
not have sufficient information about the
reason for an employee’s use of leave, the
employing office should inquire further of
the employee or the spokesperson to ascer-
tain whether leave is potentially FMLA-
qualifying. Once the employing office has ac-
quired knowledge that the leave is being
taken for a FMLA-qualifying reason, the em-
ploying office must notify the employee as
provided in 825.300(d).
(b) Employee responsibilities. An employee
giving notice of the need for FMLA leave
does not need to expressly assert rights
under the FMLA, as made applicable by the
CAA, or even mention the FMLA to meet his
or her obligation to provide notice, though
the employee would need to state a quali-
fying reason for the needed leave and other-
wise satisfy the notice requirements set
forth in 825.302 or 825.303 depending on
whether the need for leave is foreseeable or
unforeseeable. An employee giving notice of
the need for FMLA leave must explain the
reasons for the needed leave so as to allow
the employing office to determine whether
the leave qualifies under the FMLA, as made
applicable by the CAA. If the employee fails
to explain the reasons, leave may be denied.
In many cases, in explaining the reasons for
a request to use leave, especially when the
need for the leave was unexpected or unfore-
seen, an employee will provide sufficient in-
formation for the employing office to des-
ignate the leave as FMLA leave. An em-
ployee using accrued paid leave may in some
cases not spontaneously explain the reasons
or their plans for using their accrued leave.
However, if an employee requesting to use
paid leave for a FMLA-qualifying reason
does not explain the reason for the leave and
the employing office denies the employee’s
request, the employee will need to provide
sufficient information to establish a FMLA-
qualifying reason for the needed leave so
that the employing office is aware that the
leave may not be denied and may designate
that the paid leave be appropriately counted
against (substituted for) the employee’s
FMLA leave entitlement. Similarly, an em-
ployee using accrued paid vacation leave
who seeks an extension of unpaid leave for a
FMLA-qualifying reason will need to state
the reason. If this is due to an event which
occurred during the period of paid leave, the
employing office may count the leave used
after the FMLA-qualifying reason against
the employee’s FMLA leave entitlement.
(c) Disputes. If there is a dispute between
an employing office and an employee as to
whether leave qualifies as FMLA leave, it
should be resolved through discussions be-
tween the employee and the employing of-
fice. Such discussions and the decision must
be documented.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00321 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7008 November 16, 2020
(d) Retroactive designation. If an employing
office does not designate leave as required by
825.300, the employing office may retro-
actively designate leave as FMLA leave with
appropriate notice to the employee as re-
quired by 825.300 provided that the employ-
ing office’s failure to timely designate leave
does not cause harm or injury to the em-
ployee. In all cases where leave would qual-
ify for FMLA protections, an employing of-
fice and an employee can mutually agree
that leave be retroactively designated as
FMLA leave.
(e) Remedies. If an employing office’s fail-
ure to timely designate leave in accordance
with 825.300 causes the employee to suffer
harm, it may constitute an interference
with, restraint of, or denial of the exercise of
an employee’s FMLA rights. An employing
office may be liable for compensation and
benefits lost by reason of the violation, for
other actual monetary losses sustained as a
direct result of the violation, and for appro-
priate equitable or other relief, including
employment, reinstatement, promotion, or
any other relief tailored to the harm suf-
fered. See 825.400(c). For example, if an em-
ploying office that was put on notice that an
employee needed FMLA leave failed to des-
ignate the leave properly, but the employee’s
own serious health condition prevented him
or her from returning to work during that
time period regardless of the designation, an
employee may not be able to show that the
employee suffered harm as a result of the
employing office’s actions. However, if an
employee took leave to provide care for a
son or daughter with a serious health condi-
tion believing it would not count toward his
or her FMLA entitlement, and the employee
planned to later use that FMLA leave to pro-
vide care for a spouse who would need assist-
ance when recovering from surgery planned
for a later date, the employee may be able to
show that harm has occurred as a result of
the employing office’s failure to designate
properly. The employee might establish this
by showing that he or she would have ar-
ranged for an alternative caregiver for the
seriously-ill son or daughter if the leave had
been designated timely.
825.302 Employee notice requirements for
foreseeable FMLA leave.
(a) Timing of notice. An employee must pro-
vide the employing office at least 30 days ad-
vance notice before FMLA leave is to begin
if the need for the leave is foreseeable based
on an expected birth, placement for adoption
or foster care, planned medical treatment for
a serious health condition of the employee or
of a family member, or the planned medical
treatment for a serious injury or illness of a
covered servicemember. If 30 days’ notice is
not practicable, such as because of a lack of
knowledge of approximately when leave will
be required to begin, a change in cir-
cumstances, or a medical emergency, notice
must be given as soon as practicable. For ex-
ample, an employee’s health condition may
require leave to commence earlier than an-
ticipated before the birth of a child. Simi-
larly, little opportunity for notice may be
given before placement for adoption. For
foreseeable leave due to a qualifying exi-
gency, notice must be provided as soon as
practicable, regardless of how far in advance
such leave is foreseeable. Whether FMLA
leave is to be continuous or is to be taken
intermittently or on a reduced schedule
basis, notice need only be given one time,
but the employee shall advise the employing
office as soon as practicable if dates of
scheduled leave change or are extended, or
were initially unknown. In those cases where
the employee is required to provide at least
30 days’ notice of foreseeable leave and does
not do so, the employee shall explain the
reasons why such notice was not practicable
upon a request from the employing office for
such information.
(b) As soon as practicable means as soon as
both possible and practical, taking into ac-
count all of the facts and circumstances in
the individual case. When an employee be-
comes aware of a need for FMLA leave less
than 30 days in advance, it should be prac-
ticable for the employee to provide notice of
the need for leave either the same day or the
next business day. In all cases, however, the
determination of when an employee could
practicably provide notice must take into
account the individual facts and cir-
cumstances.
(c) Content of notice. An employee shall
provide at least verbal notice sufficient to
make the employing office aware that the
employee needs FMLA-qualifying leave, and
the anticipated timing and duration of the
leave. Depending on the situation, such in-
formation may include that a condition ren-
ders the employee unable to perform the
functions of the job; that the employee is
pregnant or has been hospitalized overnight;
whether the employee or the employee’s
family member is under the continuing care
of a health care provider; if the leave is due
to a qualifying exigency, that a military
member is on covered active duty or call to
covered active duty status (or has been noti-
fied of an impending call or order to covered
active duty), and that the requested leave is
for one of the reasons listed in 825.126(b); if
the leave is for a family member, that the
condition renders the family member unable
to perform daily activities, or that the fam-
ily member is a covered servicemember with
a serious injury or illness; and the antici-
pated duration of the absence, if known.
When an employee seeks leave for the first
time for a FMLA-qualifying reason, the em-
ployee need not expressly assert rights under
the FMLA, as made applicable by the CAA,
or even mention the FMLA. When an em-
ployee seeks leave due to a FMLA-qualifying
reason, for which the employing office has
previously provided FMLA-protected leave,
the employee must specifically reference the
qualifying reason for leave or the need for
FMLA leave. In all cases, the employing of-
fice should inquire further of the employee if
it is necessary to have more information
about whether FMLA leave is being sought
by the employee, and obtain the necessary
details of the leave to be taken. In the case
of medical conditions, the employing office
may find it necessary to inquire further to
determine if the leave is because of a serious
health condition and may request medical
certification to support the need for such
leave. See 825.305. An employing office may
also request certification to support the need
for leave for a qualifying exigency or for
military caregiver leave. See 825.309, 825.310.
When an employee has been previously cer-
tified for leave due to more than one FMLA-
qualifying reason, the employing office may
need to inquire further to determine for
which qualifying reason the leave is needed.
An employee has an obligation to respond to
an employing office’s questions designed to
determine whether an absence is potentially
FMLA-qualifying. Failure to respond to rea-
sonable employing office inquiries regarding
the leave request may result in denial of
FMLA protection if the employing office is
unable to determine whether the leave is
FMLA-qualifying.
(d) Complying with the employing office
policy. An employing office may require an
employee to comply with the employing of-
fice’s usual and customary notice and proce-
dural requirements for requesting leave, ab-
sent unusual circumstances. For example, an
employing office may require that written
notice set forth the reasons for the requested
leave, the anticipated duration of the leave,
and the anticipated start of the leave. An
employee also may be required by an em-
ploying office’s policy to contact a specific
individual. Unusual circumstances would in-
clude situations such as when an employee is
unable to comply with the employing office’s
policy that requests for leave should be made
by contacting a specific number because on
the day the employee needs to provide notice
of his or her need for FMLA leave there is no
one to answer the call-in number and the
voice mail box is full. Where an employee
does not comply with the employing office’s
usual notice and procedural requirements,
and no unusual circumstances justify the
failure to comply, FMLA-protected leave
may be delayed or denied. However, FMLA-
protected leave may not be delayed or denied
where the employing office’s policy requires
notice to be given sooner than set forth in
paragraph (a) of this section and the em-
ployee provides timely notice as set forth in
paragraph (a) of this section.
(e) Scheduling planned medical treatment.
When planning medical treatment, the em-
ployee must consult with the employing of-
fice and make a reasonable effort to schedule
the treatment so as not to disrupt unduly
the employing office’s operations, subject to
the approval of the health care provider. Em-
ployees are ordinarily expected to consult
with their employing offices prior to the
scheduling of treatment in order to work out
a treatment schedule which best suits the
needs of both the employing office and the
employee. For example, if an employee who
provides notice of the need to take FMLA
leave on an intermittent basis for planned
medical treatment neglects to consult with
the employing office to make a reasonable
effort to arrange the schedule of treatments
so as not to unduly disrupt the employing of-
fice’s operations, the employing office may
initiate discussions with the employee and
require the employee to attempt to make
such arrangements, subject to the approval
of the health care provider. See 825.203 and
825.205.
(f) Intermittent leave or leave on a reduced
leave schedule must be medically necessary
due to a serious health condition or a serious
injury or illness. An employee shall advise
the employing office, upon request, of the
reasons why the intermittent/reduced leave
schedule is necessary and of the schedule for
treatment, if applicable. The employee and
employing office shall attempt to work out a
schedule for such leave that meets the em-
ployee’s needs without unduly disrupting the
employing office’s operations, subject to the
approval of the health care provider.
(g) An employing office may waive employ-
ees’ FMLA notice requirements. See 825.304.
825.303 Employee notice requirements for un-
foreseeable FMLA leave.
(a) Timing of notice. When the approximate
timing of the need for leave is not foresee-
able, an employee must provide notice to the
employing office as soon as practicable
under the facts and circumstances of the par-
ticular case. It generally should be prac-
ticable for the employee to provide notice of
leave that is unforeseeable within the time
prescribed by the employing office’s usual
and customary notice requirements applica-
ble to such leave. See 825.303(c). Notice may
be given by the employee’s spokesperson
(e.g., spouse, adult family member, or other
responsible party) if the employee is unable
to do so personally. For example, if an em-
ployee’s child has a severe asthma attack
and the employee takes the child to the
emergency room, the employee would not be
required to leave his or her child in order to
report the absence while the child is receiv-
ing emergency treatment. However, if the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00322 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7009
November 16, 2020
child’s asthma attack required only the use
of an inhaler at home followed by a period of
rest, the employee would be expected to call
the employing office promptly after ensuring
the child has used the inhaler.
(b) Content of notice. An employee shall
provide sufficient information for an em-
ploying office to reasonably determine
whether the FMLA may apply to the leave
request. Depending on the situation, such in-
formation may include that a condition ren-
ders the employee unable to perform the
functions of the job; that the employee is
pregnant or has been hospitalized overnight;
whether the employee or the employee’s
family member is under the continuing care
of a health care provider; if the leave is due
to a qualifying exigency, that a military
member is on covered active duty or call to
covered active duty status (or has been noti-
fied of an impending call or order to covered
active duty), that the requested leave is for
one of the reasons listed in 825.126(b), and the
anticipated duration of the absence; or if the
leave is for a family member that the condi-
tion renders the family member unable to
perform daily activities or that the family
member is a covered servicemember with a
serious injury or illness; and the anticipated
duration of the absence, if known. When an
employee seeks leave for the first time for a
FMLA-qualifying reason, the employee need
not expressly assert rights under the FMLA,
as made applicable by the CAA, or even men-
tion the FMLA. When an employee seeks
leave due to a qualifying reason, for which
the employing office has previously provided
the employee FMLA-protected leave, the em-
ployee must specifically reference either the
qualifying reason for leave or the need for
FMLA leave. Calling in ‘‘sick’’ without pro-
viding more information will not be consid-
ered sufficient notice to trigger an employ-
ing office’s obligations under the FMLA, as
made applicable by the CAA. The employing
office will be expected to obtain any addi-
tional required information through infor-
mal means. An employee has an obligation
to respond to an employing office’s questions
designed to determine whether an absence is
potentially FMLA-qualifying. Failure to re-
spond to reasonable employing office inquir-
ies office regarding the leave request may re-
sult in denial of FMLA protection if the em-
ploying office is unable to determine wheth-
er the leave is FMLA-qualifying.
(c) Complying with employing office policy.
When the need for leave is not foreseeable,
an employee must comply with the employ-
ing office’s usual and customary notice and
procedural requirements for requesting
leave, absent unusual circumstances. For ex-
ample, an employing office may require em-
ployees to call a designated number or a spe-
cific individual to request leave. However, if
an employee requires emergency medical
treatment, he or she would not be required
to follow the call-in procedure until his or
her condition is stabilized and he or she has
access to, and is able to use, a phone. Simi-
larly, in the case of an emergency requiring
leave because of a FMLA-qualifying reason,
written advance notice pursuant to an em-
ploying office’s internal rules and procedures
may not be required when FMLA leave is in-
volved. If an employee does not comply with
the employing office’s usual notice and pro-
cedural requirements, and no unusual cir-
cumstances justify the failure to comply,
FMLA-protected leave may be delayed or de-
nied.
825.304 Employee failure to provide notice.
(a) Proper notice required. In all cases, in
order for the onset of an employee’s FMLA
leave to be delayed due to lack of required
notice, it must be clear that the employee
had actual notice of the FMLA notice re-
quirements. This condition would be satis-
fied by the employing office’s proper posting,
at the worksite where the employee is em-
ployed, of the information regarding the
FMLA provided (pursuant to section 301(h)(2)
of the CAA, 2 U.S.C. 1381(h)(2)) by the Office
of Congressional Workplace Rights to the
employing office in a manner suitable for
posting.
(b) Foreseeable leave—30 days. When the
need for FMLA leave is foreseeable at least
30 days in advance and an employee fails to
give timely advance notice with no reason-
able excuse, the employing office may delay
FMLA coverage until 30 days after the date
the employee provides notice. The need for
leave and the approximate date leave would
be taken must have been clearly foreseeable
to the employee 30 days in advance of the
leave. For example, knowledge that an em-
ployee would receive a telephone call about
the availability of a child for adoption at
some unknown point in the future would not
be sufficient to establish the leave was clear-
ly foreseeable 30 days in advance.
(c) Foreseeable leave—less than 30 days.
When the need for FMLA leave is foreseeable
fewer than 30 days in advance and an em-
ployee fails to give notice as soon as prac-
ticable under the particular facts and cir-
cumstances, the extent to which an employ-
ing office may delay FMLA coverage for
leave depends on the facts of the particular
case. For example, if an employee reasonably
should have given the employing office two
weeks’ notice but instead only provided one
week’s notice, then the employing office
may delay FMLA-protected leave for one
week (thus, if the employing office elects to
delay FMLA coverage and the employee
nonetheless takes leave one week after pro-
viding the notice (i.e., a week before the two
week notice period has been met) the leave
will not be FMLA-protected).
(d) Unforeseeable leave. When the need for
FMLA leave is unforeseeable and an em-
ployee fails to give notice in accordance with
825.303, the extent to which an employing of-
fice may delay FMLA coverage for leave de-
pends on the facts of the particular case. For
example, if it would have been practicable
for an employee to have given the employing
office notice of the need for leave very soon
after the need arises consistent with the em-
ploying office’s policy, but instead the em-
ployee provided notice two days after the
leave began, then the employing office may
delay FMLA coverage of the leave by two
days.
(e) Waiver of notice. An employing office
may waive employees’ FMLA notice obliga-
tions or the employing office’s own internal
rules on leave notice requirements. If an em-
ploying office does not waive the employee’s
obligations under its internal leave rules,
the employing office may take appropriate
action under its internal rules and proce-
dures for failure to follow its usual and cus-
tomary notification rules, absent unusual
circumstances, as long as the actions are
taken in a manner that does not discrimi-
nate against employees taking FMLA leave
and the rules are not inconsistent with
825.303(a).
825.305 Certification, general rule.
(a) General. An employing office may re-
quire that an employee’s leave to care for
the employee’s covered family member with
a serious health condition, or due to the em-
ployee’s own serious health condition that
makes the employee unable to perform one
or more of the essential functions of the em-
ployee’s position, be supported by a certifi-
cation issued by the health care provider of
the employee or the employee’s family mem-
ber. An employing office may also require
that an employee’s leave because of a quali-
fying exigency or to care for a covered serv-
icemember with a serious injury or illness be
supported by a certification, as described in
825.309 and 825.310, respectively. An employ-
ing office must give notice of a requirement
for certification each time a certification is
required; such notice must be written notice
whenever required by 825.300(c). An employ-
ing office’s oral request to an employee to
furnish any subsequent certification is suffi-
cient.
(b) Timing. In most cases, the employing of-
fice should request that an employee furnish
certification at the time the employee gives
notice of the need for leave or within five
business days thereafter, or, in the case of
unforeseen leave, within five business days
after the leave commences. The employing
office may request certification at some
later date if the employing office later has
reason to question the appropriateness of the
leave or its duration. The employee must
provide the requested certification to the
employing office within 15 calendar days
after the employing office’s request, unless it
is not practicable under the particular cir-
cumstances to do so despite the employee’s
diligent, good faith efforts or the employing
office provides more than 15 calendar days to
return the requested certification.
(c) Complete and sufficient certification. The
employee must provide a complete and suffi-
cient certification to the employing office if
required by the employing office in accord-
ance with 825.306, 825.309, and 825.310. The em-
ploying office shall advise an employee
whenever the employing office finds a cer-
tification incomplete or insufficient, and
shall state in writing what additional infor-
mation is necessary to make the certifi-
cation complete and sufficient. A certifi-
cation is considered incomplete if the em-
ploying office receives a certification, but
one or more of the applicable entries have
not been completed. A certification is con-
sidered insufficient if the employing office
receives a complete certification, but the in-
formation provided is vague, ambiguous, or
non-responsive. The employing office must
provide the employee with seven calendar
days (unless not practicable under the par-
ticular circumstances despite the employee’s
diligent good faith efforts) to cure any such
deficiency. If the deficiencies specified by
the employing office are not cured in the re-
submitted certification, the employing office
may deny the taking of FMLA leave, in ac-
cordance with 825.313. A certification that is
not returned to the employing office is not
considered incomplete or insufficient, but
constitutes a failure to provide certification.
(d) Consequences. At the time the employ-
ing office requests certification, the employ-
ing office must also advise an employee of
the anticipated consequences of an employ-
ee’s failure to provide adequate certification.
If the employee fails to provide the employ-
ing office with a complete and sufficient cer-
tification, despite the opportunity to cure
the certification as provided in paragraph (c)
of this section, or fails to provide any certifi-
cation, the employing office may deny the
taking of FMLA leave, in accordance with
825.313. It is the employee’s responsibility ei-
ther to furnish a complete and sufficient cer-
tification or to furnish the health care pro-
vider providing the certification with any
necessary authorization from the employee
or the employee’s family member in order
for the health care provider to release a com-
plete and sufficient certification to the em-
ploying office to support the employee’s
FMLA request. This provision will apply in
any case where an employing office requests
a certification permitted by these regula-
tions, whether it is the initial certification,
a recertification, a second or third opinion,
or a fitness-for-duty certificate, including
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00323 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7010 November 16, 2020
any clarifications necessary to determine if
such certifications are authentic and suffi-
cient. See 825.306, 825.307, 825.308, and 825.312.
(e) Annual medical certification. Where the
employee’s need for leave due to the employ-
ee’s own serious health condition, or the se-
rious health condition of the employee’s cov-
ered family member, lasts beyond a single
leave year (as defined in 825.200), the employ-
ing office may require the employee to pro-
vide a new medical certification in each sub-
sequent leave year. Such new medical cer-
tifications are subject to the provisions for
authentication and clarification set forth in
825.307, including second and third opinions.
825.306 Content of medical certification for
leave taken because of an employee’s own
serious health condition or the serious
health condition of a family member.
(a) Required information. When leave is
taken because of an employee’s own serious
health condition, or the serious health condi-
tion of a family member, an employing office
may require an employee to obtain a medical
certification from a health care provider
that sets forth the following information:
(1) The name, address, telephone number,
and fax number of the health care provider
and type of medical practice/specialization;
(2) The approximate date on which the se-
rious health condition commenced, and its
probable duration;
(3) A statement or description of appro-
priate medical facts regarding the patient’s
health condition for which FMLA leave is re-
quested. The medical facts must be sufficient
to support the need for leave. Such medical
facts may include information on symptoms,
diagnosis, hospitalization, doctor visits,
whether medication has been prescribed, any
referrals for evaluation or treatment (phys-
ical therapy, for example), or any other regi-
men of continuing treatment;
(4) If the employee is the patient, informa-
tion sufficient to establish that the em-
ployee cannot perform the essential func-
tions of the employee’s job as well as the na-
ture of any other work restrictions, and the
likely duration of such inability (See
825.123(b));
(5) If the patient is a covered family mem-
ber with a serious health condition, informa-
tion sufficient to establish that the family
member is in need of care, as described in
825.124, and an estimate of the frequency and
duration of the leave required to care for the
family member;
(6) If an employee requests leave on an
intermittent or reduced schedule basis for
planned medical treatment of the employee’s
or a covered family member’s serious health
condition, information sufficient to establish
the medical necessity for such intermittent
or reduced schedule leave and an estimate of
the dates and duration of such treatments
and any periods of recovery;
(7) If an employee requests leave on an
intermittent or reduced schedule basis for
the employee’s serious health condition, in-
cluding pregnancy, that may result in un-
foreseeable episodes of incapacity, informa-
tion sufficient to establish the medical ne-
cessity for such intermittent or reduced
schedule leave and an estimate of the fre-
quency and duration of the episodes of inca-
pacity; and
(8) If an employee requests leave on an
intermittent or reduced schedule basis to
care for a covered family member with a se-
rious health condition, a statement that
such leave is medically necessary to care for
the family member, as described in 825.124
and 825.203(b), which can include assisting in
the family member’s recovery, and an esti-
mate of the frequency and duration of the re-
quired leave.
(b) The Office of Congressional Workplace
Rights has developed two optional forms
(Form A and Form B) for use in obtaining
medical certification, including second and
third opinions, from health care providers
that meets FMLA’s certification require-
ments, as made applicable by the CAA. (See
Forms A and B.) Optional Form A is for use
when the employee’s need for leave is due to
the employee’s own serious health condition.
Optional Form B is for use when the em-
ployee needs leave to care for a family mem-
ber with a serious health condition. These
optional forms reflect certification require-
ments so as to permit the health care pro-
vider to furnish appropriate medical infor-
mation. Forms A and B are modeled closely
on Form WH–380E and Form WH–380F, as re-
vised, which were developed by the Depart-
ment of Labor (See 29 C.F.R. Part 825). The
employing office may use the Office of Con-
gressional Workplace Rights’s forms, or
Form WH–380E and Form WH–380F, as re-
vised, or another form containing the same
basic information; however, no information
may be required beyond that specified in
825.306, 825.307, and 825.308. In all instances
the information on the form must relate
only to the serious health condition for
which the current need for leave exists.
(c) If an employee is on FMLA leave run-
ning concurrently with a workers’ compensa-
tion absence, and the provisions of the work-
ers’ compensation statute permit the em-
ploying office or the employing office’s rep-
resentative to request additional informa-
tion from the employee’s workers’ com-
pensation health care provider, the FMLA
does not prevent the employing office from
following the applicable workers’ compensa-
tion provisions and information received
under those provisions may be considered in
determining the employee’s entitlement to
FMLA-protected leave. Similarly, an em-
ploying office may request additional infor-
mation in accordance with a paid leave pol-
icy or disability plan that requires greater
information to qualify for payments or bene-
fits, provided that the employing office in-
forms the employee that the additional in-
formation only needs to be provided in con-
nection with receipt of such payments or
benefits. Any information received pursuant
to such policy or plan may be considered in
determining the employee’s entitlement to
FMLA-protected leave. If the employee fails
to provide the information required for re-
ceipt of such payments or benefits, such fail-
ure will not affect the employee’s entitle-
ment to take unpaid FMLA leave. See
825.207(a).
(d) If an employee’s serious health condi-
tion may also be a disability within the
meaning of the Americans with Disabilities
Act (ADA), as amended and as made applica-
ble by the CAA, the FMLA does not prevent
the employing office from following the pro-
cedures for requesting medical information
under the ADA. Any information received
pursuant to these procedures may be consid-
ered in determining the employee’s entitle-
ment to FMLA-protected leave.
(e) While an employee may choose to com-
ply with the certification requirement by
providing the employing office with an au-
thorization, release, or waiver allowing the
employing office to communicate directly
with the health care provider of the em-
ployee or his or her covered family member,
the employee may not be required to provide
such an authorization, release, or waiver. In
all instances in which certification is re-
quested, it is the employee’s responsibility
to provide the employing office with com-
plete and sufficient certification and failure
to do so may result in the denial of FMLA
leave. See 825.305(d).
825.307 Authentication and clarification of
medical certification for leave taken be-
cause of an employee’s own serious
health condition or the serious health
condition of a family member; second and
third opinions.
(a) Clarification and authentication. If an
employee submits a complete and sufficient
certification signed by the health care pro-
vider, the employing office may not request
additional information from the health care
provider. However, the employing office may
contact the health care provider for purposes
of clarification and authentication of the
medical certification (whether initial certifi-
cation or recertification) after the employ-
ing office has given the employee an oppor-
tunity to cure any deficiencies as set forth in
825.305(c). To make such contact, the em-
ploying office must use a health care pro-
vider, a human resources professional, a
leave administrator, or a management offi-
cial. An employee’s direct supervisor may
not contact the employee’s health care pro-
vider, unless the direct supervisor is also the
only individual in the employing office des-
ignated to process FMLA requests and the
direct supervisor receives specific authoriza-
tion from the employee to contact the em-
ployee’s health care provider. For purposes
of these regulations, authentication means
providing the health care provider with a
copy of the certification and requesting
verification that the information contained
on the certification form was completed and/
or authorized by the health care provider
who signed the document; no additional med-
ical information may be requested.
Clarification means contacting the health
care provider to understand the handwriting
on the medical certification or to understand
the meaning of a response. Employing offices
may not ask health care providers for addi-
tional information beyond that required by
the certification form. The requirements of
the Health Insurance Portability and Ac-
countability Act (HIPAA) Privacy Rule, (See
45 CFR parts 160 and 164), which governs the
privacy of individually-identifiable health
information created or held by HIPAA-cov-
ered entities, must be satisfied when individ-
ually-identifiable health information of an
employee is shared with an employing office
by a HIPAA-covered health care provider. If
an employee chooses not to provide the em-
ploying office with authorization allowing
the employing office to clarify the certifi-
cation with the health care provider, and
does not otherwise clarify the certification,
the employing office may deny the taking of
FMLA leave if the certification is unclear.
See 825.305(d). It is the employee’s responsi-
bility to provide the employing office with a
complete and sufficient certification and to
clarify the certification if necessary.
(b) Second Opinion. (1) An employing office
that has reason to doubt the validity of a
medical certification may require the em-
ployee to obtain a second opinion at the em-
ploying office’s expense. Pending receipt of
the second (or third) medical opinion, the
employee is provisionally entitled to the
benefits of the FMLA, as made applicable by
the CAA, including maintenance of group
health benefits. If the certifications do not
ultimately establish the employee’s entitle-
ment to FMLA leave, the leave shall not be
designated as FMLA leave and may be treat-
ed as paid or unpaid leave under the employ-
ing office’s established leave policies. In ad-
dition, the consequences set forth in
825.305(d) will apply if the employee or the
employee’s family member fails to authorize
his or her health care provider to release all
relevant medical information pertaining to
the serious health condition at issue if re-
quested by the health care provider des-
ignated to provide a second opinion in order
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00324 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7011
November 16, 2020
to render a sufficient and complete second
opinion.
(2) The employing office is permitted to
designate the health care provider to furnish
the second opinion, but the selected health
care provider may not be employed on a reg-
ular basis by the employing office. The em-
ploying office may not regularly contract
with or otherwise regularly utilize the serv-
ices of the health care provider furnishing
the second opinion unless the employing of-
fice is located in an area where access to
health care is extremely limited (e.g., a rural
area where no more than one or two doctors
practice in the relevant specialty in the vi-
cinity).
(c) Third opinion. If the opinions of the em-
ployee’s and the employing office’s des-
ignated health care providers differ, the em-
ploying office may require the employee to
obtain certification from a third health care
provider, again at the employing office’s ex-
pense. This third opinion shall be final and
binding. The third health care provider must
be designated or approved jointly by the em-
ploying office and the employee. The em-
ploying office and the employee must each
act in good faith to attempt to reach agree-
ment on whom to select for the third opinion
provider. If the employing office does not at-
tempt in good faith to reach agreement, the
employing office will be bound by the first
certification. If the employee does not at-
tempt in good faith to reach agreement, the
employee will be bound by the second certifi-
cation. For example, an employee who re-
fuses to agree to see a doctor in the specialty
in question may be failing to act in good
faith. On the other hand, an employing office
that refuses to agree to any doctor on a list
of specialists in the appropriate field pro-
vided by the employee and whom the em-
ployee has not previously consulted may be
failing to act in good faith. In addition, the
consequences set forth in 825.305(d) will apply
if the employee or the employee’s family
member fails to authorize his or her health
care provider to release all relevant medical
information pertaining to the serious health
condition at issue if requested by the health
care provider designated to provide a third
opinion in order to render a sufficient and
complete third opinion.
(d) Copies of opinions. The employing office
is required to provide the employee with a
copy of the second and third medical opin-
ions, where applicable, upon request by the
employee. Requested copies are to be pro-
vided within five business days unless ex-
tenuating circumstances prevent such ac-
tion.
(e) Travel expenses. If the employing office
requires the employee to obtain either a sec-
ond or third opinion the employing office
must reimburse an employee or family mem-
ber for any reasonable ‘‘out of pocket’’ travel
expenses incurred to obtain the second and
third medical opinions. The employing office
may not require the employee or family
member to travel outside normal commuting
distance for purposes of obtaining the second
or third medical opinions except in very un-
usual circumstances.
(f) Medical certification abroad. In cir-
cumstances in which the employee or a fam-
ily member is visiting in another country, or
a family member resides in another country,
and a serious health condition develops, the
employing office shall accept a medical cer-
tification as well as second and third opin-
ions from a health care provider who prac-
tices in that country. Where a certification
by a foreign health care provider is in a lan-
guage other than English, the employee
must provide the employing office with a
written translation of the certification upon
request.
825.308 Recertifications for leave taken be-
cause of an employee’s own serious
health condition or the serious health
condition of a family member.
(a) 30-day rule. An employing office may re-
quest recertification no more often than
every 30 days and only in connection with an
absence by the employee, unless paragraphs
(b) or (c) of this section apply.
(b) More than 30 days. If the medical certifi-
cation indicates that the minimum duration
of the condition is more than 30 days, an em-
ploying office must wait until that minimum
duration expires before requesting a recer-
tification, unless paragraph (c) of this sec-
tion applies. For example, if the medical cer-
tification states that an employee will be un-
able to work, whether continuously or on an
intermittent basis, for 40 days, the employ-
ing office must wait 40 days before request-
ing a recertification. In all cases, an employ-
ing office may request a recertification of a
medical condition every six months in con-
nection with an absence by the employee.
Accordingly, even if the medical certifi-
cation indicates that the employee will need
intermittent or reduced schedule leave for a
period in excess of six months (e.g., for a life-
time condition), the employing office would
be permitted to request recertification every
six months in connection with an absence.
(c) Less than 30 days. An employing office
may request recertification in less than 30
days if:
(1) The employee requests an extension of
leave;
(2) Circumstances described by the pre-
vious certification have changed signifi-
cantly (e.g., the duration or frequency of the
absence, the nature or severity of the illness,
complications). For example, if a medical
certification stated that an employee would
need leave for one to two days when the em-
ployee suffered a migraine headache and the
employee’s absences for his or her last two
migraines lasted four days each, then the in-
creased duration of absence might constitute
a significant change in circumstances allow-
ing the employing office to request a recer-
tification in less than 30 days. Likewise, if
an employee had a pattern of using unsched-
uled FMLA leave for migraines in conjunc-
tion with his or her scheduled days off, then
the timing of the absences also might con-
stitute a significant change in circumstances
sufficient for an employing office to request
a recertification more frequently than every
30 days; or
(3) The employing office receives informa-
tion that casts doubt upon the employee’s
stated reason for the absence or the con-
tinuing validity of the certification. For ex-
ample, if an employee is on FMLA leave for
four weeks due to the employee’s knee sur-
gery, including recuperation, and the em-
ployee plays in company softball league
games during the employee’s third week of
FMLA leave, such information might be suf-
ficient to cast doubt upon the continuing va-
lidity of the certification allowing the em-
ploying office to request a recertification in
less than 30 days.
(d) Timing. The employee must provide the
requested recertification to the employing
office within the time frame requested by
the employing office (which must allow at
least 15 calendar days after the employing
office’s request), unless it is not practicable
under the particular circumstances to do so
despite the employee’s diligent, good faith
efforts.
(e) Content. The employing office may ask
for the same information when obtaining re-
certification as that permitted for the origi-
nal certification as set forth in 825.306. The
employee has the same obligations to par-
ticipate and cooperate (including providing a
complete and sufficient certification or ade-
quate authorization to the health care pro-
vider) in the recertification process as in the
initial certification process. See 825.305(d). As
part of the information allowed to be ob-
tained on recertification for leave taken be-
cause of a serious health condition, the em-
ploying office may provide the health care
provider with a record of the employee’s ab-
sence pattern and ask the health care pro-
vider if the serious health condition and need
for leave is consistent with such a pattern.
(f) Any recertification requested by the
employing office shall be at the employee’s
expense unless the employing office provides
otherwise. No second or third opinion on re-
certification may be required.
825.309 Certification for leave taken because
of a qualifying exigency.
(a) Active Duty Orders. The first time an
employee requests leave because of a quali-
fying exigency arising out of the covered ac-
tive duty or call to covered active duty sta-
tus (or notification of an impending call or
order to covered active duty) of a military
member (See 825.126(a)), an employing office
may require the employee to provide a copy
of the military member’s active duty orders
or other documentation issued by the mili-
tary which indicates that the military mem-
ber is on covered active duty or call to cov-
ered active duty status, and the dates of the
military member’s covered active duty serv-
ice. This information need only be provided
to the employing office once. A copy of new
active duty orders or other documentation
issued by the military may be required by
the employing office if the need for leave be-
cause of a qualifying exigency arises out of a
different covered active duty or call to cov-
ered active duty status (or notification of an
impending call or order to covered active
duty) of the same or a different military
member;
(b) Required information. An employing of-
fice may require that leave for any quali-
fying exigency specified in 825.126 be sup-
ported by a certification from the employee
that sets forth the following information:
(1) A statement or description, signed by
the employee, of appropriate facts regarding
the qualifying exigency for which FMLA
leave is requested. The facts must be suffi-
cient to support the need for leave. Such
facts should include information on the type
of qualifying exigency for which leave is re-
quested and any available written docu-
mentation which supports the request for
leave; such documentation, for example, may
include a copy of a meeting announcement
for informational briefings sponsored by the
military, a document confirming an appoint-
ment with a counselor or school official, or a
copy of a bill for services for the handling of
legal or financial affairs;
(2) The approximate date on which the
qualifying exigency commenced or will com-
mence;
(3) If an employee requests leave because of
a qualifying exigency for a single, contin-
uous period of time, the beginning and end
dates for such absence;
(4) If an employee requests leave because of
a qualifying exigency on an intermittent or
reduced schedule basis, an estimate of the
frequency and duration of the qualifying exi-
gency;
(5) If the qualifying exigency involves
meeting with a third party, appropriate con-
tact information for the individual or entity
with whom the employee is meeting (such as
the name, title, organization, address, tele-
phone number, fax number, and email ad-
dress) and a brief description of the purpose
of the meeting; and
(6) If the qualifying exigency involves Rest
and Recuperation leave, a copy of the mili-
tary member’s Rest and Recuperation or-
ders, or other documentation issued by the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00325 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7012 November 16, 2020
military which indicates that the military
member has been granted Rest and Recuper-
ation leave, and the dates of the military
member’s Rest and Recuperation leave.
(c) The Office of Congressional Workplace
Rights has developed an optional form (Form
E) for employees’ use in obtaining a certifi-
cation that meets FMLA’s certification re-
quirements. This optional form reflects cer-
tification requirements so as to permit the
employee to furnish appropriate information
to support his or her request for leave be-
cause of a qualifying exigency. Form E, or
Form WH–384 (developed by the Department
of Labor), or another form containing the
same basic information, may be used by the
employing office; however, no information
may be required beyond that specified in this
section. (d) Verification. If an employee sub-
mits a complete and sufficient certification
to support his or her request for leave be-
cause of a qualifying exigency, the employ-
ing office may not request additional infor-
mation from the employee. However, if the
qualifying exigency involves meeting with a
third party, the employing office may con-
tact the individual or entity with whom the
employee is meeting for purposes of
verifying a meeting or appointment schedule
and the nature of the meeting between the
employee and the specified individual or en-
tity. The employee’s permission is not re-
quired in order to verify meetings or ap-
pointments with third parties, but no addi-
tional information may be requested by the
employing office. An employing office also
may contact an appropriate unit of the De-
partment of Defense to request verification
that a military member is on covered active
duty or call to covered active duty status (or
has been notified of an impending call or
order to covered active duty); no additional
information may be requested and the em-
ployee’s permission is not required.
825.310 Certification for leave taken to care
for a covered servicemember (military
caregiver leave).
(a) Required information from health care
provider. When leave is taken to care for a
covered servicemember with a serious injury
or illness, an employing office may require
an employee to obtain a certification com-
pleted by an authorized health care provider
of the covered servicemember. For purposes
of leave taken to care for a covered service-
member, any one of the following health care
providers may complete such a certification:
(1) A United States Department of Defense
(‘‘DOD’’) health care provider;
(2) A United States Department of Vet-
erans Affairs (‘‘VA’’) health care provider;
(3) A DOD TRICARE network authorized
private health care provider;
(4) A DOD non-network TRICARE author-
ized private health care provider; or
(5) Any health care provider as defined in
825.125.
(b) If the authorized health care provider is
unable to make certain military-related de-
terminations outlined below, the authorized
health care provider may rely on determina-
tions from an authorized DOD representative
(such as a DOD recovery care coordinator) or
an authorized VA representative. An employ-
ing office may request that the health care
provider provide the following information:
(1) The name, address, and appropriate con-
tact information (telephone number, fax
number, and/or email address) of the health
care provider, the type of medical practice,
the medical specialty, and whether the
health care provider is one of the following:
(i) A DOD health care provider;
(ii) A VA health care provider;
(iii) A DOD TRICARE network authorized
private health care provider;
(iv) A DOD non-network TRICARE author-
ized private health care provider; or
(v) A health care provider as defined in
825.125.
(2) Whether the covered servicemember’s
injury or illness was incurred in the line of
duty on active duty or, if not, whether the
covered servicemember’s injury or illness ex-
isted before the beginning of the
servicemember’s active duty and was aggra-
vated by service in the line of duty on active
duty;
(3) The approximate date on which the se-
rious injury or illness commenced, or was ag-
gravated, and its probable duration;
(4) A statement or description of appro-
priate medical facts regarding the covered
servicemember’s health condition for which
FMLA leave is requested. The medical facts
must be sufficient to support the need for
leave.
(i) In the case of a current member of the
Armed Forces, such medical facts must in-
clude information on whether the injury or
illness may render the covered servicemem-
ber medically unfit to perform the duties of
the servicemember’s office, grade, rank, or
rating and whether the member is receiving
medical treatment, recuperation, or therapy;
(ii) In the case of a covered veteran, such
medical facts must include:
(A) Information on whether the veteran is
receiving medical treatment, recuperation,
or therapy for an injury or illness that is the
continuation of an injury or illness that was
incurred or aggravated when the covered vet-
eran was a member of the Armed Forces and
rendered the servicemember medically unfit
to perform the duties of the servicemember’s
office, grade, rank, or rating; or
(B) Information on whether the veteran is
receiving medical treatment, recuperation,
or therapy for an injury or illness that is a
physical or mental condition for which the
covered veteran has received a U.S. Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs Service-Related
Disability Rating (VASRD) of 50 percent or
greater, and that such VASRD rating is
based, in whole or in part, on the condition
precipitating the need for military caregiver
leave; or
(C) Information on whether the veteran is
receiving medical treatment, recuperation,
or therapy for an injury or illness that is a
physical or mental condition that substan-
tially impairs the covered veteran’s ability
to secure or follow a substantially gainful
occupation by reason of a disability or dis-
abilities related to military service, or would
do so absent treatment; or
(D) Documentation of enrollment in the
Department of Veterans Affairs Program of
Comprehensive Assistance for Family Care-
givers.
(5) Information sufficient to establish that
the covered servicemember is in need of care,
as described in 825.124, and whether the cov-
ered servicemember will need care for a sin-
gle continuous period of time, including any
time for treatment and recovery, and an es-
timate as to the beginning and ending dates
for this period of time;
(6) If an employee requests leave on an
intermittent or reduced schedule basis for
planned medical treatment appointments for
the covered servicemember, whether there is
a medical necessity for the covered service-
member to have such periodic care and an es-
timate of the treatment schedule of such ap-
pointments;
(7) If an employee requests leave on an
intermittent or reduced schedule basis to
care for a covered servicemember other than
for planned medical treatment (e.g., episodic
flare-ups of a medical condition), whether
there is a medical necessity for the covered
servicemember to have such periodic care,
which can include assisting in the covered
servicemember’s recovery, and an estimate
of the frequency and duration of the periodic
care.
(c) Required information from employee
and/or covered servicemember. In addition to
the information that may be requested under
825.310(b), an employing office may also re-
quest that such certification set forth the
following information provided by an em-
ployee and/or covered servicemember:
(1) The name and address of the employing
office of the employee requesting leave to
care for a covered servicemember, the name
of the employee requesting such leave, and
the name of the covered servicemember for
whom the employee is requesting leave to
care;
(2) The relationship of the employee to the
covered servicemember for whom the em-
ployee is requesting leave to care;
(3) Whether the covered servicemember is a
current member of the Armed Forces, the
National Guard or Reserves, and the covered
servicemember’s military branch, rank, and
current unit assignment;
(4) Whether the covered servicemember is
assigned to a military medical facility as an
outpatient or to a unit established for the
purpose of providing command and control of
members of the Armed Forces receiving med-
ical care as outpatients (such as a medical
hold or warrior transition unit), and the
name of the medical treatment facility or
unit;
(5) Whether the covered servicemember is
on the temporary disability retired list;
(6) Whether the covered servicemember is a
veteran, the date of separation from military
service, and whether the separation was
other than dishonorable. The employing of-
fice may require the employee to provide
documentation issued by the military which
indicates that the covered servicemember is
a veteran, the date of separation, and that
the separation is other than dishonorable.
Where an employing office requires such doc-
umentation, an employee may provide a
copy of the veteran’s Certificate of Release
or Discharge from Active Duty issued by the
U.S. Department of Defense (DD Form 214) or
other proof of veteran status. See
825.127(c)(2).
(7) A description of the care to be provided
to the covered servicemember and an esti-
mate of the leave needed to provide the care.
(d) The Office of Congressional Workplace
Rights has developed an optional form (Form
F) for employees’ use in obtaining certifi-
cation that meets FMLA’s certification re-
quirements. (See Form F). This optional form
reflects certification requirements so as to
permit the employee to furnish appropriate
information to support his or her request for
leave to care for a covered servicemember
with a serious injury or illness. Form F, or
Form WH–385 (developed by the Department
of Labor), or another form containing the
same basic information, may be used by the
employing office; however, no information
may be required beyond that specified in this
section. In all instances the information on
the certification must relate only to the se-
rious injury or illness for which the current
need for leave exists. An employing office
may seek authentication and/or clarification
of the certification under 825.307. Second and
third opinions under 825.307 are not per-
mitted for leave to care for a covered serv-
icemember when the certification has been
completed by one of the types of healthcare
providers identified in section 825.310(a)(1–4).
However, second and third opinions under
825.307 are permitted when the certification
has been completed by a health care provider
as defined in 825.125 that is not one of the
types identified in 825.310(a)(1)–(4). Addition-
ally, recertifications under 825.308 are not
permitted for leave to care for a covered
servicemember. An employing office may re-
quire an employee to provide confirmation of
covered family relationship to the seriously
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00326 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7013
November 16, 2020
injured or ill servicemember pursuant to
825.122(k) of the FMLA.
(e) An employing office requiring an em-
ployee to submit a certification for leave to
care for a covered servicemember must ac-
cept as sufficient certification, in lieu of the
Office of Congressional Workplace Rights’s
optional certification form (Form F) or an
employing office’s own certification form,
invitational travel orders (ITOs) or invita-
tional travel authorizations (ITAs) issued to
any family member to join an injured or ill
servicemember at his or her bedside. An ITO
or ITA is sufficient certification for the du-
ration of time specified in the ITO or ITA.
During that time period, an eligible em-
ployee may take leave to care for the cov-
ered servicemember in a continuous block of
time or on an intermittent basis. An eligible
employee who provides an ITO or ITA to sup-
port his or her request for leave may not be
required to provide any additional or sepa-
rate certification that leave taken on an
intermittent basis during the period of time
specified in the ITO or ITA is medically nec-
essary. An ITO or ITA is sufficient certifi-
cation for an employee entitled to take
FMLA leave to care for a covered service-
member regardless of whether the employee
is named in the order or authorization.
(1) If an employee will need leave to care
for a covered servicemember beyond the ex-
piration date specified in an ITO or ITA, an
employing office may request that the em-
ployee have one of the authorized health
care providers listed under 825.310(a) com-
plete the Office of Congressional Workplace
Rights optional certification form (Form F)
or an employing office’s own form, as req-
uisite certification for the remainder of the
employee’s necessary leave period.
(2) An employing office may seek authen-
tication and clarification of the ITO or ITA
under 825.307. An employing office may not
utilize the second or third opinion process
outlined in 825.307 or the recertification
process under 825.308 during the period of
time in which leave is supported by an ITO
or ITA.
(3) An employing office may require an em-
ployee to provide confirmation of covered
family relationship to the seriously injured
or ill servicemember pursuant to 825.122(k)
when an employee supports his or her re-
quest for FMLA leave with a copy of an ITO
or ITA.
(f) An employing office requiring an em-
ployee to submit a certification for leave to
care for a covered servicemember must ac-
cept as sufficient certification of the
servicemember’s serious injury or illness
documentation indicating the
servicemember’s enrollment in the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs Program of Com-
prehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers.
Such documentation is sufficient certifi-
cation of the servicemember’s serious injury
or illness to support the employee’s request
for military caregiver leave regardless of
whether the employee is the named care-
giver in the enrollment documentation.
(1) An employing office may seek authen-
tication and clarification of the documenta-
tion indicating the servicemember’s enroll-
ment in the Department of Veterans Affairs
Program of Comprehensive Assistance for
Family Caregivers under 825.307. An employ-
ing office may not utilize the second or third
opinion process outlined in 825.307 or the re-
certification process under 825.308 when the
servicemember’s serious injury or illness is
shown by documentation of enrollment in
this program.
(2) An employing office may require an em-
ployee to provide confirmation of covered
family relationship to the seriously injured
or ill servicemember pursuant to 825.122(k)
when an employee supports his or her re-
quest for FMLA leave with a copy of such en-
rollment documentation. An employing of-
fice may also require an employee to provide
documentation, such as a veteran’s Form
DD–214, showing that the discharge was
other than dishonorable and the date of the
veteran’s discharge.
(g) Where medical certification is re-
quested by an employing office, an employee
may not be held liable for administrative
delays in the issuance of military docu-
ments, despite the employee’s diligent, good-
faith efforts to obtain such documents. See
825.305(b). In all instances in which certifi-
cation is requested, it is the employee’s re-
sponsibility to provide the employing office
with complete and sufficient certification
and failure to do so may result in the denial
of FMLA leave. See 825.305(d).
825.311 Intent to return to work.
(a) An employing office may require an
employee on FMLA leave to report periodi-
cally on the employee’s status and intent to
return to work. The employing office’s pol-
icy regarding such reports may not be dis-
criminatory and must take into account all
of the relevant facts and circumstances re-
lated to the individual employee’s leave situ-
ation.
(b) If an employee gives unequivocal notice
of intent not to return to work, the employ-
ing office’s obligations under FMLA, as
made applicable by the CAA, to maintain
health benefits (subject to COBRA require-
ments) and to restore the employee cease.
However, these obligations continue if an
employee indicates he or she may be unable
to return to work but expresses a continuing
desire to do so.
(c) It may be necessary for an employee to
take more leave than originally anticipated.
Conversely, an employee may discover after
beginning leave that the circumstances have
changed and the amount of leave originally
anticipated is no longer necessary. An em-
ployee may not be required to take more
FMLA leave than necessary to resolve the
circumstance that precipitated the need for
leave. In both of these situations, the em-
ploying office may require that the employee
provide the employing office reasonable no-
tice (i.e., within two business days) of the
changed circumstances where foreseeable.
The employing office may also obtain infor-
mation on such changed circumstances
through requested status reports.
825.312 Fitness-for-duty certification.
(a) As a condition of restoring an employee
whose FMLA leave was occasioned by the
employee’s own serious health condition
that made the employee unable to perform
the employee’s job, an employing office may
have a uniformly-applied policy or practice
that requires all similarly-situated employ-
ees (i.e., same occupation, same serious
health condition) who take leave for such
conditions to obtain and present certifi-
cation from the employee’s health care pro-
vider that the employee is able to resume
work. The employee has the same obliga-
tions to participate and cooperate (including
providing a complete and sufficient certifi-
cation or providing sufficient authorization
to the health care provider to provide the in-
formation directly to the employing office)
in the fitness-for-duty certification process
as in the initial certification process. See
825.305(d).
(b) An employing office may seek a fitness-
for-duty certification only with regard to the
particular health condition that caused the
employee’s need for FMLA leave. The certifi-
cation from the employee’s health care pro-
vider must certify that the employee is able
to resume work. Additionally, an employing
office may require that the certification spe-
cifically address the employee’s ability to
perform the essential functions of the em-
ployee’s job. In order to require such a cer-
tification, an employing office must provide
an employee with a list of the essential func-
tions of the employee’s job no later than
with the designation notice required by
825.300(d), and must indicate in the designa-
tion notice that the certification must ad-
dress the employee’s ability to perform those
essential functions. If the employing office
satisfies these requirements, the employee’s
health care provider must certify that the
employee can perform the identified essen-
tial functions of his or her job. Following the
procedures set forth in 825.307(a), the em-
ploying office may contact the employee’s
health care provider for purposes of clari-
fying and authenticating the fitness-for-duty
certification. Clarification may be requested
only for the serious health condition for
which FMLA leave was taken. The employ-
ing office may not delay the employee’s re-
turn to work while contact with the health
care provider is being made. No second or
third opinions on a fitness-for-duty certifi-
cation may be required.
(c) The cost of the certification shall be
borne by the employee, and the employee is
not entitled to be paid for the time or travel
costs spent in acquiring the certification.
(d) The designation notice required in
825.300(d) shall advise the employee if the
employing office will require a fitness-for-
duty certification to return to work and
whether that fitness-for-duty certification
must address the employee’s ability to per-
form the essential functions of the employ-
ee’s job.
(e) An employing office may delay restora-
tion to employment until an employee sub-
mits a required fitness-for-duty certification
unless the employing office has failed to pro-
vide the notice required in paragraph (d) of
this section. If an employing office provides
the notice required, an employee who does
not provide a fitness-for-duty certification
or request additional FMLA leave is no
longer entitled to reinstatement under the
FMLA. See 825.313(d).
(f) An employing office is not entitled to a
certification of fitness to return to duty for
each absence taken on an intermittent or re-
duced leave schedule. However, an employing
office is entitled to a certification of fitness
to return to duty for such absences up to
once every 30 days if reasonable safety con-
cerns exist regarding the employee’s ability
to perform his or her duties, based on the se-
rious health condition for which the em-
ployee took such leave. If an employing of-
fice chooses to require a fitness-for-duty cer-
tification under such circumstances, the em-
ploying office shall inform the employee at
the same time it issues the designation no-
tice that for each subsequent instance of
intermittent or reduced schedule leave, the
employee will be required to submit a fit-
ness-for-duty certification unless one has al-
ready been submitted within the past 30
days. Alternatively, an employing office can
set a different interval for requiring a fit-
ness-for-duty certification as long as it does
not exceed once every 30 days and as long as
the employing office advises the employee of
the requirement in advance of the employee
taking the intermittent or reduced schedule
leave. The employing office may not termi-
nate the employment of the employee while
awaiting such a certification of fitness to re-
turn to duty for an intermittent or reduced
schedule leave absence. Reasonable safety
concerns means a reasonable belief of signifi-
cant risk of harm to the individual employee
or others. In determining whether reasonable
safety concerns exist, an employing office
should consider the nature and severity of
the potential harm and the likelihood that
potential harm will occur.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00327 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7014 November 16, 2020
(g) If the terms of a collective bargaining
agreement govern an employee’s return to
work, those provisions shall be applied.
(h) Requirements under the Americans
with Disabilities Act (ADA), as amended and
as made applicable by the CAA, apply. After
an employee returns from FMLA leave, the
ADA requires any medical examination at an
employing office’s expense by the employing
office’s health care provider be job-related
and consistent with business necessity. For
example, an attorney could not be required
to submit to a medical examination or in-
quiry just because her leg had been ampu-
tated. The essential functions of an attor-
ney’s job do not require use of both legs;
therefore such an inquiry would not be job
related. An employing office may require a
warehouse laborer, whose back impairment
affects the ability to lift, to be examined by
an orthopedist, but may not require this em-
ployee to submit to an HIV test where the
test is not related to either the essential
functions of his or her job or to his/her im-
pairment. If an employee’s serious health
condition may also be a disability within the
meaning of the ADA, as made applicable by
the CAA, the FMLA does not prevent the
employing office from following the proce-
dures for requesting medical information
under the ADA.
825.313 Failure to provide certification.
(a) Foreseeable leave. In the case of foresee-
able leave, if an employee fails to provide
certification in a timely manner as required
by 825.305, then an employing office may
deny FMLA coverage until the required cer-
tification is provided. For example, if an em-
ployee has 15 days to provide a certification
and does not provide the certification for 45
days without sufficient reason for the delay,
the employing office can deny FMLA protec-
tions for the 30-day period following the ex-
piration of the 15-day time period, if the em-
ployee takes leave during such period.
(b) Unforeseeable leave. In the case of un-
foreseeable leave, an employing office may
deny FMLA coverage for the requested leave
if the employee fails to provide a certifi-
cation within 15 calendar days from receipt
of the request for certification unless not
practicable due to extenuating cir-
cumstances. For example, in the case of a
medical emergency, it may not be prac-
ticable for an employee to provide the re-
quired certification within 15 calendar days.
Absent such extenuating circumstances, if
the employee fails to timely return the cer-
tification, the employing office can deny
FMLA protections for the leave following
the expiration of the 15-day time period until
a sufficient certification is provided. If the
employee never produces the certification,
the leave is not FMLA leave.
(c) Recertification. An employee must pro-
vide recertification within the time re-
quested by the employing office (which must
allow at least 15 calendar days after the re-
quest) or as soon as practicable under the
particular facts and circumstances. If an em-
ployee fails to provide a recertification with-
in a reasonable time under the particular
facts and circumstances, then the employing
office may deny continuation of the FMLA
leave protections until the employee pro-
duces a sufficient recertification. If the em-
ployee never produces the recertification,
the leave is not FMLA leave. Recertification
does not apply to leave taken for a quali-
fying exigency or to care for a covered serv-
icemember.
(d) Fitness-for-duty certification. When re-
quested by the employing office pursuant to
a uniformly applied policy for similarly-situ-
ated employees, the employee must provide
medical certification, at the time the em-
ployee seeks reinstatement at the end of
FMLA leave taken for the employee’s serious
health condition, that the employee is fit for
duty and able to return to work (See
825.312(a)) if the employing office has pro-
vided the required notice (See 825.300(e)); the
employing office may delay restoration until
the certification is provided. Unless the em-
ployee provides either a fitness-for-duty cer-
tification or a new medical certification for
a serious health condition at the time FMLA
leave is concluded, the employee may be ter-
minated. See also 825.213(a)(3).
SUBPART D—ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESS
825.400 Administrative process, general rules.
(a) The Procedural Rules of the Office of
Congressional Workplace Rights set forth
the procedures for considering and resolving
alleged violations of the laws made applica-
ble by the CAA, including the FMLA. The
Rules include procedures for filing claims
and participating in administrative dispute
resolution proceedings at the Office of Con-
gressional Workplace Rights, including pro-
cedures for the conduct of hearings and for
appeals to the Board of Directors. The Proce-
dural Rules also address other matters of
general applicability to the dispute resolu-
tion process and to the operations of the Of-
fice.
(b) If an employing office has violated one
or more provisions of FMLA, and if justified
by the facts of a particular case, an em-
ployee may receive one or more of the fol-
lowing: wages, employment benefits, or
other compensation denied or lost to such
employee by reason of the violation; or,
where no such tangible loss has occurred,
such as when FMLA leave was unlawfully de-
nied, any actual monetary loss sustained by
the employee as a direct result of the viola-
tion, such as the cost of providing care, up to
a sum equal to 26 weeks of wages for the em-
ployee in a case involving leave to care for a
covered servicemember or 12 weeks of wages
for the employee in a case involving leave
for any other FMLA qualifying reason. In ad-
dition, the employee may be entitled to in-
terest on such sum, calculated at the pre-
vailing rate. An amount equaling the pre-
ceding sums may also be awarded as liq-
uidated damages unless such amount is re-
duced by the court because the violation was
in good faith and the employer had reason-
able grounds for believing the employer had
not violated the Act. When appropriate, the
employee may also obtain appropriate equi-
table relief, such as employment, reinstate-
ment and promotion. When the employer is
found in violation, the employee may re-
cover a reasonable attorney’s fee, reasonable
expert witness fees, and other costs of the
action from the employer in addition to any
judgment awarded by the court.
(c) The Procedural Rules of the Office of
Congressional Workplace Rights are found at
165 Cong. Rec. H4896 (daily ed. June 19, 2019)
and 165 Cong. Rec. S4105 (daily ed. June 19,
2019), and may also be found on the Office’s
website at www.ocwr.gov.
825.401 [Reserved]
825.402 [Reserved]
825.403 [Reserved]
825.404 [Reserved]
SUBPART E—PAID PARENTAL LEAVE
825.500 Purpose, applicability, and employing
office responsibilities.
(a) Purpose. This subpart provides regula-
tions to govern the granting of paid parental
leave to eligible employees. Since paid pa-
rental leave may only be substituted for un-
paid leave granted following a birth or place-
ment under specific provisions of the Family
and Medical Leave Act in title 29, United
States Code—specifically, section
2612(a)(1)(A) and (B) in 5 U.S.C. chapter 29—
this subpart links to subpart B (Family and
Medical Leave) of this part.
(b) Applicability. (1) Except as otherwise
provided in this paragraph (b), this subpart
applies to employees to whom subpart B of
this part applies, as provided in 825.111.
(2) The OCWR will defer to supplemental
regulations on paid parental leave issued by
the Library of Congress pursuant to the au-
thority in 29 USC 2617, provided those supple-
mental regulations are consistent with the
regulations in this subpart.
(3) This subpart applies to a birth or place-
ment occurring on or after October 1, 2020.
(c) Employing office responsibilities. The head
of an employing office having employees cov-
ered by this subpart is responsible for the
proper administration of this subpart, in-
cluding the responsibility of informing em-
ployees of their entitlements and obliga-
tions.
825.501 Definitions.
(a) Applicability of subpart B definitions. The
definitions of terms in 825.102 are applicable
in this subpart to the extent the terms are
used, except that, to the extent any defini-
tions of terms have been further revised in
825.501(b), the provisions of that section shall
apply for purposes of this subpart.
(b) Other definitions. In this subpart—
Employing Office means an employing office
as defined in 2 U.S.C. 1301(a)(9). When the
term ‘‘employing office’’ is used in the con-
text of an employing office making deter-
minations or taking actions, it means the
employing office head or management offi-
cials who are authorized (including by dele-
gation) to make the given determination or
take the given action.
Child means a son or daughter as defined in
825.102 whose birth or placement is the basis
for entitlement to paid parental leave.
Paid parental leave means paid time off
from an employee’s scheduled tour of duty
that is authorized under 2 U.S.C. 1312(d)(2)(A)
and this subpart and that is granted to an
employee who has a current parental role in
connection with the child whose birth or
placement was the basis for granting unpaid
FMLA leave under 825.120 or 825.121. This
leave is not available to an employee who
does not have a current parental role.
Unpaid FMLA leave means leave without
pay granted under the Family and Medical
Leave Act (FMLA) regulations in subpart B
of this part.
825.502 Leave entitlement.
(a) Election. An employee may elect to sub-
stitute available paid parental leave for any
unpaid FMLA leave granted under 825.120 or
825.121 (which correspond to 29 U.S.C.
2612(a)(1)(A) or (B), respectively) in connec-
tion with the occurrence of a birth or place-
ment. See 825.208.
(b) Available paid parental leave. (1) The
paid parental leave that is available for pur-
poses of paragraph (a) of this section is 12
workweeks in connection with the birth or
placement involved.
(2) Since an employee may use only 12
weeks of unpaid FMLA leave in any 12-
month period under 825.200(a), any use of un-
paid FMLA leave not associated with paid
parental leave may affect an employee’s
ability to use the full 12 weeks of paid paren-
tal leave. Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(1)
of this section, an employee will be able to
use the full amount of paid parental leave
only to the extent that there are 12 weeks of
available unpaid FMLA leave granted under
the birth or placement provisions in
825.112(a)(1); or (2) during the 12-month pe-
riod referred to in section 102(a)(1) of the
FMLA (29 U.S.C. 2612(a)(1)) to which it re-
lates. The availability of paid parental leave
will depend on when the employee uses var-
ious types of unpaid FMLA leave relative to
any 12-month period established under
825.200(b).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00328 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7015
November 16, 2020
(c) Leave usage. (1) An employing office
may not require an employee to use accrued
paid annual, vacation, personal, family, med-
ical, or sick leave as a condition to be met
before the employee uses paid parental leave.
An employee may request to use annual
leave or sick leave without invoking unpaid
FMLA leave under subpart B of this part,
and, if the request is granted, the employing
office exercises its normal authority with re-
spect to approving or disapproving the tim-
ing of when the leave may be used.
(2) An employee with a seasonal work
schedule may not use paid parental leave
during the off-season period designated by
the employing office—the period during
which the employee is scheduled to be re-
leased from work and placed in nonpay sta-
tus.
(d) Treatment of unused leave. If an em-
ployee has any unused balance of paid paren-
tal leave that remains at the end of the 12-
month period following the birth or place-
ment involved, the entitlement to the un-
used leave elapses at that time. No payment
may be made for unused paid parental leave
that has expired. Paid parental leave may
not be considered annual leave for purposes
of making a lump-sum payment for annual
leave or for any other purpose.
825.503 Pay during leave.
(a) The pay an employee receives when
using paid parental leave shall be the same
pay the employee would receive if the em-
ployee were using annual leave.
(b) The pay received during paid parental
leave may not include Sunday premium pay.
(See section 624 of the Treasury and General
Government Appropriations Act, 1999, Public
Law 105–277, div. A, 101(h), October 21, 1998.)
825.504 Work obligation.
Paid parental leave under this subpart
shall apply without regard to:
(a) the limitations in subparagraphs (E),
(F), or (G) of section 6382(d)(2) of title 5,
United States Code (requiring employees of
executive branch agencies to agree in writ-
ing to work for the executive branch agency
for at least 12 months after returning from
leave); or
(b) the limitations in 825.213 (permitting
employing offices to recover an amount
equal to the total amount of government
contributions for maintaining such employ-
ee’s health coverage if the employee fails to
return from leave).
825.505 Cases of employee incapacitation.
(a) If an employing office determines that
an otherwise eligible employee who could
have made an election during a past period
to substitute paid parental leave (as provided
in 825.502) was physically or mentally incapa-
ble of doing so during that past period, the
employee may, within 5 workdays of the em-
ployee’s return to duty status, make an elec-
tion to substitute paid parental leave for ap-
plicable unpaid FMLA leave under 825.502(a)
on a retroactive basis. Such a retroactive
election shall be effective on the date that
such an election would have been effective if
the employee had not been incapacitated at
the time.
(b)(1) If an employing office determines
that an otherwise eligible employee is phys-
ically or mentally incapable of making an
election to substitute paid parental leave (as
provided in 825.207), the employing office
must, upon the request of a personal rep-
resentative of the employee, provide condi-
tional approval of substitution of paid paren-
tal leave for applicable unpaid FMLA leave
on a prospective basis. The conditional ap-
proval is based on the presumption that the
employee would have elected to substitute
paid parental leave for the applicable unpaid
FMLA leave.
825.506 Cases of multiple children born or
placed in the same time period.
(a) If an employee has multiple children
born or placed on the same day, the mul-
tiple-child birth/placement event is consid-
ered to be a single event that triggers a sin-
gle entitlement of up to 12 weeks of paid pa-
rental leave under 825.502(b).
(b) If an employee has one or more children
born or placed during the 12-month period
following the date of an earlier birth or
placement of a child of the employee, the
provisions of this subpart shall be independ-
ently administered for each birth or place-
ment event. Any paid parental leave sub-
stituted for unpaid FMLA leave during the
12-month period beginning on the date of a
child’s birth or placement shall count to-
wards the 12-week limit on paid parental
leave described in 825.502(b) applicable in
connection with the birth or placement in-
volved. The substitution of paid parental
leave may count toward multiple 12-week
limits to the extent that there are multiple
ongoing 12-month periods beginning on the
date of an applicable birth or placement,
each of which encompasses the day on which
the leave is used. Therefore, whenever paid
parental leave is substituted during periods
of time when separate 12-month periods
(each beginning on a date of birth or place-
ment) overlap, the paid parental leave will
count toward each affected period’s 12-week
limit. For example, if an employee has a
child born on June 1 and another child
placed for adoption on October 1 of the same
year, each event would generate entitlement
to substitute up to 12 weeks of paid parental
leave during the separate 12-month periods
beginning on the date of the birth and on the
date of the placement, respectively. Those
two 12-month periods would be June 1–May
31 and October 1–September 30. The overlap
period for these two 12-month periods would
be October 1–May 31. If the employee sub-
stitutes paid parental leave during that over-
lap period, that amount of paid parental
leave would count towards both the 12-week
limit associated with the birth event and the
12-week limit associated with the placement
event.
825.507 Records.
Record of usage of paid parental leave. An
employing office must maintain an accurate
record of an employee’s usage of paid paren-
tal leave.
825.508 [Reserved]
SUBPART F—SPECIAL RULES APPLICABLE
TO EMPLOYEES OF SCHOOLS
825.600 Special rules for school employees,
definitions.
(a) Certain special rules apply to employ-
ees of local educational agencies, including
public school boards and elementary schools
under their jurisdiction, and private elemen-
tary and secondary schools. The special rules
do not apply to other kinds of educational
institutions, such as colleges and univer-
sities, trade schools, and preschools.
(b) Educational institutions are covered by
FMLA, as made applicable by the CAA (and
these special rules). The usual requirements
for employees to be eligible do apply.
(c) The special rules affect the taking of
intermittent leave or leave on a reduced
leave schedule, or leave near the end of an
academic term (semester), by instructional
employees. Instructional employees are
those whose principal function is to teach
and instruct students in a class, a small
group, or an individual setting. This term in-
cludes not only teachers, but also athletic
coaches, driving instructors, and special edu-
cation assistants such as signers for the
hearing impaired. It does not include, and
the special rules do not apply to, teacher as-
sistants or aides who do not have as their
principal job actual teaching or instructing,
nor does it include auxiliary personnel such
as counselors, psychologists, or curriculum
specialists. It also does not include cafeteria
workers, maintenance workers, or bus driv-
ers.
(d) Special rules which apply to restoration
to an equivalent position apply to all em-
ployees of local educational agencies.
825.601 Special rules for school employees,
limitations on intermittent leave.
(a) Leave taken for a period that ends with
the school year and begins the next semester
is leave taken consecutively rather than
intermittently. The period during the sum-
mer vacation when the employee would not
have been required to report for duty is not
counted against the employee’s FMLA leave
entitlement. An instructional employee who
is on FMLA leave at the end of the school
year must be provided with any benefits over
the summer vacation that employees would
normally receive if they had been working at
the end of the school year.
(1) If an eligible instructional employee
needs intermittent leave or leave on a re-
duced leave schedule to care for a family
member with a serious health condition, to
care for a covered servicemember, or for the
employee’s own serious health condition,
which is foreseeable based on planned med-
ical treatment, and the employee would be
on leave for more than 20 percent of the total
number of working days over the period the
leave would extend, the employing office
may require the employee to choose either
to:
(i) Take leave for a period or periods of a
particular duration, not greater than the du-
ration of the planned treatment; or
(ii) Transfer temporarily to an available
alternative position for which the employee
is qualified, which has equivalent pay and
benefits and which better accommodates re-
curring periods of leave than does the em-
ployee’s regular position.
(2) These rules apply only to a leave in-
volving more than 20 percent of the working
days during the period over which the leave
extends. For example, if an instructional em-
ployee who normally works five days each
week needs to take two days of FMLA leave
per week over a period of several weeks, the
special rules would apply. Employees taking
leave which constitutes 20 percent or less of
the working days during the leave period
would not be subject to transfer to an alter-
native position. Periods of a particular dura-
tion means a block, or blocks, of time begin-
ning no earlier than the first day for which
leave is needed and ending no later than the
last day on which leave is needed, and may
include one uninterrupted period of leave.
(b) If an instructional employee does not
give required notice of foreseeable FMLA
leave (See 825.302) to be taken intermittently
or on a reduced leave schedule, the employ-
ing office may require the employee to take
leave of a particular duration, or to transfer
temporarily to an alternative position. Al-
ternatively, the employing office may re-
quire the employee to delay the taking of
leave until the notice provision is met.
825.602 Special rules for school employees,
limitations on leave near the end of an
academic term.
(a) There are also different rules for in-
structional employees who begin leave more
than five weeks before the end of a term, less
than five weeks before the end of a term, and
less than three weeks before the end of a
term. Regular rules apply except in cir-
cumstances when:
(1) An instructional employee begins leave
more than five weeks before the end of a
term. The employing office may require the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00329 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7016 November 16, 2020
employee to continue taking leave until the
end of the term if—
(i) The leave will last at least three weeks,
and
(ii) The employee would return to work
during the three-week period before the end
of the term.
(2) The employee begins leave during the
five-week period before the end of a term be-
cause of the birth of a son or daughter; the
placement of a son or daughter for adoption
or foster care; to care for a spouse, son,
daughter, or parent with a serious health
condition; or to care for a covered service-
member. The employing office may require
the employee to continue taking leave until
the end of the term if—
(i) The leave will last more than two
weeks, and
(ii) The employee would return to work
during the two-week period before the end of
the term.
(3) The employee begins leave during the
three-week period before the end of a term
because of the birth of a son or daughter; the
placement of a son or daughter for adoption
or foster care; to care for a spouse, son,
daughter, or parent with a serious health
condition; or to care for a covered service-
member. The employing office may require
the employee to continue taking leave until
the end of the term if the leave will last
more than five working days.
(b) For purposes of these provisions, aca-
demic term means the school semester,
which typically ends near the end of the cal-
endar year and the end of spring each school
year. In no case may a school have more
than two academic terms or semesters each
year for purposes of FMLA, as made applica-
ble by the CAA. An example of leave falling
within these provisions would be where an
employee plans two weeks of leave to care
for a family member which will begin three
weeks before the end of the term. In that sit-
uation, the employing office could require
the employee to stay out on leave until the
end of the term.
825.603 Special rules for school employees,
duration of FMLA leave.
(a) If an employee chooses to take leave for
periods of a particular duration in the case
of intermittent or reduced schedule leave,
the entire period of leave taken will count as
FMLA leave.
(b) In the case of an employee who is re-
quired to take leave until the end of an aca-
demic term, only the period of leave until
the employee is ready and able to return to
work shall be charged against the employee’s
FMLA leave entitlement. The employing of-
fice has the option not to require the em-
ployee to stay on leave until the end of the
school term. Therefore, any additional leave
required by the employing office to the end
of the school term is not counted as FMLA
leave; however, the employing office shall be
required to maintain the employee’s group
health insurance and restore the employee to
the same or equivalent job including other
benefits at the conclusion of the leave.
825.604 Special rules for school employees,
restoration to an equivalent position.
The determination of how an employee is
to be restored to an equivalent position upon
return from FMLA leave will be made on the
basis of ‘‘established school board policies
and practices, private school policies and
practices, and collective bargaining agree-
ments.’’ The ‘‘established policies’’ and col-
lective bargaining agreements used as a
basis for restoration must be in writing,
must be made known to the employee prior
to the taking of FMLA leave, and must
clearly explain the employee’s restoration
rights upon return from leave. Any estab-
lished policy which is used as the basis for
restoration of an employee to an equivalent
position must provide substantially the same
protections as provided in the FMLA, as
made applicable by the CAA, for reinstated
employees. See 825.215. In other words, the
policy or collective bargaining agreement
must provide for restoration to an equiva-
lent position with equivalent employment
benefits, pay, and other terms and conditions
of employment. For example, an employee
may not be restored to a position requiring
additional licensure or certification.
SUBPART G—EFFECT OF OTHER LAWS,
EMPLOYING OFFICE PRACTICES, AND
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREE-
MENTS ON EMPLOYEE RIGHTS UNDER
THE FMLA, AS MADE APPLICABLE BY
THE CAA.
825.700 Interaction with employing office’s
policies.
(a) An employing office must observe any
employment benefit program or plan that
provides greater family or medical leave
rights to employees than the rights estab-
lished by the FMLA. Conversely, the rights
established by the FMLA, as made applicable
by the CAA, may not be diminished by any
employment benefit program or plan. For ex-
ample, a provision of a collective bargaining
agreement (CBA) which provides for rein-
statement to a position that is not equiva-
lent because of seniority (e.g., provides less-
er pay) is superseded by FMLA. If an employ-
ing office provides greater unpaid family
leave rights than are afforded by FMLA, the
employing office is not required to extend
additional rights afforded by FMLA, such as
maintenance of health benefits (other than
through COBRA or 5 U.S.C. 8905a, whichever
is applicable), to the additional leave period
not covered by FMLA.
(b) Nothing in the FMLA, as made applica-
ble by the CAA, prevents an employing office
from amending existing leave and employee
benefit programs, provided they comply with
FMLA, as made applicable by the CAA. How-
ever, nothing in the FMLA, as made applica-
ble by the CAA, is intended to discourage
employing offices from adopting or retaining
more generous leave policies.
825.701 [Reserved]
825.702 Interaction with anti-discrimination
laws, as applied by section 201 of the
CAA.
(a) Nothing in the FMLA modifies or af-
fects any applicable law prohibiting dis-
crimination on the basis of race, religion,
color, national origin, sex, age, or disability
(e.g., Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964,
as amended by the Pregnancy Discrimina-
tion Act and as made applicable by the
CAA). FMLA’s legislative history explains
that FMLA is ‘‘not intended to modify or af-
fect the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as
amended, the regulations concerning em-
ployment which have been promulgated pur-
suant to that statute, or the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 [as amended] or the
regulations issued under that act. Thus, the
leave provisions of the [FMLA] are wholly
distinct from the reasonable accommodation
obligations of employers covered under the
[ADA] . . . or the Federal government itself.
The purpose of the FMLA, as applied by the
CAA, is to make leave available to eligible
employees and [employing offices] within its
coverage, and not to limit already existing
rights and protection.’’ S. Rep. No. 3, 103d
Cong., 1st Sess. 38 (1993). An employing office
must therefore provide leave under which-
ever statutory provision provides the greater
rights to employees. When an employer vio-
lates both FMLA and a discrimination law,
an employee may be able to recover under ei-
ther or both statutes (double relief may not
be awarded for the same loss; when remedies
coincide a claimant may be allowed to uti-
lize whichever avenue of relief is desired.
Laffey v. Northwest Airlines, Inc., 567 F.2d 429,
445 (D.C. Cir. 1976), cert. denied, 434 U.S. 1086
(1978).
(b) If an employee is a qualified individual
with a disability within the meaning of the
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), as
made applicable by the CAA, the employing
office must make reasonable accommoda-
tions, etc., barring undue hardship, in ac-
cordance with the ADA. At the same time,
the employing office must afford an em-
ployee his or her FMLA rights, as made ap-
plicable by the CAA. ADA’s ‘‘disability’’ and
FMLA’s ‘‘serious health condition’’ are dif-
ferent concepts, and must be analyzed sepa-
rately. FMLA entitles eligible employees to
12 weeks of leave in any 12-month period due
to their own serious health condition, where-
as the ADA allows an indeterminate amount
of leave, barring undue hardship, as a reason-
able accommodation. FMLA requires em-
ploying offices to maintain employees’ group
health plan coverage during FMLA leave on
the same conditions as coverage would have
been provided if the employee had been con-
tinuously employed during the leave period,
whereas ADA does not require maintenance
of health insurance unless other employees
receive health insurance during leave under
the same circumstances.
(c)(1) A reasonable accommodation under
the ADA might be accomplished by providing
an individual with a disability with a part-
time job with no health benefits, assuming
the employing office did not ordinarily pro-
vide health insurance for part-time employ-
ees. However, FMLA would permit an em-
ployee to work a reduced leave schedule
until the equivalent of 12 workweeks of leave
were used, with group health benefits main-
tained during this period. FMLA permits an
employing office to temporarily transfer an
employee who is taking leave intermittently
or on a reduced leave schedule to an alter-
native position, whereas the ADA allows an
accommodation of reassignment to an equiv-
alent, vacant position only if the employee
cannot perform the essential functions of the
employee’s present position and an accom-
modation is not possible in the employee’s
present position, or an accommodation in
the employee’s present position would cause
an undue hardship. The examples in the fol-
lowing paragraphs of this section dem-
onstrate how the two laws would interact
with respect to a qualified individual with a
disability.
(2) A qualified individual with a disability
who is also an eligible employee entitled to
FMLA leave requests 10 weeks of medical
leave as a reasonable accommodation, which
the employing office grants because it is not
an undue hardship. The employing office ad-
vises the employee that the 10 weeks of leave
is also being designated as FMLA leave and
will count towards the employee’s FMLA
leave entitlement. This designation does not
prevent the parties from also treating the
leave as a reasonable accommodation and re-
instating the employee into the same job, as
required by the ADA, rather than an equiva-
lent position under FMLA, if that is the
greater right available to the employee. At
the same time, the employee would be enti-
tled under FMLA to have the employing of-
fice maintain group health plan coverage
during the leave, as that requirement pro-
vides the greater right to the employee.
(3) If the same employee needed to work
part-time (a reduced leave schedule) after re-
turning to his or her same job, the employee
would still be entitled under FMLA to have
group health plan coverage maintained for
the remainder of the two-week equivalent of
FMLA leave entitlement, notwithstanding
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00330 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7017
November 16, 2020
an employing office policy that part-time
employees do not receive health insurance.
This employee would be entitled under the
ADA to reasonable accommodations to en-
able the employee to perform the essential
functions of the part-time position. In addi-
tion, because the employee is working a
part-time schedule as a reasonable accom-
modation, the FMLA’s provision for tem-
porary assignment to a different alternative
position would not apply. Once the employee
has exhausted his or her remaining FMLA
leave entitlement while working the reduced
(part-time) schedule, if the employee is a
qualified individual with a disability, and if
the employee is unable to return to the same
full-time position at that time, the employee
might continue to work part-time as a rea-
sonable accommodation, barring undue hard-
ship; the employee would then be entitled to
only those employment benefits ordinarily
provided by the employing office to part-
time employees.
(4) At the end of the FMLA leave entitle-
ment, an employing office is required under
FMLA to reinstate the employee in the same
or an equivalent position, with equivalent
pay and benefits, to that which the employee
held when leave commenced. The employing
office’s FMLA obligations would be satisfied
if the employing office offered the employee
an equivalent full-time position. If the em-
ployee were unable to perform the essential
functions of that equivalent position even
with reasonable accommodation, because of
a disability, the ADA may require the em-
ploying office to make a reasonable accom-
modation at that time by allowing the em-
ployee to work part-time or by reassigning
the employee to a vacant position, barring
undue hardship.
(d)(1) If FMLA entitles an employee to
leave, an employing office may not, in lieu of
FMLA leave entitlement, require an em-
ployee to take a job with a reasonable ac-
commodation. However, ADA may require
that an employing office offer an employee
the opportunity to take such a position. An
employing office may not change the essen-
tial functions of the job in order to deny
FMLA leave. See 825.220(b).
(2) An employee may be on a workers’ com-
pensation absence due to an on-the-job in-
jury or illness which also qualifies as a seri-
ous health condition under FMLA. The
workers’ compensation absence and FMLA
leave may run concurrently (subject to prop-
er notice and designation by the employing
office). At some point the health care pro-
vider providing medical care pursuant to the
workers’ compensation injury may certify
the employee is able to return to work in a
light duty position. If the employing office
offers such a position, the employee is per-
mitted but not required to accept the posi-
tion. See 825.220(d). As a result, the employee
may no longer qualify for payments from the
workers’ compensation benefit plan, but the
employee is entitled to continue on unpaid
FMLA leave either until the employee is
able to return to the same or equivalent job
the employee left or until the 12-week FMLA
leave entitlement is exhausted. See 825.207(e).
If the employee returning from the workers’
compensation injury is a qualified individual
with a disability, he or she will have rights
under the ADA, as made applicable by the
CAA.
(e) If an employing office requires certifi-
cations of an employee’s fitness for duty to
return to work, as permitted by FMLA under
a uniform policy, it must comply with the
ADA requirement that a fitness for duty
physical be job-related and consistent with
business necessity.
(f) Under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act
of 1964, as amended by the Pregnancy Dis-
crimination Act, and as made applicable by
the CAA, an employing office should provide
the same benefits for women who are preg-
nant as the employing office provides to
other employees with short-term disabil-
ities. Because Title VII does not require em-
ployees to be employed for a certain period
of time to be protected, an employee em-
ployed for less than 12 months by the em-
ploying office may not be denied maternity
leave if the employing office normally pro-
vides short-term disability benefits to em-
ployees with the same tenure who are experi-
encing other short-term disabilities.
(g) Under the Uniformed Services Employ-
ment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994
(USERRA), 38 U.S.C. 4301, et seq., veterans
are entitled to receive all rights and benefits
of employment that they would have ob-
tained if they had been continuously em-
ployed. Therefore, under USERRA, a return-
ing servicemember would be eligible for
FMLA leave if the months and hours that he
or she would have worked for the civilian
employing office during the period of ab-
sence due to or necessitated by USERRA-
covered service, combined with the months
employed and the hours actually worked,
meet the FMLA eligibility threshold of 12
months of employment and the hours of
service requirement. See 825.110(b)(2)(i) and
(c)(2) and 825.802(c).
(h) For further information on Federal
antidiscrimination laws applied by section
201 of the CAA (2 U.S.C. 1311), including Title
VII, the Rehabilitation Act, and the ADA, in-
dividuals are encouraged to contact the Of-
fice of Congressional Workplace Rights.
f
ORDERS FOR TUESDAY,
NOVEMBER 17, 2020
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 10 a.m., Tuesday, Novem-
ber 17; further, that following the pray-
er and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, and morning busi-
ness be closed; further, following leader
remarks, the Senate proceed to execu-
tive session and resume consideration
of the Johnson nomination under the
previous order. Finally, I ask that the
Senate recess following the cloture
vote on the Beaton nomination until
2:15 p.m. to allow for the weekly con-
ference meetings.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order following the remarks of
Senator BROWN.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Ohio.
f
NOMINATION OF JUDY SHELTON
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I start by
asking the Presiding Officer to wear a
mask as he speaks and the people are
below him.
I can’t tell you what to do.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. I don’t
wear a mask when I am speaking like
most Senators. I will put it back on,
but I don’t need your instruction.
Mr. BROWN. I know you don’t need
my instruction.
There clearly isn’t much interest in
this body in public health. We have a
President who hasn’t shown up at the
Coronavirus Task Force in months. We
have a majority leader who calls us
back here to vote on an unqualified
nominee and, at the same time, to vote
for judge after judge, exposing all the
people who can’t say anything. I under-
stand. There are people in front of the
Presiding Officer and we expose all the
staff here and the majority leader
doesn’t seem to care.
The American people sent a clear
message in this election. They voted
for stability. They rejected an adminis-
tration that has failed them in the
middle of a public health crisis and
economic crisis. People want a govern-
ment that works for them and is on
their side. My colleagues in both par-
ties know this.
I know some of you feel like you have
to humor the outgoing President, con-
tinue to make excuses for him, con-
tinue to run from the media when they
might ask a question about your opin-
ion on the President. But you know
that Joe Biden won, and you won. Most
of you won your elections—including
the Presiding Officer—fair and square
on the same ballot. You don’t have to
play along with the tweets and the
chaos.
He threatened the Republican Gov-
ernor of Ohio today, for instance, be-
cause the Governor of Ohio—I think he
said the term ‘‘President-Elect Biden,’’
and that offended the President. You
don’t have to play along with the
tweets and the chaos and the crazy
anymore.
We need to move on. We need to actu-
ally deliver for the people who voted
for us and put their faith in us. The
last thing we should be doing is grant-
ing Trump one last wish—one more op-
portunity to salt the earth on his way
out.
The Federal Reserve is supposed to
be a steady, guiding hand, making sure
our economy actually delivers for the
people who make it work. They are
supposed to worry about the big pic-
ture of the economy so hard-working
families don’t have to.
But Judy Shelton—most of my col-
leagues know this. I have talked to
many of them. She believes the oppo-
site. That is why Trump wants one last
pick for the Federal Reserve, and Sen-
ator MCCONNELL and all the spineless
people in this body continue to give
him that last wish.
Eighty million Americans voted for
stability. Shelton promises more
Trump chaos. I know we have disagree-
ments. We have progressive economic
ideas and conservative economic ideas.
I am fine with disagreements. That is
what government is about. That is
what self-government is about.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00331 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO6.026 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7018 November 16, 2020
Judy Shelton isn’t a conservative.
She is way, way off the ideological
spectrum. For three decades and more
than 50 publications, Shelton has advo-
cated returning to the gold standard.
Let’s be clear what that means. It
would mean abandoning some of the
most important tools we have to make
people’s lives better. We can’t sabotage
our economic recovery before it even
happens by putting people in charge
who would drive us backward. You all
know that.
I know you all know that, but you
have to do President Trump’s bidding
one last time. If we had followed
Shelton’s advice earlier, we might still
be in the great recession. In multiple
writings, she said she opposes FDIC de-
posit insurance—the insurance that
protects your money and mine when we
put it in the bank. In other words, she
thinks that if a bank fails—and we all
remember from 2008, at the end of the
Bush years, banks do, indeed, fail, one
after another after another. If a bank
fails, then she thinks all the families
whose savings and paychecks are
stored in the bank should just lose
their money.
Passing Federal deposit insurance
was one of FDR’s first acts during the
Great Depression for a reason. It guar-
anteed that your money was safe in the
bank as a bedrock of our modern econ-
omy. It is not some intellectual exer-
cise; it is real.
I dare anyone to explain to working
families in Georgia or Ohio or Florida
or Pennsylvania or Colorado or any
community that saw banks close their
doors in the great recession that, as
Judy Shelton wrote, that the FDIC in-
surance is ‘‘a hugely distorting factor,’’
whatever that means.
Don’t take my word for it. People on
both sides of the aisle agree that she
has no business making huge decisions
that affect what kinds of jobs people
can get and the interest rates on their
mortgages and the power they have to
negotiate for higher pay.
The New York Times, seen by many
as pretty progressive, and National Re-
view, seen by an equal number as pret-
ty conservative, both oppose her, so do
conservative thinkers at the American
Enterprise Institute. They use words
like ‘‘dangerous’’ and a ‘‘gamble.’’
Over 100 experts—many of whom
don’t see the economy the way I do,
who are much more conservative than
I—warned against putting her on the
Fed. Their basic concern is she won’t
do what is good for workers or what is
good for the economy. She is a political
hack. She is the outgoing President’s
political hack.
That is why Senator MCCONNELL
marches down the aisle, stands at his
desk, and pushes Judy Shelton—why?
Not because his Members want it; they
don’t. Most don’t have the guts to
stand up to Leader MCCONNELL or espe-
cially to the President. He is pushing it
because President Trump has one last
request to put his hack on the Federal
Reserve.
The American people had enough of
gambling. They made that very clear.
Now is not the time, in this terrible
economy, for fringe theories. We are in
a public health crisis. We are in an eco-
nomic crisis.
During her nomination hearing, one
of my Republican colleagues asked her
this question—how she would we get us
out of a situation. This is last year,
keep in mind. How would she get us out
of a situation where consumer con-
fidence and spending dropped, unem-
ployment jumped from 3.5 percent to
6.5 percent in a short period of time,
and we are in a recession—how would
she we get out of that?
Her response was: ‘‘It is hard to
imagine that situation.’’ Think about
that: ‘‘It is hard to imagine that situa-
tion.’’
Really? That is supposed to be the
job of the Federal Reserve. Every
worker in America imagines it right
now. They live through it. Things are
much worse than that question—3.5
percent to 6.5 percent in a short period
of time.
When the pandemic set in, consumer
spending plummeted, and the unem-
ployment rate shot up from 3.5 percent
to 15 percent in April. Right now, 11
million people are out of work.
Coronavirus cases are skyrocketing all
over the country.
The outgoing President has aban-
doned his job except, of course, pushing
for a hack at the Federal Reserve. He is
not going to coronavirus meetings.
Senator MCCONNELL doesn’t seem to
care. The Republican majority doesn’t
seem to care that he is not going to
those meetings.
Instead, we are meeting this week to
confirm young, far-right judges and a
hack on the Federal Reserve who a
whole lot of former Fed Chairs of both
parties, that all kinds of Bush econo-
mists and economists working in
Democratic administrations—both
sides are saying she is a hack. They are
saying she shouldn’t be on the Federal
Reserve. Yet 1, 2, 3, 4—count them, 49,
50—I don’t know how many Republican
Senators are in line because Trump
said to get in line and vote for Judy
Shelton.
People have enough to worry about:
the health of their loved ones, their
jobs, their rent, their utility bills. But
Shelton is so out of touch, she can’t
imagine so many families live that re-
ality every day.
Americans shouldn’t also have to
worry that fringe academics are run-
ning experiments with our national
economy. People want peace of mind.
They want stability. They want to
have confidence that the people in
charge can handle this crisis so they
can get back to their lives.
You can’t say you support working
people and want to get back to work
and get back to their paychecks, while
at the same time putting someone in a
position of authority who has no prob-
lem threatening their jobs and their
savings to push her bizarre, intellec-
tual, academic agenda.
In fact, at a time when unemployed
Americans would love to be able to
safely go to any job, Judy Shelton
didn’t even show up for her last job.
That is not someone who has empathy.
My colleagues knows she has no busi-
ness on our central bank, just like you
know Trump lost the election. I know
you can’t really say that. You can’t
say Trump lost the election. You can’t
say President-Elect Joe Biden because
if you do, as the Governor of Ohio did,
President Trump will threaten you as
he did this morning.
I know most of you don’t even think
you can vote against a hack that you
didn’t want to support before the elec-
tion now that the election is over.
Most of you said you are going to vote
for her. I don’t understand that. Ameri-
cans have had enough of people who
treat governing like a game.
We need to rise to meet this moment.
We need to restore people’s faith in
their government. Judy Shelton will
make that harder. We can’t allow
Trump to keep sabotaging our govern-
ment and our economy by creating
chaos wherever he can, especially after
voters decisively rejected him by more
than 5 million votes—an electoral col-
lege landslide and 5 million more votes
to President-Elect Biden than Presi-
dent Trump.
I urge my colleagues to join me in
opposing Judy Shelton’s nomination.
I yield the floor.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ate stands adjourned until 10 a.m. to-
morrow morning.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 6:41 p.m.,
adjourned until Tuesday, November 17,
2020, at 10 a.m.
f
NOMINATIONS
Executive nominations received by
the Senate:
THE JUDICIARY
JOSEPH L. BARLOON, OF MARYLAND, TO BE A JUDGE
OF THE UNITED STATES COURT OF INTERNATIONAL
TRADE, VICE LEO MAURY GORDON, RETIRED.
THOMAS L. KIRSCH II, OF INDIANA, TO BE UNITED
STATES CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT,
VICE AMY CONEY BARRETT, ELEVATED.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:20 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00332 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\G16NO6.037 S16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1021
November 16, 2020
RECOGNITION OF BRENT HILL
SERVICE TO THE IDAHO SENATE
HON. MICHAEL K. SIMPSON
OF IDAHO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate my friend Brent Hill on nearly
two decades of service in the Idaho State
Senate.
Born and raised in Idaho, Brent graduated
from Madison High School in Rexburg, the
very city he would represent. He went on to
graduate from my alma mater, Utah State Uni-
versity.
Hill had an impressive career in accounting,
serving over twenty years as the Chief Execu-
tive Office of Rudd & Company and a member
of the Board of Directors of Citizens Commu-
nity Bank in Eastern Idaho. This expertise
would make him the go-to lawmaker on tax
issues in the legislature.
In 2001, Hill was first appointed to the Idaho
Senate. Ten years into his political career he
was elected Senate President Pro Tempore.
He held this position for a decade, making him
the longest serving pro tempore in Idaho his-
tory.
Hill is admired by his colleagues in both
chambers for his commitment to honesty and
civility. He is someone who wants to bring all
parties to the table and reach solutions to-
gether. His selfless service has been a tem-
plate for the countless lawmakers that have
looked to him as a mentor.
With twenty grandchildren, he may find him-
self busier now than ever. The citizens of
Idaho have greatly benefited by having lead-
ers like Brent Hill in office. He has been a
great friend to Kathy and me over the years,
and I want to thank him for his diligent service
and congratulate him on his retirement from
the Idaho State Senate.
f
IN HONOR OF ROBERT J.
FLANIGAN
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to honor Robert J. Flanigan of
Huntingdon County for his service in the
United States Air Force. Robert is an out-
standing Pennsylvanian, and I am grateful for
his service to our nation, the Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania, and our community.
In Pennsylvania and across the country, our
veterans have served and sacrificed for Ameri-
cans’ freedom and our values. They answered
the call to serve and fight for us—at a great
cost. Truly, our veterans are the best of Amer-
ica.
In Congress, it is my privilege—and my re-
sponsibility—to stand up for those who have
served our country in uniform, as well as to
recognize these brave Americans. As a nation,
we are indebted to them. On behalf of the
13th Congressional District, I thank Robert for
his service to our nation and our community.
f
HONORING WILLIAM F. MILLER,
JR. FOR HIS SERVICE TO OUR
COUNTRY DURING WORLD WAR
II
HON. ELISE M. STEFANIK
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Ms. STEFANIK. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor William F. Miller Jr. for his un-
wavering service to our country during World
War II as Radioman Petty Officer Second
Class aboard the USS Oglethorpe in the
Navy.
William was born in Albany, New York on
March 21, 1926. He was drafted into the Navy
in July 1944 at the end of his junior year of
high school, prior to receiving his diploma. Wil-
liam went on to serve in the Pacific theater
and earned his Shellback after crossing the
Equator on multiple occasions before he was
honorably discharged in 1946. During his time
in the Navy, he exemplified extreme courage
and bravery as he valiantly protected our
American values and our nation from enemies.
As Lake George High School presents Wil-
liam with an honorary diploma on this Vet-
erans Day, November 11, 2020, we reflect on
his many lifetime achievements. William has
been happily married to Marie Luther since
1949, and they are celebrating their 71st anni-
versary this year with their five children, eight
grandchildren, and a great-grandchild due in
February. For many years, William ran a suc-
cessful small business as a general con-
tractor. The family continues William’s strong
military tradition and commitment to our nation
as both his son and grandson have served in
the Navy.
On behalf of New York’s 21st district, I
would like to thank William for his service to
our country and congratulate him on officially
receiving his diploma from Lake George High
School. We owe our veterans a great deal of
gratitude for the freedoms we enjoy today. I
wish him and his family continued health and
happiness.
f
MARION COUNTY INDUSTRIAL
FOUNDATION
HON. JAMES COMER
OF KENTUCKY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor the Marion County Industrial Founda-
tion, which has been leading economic devel-
opment efforts in Marion County since 1972.
The MCIF is a non-profit, municipal and coun-
ty-funded economic development organization.
The MCIF has recently redoubled their efforts
by purchasing the industries housed at 405
Old Springfield Road, or as locals call it, the
Jane and Linda building.
This site has been a staple in the commu-
nity since 1946, when Handmacher-Vogel built
Lebanon Manufacturing Company. With over
500 employees, Handmacher-Vogel became
the largest employer in Marion County at the
time. The building underwent an ownership
change in 1952, when Jane and Linda Sports-
wear took over the building. Ownership would
eventually switch to Telecom in 1973 for a pe-
riod ending in 1993.
After sitting unoccupied for over 20 years,
the MCIF purchased the property earlier this
summer. Staying true to their mission, the
MCIF will market the property for new eco-
nomic development opportunities. I am con-
fident in this proud organization’s ability to
bring jobs to central Kentucky, which will cre-
ate opportunity and hope for residents, busi-
nesses, and industries.
I join with everyone in Marion County and
the Commonwealth in celebrating the extraor-
dinary work of the Marion County Industrial
Foundation. I am honored to represent this
foundation as they continue to lead economic
development efforts in the 1st District.
f
RECOGNIZING COUNCILOR BOB
CAVANAUGH
HON. TOM RICE
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. RICE of South Carolina. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize North Myrtle
Beach City Councilman Bob Cavanaugh for
his years of service to the North Myrtle Beach
community.
Since beginning his tenure in 2001, Bob has
provided invaluable sen-ice to the community
and seen North Myrtle Beach expand into the
tourist destination it has become. His experi-
ence in the private sector as an executive for
General Electric provided an important per-
spective on city council.
During Bob’s tenure, North Myrtle Beach
further developed the North Myrtle Beach Park
and Sports Complex, as well as the aquatic
center. In his nearly two decades of service,
he has seen North Myrtle Beach continually
evolve.
Madam Speaker, I join the people of North
Myrtle Beach in recognizing and thanking
Councilman Bob Cavanaugh for his commit-
ment to the community. We wish him the best
in retirement.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:46 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO8.001 E16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1022 November 16, 2020
IN HONOR OF DAVID P. FRYER
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to honor David P. Fryer of
Huntingdon County for his service in the
United States Army Military Police. David is an
outstanding Pennsylvanian, and I am grateful
for his service to our nation, the Common-
wealth of Pennsylvania, and our community.
In Pennsylvania and across the country, our
veterans have served and sacrificed for Ameri-
cans’ freedom and our values. They answered
the call to serve and fight for us—at a great
cost. Truly, our veterans are the best of Amer-
ica.
In Congress, it is my privilege—and my re-
sponsibility—to stand up for those who have
served our country in uniform, as well as to
recognize these brave Americans. As a nation,
we are indebted to them. On behalf of the
13th Congressional District, I thank David for
his service to our nation and our community.
f
HONORING THE 2020 WOMEN OF
THE YEAR
HON. JOHN GARAMENDI
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. GARAMENDI. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the 2020 Women of the Year.
The honorees represent some of the most out-
standing and dedicated women in the 3rd
Congressional District. Nominated by their
peers, these women and the leadership they
have provided are being recognized for play-
ing an integral and crucial role in improving
the lives of everyone in their communities.
This year, we mark the 100th anniversary of
the passage of the 19th Amendment, guaran-
teeing and protecting women’s constitutional
right to vote. Since then, our nation has seen
women take great strides in every American
industry from business to politics to the arts.
This progress has not come easy and many
women who have come before have worked
hard and strived to achieve the independence
and rights women have today. Though there is
more work to be done to ensure that women
have equal pay, flexible work schedules, and
affordable education, each of the honorees will
be a vital part of the work to get there.
2020’s Women of the Year are:
Born and raised in Colusa County, Janita
Smith has used her creativity, determination,
and skilled leadership to make a vast and visi-
ble impact on her community. Janita is a dedi-
cated advocate for the most vulnerable popu-
lations in her community. For years, she has
donated her time to reducing hunger by volun-
teering at and coordinating food drives, includ-
ing an annual giveaway for the Christmas holi-
day. In 1998 she co-founded the Colusa
County Food Basket Association, creating a
nonprofit organization that dedicates itself to
serving those in most need throughout Colusa.
What began as a very small community out-
reach program has now grown into an im-
mensely rewarding Colusa County community
service program that has served and fed an
average of 450 local families every holiday
season for the past ten years. Recently, Janita
collaborated with a local veteran’s group to
identify and create a register of all deceased
veterans interred at the local Catholic ceme-
tery. She spent nearly two years researching
and networking with local families to ensure
that all veterans were accounted for. Her work
ensured that all 245 veterans were honored
on Memorial Day with an American flag on
their grave, marking their service and sacrifice.
Janita’s compassion, generosity, and heartfelt
dedication to making her community a better
place are an inspiration to all who know her.
Gina Tarke is more than just a volunteer in
the Sutter County area, but a devoted leader
with an extensive record of service to her
community. Gina is known for her work ethic
and constantly extends her hand to assist
projects across the community with a kind
heart. She has been the driving force behind
many student, youth, and community projects.
She spearheaded the Sutter Community Flag
Project, has been in 4H Leadership for over
18 years, directs Sutter Union High School
Football fundraising dinners and annual Meet
the Huskies events, and never hesitates to
lend a hand to the Sutter Youth Organization.
Despite having children who have outgrown
the youth activities in her community, Gina
continues to volunteer her time ensuring that
all Sutter youth have the opportunity to benefit
from these programs. Under her leadership,
the Yuba-Sutter 4H has expanded its reach
over the years, providing vital learning oppor-
tunities to thousands of students in the com-
munity and offering invaluable leadership ex-
periences. Gina has not only given her own
time and generosity to youth organizations
throughout her community, but also encour-
aged others to do the same by raising aware-
ness of the need and benefit of each program.
Her leadership, volunteerism, and generosity
have touched countless individuals and left a
lasting impact throughout her community.
Marie Teria is a dedicated community serv-
ant whose leadership, generosity, and com-
passion inspire all who know her. Her volun-
teer work with organizations such as the Casa
De Esperanza, the Shady Creek Outdoor Edu-
cation Foundation, the Live Oak High School
Key Club, and local Kiwanis Clubs dem-
onstrate her commitment to helping those in
need. As a leader within the Kiwanis Clubs of
Yuba City and Live Oak, Marie has worked
tirelessly to organize fundraising events like
the annual Kiwanis Lobster Feed that enable
the organization to support students, families,
and charitable organizations throughout the
community. She also serves as the Key Club
Advisor at Live Oak High School, teaching stu-
dents important values such as cooperation,
responsibility, and community service. Under
her leadership, the club has tripled its mem-
bership and increased their community in-
volvement. Marie also serves on the board of
the Shady Creek Outdoor Education Founda-
tion which provides scholarships to low in-
come families to send their children to outdoor
education camps. She works to ensure that no
child is deprived the benefit of these formative
experiences due to their family’s economic sit-
uation. Her passion for serving others led her
to serve on the board of Casa de Esperanza
for the past eight years, where she dem-
onstrates her commitment to improving the
lives of survivors of domestic abuse and
human trafficking. Over her many years of
community service, she has been recognized
with numerous awards, including the Modem
Woodmen ‘‘Hometown Hero’’ Award, State of
California Legislature and Congressional Rec-
ognition as Ambassador of the Year, the Wil-
liam A. Dunlap Fellowship, and many more.
Marie’s extensive volunteer work and tireless
advocacy on behalf of children and families
has touched the lives of many and will leave
a lasting impact on her community
Raji Tumber has made vast and meaningful
contributions to the Yuba-Sutter area through-
out her lifetime. As a caring mother, excep-
tional community leader, and engaged volun-
teer, she finds countless ways to make an im-
pact, whether as a past board member of the
American Red Cross or by volunteering her
time to the local Tierra Buena Gurdwara,
which serves over 20,000 Sikhs in the area.
Her work as a board member of the Yuba-Sut-
ter Food Bank has helped the organization fur-
ther its mission to distribute food to over
16,000 individuals each and every month. She
also gives her time working with SEV A, an or-
ganization that promotes selfless service and
works to provide meals to homeless individ-
uals across the region. Raji’s leadership is
characterized by a warm and outgoing nature,
coupled with the highest standards of integrity
and professionalism in all she does. Her work
has promoted transparency in the Punjabi
community, allowing more women to be ac-
tively involved in breaking down barriers at
two of the local Gurdwaras. Through her effec-
tive leadership and enthusiastic approach, she
continues to touch the lives of many through-
out the Yuba-Sutter community.
Mary Vasquez is a third-generation resident
of Vacaville who has followed in her family’s
footsteps to support and represent her com-
munity. For several years, Mary worked with
her father in the family business, where she
was instilled with a strong and independent
work ethic. Using this experience as a founda-
tion, Mary attended UC Davis and San Fran-
cisco State University, becoming the first
member of her family to receive a graduate
degree. Mary has now worked for 13 years at
UC Davis where she is the Associate Director
of the Academic Senate. Through her work,
she enables UC Davis to carry out their mis-
sion of teaching, research, and public service.
In her free time, Mary dedicates herself to
supporting and improving her local community.
As a devoted mother of three, Mary is heavily
involved with her children’s schools and
served on the Vacaville Bobby Sox Board for
two years. She has also spent seven years
supporting the Cal Inc. Cares Relay for Life
Team where she has helped to raise over 20
million dollars for the American Cancer Soci-
ety. Most recently, Mary was appointed by the
mayor to the Vacaville Parks and Recreation
Commission where she advises the City
Council on matters important to her commu-
nity. Mary is an engaged and dedicated mem-
ber of her community who is always working
willing and eager to help out where it is need-
ed.
A long-time resident and devoted civic lead-
er in Vacaville, Jeanette Wylie is a determined
advocate for everyone in her community. Hav-
ing retired after 22 years teaching with Travis
Unified School District, education is one of
Jeanette’s many passions. She spent eight
years as President of the Travis Unified
Teachers Association where she supported
teachers at all levels and worked to advance
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:46 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A16NO8.006 E16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1023
November 16, 2020
their priorities as a delegate to the California
Teachers Association’s State Council. Jea-
nette is tireless in her efforts to engage others
and ensure that everyone in her community
has a place to express their beliefs and take
part in the democratic process. She currently
serves on her county’s Democratic Central
Committee where she promotes accountable
leadership and encourages civic engagement.
Jeanette aspires to be a leader in her commu-
nity who listens to the needs of everyone. Re-
cently she has been reaching out to her neigh-
bors and peers to have conversations on city
safety, the importance of neighborhood parks,
plans to address poverty, and providing quality
education to future generations. Jeanette’s
years of service as an educator and commu-
nity advocate are an inspiration to all who
know her.
Robin Ziegenmeyer is an enthusiastic com-
munity servant who has made significant con-
tributions to programs benefitting local children
and families. Robin has coached little league,
organized school field trips, and provided dig-
ital media for school, sports, and community
organizations in Sutter. As a dedicated mem-
ber of the Sutter Youth Organization, Robin
works with the community to maintain the
foundation along with its recreational centers
and philanthropic events. Robin’s work on be-
half of the Sutter Youth Organization has al-
lowed the center to be renovated and up-
dated, providing facilities where youth can
gather to play sports, train, and swim
recreationally. Her work has benefitted count-
less members of the community, enabling a
beloved city institution to flourish. Robin is a
kind, generous, and enthusiastic leader in her
community whose work will leave a lasting
legacy.
I congratulate each of them and commend
them for their work. I am inspired by them and
firmly believe when women succeed, America
succeeds.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. BRIAN HIGGINS
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. HIGGINS of New York. Madam Speak-
er, on October 2, 2020, I was unable to be
present for the recorded votes on Roll Call No.
218. Had I been present, I would have voted
YEA on agreeing to the resolution H. Res.
1154, Condemning QAnon and rejecting the
conspiracy theories it promotes.
f
HONORING ROBERT ‘‘BOBBY’’
SMITH FOR 34 YEARS OF PUBLIC
SERVICE
HON. RICHARD HUDSON
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Robert ‘‘Bobby’’ Smith for more than
three decades of service to our country, our
state, and our community. A U.S. Navy vet-
eran and leader in emergency management,
Mr. Smith’s public service has spanned more
than 34 years.
Mr. Smith began his career in 1985 as a
Telecommunicator and Emergency Medical
Technician for Guilford County Emergency
Medical Services. Over his career in public
service he has also served as a firefighter,
hazardous materials technician, rescue techni-
cian, fire inspector, and Chief Fire Investigator.
During his work in Emergency Management
he has developed, tested, and implemented
numerous response, recovery, mitigation, pre-
paredness and continuity plans, and has been
an integral part of emergency operations dur-
ing national events and disasters. Today, he
retires as Director of Emergency Management
and Fire Services for Cabarrus County.
Over the years, Mr. Smith has proven to be
a strong and effective leader and our region is
better and more prepared due to his work. He
has served as Unified Incident Commander
during the ongoing coronavirus pandemic; co-
ordinated response to a number of declared
natural disasters; served as a member of the
Domestic Preparedness Region (DPR 7) Com-
mittee, North Carolina Emergency Manage-
ment Association Legislative Committee, and
Rowan Cabarrus Community College Emer-
gency Management Advisory Committee; and
worked closely with the Local Emergency
Planning Committee to develop emergency re-
sponse infrastructure for local businesses.
An exemplary public servant, Mr. Smith rep-
resents the best our nation has to offer and
we will look up to his leadership for genera-
tions to come. I know I speak for everyone in
our community when I say we are truly grate-
ful for his tireless service and cannot thank
him enough. I would like to offer my most
heartfelt appreciation and wish him a long and
happy retirement.
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
honoring Robert ‘‘Bobby’’ Smith for his 34
years of public service.
f
HONORING THE ACHIEVEMENTS
AND UNSELFISH WORK OF
HILLSBOROUGH COMMISSIONER
LESLEY ‘‘LES’’ MILLER, JR.
HON. KATHY CASTOR
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Ms. CASTOR of Florida. Madam Speaker, I
rise today in admiration and respect to honor
the achievements and unselfish work of
Hillsborough Commissioner Lesley ‘‘Les’’ Mil-
ler, Jr. and to congratulate him on his retire-
ment. Les’ remarkable contributions to our
hometown of Tampa have had a tremendous
impact on our neighbors and citizens of Flor-
ida and is worthy of recognition.
Les was born in Tampa in 1951, graduated
from Middleton High School and later served
in the United States Air Force as an adminis-
trative specialist. He holds a bachelor’s degree
in political science and master’s degree in
public administration from the University of
South Florida (USF) and received an honorary
doctorate degree in humane letters from Flor-
ida A&M University in 2005. During his aca-
demic career, Les served as the First African
American President of the Student Govern-
ment Association and President of the Black
Student Union. Before making a switch to po-
litical science, Les was a music major and
rose to be drum major at Middleton High.
Les’ involvement and willingness to serve
did not stop after his college career. He also
served as a member of the Florida House of
Representatives from 1992 to 2000 and as a
member in the Florida Senate from 2000
2006. Commissioner Miller was the first Dem-
ocrat in Florida to serve as both Florida House
and Senate Minority Leader. His hard work
and dedication towards public policy and pas-
sion for giving back to his community, has
granted him several awards including the Flor-
ida Education Association President’s Award;
the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Interfaith Me-
morial Service Robert W. Saunders Award for
Efforts to Promote Civil Rights; the University
of South Florida Presidents’ Distinguished Cit-
izen Award; the Early Learning Coalition Leg-
islative Excellence Award; Florida League of
Cities Legislative Award; and the Florida
Housing Coalition Legislative Award.
Les has been an integral part of the growth
and development of Moffitt Cancer Center,
Florida’s only National Cancer Institute-des-
ignated Comprehensive Cancer Center. Les
was already a cancer survivor before Moffitt
opened, but throughout his life, he and his
loved ones still needed Moffitt more than he
might have imagined. Les has survived three
bouts of cancer, and both his wife, Gwen and
daughter LeJeane, have twice survived can-
cer. Through his career in the Florida Legisla-
ture, Les made funding Moffitt one of his pri-
ority issues. His many accomplishments there,
include, a measure he authored to earmark a
percentage of Florida’s tobacco sales taxes for
Moffitt research and patient care. Les con-
tinues to give back through Moffitt’s annual
Men’s Health Forum which encourages men
regardless race, religion and socioeconomic
background to get information and guidance
on prostate and men health. Les credits Moffitt
for being alive today and has made it a life
mission to help the center in any capacity.
Les’ relentlessness to fight for what is right
inspired him to lead efforts throughout his ca-
reer, both at the state and local level, for
tough laws to stop gun violence and keep
guns out of the hands of people like the men
who shot his son, Trey. Les’ tough and col-
laborative approach has allowed him success
despite strong opposition from special inter-
ests and even the Florida Legislature. It
passed a law to try to take gun violence ef-
forts from local governments. Les’ strength
and passion can be seen in his continuing ef-
forts to fight to stop gun violence even in the
face of rules that threaten local officials per-
sonally who try to protect their communities.
During his tenure as a Commissioner for
Hillsborough County, Les has continued to im-
prove the lives of many by continuously fight-
ing for affordable housing, better transpor-
tation and protection of the environment. He
also served on several Boards and Councils
including Aviation Authority, Committee of Six,
Expressway Authority, Florida State Fair Au-
thority, HART, Hillsborough County Emer-
gency Policy Group, Metropolitan Planning Or-
ganization, Visit Tampa Bay, Tourist Develop-
ment Council and Election Canvassing Board.
Outside of his role as Commissioner, Les
continues to be an active voice in civic affairs
including being a life member of Kappa Alpha
Psi Fraternity, Inc. a member of Harram Tem-
ple No. 23, Prince Hall Shriners; a member of
the United Supreme Council, 33rd Degree
Mason, Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite
Freemasonry, Prince Hall Affiliate; Life Mem-
ber and Past Master of Landmark Lodge No.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:46 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A16NO8.007 E16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1024 November 16, 2020
93 of Prince Hall Free & Accepted Masons;
Life Member of the Tampa Branch of the
NAACP; and a Deacon of the New Mount Zion
Missionary Baptist Church of Tampa, Inc. He
also continues to uplift and highlight the his-
tory and contributions of the African American
community to Hillsborough County.
Madam Speaker, Les Miller, Jr. embodies
what it is to be a public servant and citizen.
He has shown the way for generations to
come, always giving his very best, leading by
example and always working to make lives
better for those he serves. On behalf of the
citizens of Florida and my neighbors across
Tampa Bay, I am proud to honor Les Miller,
Jr. for his formidable efforts and selfless devo-
tion to the people in our community and con-
gratulate him one more time, on his
retirement.
f
IN HONOR OF CHARLES E.
TROSTLE
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to honor Charles E. Trostle of
Huntingdon County for his service in the
United States Army. Charles is an outstanding
Pennsylvanian, and I am grateful for his serv-
ice to our nation, the Commonwealth of Penn-
sylvania, and our community.
In Pennsylvania and across the country, our
veterans have served and sacrificed for Ameri-
cans’ freedom and our values. They answered
the call to serve and fight for us—at a great
cost. Truly, our veterans are the best of Amer-
ica.
In Congress, it is my privilege—and my re-
sponsibility—to stand up for those who have
served our country in uniform, as well as to
recognize these brave Americans. As a nation,
we are indebted to them. On behalf of the
13th Congressional District, I thank Charles for
his service to our nation and our community.
f
RETIREMENT OF WANDA
BLACKWELL
HON. JAMES COMER
OF KENTUCKY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate Wanda Blackwell on her retire-
ment from the Webster County Senior Center,
where she has served as Director for the last
four years. She is beloved by the seniors she
cares for and their families because her devo-
tion to serving others is evident in every effort
she undertakes.
Just a year ago, Webster County opened a
new senior center that has already enriched
the lives of so many and is evidence of the
devotion Wanda and her team have for their
fellow citizens.
Whether she was serving or delivering
meals, decorating and improving the center or
raising funds to expand their offerings and
programming, she did it all with a smile on her
face. Wanda lives by the saying, ‘‘grow where
God planted you’’ and has been a shining ex-
ample of giving back to the local community.
I join with Wanda’s family, friends, and all
those she has served throughout her time with
the center to thank her for her outstanding ef-
forts to better the lives of others, and I wish
her many happy years of retirement.
f
HONORING CITY OF ST. HELENA
EMPLOYEES
HON. MIKE THOMPSON
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. THOMPSON of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor the city employ-
ees of my hometown, St. Helena, California,
for their bravery and service while protecting
our community from the devastating Glass
Fire. These first responders, public works em-
ployees, and civil servants rose to responsibil-
ities well outside of their roles, exhibiting altru-
ism and versatility in their efforts to protect our
community in times of crisis.
St. Helena is fortunate to have dedicated
first responders to call upon when disaster
strikes. Despite dangerous conditions, the
men and women of the St. Helena Fire De-
partment courageously battled the blaze for 23
continuous days. Working 12- and 24-hour
shifts, they successfully defended our city from
the wildfire. In coordination with the Fire De-
partment’s efforts, the St. Helena Police De-
partment went door to door to notify residents
of the mandatory evacuation orders. Officers,
many of whom were displaced by the Glass
Fire, worked night and day to ensure public
safety by closing roads and escorting evac-
uees to collect their belongings.
In addition to the heroes in St. Helena’s
emergency services, other city employees an-
swered the call to safeguard our community.
Six Public Works employees risked their lives
to shield vital infrastructure at the Louis Stralla
Water Treatment Plant and the Bell Canyon
Reservoir from destruction, fighting flames in
their street clothes alongside city and CalFire
crews. Persevering through power outages
and poor air quality, city workers across nu-
merous city departments continued to work to
meet critical needs in the face of disaster.
These are only a few examples of the tremen-
dous grit and commitment city employees
showed during the emergency.
Lastly, the city of St. Helena could not have
gotten through this disaster without strong
leaders at its helm. In particular, Fire Chief
John Sorenson, Police Chief Chris Hartley,
and City Manager Mark Prestwich distin-
guished themselves through their exemplary
leadership and expertise in coordinating the
city’s response.
Madam Speaker, during times of crisis, our
citizens often look to their public servants for
guidance and assistance. The employees of
the City of St. Helena represent the very best
in service, dedication, and selfless conviction
to community. It is therefore fitting and proper
that we honor them today.
IN HONOR OF EDWARD J. SCRAM
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to honor Edward J. Scram of
Huntingdon County for his service in the
United States Air Force. Edward is an out-
standing Pennsylvanian, and I am grateful for
his service to our nation, the Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania, and our community.
In Pennsylvania and across the country, our
veterans have served and sacrificed for Ameri-
cans’ freedom and our values. They answered
the call to serve and fight for us—at a great
cost. Truly, our veterans are the best of Amer-
ica.
In Congress, it is my privilege—and my re-
sponsibility—to stand up for those who have
served our country in uniform, as well as to
recognize these brave Americans. As a nation,
we are indebted to them. On behalf of the
13th Congressional District, I thank Edward for
his service to our nation and our community.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF HEE SOOK
LEE
HON. JIMMY GOMEZ
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. GOMEZ. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor the life of Hee Sook Lee, the founder
of Buk Chang Dong (BCD) Tofu House, a
chain of Korean soondubu jjigae (tofu soup)
restaurants that have since become a cultural
touchstone to so many Korean Americans and
have helped bring Korean cuisine to the global
stage.
Lee’s life story reflects the passion and
commitment to which she built the legacy of
BCD. When Lee was younger, her father suf-
fered a debilitating stroke. Lee decided to skip
college to support her mother who had been
washing dishes in restaurants and selling
dishware at flea markets to support Lee and
her three siblings.
In 1989, Lee immigrated to the U.S. and
settled in Los Angeles so her children could
learn English and seize the opportunities life in
the U.S. offered. Her husband became an es-
tablished restauranteur and Lee became busy
raising their three sons. However, Lee was
itching to start something of her own. Seeing
how so many Koreans found success in open-
ing restaurants, Lee decided to open one of
her own. In 1996, on Vermont Avenue in LA’s
Koreatown, Lee opened BCD, naming the res-
taurant after the district in Korea where Lee
gained some experience and training in the
food industry.
Lee eventually achieved her dream of open-
ing a restaurant where she could share her
love and passion for Korean cuisine. However,
she never imagined what she had started
would soon become an empire of Korean res-
taurants, with 13 locations across the U.S.,
and that she would have Asian supermarkets
stocked full of her soup starter kits.
Over the years, BCD has become the go-to
place for those seeking good and authentic
Korean food. To others it quickly became
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:46 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A16NO8.010 E16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1025
November 16, 2020
more than a restaurant to go to eat soondubu,
bulgogi, or bibimbap. It was the place to go
when one was longing for the comforts of
home or looking for a refuge after a long shift
at work or after a late-night out with friends. At
the beginning, BCD drew in a predominantly
Korean and Asian crowd, but as word got
around of the restaurant’s delicious food, non-
Asians and a diverse body of people became
BCD’s main patrons. After trying BCD, those
who were initially unfamiliar with Korean food
and culture would want to try other Korean
foods, watch Korean TV shows and listen to
Korean music, gaining a greater interest in
and respect for Korea. Lee and BCD soon be-
came a diplomat of sorts for Korean food and
culture.
While Lee was busy feeding the hungry cus-
tomers who frequented BCD, she was also
helping feed thousands of starving children
around the world. She was the President of
Global Children Foundation, a nonprofit
launched by Korean American mothers who
wanted to provide relief to children and fami-
lies throughout the world.
Lee’s commitments to those in need didn’t
stop there. In the midst of the global COVID–
19 pandemic and her own battle with ovarian
cancer, Lee partnered with a local organiza-
tion, Koreatown Youth and Community Center,
to provide and distribute hot meals to low-in-
come and vulnerable seniors. Her generosity
of spirit didn’t just end with the food that was
served at BCD but continued in all the things
that Lee did for the Koreatown community and
beyond. Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues
to join me in remembering and celebrating the
life of Hee Sook Lee.
f
MARKING WORLD DAY OF REMEM-
BRANCE FOR ROAD TRAFFIC
VICTIMS
HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, on behalf
of myself and Congressman RICHARD HUDSON,
Co-Chairs of the International Road Safety
Caucus, I rise today to mark the 25th World
Day of Remembrance for Road Traffic Victims.
This day of remembrance is a day to com-
memorate the millions of people who have lost
their lives or been injured on the world’s
roads. It is also a day to thank emergency re-
sponders for their role in responding to emer-
gencies and saving lives on roads and high-
ways across the globe; a day to reflect on the
impact of road traffic deaths and injuries on
families and communities; and a day to draw
attention to the need for improved legislation,
awareness, infrastructure, technology, and
international cooperation to save more families
from the tragedy of losing a loved one.
More than one million people die from road
crashes every year, and tens of millions are
seriously injured. Road traffic crashes are the
number one killer of young people aged 15 to
29 and the eighth leading cause of death
among all people worldwide. Rochelle Sobel,
President of the Association for Safe Inter-
national Road Travel, highlighted the gravity of
this issue and the imperative to fix it: Every 27
seconds, somewhere in the world, a person
dies in a road crash.
On this 25th anniversary of World Day of
Remembrance for Road Traffic Victims, it is
important to remember the history and recom-
mit to the goals of this day. It was initiated in
1995 as the European Day of Remembrance
and quickly spread around the globe to coun-
tries in Africa, South America, and Asia. In
2005 the United Nations General Assembly
adopted Resolution 60/2, recognizing Novem-
ber 15th as the World Day of Remembrance
for Road Traffic Victims. Since that time, the
observance of this day has continued to
spread to a growing number of countries on
every continent.
This year, the stated goals of World Day of
Remembrance 2020 include remembering all
people killed and seriously injured on the
roads; acknowledging the crucial work of the
emergency services; advocating for better
support to road traffic victims and their fami-
lies; and promote evidence-based actions to
prevent and eventually stop further road traffic
deaths and injuries.
Indeed, the day has become an important
call to attention and an advocacy tool in global
efforts to reduce road casualties. As a result
of the growing awareness and global call to
action that World Day of Remembrance for
Road Traffic Victims has generated, in Sep-
tember 2020, the United Nations passed a
resolution declaring the years 2021 to 2030 a
new Decade of Action for Road Safety. The
declaration affirms the UN’s commitment to
work vigorously to implement a new, ambitious
agenda to halve road crash deaths by 2030.
Additionally, the United Nations Sustainable
Development Goal 3.6 calls on governments
and their stakeholders, including NGOs and
private citizens, to address the personal, med-
ical, and financial burdens associated with
road traffic deaths and injuries.
In every Congressional district across Amer-
ica, families lose loved ones to road traffic
crashes at home and abroad. It is an issue
that affects every demographic and almost
every mode of mobility, leaving behind pro-
found trauma and economic impacts.
In Florida’s 20th Congressional district and
North Carolina’s 8th Congressional district,
road traffic crashes claimed 1,947 and 669
lives respectively between 2014 and 2018,
costing an estimated combined $27 billion in
medical expenses, lost wages, vehicle dam-
ages, administrative costs, and uninsured
costs. Not to mention pain, anguish, and dev-
astation of losing a child, parent, sibling, part-
ner, friend, caregiver, or caretaker; the strug-
gle of having to care for a permanently dis-
abled loved one—these are incalculable.
Those of us who have lost loved ones in a
crash know all too well the ongoing pain that
this tragedy causes families and communities.
Road traffic crashes are preventable. We
owe it to our communities to work together so
that the hopes and dreams of our loved ones
are not shattered on the roads of the United
States and the world. Today, we call on our
colleagues in the United States Congress, Ex-
ecutive Branch agencies, and every commu-
nity in America to remember, support, and act
to prevent these avoidable tragedies and save
lives.
HONORING CHRIS GLADDEN
HON. H. MORGAN GRIFFITH
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. GRIFFITH. Madam Speaker, I offer
these remarks in honor of Thomas Christopher
Gladden of Salem, Virginia, who died on Octo-
ber 22, 2020. Chris Gladden was a journalist
and antiquarian whose work was enjoyed by
many in the Roanoke Valley.
Chris was born on December 25, 1948 in
Roanoke to Hobart Augustus Gladden and
Phyllis Ann Denit. He graduated from Andrew
Lewis High School in Salem. In his youth, his
carefree lifestyle, which included hitchhiking to
Nashville to see Bob Dylan and turning down
a chance to attend Woodstock to instead go to
the Atlantic City Pop Festival, earned him a
place in the Roanoke World-News as a sub-
ject of columnist Mike Ives. Eventually Chris
joined the paper as an employee. He started
as a copy boy in 1974 and found one of his
strengths was writing movie reviews. Readers
of the Roanoke World-News and then the Ro-
anoke Times, following the merger of the pa-
pers in 1977, enjoyed his astute and enter-
taining film commentary until 1993.
Chris then opted to leave the Roanoke
Times and open a bookstore. He specialized
in rare books, antiques, and really interesting
stuff. As one of his customers, I enjoyed
browsing his collection and learning of his
finds. During this time, he also earned a de-
gree in history from Roanoke College. His love
of history extended beyond his studies and his
rare book collection; he served on the board
of the Salem Historical Society and was in-
volved in the Historical Society of Western Vir-
ginia. He also served as president of the
Salem Friends of the Library Board.
Chris had two sons that he loved, and short-
ly before his death lost his son Sean. He is
survived by his son William. I offer my condo-
lences on his loss.
f
TULSA COMMUNITY COLLEGE 50TH
ANNIVERSARY
HON. KEVIN HERN
OF OKLAHOMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma. Madam
Speaker, Tulsa Community College celebrated
50 years in the Tulsa community this Sep-
tember.
In 1970, Tulsa Junior College opened, help-
ing educate workers to fill the expanding Tulsa
aerospace industry.
Their first class consisted of 2,796 students,
50 classrooms, and over 150 instructors.
Today, Tulsa Community College enrolls
about 17,000 students per semester and has
over 800 full and part-time faculty members.
TCC has served nearly 450,000 students
and awarded more than 70,000 degrees and
certificates over the last 50 years.
No matter your background, goals, or
schedule, students at TCC have found an ac-
cessible and affordable education.
Congratulations to TCC on an incredible 50
years in our community. I’m looking forward to
50 more.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:46 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO8.015 E16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1026 November 16, 2020
IN HONOR OF PAUL SUPKO
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, l rise today to honor Paul Supko of Hun-
tingdon County for his service in the United
States Navy. Paul is an outstanding Penn-
sylvanian, and I am grateful for his service to
our Nation, the Commonwealth of Pennsyl-
vania, and our community.
In Pennsylvania and across the country, our
veterans have served and sacrificed for Ameri-
cans’ freedom and our values. They answered
the call to serve and fight for us—at a great
cost. Truly, our veterans are the best of Amer-
ica.
In Congress, it is my privilege—and my re-
sponsibility—to stand up for those who have
served our country in uniform, as well as to
recognize these brave Americans. As a Na-
tion, we are indebted to them. On behalf of
the 13th Congressional District, I thank Paul
for his service to our Nation and our commu-
nity.
f
HONORING EDWARD J. TRACEY
HON. TIM RYAN
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. RYAN. Madam Speaker, on this the
75th anniversary of the end of WWII, I rise to
pay tribute to Edward J. Tracey. Like so many
of our courageous WWII veterans, Ed is gone
but will not be forgotten. Madam Speaker, I
am confident that the following highlights of
the contributions Ed Tracey made to the War
effort will reveal a legacy, not only for the 13th
District of Ohio. but for the broader impact
Capt. Tracey had on the victory against tyr-
anny.
Ed along with his two brothers and two sis-
ters, grew up at RFD No. 3, a farm located in
Cortland, Ohio. Ed began his lifelong love of
flying by taking lessons from a local flight in-
structor by the name of Ernie C. Hall at Hall’s
Airport. Ernest ‘‘Ernie’’ C. Hall who is widely
recognized for his long career in aviation, was
born near Warren, Ohio in 1890. A friend of
the Wright brothers, Hall built his first powered
airplane in 1909 and flew it in 1911. He began
his career as a civilian flight instructor in 1913,
opening a flying school in Pennsylvania in
1915. During World War I he transferred to
Call Field in Wichita Falls, Texas where he
trained over 500 military pilots for combat. In
1922 Hall relocated his flight school to War-
ren, Ohio where he taught until his death in
1972. His 1911 monoplanes have been dis-
played at the Smithsonian’s National Air &
Space Museum in Washington, D.C. and at
the National Museum of the U.S. Air Force in
Dayton, Ohio. Ed logged a total of 110 hrs. at
Hall’s Airport.
Ed left the family farm and traveled to Can-
ada to join the Royal Canadian Air Force in
May 1941, seven months before Pearl Harbor.
Ed became a Flying Sergeant in the Royal
Canadian Air Force and trained in the fol-
lowing aircraft: Fleet Finch, Harvard, Tiger
Moth and the Fairey Battle. Ed logged a total
of 375 hrs. in the RCAF from May 1941
through May 1942 and was awarded the Ca-
nadian War Medal.
After serving one year in the RCAF, Ed
transferred to the U.S. Army Air Corps in June
1942 and was posted to Tyndall Airfield Gun-
nery School near Panama City, Florida for
combat training. During training at Tyndall
Field, 2nd Lt. Tracey met 2nd Lt. Clark Gable,
the ‘‘King of Hollywood’’ and one of the stars
of the 1939 film classic ‘‘Gone With the Wind’’.
After what must have been a night full of
many stories, most likely related to training
and the uncertainties that lie ahead, Tracey
left sporting Gable’s service hat (also known
as a crusher) and vice versa. They met again
the next day for the ROTC (Return of The
Crushers). Ed logged a total of 264 hrs. in the
following aircraft from June 1942 through Sep-
tember 1943: O–46A, L–4B, AT–6A, AT–6C,
BT–13A, O–47A, O–47B, (P–51A, P–51B
Mustangs), A–33, AT–9, AT–9B, P40L
Warhawk, (B–25C, B–25D Mitchells), B–26
Marauder, B–34 Lexington.
In October of 1943 Ed transferred to the
522nd Squadron—27th Fighter Bomber
Group. The 27th supported the 5th Army’s
drive toward Rome. Ed flew the A–36 Apache,
the P–40F Warhawk, and the P–47D Thunder-
bolt in combat. The nose art on his Thunder-
bolt read RFD No. 3—Ed wanted the enemy
to know where his special deliveries were
coming from, and there were many.
January 12, 1944: Ed was on a mission to
take out enemy gun positions close to the
front lines in South Central Italy. His A–36
Apache developed engine trouble near Gaeta
Point and he had to leave the formation. Ed
got as far as the Voltumo River Valley before
coming down in a field for a belly landing.
The impact caused the prop to slice through
the canopy. Lucky for Ed, his head went down
and forward, just in time to avoid disaster. Ed
flew a total of 102 air combat missions from
October 1943 through August 1944 and
logged a total of 165 hrs. of flight in the Medi-
terranean Theatre of War. Rome was liberated
on June 5, 1944. ‘‘ANGELS ON OUR SHOUL-
DERS’’ said Captain Miller, in reference to the
P–51 Mustangs in one of the last scenes of
the movie, ‘‘Saving Private Ryan’’. Many of the
Angels of the 27th Fighter Bomber Group did
not return.
Captain Tracey transferred to the 3rd Army
Air Force in July 1944 and trained and pre-
pared students for combat in the P–40 and P–
51 Mustang. Captain Tracey logged a total of
362 hrs. in the following Aircraft until his dis-
charge on December 7, 1945: B–17F Fortress,
P–47D Thunderbolt, BT–13B, C–47A, UC–78,
(P–40, P–40F, P–40K10, P–40L, P–40N, P–
40N15, P–40N20, P–40N25, P–40N35, RP–
40N, RP–40N25 Warhawks), (P–51C, P–
51C6, P–51C10, P–51D, P–51D20, P–51K5,
P–51K10 Mustangs).
All together Captain Tracey served a total of
one year in the Royal Canadian Air Force and
three years and seven months in the U.S.
Army Air Forces. Ed logged 375 hours in the
Royal Canadian Air Force and 825 hours in
the U.S. Army Air Forces for a total of 1,200
hours. Ed logged flight time in a total of 45 in-
dividual aircraft.
Ed’s love of aviation was not about to end.
He became a member of the EAA (Experi-
mental Aircraft Association) and built and flew
his homebuilt Mustang II.
I ask you and my other distinguished col-
leagues to join me in saluting the legacy of a
very accomplished WWII combat pilot and in-
structor Edward J. Tracey.
f
HONORING DR. MICHELLE
KAVANAUGH
HON. BRIAN HIGGINS
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. HIGGINS of New York. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to honor Dr. Michelle
Kavanaugh. Dr. Kavanaugh was the Founding
Director, President, and Acting Executive of
the Western New York Science Technology
Engineering Math (STEM) Hub. The WNY
STEM Hub mobilizes schools and stake-
holders to develop, nurture, and maximize in-
terest in STEM-focused careers through
hands-on, one of a kind experiences.
Dr. Kavanaugh’s inspiring career in edu-
cation began with her position as a principal in
Sweet Home Central School District. She later
became the Assistant Superintendent for
Lockport City Schools and then the Super-
intendent of Plattsburgh City Schools and
Honeoye Falls-Lima Central School Districts.
Dr. Kavanaugh served as President of the
start-up WNY STEM Hub from 2013 to 2019,
translating her experience in school adminis-
tration to a program that seeks to foster a love
of STEM learning in students across the Buf-
falo-Niagara region. She believes that learning
about and experimenting with science, tech-
nology, engineering, and math as young
adults can foster a lifelong commitment to
learning and dedication to making a difference
in the future.
Under her leadership, WNY STEM Hub’s
capacity to change lives through learning was
especially evident in the ‘‘Hand in Hand’’ pro-
gram launched in 2017. This rich learning ex-
perience engages students to design pros-
thetic hands for local children in need using
3D printing technology, biomedical design,
leadership development, disability awareness
and conversations with professionals in related
fields. Everyone involved—from students to
teachers to mentors to recipient children, in-
cluding children from Africa—are changed by
this program that puts service learning at its
center. Dr. Kavanaugh’s commitment, energy
and vision infused this lesson in learning to
help others including the smiles and tears of
gratitude from the children and their families
who received their hands in a celebratory pro-
gram.
One of the most successful programs for
WNY STEM Hub students focused on devel-
oping experiments ready to be tested by astro-
nauts at the International Space Station during
their Take Flight—Space Experiments Project.
As an early and enthusiastic supporter of
WNY STEM Hub, I was especially thrilled to
join in honoring three Buffalo Public School
students in 2017 who won a competition
through the Student Spaceflight Experiments
Program and partnered with NASA to test their
experiment in outer space. The female middle
school students’ project ‘‘Tuber Growth in
Microgravity’’ questioned the ability for pota-
toes to grow at the International Space Sta-
tion, earning the students the nickname ‘‘Spud
Launchers.’’
Most importantly and to Dr. Kavanaugh’s
credit, these ‘‘life-altering’’ and ‘‘out of this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:46 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A16NO8.019 E16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1027
November 16, 2020
world’’ programs were not retired when she
took her much deserved retirement but have
continued on under new and equally com-
mitted leadership as this organization works to
be accessible to female and minority students,
who have traditionally been underrepresented
in the STEM world. The vision of WNY STEM
Hub is to create an environment where stu-
dents of all backgrounds and genders can
maximize their individual potential. Dr.
Kavanaugh has truly dedicated herself to this
mission through her determination to inspire
local youth and encourage adults to share
their time and talent. Under her leadership, in-
volved students serve as evidence and inspi-
ration that the Buffalo Niagara region can pre-
pare some of the best U.S. scientists and en-
gineers for our nation’s future.
Thank you, Madam Speaker, for allowing
me to acknowledge Dr. Michelle Kavanaugh’s
inspiring career here as she was recognized
for her significant contributions at the WNY
STEM Hub Annual Meeting on November 10,
2020. We are truly indebted to her for ensur-
ing increasing opportunities and a brighter fu-
ture for Western New York’s students.
f
RECOGNITION OF JAMES K. NEILL
HON. MICHAEL K. SIMPSON
OF IDAHO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the outstanding service of Jamie
Neill who will be leaving my office at the end
of this month. My staff and I have been very
fortunate to have him in our office and our
lives as he is a terrific staffer and incredible
person.
Jamie first started in my office as an intern
in 2012. His willingness to do hard work made
a very strong impression and the fact he is a
genuinely nice person was a bonus. We kept
our eye on Jamie’s career and were fortunate
to bring him back full time in 2013.
Since then he has grown in his legislative
role taking on increasing responsibilities of
scope and importance to my district and the
country. He has done a tremendous job work-
ing on healthcare, agriculture and resource
issues for the past eight years and has
achieved many successes.
Jamie played a critical role in crafting and
passing both the Farm Workforce Moderniza-
tion Act and the Great American Outdoors Act.
True to Jamie’s nature, no problem or legisla-
tive obstacle was too great to overcome
through ingenuity and hard work. Jamie’s kind
and honest demeanor kept people working to-
gether and allowed great accomplishments to
happen.
I will miss Jamie tremendously, but am very
pleased he will be residing and working in
Boise so he will not be too far away. I con-
gratulate Jamie on a job well done, and wish
him best of luck in his future endeavors.
f
IN HONOR OF WARREN V. DEMIER
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to honor Warren V. DeMier of
Huntingdon County for his service in the
United States Army. Warren is an outstanding
Pennsylvanian, and I am grateful for his serv-
ice to our nation, the Commonwealth of Penn-
sylvania, and our community.
In Pennsylvania and across the country, our
veterans have served and sacrificed for Ameri-
cans’ freedom and our values. They answered
the call to serve and fight for us—at a great
cost. Truly, our veterans are the best of Amer-
ica.
In Congress, it is my privilege—and my re-
sponsibility—to stand up for those who have
served our country in uniform, as well as to
recognize these brave Americans. As a nation,
we are indebted to them. On behalf of the
13th Congressional District, I thank Warren for
his service to our nation and our community.
f
HONORING THE 2020 WOMEN OF
THE YEAR
HON. JOHN GARAMENDI
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. GARAMENDI. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the 2020 Women of the Year.
The honorees represent some of the most out-
standing and dedicated women in the 3rd
Congressional District. Nominated by their
peers, these women and the leadership they
have provided are being recognized for play-
ing an integral and crucial role in improving
the lives of everyone in their communities.
This year, we mark the 100th anniversary of
the passage of the 19th Amendment, guaran-
teeing and protecting women’s constitutional
right to vote. Since then, our nation has seen
women take great strides in every American
industry from business to politics to the arts.
This progress has not come easy and many
women who have come before have worked
hard and strived to achieve the independence
and rights women have today. Though there is
more work to be done to ensure that women
have equal pay, flexible work schedules, and
affordable education, each of the honorees will
be a vital part of the of the work to get there.
2020’s Women of the Year are:
Judi Booe is a long-time community sup-
porter whose impact is seen and felt by many.
As a semi-retired administrative staff member
for the Collinsville Levee District, Judi works
closely with community members and vendors.
Formerly a resident of both Las Vegas, NV
and Richmond, VA, Judi’s community influ-
ence has followed wherever she has been.
She is a supporter and board member of
many local nonprofits in her community, in-
cluding the Solano Symphony, Child Haven,
Habitat for Humanity, the Vaca Arts Council,
and so many others. Her dedication, compas-
sion, and expertise make her well suited to the
work she does assisting non-profits to review
their by-laws and maintain crucial records.
Judi has a generous heart and is the first to
offer guidance or direction in any given situa-
tion. She leads by example in every setting
and is an inspiration to all her peers. Her drive
and generosity have earned her numerous
awards, including the Solano Symphony
League 2015 Volunteer of the Year, the Wom-
en’s Club of Summerlin 2004 Award of Excel-
lence, Habitat for Humanity Volunteer of the
Year, and the Fairfax County Fire and Rescue
Department Citizen of the Year award. Judi’s
leadership has made a positive impact on
non-profits and community organizations
across the country.
Wendy Breckon is a dedicated public serv-
ant who is tirelessly committed to improving
her community. Wendy began her public serv-
ice as an environmental specialist for the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, before de-
ciding to pursue a law degree. As an attorney,
she continued her governmental work, both
prosecuting and defending administrative
cases for state agencies, and reviewing con-
tracts. She recently retired as an Administra-
tive Law Judge for the California Unemploy-
ment Insurance Appeals Board. She is an ex-
pert on employer tax cases and used her ex-
pertise to educate other judges on the subject.
Wendy is the founder and current chair of the
Vacaville Community Association, an organi-
zation which advocates for increased trans-
parency and accountability in local govern-
ment. Under her leadership, the group was in-
strumental in bringing about policy change at
the city level. Wendy also helped found
Vacavillians for Fiscal Health and continues to
lend her expertise on governmental budgets to
the organization, advocating for fiscal account-
ability at the city level. Wendy’s dedication to
public service, civic engagement, and improv-
ing her community is an inspiration to all her
peers.
Aimee Brewer is a guiding force in her com-
munity with a passion for ensuring that all indi-
viduals live healthy, productive lives. She has
put this passion to work at NorthBay
Healthcare Group, a community-based organi-
zation that takes in everyone in need of care,
regardless of their financial situation. It is her
true calling to make a difference in her pa-
tients’ lives every day. As president of the
NorthBay Healthcare Group, her leadership
has led to the launch of neurosurgery and
robotic surgery programs, the advent of two
community urgent care clinics, and the open-
ing of a new state-of-the-art hospital wing.
During the early weeks of the COVID–19 out-
break, Aimee lead the NorthBay Command
Center team and maintained critical relation-
ships with local, state, and federal agencies,
where she promoted the first and most robust
safety measures of any hospital. Throughout
the pandemic, she has been an integral part
of her community’s COVID–19 response. Her
leadership also stretches beyond the NorthBay
Healthcare Group to many community organi-
zations. She serves as Chair of the Solano
Coalition for Better Health, Section Chair of
the Northern & Central California Hospital
Council, and a member of the board for Touro
University California, Partnership HealthPlan,
and the Solano Economic Development Cor-
poration. Aimee brings strong leadership,
boundless compassion, and unwavering gen-
erosity to all she does.
Ms. Brenda Cameron is a selfless commu-
nity servant who has dedicated her time and
energy to countless youth organizations
across her community. When not working in
the UC Davis Evolution and Ecology Depart-
ment as a lab manager, she has spent her
time volunteering with organizations such as
the Davis Senior High School Grad Night,
Davis youth baseball and softball leagues, the
Davis Comic Opera Company, and the Girl
Scouts of the USA. Over the years, Brenda
has worked closely with the Davis Girl Scouts
and the Girl Scouts Heart of Central California
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:46 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A16NO8.021 E16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1028 November 16, 2020
Council. She became involved with the organi-
zation in 1999 and spent the next 13 years as
a troop leader. In 2016, she began serving as
the Davis Service Unit Coordinator where she
has worked tirelessly to create an improved
experience for Girl Scouts in her community.
She recently participated in an experience with
Girl Scouts and NASA where she learned new
ways to encourage young women to get in-
volved in STEM fields. Brenda brought what
she learned back to the Davis Girl Scouts
where she has helped introduce girls in her
community to STEM fields through firsthand
experiences. Her many acts of volunteerism
have touched the lives of countless girls and
young women throughout her community and
inspired them to achieve their goals and go on
to become young leaders in their own right.
Adrian Carpenter-McKinney has long been
an active member of her community. Adrian’s
upbringing and experiences instilled in her a
deep desire to serve communities like hers
and help anyone who faced similar adversity.
After attaining her law degree, Adrian became
a respected prosecutor both in the District At-
torney’s office and as a Deputy City Attorney
for Sacramento. These positions also allowed
her to pursue her passion for community in-
volvement and civic engagement. She served
as a Deputy Legal Affairs Secretary within
Governor Brown’s administration where she
reviewed potential legislation and counselled
the Governor on paroles and commutations.
She later started her own consulting firm,
where she works to empower young women to
take on leadership positions within their com-
munity. She also serves as an advisor to
Breakthrough Sacramento, a program that she
previously participated in herself, where she
encourages and assists disadvantaged young
students to expand their worldview and works
with them to achieve their goals. Adrian also
serves on the Board for the Wiley W. Manuel
Bar Association, where she has created
mentorship programs to support African Amer-
ican law students reach their maximum poten-
tial. Adrian has a true passion for serving oth-
ers and has been a part of numerous commu-
nity organizations, including AmeriCorps, Na-
tional Night Out, and the Veterans Stand
Down, where she provided legal advice to
homeless veterans in the greater Sacramento
area. Her work within her community dem-
onstrates her compassion, enthusiasm, and
dedication to helping others.
Kristine Cassidy has spent many years
shaping Adventist Health with her influence
and passion. Her ability to navigate changes
and apply innovative thinking has earned her
a distinguished career. Many of Kristine’s
achievements are not widely known, as she
rarely seeks the spotlight and instead defers
praise to her staff. She has guided Adventist
Health through an intense period of change as
they gained an affiliation with a new organiza-
tion, assisted with recovery efforts during the
Camp Fire, and became a driving force during
the recent COVID–19 pandemic. Kristine’s
commitment to service is an inspiration to all
as she consistently works to achieve important
community goals and create a better life for
everyone in the Yuba-Sutter community. Kris-
tine started at Adventist Health 31 years ago,
where she began enhancing dietetic services
and developing high levels of food service
management. Kristine was then asked to take
over Rideout’s Assisted Living Services where
she elevated it to the premier choice for indi-
viduals seeking assisted living and increased
its performance to unprecedented levels. Kris-
tine is known to leave every department better
than she found it, act as a quiet and steady
leader, and is a vital member of her commu-
nity. Outside of her leadership within Adventist
Health, Kristine served as chair of the board of
the Yuba-Sutter Chamber of Commerce where
her vision, hard work, and leadership can still
be seen through the effective and growing
Chamber today. She has also given her time
to the Yuba-Sutter Food Bank, the Yuba City
High School girls basketball team, and the
Yuba College District. Kristine has been a
mentor to countless young women and her
leadership in the community will be felt for
years to come.
Denise Conrado is an activist and dedicated
volunteer within her community. Currently
serving as the co-leader of Indivisible Colusa
County, Denise plays a crucial role in raising
the profile of progressive voices and values
within Colusa County. Through hard work, de-
termination, and focus, she has spent over
two years organizing monthly events for Indi-
visible Colusa, including Conversations with
Community Leaders, a public forum where
local leaders and activists come together to
find common ground on critical issues to both
Colusa County and to the country as a whole.
Furthermore, Denise is a founding member of
the Colusa County Democratic Central Com-
mittee, where she served as Treasurer until
August when she decided to run for Colusa
City Council. Activism work is not the only
place that Denise shines. She is also a dedi-
cated advocate for children, having had a suc-
cessful career as a school administrator, she
volunteers her time with youth organizations
and lends her voice to issues impacting chil-
dren. Denise has consistently worked in her
community to promote civic engagement and
her optimism, passion, and empathy for others
have inspired everyone around her to become
forces for good in the community.
Stacey Costello is a talented and passionate
community servant whose hard work and dedi-
cation have completely transformed the pres-
ence and role of her local county library. For
the last five years, Stacey has been the Direc-
tor of Library Services in Colusa County where
she has enhanced existing programs, created
new programs, remodeled the library, and
worked tirelessly to ensure the library remains
an integral part of the community. Some of her
additions include a summer free lunch pro-
gram for children under 18, a financial literacy
program, a U.S. Census hub, and annual citi-
zenship workshops. During the trying times of
adjusting to life with a global pandemic,
Stacey quickly adapted to the regulations that
affected the library. She made story times dig-
ital, established curbside pick-up services, and
implemented an appointment system so indi-
viduals would still have access to computers,
copiers, and other library resources. Stacey’s
impressive efforts earned her the California
State Library’s ‘‘Outstanding Librarian in Sup-
port of Literacy’’ award in 2018 and a place on
the Virginia Yerxa Community Read com-
mittee, which she now runs. She has trans-
formed the role of the local library from a
place where books are stored to an active
community center that caters to adults and
children of all ages and abilities. Her creative
talent and ability to spread her positive energy
to others has made her a crucial asset to her
community.
Yvonne Cox is a beloved figure in her com-
munity. Living in an area faced with high rates
of crime, drug and alcohol abuse, and poverty,
she made it her goal to provide children and
young adults with a safe place within their
community. She understood the importance of
providing young adults a supportive location
with understanding people to turn to when
they were not in school. In 1999, she
launched a weekly Tuesday dinner for anyone
and everyone who cared to join. In 21 years,
Yvonne has never skipped a Tuesday. Her
motto is ‘‘Come and serve or be served’’ and
she ensures that everyone knows they can
find a safe place with her. This achievement
has not received any financial support or rec-
ognition, nor has Yvonne ever asked for as-
sistance. Outside of her work helping the
youth in her community, Yvonne owns a café
that enables her to further help those in need.
She opens her parking lot to trailers and cars
for evacuees during wildfires, opens her cafe
as a warm place for food in the winter months,
and has even opened her home to six children
under the age of 14 to call their home. Yvonne
works closely with many other organizations,
including North Coast Opportunities (NCO),
Clearlake Senior Center, Sunrise Special
Services, and many local grocery stores and
markets. Yvonne’s selflessness is an inspira-
tion to many within her community. She is a
positive role model for children and adults
alike, demonstrating what it means to be a
selfless, empathetic, and passionate member
of the community.
Lois Cross’ work in our community has en-
riched the lives of countless residents from all
walks of life. As the System Line Director for
Sutter Health and a Sutter Medical Foundation
leader she has dramatically expanded the
Walk-In Clinic (WIC) network, overseeing the
opening of 10 WIC’s in the Valley Operating
Unit alone. She now directs the 27 Walk-In
Clinics throughout the Sutter Health footprint.
With the arrival of the COVID–19 pandemic,
her role and responsibilities have only in-
creased. By partnering with local military
bases, Travis AFB and Beale AFB, Lois has
been able to provide video visits to military
personnel for evening and weekend care, con-
necting 15,000 military service members and
their families. Beyond her professional work,
Lois has served as the President of the Dixon
Rotary Club, Assistant District Governor for
Rotary District 5160, President of the Amer-
ican Case Management Association for North-
ern California, Professor at Samuel Merritt
School of Nursing, and as a national speaker
on the topic of the Affordable Care Act. Fur-
thermore, Lois stands out for her emphasis on
the professional development of others; she
cares deeply for her teams and works tire-
lessly to make sure others have professional
development and training opportunities. It is
precisely this caring and generous mindset
that has enabled her to have a positive impact
on thousands of lives throughout the district.
Rachel Davidson consistently brings care,
compassion, and dedication to the work she
does. Six years ago, Rachel began as a Case
Manager for the Sacramento Downtown
Streets Program where she worked with indi-
viduals facing homelessness to find the care
and resources they need. Through her dem-
onstrated hard work and respect for the orga-
nization’s mission, she became the Sac-
ramento Area Director. Through her work, she
has helped thousands of Californians find new
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:46 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A16NO8.024 E16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1029
November 16, 2020
hope by guiding them out of homelessness,
and into steady employment. Her work en-
ables those in need to find the resources that
can help them get back on their feet. Rachel
treats everyone she meets with the same re-
spect and compassion, regardless of their situ-
ation in life. This caring attitude makes her an
invaluable member of her organization and a
universally respected leader. The work she
does empowering those facing homelessness
has not only shaped the lives of countless in-
dividuals but has had a far-reaching impact on
the larger community.
Narinder Dhaliwal has served her adopted
community of Yuba City in a profound and
meaningful way since first immigrating from
England in 1995. Narinder has spent her ca-
reer in the field of public health and has
worked tirelessly to promote improved health
and quality of life for all those in her commu-
nity and beyond. As Project Director for the
Education, Training & Research program of
California’s Clean Air Project, she devoted her
passion and expertise to educating tribal com-
munities and young students on the harmful
effects of tobacco use and secondhand
smoke. She has been recognized many times
for her success promoting smoke-free environ-
ments and forging invaluable relationships with
many of California’s tribal communities based
on compassion and mutual respect. Narinder
has also served as a board member for nu-
merous important organizations, such as the
National Child Safety Board, the Peach Tree
Health Care System, the Sutter Performing
Arts Association, Friends of Yuba City Parks &
Recreation, and she currently serves as Presi-
dent of the Yuba Sutter Arts & Culture Board
of Directors. She has been instrumental in se-
curing important grants enabling countless
community projects and programs. Beyond her
community service, Narinder is a role-model
and mentor to women of all ages and back-
grounds, and is known to be a kind and pas-
sionate force in her community.
Anne Marie Flynn has dedicated her career
to organizations aimed at helping those most
in need. Anne Marie spent seven years work-
ing in community development abroad before
returning to Davis where she brought her pas-
sion and expertise to her own community.
Over the years she has worked with many
non-profit organizations, including the Rural
Community Services Corporation, the Yolo
County Food Bank, and the UC Davis pro-
gram for Regional Change. She is now the
Community Development Officer for Mutual
Housing California, where she has helped the
organization become one of the highest-quality
affordable housing developers in the state.
Anne Marie has spearheaded numerous pro-
grams that have helped residents to improve
their financial standing and given them a
brighter outlook on higher education. She also
oversees fundraising and grant-writing efforts,
and advocates tirelessly for increased funding
for affordable housing. Under her leadership,
residents and staff have built a community
around civic engagement that is actively in-
vested in their future. Anne Marie is a talented
and dedicated leader determined to build a
strong and thriving community. During the
COVID–19 pandemic she has put her skill and
expertise to work, organizing the delivery of
over 30,000 meals to her residents, and en-
suring that everyone was taken care of. Out-
side of work, Anne Marie volunteers her time
with organizations such as the Davis Phoenix
Coalition and Show Up for Racial Justice, or-
ganizations that work towards a more just and
equal society. Anne Marie is a passionate,
dedicated, and kind community servant whose
work has had an impact throughout her com-
munity and around the world.
Andrea Garcia has brought hard work and
dedication to everything she does; from the
beginning of her career raising twins and pur-
suing higher education, to her current exten-
sive involvement in community leadership. An-
drea served as President of the Solano Soc-
cer Club where she took the opportunity to
keep children actively engaged in a commu-
nity activity and ensured that they were sur-
rounded by positive role models. Recently,
she was appointed to the Diversity, Equity,
and Inclusion Commission for the National
U.S. Youth Soccer League. For years, Andrea
has been a strong advocate for minority com-
munities and worked tirelessly to promote di-
versity wherever she could. As President of
the Solano Hispanic Chamber of Commerce,
she created an environment of inclusivity and
empowerment and spearheaded the fund-
raising efforts for the ‘‘Inspire Learning’’ schol-
arship program which enabled Hispanic stu-
dents to pursue higher education. As Asso-
ciate Vice President of University Advance-
ment for Touro University, Andrea helped cre-
ate the Mosaic Celebration, a fundraiser which
has raised over $500,000 and awarded schol-
arships to 25 students with diverse back-
grounds to help with college tuition. Just this
year, Andrea has been a part of multiple com-
munity efforts, lending her time and expertise
to the Touro University Equity, Diversity, and
Inclusion Commission, and the Suisun City
Economic Pandemic Impact Committee. An-
drea is an accomplished community leader
and role model with an unyielding work ethic,
charitable heart, and compassionate disposi-
tion.
Neena Gill will be remembered as a tireless
community leader whose constant smile and
ceaseless gratitude brought joy to all around
her. A Punjabi immigrant, Neena was an inte-
gral part of the Yuba-Sutter community. She
and her beloved husband Kash are known in
the community for farming peaches, prunes,
walnuts, and almonds. Neena was also known
for her dedication to her students at the Yuba
Community College. For the last 30 years she
was an academic counselor and professor
who advocated tirelessly for students from dis-
advantaged backgrounds. She gave them the
courage and direction to succeed in their aca-
demic endeavors and pursue their passions.
She exemplified this to such a degree that
Yuba College created the Neena Gill Spirit
Award in her honor, to annually award one
Yuba College member who displays spirit and
love for their students. Neena was also a
strong advocate for women’s health, raising
over $75,000 to procure a 3D Toma Imaging
Machine to assist in Breast Cancer diagnoses.
While she herself had her own battle with
breast cancer, she did not let it inhibit her
courage and relentless dedication to helping
those in need. Neena’s legacy will continue to
reverberate within the campus of Yuba Com-
munity College and the greater Yuba-Sutter
area. It is my distinct honor to award post-
humously the 2020 Woman of the Year Award
to Neena Gill.
Nicole Howell devotes herself with unparal-
leled enthusiasm to making her community a
better place, especially for the elderly, English
as a Second Language learners, and those
facing socio-economic hardship. Her choice of
career was driven by the experiences and
memory of her grandmother, a Native Amer-
ican woman who faced many of the same
struggles Nicole works every day to alleviate.
For well over a decade, she has worked within
the non-profit sector building programs, teams,
and resource networks to educate commu-
nities and combat ageism. Nicole’s belief in
the power and equity of shared leadership has
allowed her to thrive as the Executive Director
for Ombudsman Services of Contra Costa, So-
lano, and Alameda (OSCCSA), where she is
responsible for ensuring that nearly 29,000
long-term care residents and their families
have access to the highest level of care and
are treated with respect and dignity. During
her tenure as Executive Director, Nicole has
grown the OSCCSA’s budget by over 600 per-
cent while spearheading new programs such
as the Solano Elder Justice Program, Tele-
phone Reassurance, Residents’ Rights, and
Healthcare Career Pathways. Furthermore,
her passion, dedication, drive, and expertise
have helped Solano County tremendously in
combatting COVID–19 and protecting our
communities’ elderly. At the beginning of the
pandemic, she worked to distribute PPE to
over 15,000 residents in long-term care and
educate the public on the risks of COVID–19
to older adults. Nicole’s dedication to culture-
changing initiatives and person-centered care
philosophies have made her an indispensable
part of building healthy communities. Her work
advocating for some of our community’s most
vulnerable members has directly benefited
countless individuals.
Sara Johnson has been a staunch advocate
for the disadvantaged and incarcerated in Yolo
County. As head of the Post-Conviction Relief
Unit of the Yolo County Public Defender’s Of-
fice, Sara works tirelessly on behalf of rehabili-
tated and incarcerated individuals. She de-
votes her time and energy to giving hope and
assistance to those in prison, ensuring that
they are not left without help following a con-
viction. This work has always been important,
but during the Coronavirus pandemic, her ad-
vocacy on behalf of medically vulnerable cli-
ents has been absolutely critical. She ex-
hausted every option open to those seeking
post-conviction relief and successfully secured
the release of several eligible community
members. As a Disaster Services Worker dur-
ing the pandemic, Sara also worked with
Project Room Key, the state effort to house at-
risk homeless individuals and prevent the fur-
ther spread of COVID–19. She oversaw the
care of over 30 individuals affected by home-
lessness, advocating for their needs. She has
also volunteered her time with the Yolo Food
Bank and other efforts to assist those in need
throughout her community. Sara is known by
her peers as a model community servant
whose work is both meaningful on an indi-
vidual level as well as having far-reaching im-
pact within her community.
I congratulate each of them and commend
them for their work. I am inspired by them and
firmly believe when women succeed, America
succeeds!
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:46 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO8.025 E16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1030 November 16, 2020
ORESTUS FLOWERS’ 100TH
BIRTHDAY
HON. JAMES COMER
OF KENTUCKY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Mr. Orestus Flowers of the First Dis-
trict of Kentucky who turned 100 years old on
September 7th. Mr. Flowers was born in Bow,
Kentucky and continues to reside in the 1st
District.
Mr. Flowers served in the Army for 3.5
years and was stationed in the Philippines
from 1942 to 1945. I stand with all Americans
to congratulate him on years of bravery and
sacrifice to preserve our safety and freedoms.
On February 1, 1946, Mr. Flowers married
Geraldine and together they have three
daughters. A true entrepreneur, he was re-
sponsible for bringing Houchens Market to
Burkesville in 1952 and served as manager for
32 years. Upon retiring from Houchens, he
worked at Norris and New Funeral Home for
the next 25 years.
I join with everyone in Burkesville and
throughout the Commonwealth who has had
the privilege of knowing him to celebrate his
fearless spirit. I am honored to represent Mr.
Flowers and wish him a happy 100th birthday.
f
CONGRATULATING FANNIE MAY
ON ITS 100TH ANNIVERSARY
HON. DANNY K. DAVIS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois. Madam
Speaker, I rise to recognize and congratulate
Fannie May on its 100th year anniversary
serving the Chicagoland community with
handcrafted, premium American chocolates.
H. Teller Archibald opened the first Fannie
May shop in 1920 at 11 N. LaSalle St. in the
heart of downtown Chicago. By 1935 there
were four dozen shops in Illinois and sur-
rounding states and in 1946, the iconic PIXIE
was developed. This mouth-watering combina-
tion of caramel, chocolate and nuts are one of
the companies best sellers and one of my fa-
vorites. During World War II, while other com-
panies chose to change their recipes when in-
gredients were scare, Fannie May stuck with
its exact recipes, making only what they could
with the available superior ingredients. Though
the company battled many cultural and finan-
cial challenges, it never stop creating new
treats for the young, old and health conscious.
In 1991 Fannie May produced sugar-free
chocolate, which quickly became a favorite
among dieters and people with diabetes. To
this day, Fannie May does not compromise on
quality, and their 55 stores including their flag-
ship store on Michigan Avenue in my district,
and 500 employees in the Chicago area serve
the community with the utmost pride.
Fannie May chocolates are undeniably
some of the most popular in the U.S. and
often a favorite for Valentines and the holiday
shopper. Again, congratulations to Fannie
May, we look forward to another 100 years
with you as a vital member of the Chicagoland
community.
f
HONORING CBP OFFICER DOMINGO
JASSO III
HON. FILEMON VELA
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. VELA. Madam Speaker, I rise today
with a heavy heart to honor the life and legacy
of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Offi-
cer Domingo Jasso III, who passed away on
November 5, 2020. Officer Jasso’s service to
his community and country touched the lives
of many, and he will be remembered for the
good-natured support he provided his col-
leagues and those he encountered.
Officer Domingo Jasso began his dedicated
service as a Customs and Border Protection
officer in December of 2011. Officer Jasso
was known for his leadership, his exceptional
work ethic, and his positive attitude. During his
time as a CBP Officer, he served as a de-
voted trumpet player for the Customs and Bor-
der Protection Honor Guard. He was also a
member of the Border Patrol’s Mobile Field
Force and was deployed with Operation Se-
cure Line in 2019.
Officer Jasso is survived by his beloved wife
Monica Jasso and their three daughters,
Jenny, Faith and Alizae. He also leaves be-
hind many dear relatives and the many work
friends he made over his career with CBP. Of-
ficer Jasso honored his loving family by setting
an example as a brave public servant to his
community and country.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring the legacy of Officer Jasso as
a father, husband, role model, and brave serv-
ant to our community.
f
IN HONOR OF WILLIAM SUVAK
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to honor William Suvak of Hun-
tingdon County for his service in the United
States Air Force. William is an outstanding
Pennsylvanian, and I am grateful for his serv-
ice to our nation, the Commonwealth of Penn-
sylvania, and our community.
In Pennsylvania and across the country, our
veterans have served and sacrificed for Ameri-
cans’ freedom and our values. They answered
the call to serve and fight for us—at a great
cost. Truly, our veterans are the best of Amer-
ica.
In Congress, it is my privilege—and my re-
sponsibility—to stand up for those who have
served our country in uniform, as well as to
recognize these brave Americans. As a nation,
we are indebted to them. On behalf of the
13th Congressional District, I thank William for
his service to our nation and our community.
REMEMBERING JOHN JOSEPH
‘‘JACK’’ MEEHAN
HON. ERIC SWALWELL
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. SWALWELL of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise to recognize the life of John
Joseph ‘‘Jack’’ Meehan, who passed away re-
cently at the age of 88.
Born and raised in San Francisco, Jack
graduated from the University of San Fran-
cisco (USF) in 1954. Following service in the
United States Army, Jack went to USF for law
school; he earned his law degree in 1959.
In 1960, Jack joined the Alameda County
District Attorney’s (ACDA) Office. While there
he created Point of View, a monthly publica-
tion, and Points and Authorities, a weekly
video series, to help teach California prosecu-
tors. He was recognized for his accomplish-
ments by being presented with the 1978 Pros-
ecutor of the Year award by the California Dis-
trict Attorneys Association (CDAA).
In 1981 Jack was appointed Alameda Coun-
ty District Attorney. He won reelected unop-
posed in 1982, 1986, and 1990. He did not
run for reelection in 1994.
Jack was affectionately known as the ‘‘Big
Guy’’ at the ACDA Office, beloved by all of his
colleagues. His leadership, respect for our
system of justice, and concern for victims of
crime will be long-remembered.
It also should be noted that as district attor-
ney Jack hired a young KAMALA HARRIS, now
a United States senator from California and
the Democratic Party’s nominee to be vice
president of the United States, to be a deputy
district attorney. Clearly he could spot talent
when he saw it.
Jack was well-recognized for his lifetime of
career success and community service. USF
awarded him its alumnus of the year award in
1994, and four years later it created the John
J. Meehan Alumni Fellowship to honor USF
alumni who help develop young lawyers.
CDAA created the John J. Meehan Career
Prosecutor Award, to recognize lawyers for
career achievement in criminal prosecution.
And, in 2003, the Saint Thomas More Society
of San Francisco present him with its Saint
Thomas Moore award.
While Jack had many professional suc-
cesses, it was his family that mattered most.
He and his wife, Janet, were married for 59
years, before she died in 2017. They had four
children—sons John Matthew (‘‘Matt’’) James
Patrick (‘‘Jim’’), and Mark Emmitt, and a
daughnter, Anne Marie (who passed away in
1968).
It was mostly in San Rafael where Jack and
Janet raised their family. There they hosted
many a family event, at which Jack showed
his talents for playing piano and bartending
that he honed over the years.
My deepest condolences go out to Jack’s
many family members and friends. He will be
greatly missed.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:46 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO8.026 E16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1031
November 16, 2020
CELEBRATING THE UNIVERSITY
OF ST. FRANCIS’ 100TH ANNIVER-
SARY
HON. BILL FOSTER
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. FOSTER. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor the University of St. Francis located
in Joliet, Illinois, which is celebrating its 100th
anniversary. Since 1920, the University of St.
Francis has distinguished itself as a valuable
institution for its students and a major contrib-
utor to Joliet and the greater Illinois area.
Founded in 1920, the Congregation of the
Third Order of St. Francis of Mary Immaculate
established the Sisters’ Normal Institute of
Higher Leaming, now known as the University
of St. Francis, to educate its own members.
By 1930, the institution reorganized its edu-
cation to provide a full college curriculum and
grant bachelor’s degrees. As the college ex-
panded its educational opportunities, it was
eventually renamed the University of St.
Francis in 1998.
The University of St. Francis has been an
institution committed to providing opportunity
for its students and educating a community of
learners who are engaged in the continuous
pursuit of knowledge, faith, wisdom, and jus-
tice. Their academic excellence makes the in-
stitution a valuable part of the community.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in celebrating the University of St. Francis’
100 years of excellence and congratulating the
institution on achieving this milestone.
f
CELEBRATING THE CAREER OF
JUSTICE JOHN F. O’DONNELL
HON. BRIAN HIGGINS
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. HIGGINS of New York. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to celebrate the retirement of
the Honorable John F. O’Donnell, J.S.C. Jus-
tice O’Donnell is stepping down from his posi-
tion as the New York State Supreme Court
Justice of the Eighth Judicial District after a re-
markable legal career.
In doing so, I recognize the efforts Justice
O’Donnell has made on behalf of Western
New York families; especially those affected
by child abuse and domestic violence. Justice
O’Donnell has been an outspoken advocate
for women and children within the court sys-
tem.
Justice O’Donnell began his career in the
private sector in 1971, and later ventured into
public service as a confidential law clerk. Jus-
tice O’Donnell soon became a pillar of the Erie
County Family Court. In November 1985, he
was appointed as a hearing examiner, and in
January 1988, he became an Erie County
Family Court Judge. In January 1992, he was
named the Supervising Judge of the Family
Courts, and the Domestic Violence Education
Coordinator for New York’s Eighth Judicial
District.
Justice O’Donnell has served on the State
Supreme Court since 1995. In November
2003, Justice O’Donnell became the first judge
to preside over the Erie County branch of the
Integrated Domestic Violence Court. This
monumental court reform initiative allowed
New York State to streamline the legal proc-
esses involved in domestic violence cases,
thereby better serving individuals and families.
Justice O’Donnell has been honored with
numerous accolades throughout his rich ca-
reer, including the 1999 Judges and Police
Executives Conference Jurist of the Year, the
1997 Western New York Matrimonial Trial
Lawyers Association Judge of the Year, the
1998 Bar Association of Erie County Family
and Matrimonial Law Committee Special
Achievement Award, the 1993 William B. Hoyt
Award from the Erie County Coalition Against
Family Violence, and the 2001 Ted Hengerer
Award from the Theatre of Youth. In 1997,
Justice O’Donnell was inducted into the
Signum Fidei Society of his alma mater, St.
Joseph’s Collegiate Institute.
Madam Speaker, thank you for allowing me
to recognize the retirement of Justice John
O’Donnell here today. He has dedicated his
career to finding justice for the people of
Western New York and we greatly appreciate
his service.
f
IN HONOR OF LESTER J. STOUDT
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to honor Lester J. Stoudt of
Huntingdon County for his service in the
United States Army. Lester is an outstanding
Pennsylvanian, and I am grateful for his serv-
ice to our nation, the Commonwealth of Penn-
sylvania, and our community.
In Pennsylvania and across the country, our
veterans have served and sacrificed for Ameri-
cans’ freedom and our values. They answered
the call to serve and fight for us—at a great
cost. Truly, our veterans are the best of Amer-
ica.
In Congress, it is my privilege—and my re-
sponsibility—to stand up for those who have
served our country in uniform, as well as to
recognize these brave Americans. As a nation,
we are indebted to them. On behalf of the
13th Congressional District, I thank Lester for
his service to our nation and our community.
f
HONORING RICHARD BRUMFIELD,
JR. AND GUILLERMO AVINA’S
CONTRIBUTIONS TO
HEALTHCARE
HON. JIMMY GOMEZ
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. GOMEZ. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Richard Brumfield, Jr. and Guil-
lermo Avina, Co-Founders of Full Spectrum
Omega, Inc. (FSO), a Service-Disabled Vet-
eran-Owned Small Business (SDVOSB) and
phytocannabinoids life science company in
Los Angeles. FSO’s mission is providing ac-
cess to FDA-approved marijuana-derived
products that address unmet medical condi-
tions and improve people’s lives and
wellbeing.
Richard and Guillermo have a long history
of developing cannabis-derived products, op-
erating under California state laws and fo-
cused on putting ‘‘patients before profits.’’
With FSO headquartered in California’s 34th
District, Messrs. Brumfield and Avina play an
important role in our community. They also re-
cently held an event in the district to ‘kick off’
a major new initiative. Richard and Guillermo
have tirelessly worked to serve our commu-
nity, and I want to recognize and thank them
for their innovative contributions.
f
HONORING LYNDELL ‘‘DALE’’
WOODS
HON. H. MORGAN GRIFFITH
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. GRIFFITH. Madam Speaker, I submit
these remarks in honor of Lyndell ‘‘Dale’’
Woods of Salem, Virginia, who died on No-
vember 8, 2020. He was a longtime volunteer
at the Fort Lewis Fire Department, and the
heart disease that took his life developed as a
result of his service.
Mr. Woods was born in Stuttgart, Germany,
on March 8, 1960 to Rodney Leroy and Maria
Liebelt Woods. He graduated from Salem High
School in 1978 as part of the school’s first
graduating class. Volunteer firefighting in the
Fort Lewis Fire Department was a calling he
pursued for 35 years, from March 1981 until
his diagnosis with heart disease in 2016. Dur-
ing that time, he attained the ranks of Lieuten-
ant, Captain, and Membership Office and ac-
quired certifications including Firefighter 1–2,
Fire Instructor, and Emergency Vehicle Oper-
ator—Class 4.
Mr. Woods worked at PMI Lubricants for 22
years. His community involvement in addition
to his volunteer firefighting service included
the Boy Scouts of America and coaching
Glenvar Recreation League soccer.
Mr. Woods’ survivors include his wife Jewel,
his son Daniel, four stepdaughters, and eight
grandchildren. I wish to offer them and the
Fort Lewis Fire Department my condolences
on their loss. Many communities across the
Ninth District rely on volunteer firefighters such
as Mr. Woods for their safety, and his death
as a result of the performance of his duties re-
minds us of their great dedication and sac-
rifice.
f
RECOGNIZING THE INSTITUTE FOR
INCLUSION IN THE LEGAL PRO-
FESSIONAL
HON. DANNY K. DAVIS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois. Madam
Speaker, I stand tonight to recognize the Insti-
tute for Inclusion in the Legal Profession on its
10th Anniversary. The legal profession re-
mains one of the least diverse professions in
the United States. This adversely impacts the
pipeline of women, racial/ethnic minorities,
openly LGBTQ+ individuals, individuals with
disabilities, and religious minorities, who will
serve as future legislators, judges, public pol-
icy advocates, civic and community leaders,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:46 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A16NO8.031 E16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1032 November 16, 2020
and the lawyers who can be found daily in
boardrooms and courtrooms. While there are
an abundance of organizations working to
make the American legal profession more di-
verse and inclusive, and some progress made,
much remains to be done.
For ten years, the Institute for Inclusion in
the Legal Profession (‘‘IILP’’) has been work-
ing for ‘‘Real change. Now.’’ Its approach has
differed from more traditional efforts. It has fo-
cused on inclusion rather than just diversity. It
has emphasized the supply side over the de-
mand side: making the legal profession more
hospitable to diverse individuals, one where
anyone with the talent, aptitude, ambition, and
determination may enter and rise as high as
those abilities will permit. It has grounded its
work in research and data that go beyond the
anecdotal. It discusses the hard issues and
tackles the tough questions that need to be re-
solved before this profession can truly become
more diverse and inclusive. It addresses all
types of diversity in all practice settings all
over the United States. More importantly, ev-
eryone in the legal profession has a home
within the Institute for Inclusion in the Legal
Profession.
I was honored to give remarks during the in-
augural year of the formation of the IILP in
2009 and I am pleased to share these high-
lights from its first ten years of service. The
IILP is continuing to publish its ‘‘Review on the
State of Diversity and Inclusion in the Legal
Profession,’’ the only comprehensive compila-
tion of data, statistics, demographics, and
thought leadership essays designed in the
country. This report has become an important
tool to everyone in the legal profession who is
concerned about diversity and inclusion
issues. In addition, the IILP presented some
40 Symposia on the State of Diversity and In-
clusion in the Legal Profession to lawyers all
over the United States. These symposia bring
together an extremely diverse group of law-
yers who learn about all types of diversity and
find synergies that allow them to work across
lines of difference. The IILP provided the legal
profession with the only hard data available on
the business case for diversity in ‘‘The Busi-
ness Case for Diversity: Reality or Wishful
Thinking?’’. The IILP published the series,
‘‘Competing Interests,’’ which is the only anal-
ysis of the conflict between corporate efforts
aimed at economy and efficiency with cor-
porate efforts supporting diversity and inclu-
sion in the legal profession and the impact this
has upon minority lawyers. The IILP estab-
lished the Social Impact Incubator, a group of
Millennial lawyers from a wide range of back-
grounds and practice settings, who are learn-
ing to be thought leaders on diversity and in-
clusion for their generation. The IILP devel-
oped the program, ‘‘Diversity and Data Privacy
in a Digital World.’’ While much has been fo-
cused on data privacy issues, this program is
the first to examine those issues through the
lens of diversity and inclusion concerns. The
IILP conducts programs that offer unique and
thought-provoking ways to look at and think
about diversity and inclusion, such as ‘‘The
Ethics of Diversity and the Politics of Inclu-
sion,’’ wherein IILP examined challenges to di-
versity and political considerations that are im-
pacting inclusion efforts; and ‘‘Women and Mi-
norities,’’ studying the root causes and poten-
tial strategies to address tensions between
white women, women of color, lesbians, and
trans women. The IILP presented the first con-
ference outside the United States or United
Kingdom that was dedicated to diversity and
inclusion issues within the legal profession.
For its 10th Anniversary, the Institute for In-
clusion in the Legal Profession is celebrating
with another thought-provoking program: ‘‘Is
ROI (Return on Investment) the Appropriate
Measure for D&I (Diversity and Inclusion)?’’.
On behalf of the 7th Congressional District of
Illinois, I offer my deepest appreciation for the
work that they do and encourage that they
continue to find innovative approaches to en-
sure our legal professionals produce diverse
and inclusive workforces.
f
HONORING THE 2020 WOMEN OF
THE YEAR
HON. JOHN GARAMENDI
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. GARAMENDI. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the 2020 Women of the Year.
The honorees represent some of the most out-
standing and dedicated women in the 3rd
Congressional District. Nominated by their
peers, these women and the leadership they
have provided are being recognized for play-
ing an integral and crucial role in improving
the lives of everyone in their communities.
This year, we mark the 100th anniversary of
the passage of the 19th Amendment, guaran-
teeing and protecting women’s constitutional
right to vote. Since then, our nation has seen
women take great strides in every American
industry from business to politics to the arts.
This progress has not come easy and many
women who have come before have worked
hard and strived to achieve the independence
and rights women have today. Though there is
more work to be done to ensure that women
have equal pay, flexible work schedules, and
affordable education, each of the honorees will
be a vital part of the work to get there.
2020’s Women of the Year are:
Dawn La Bar is a dedicated public servant
who has played a key role in her community’s
development. She has worked in the Fairfield
City Manager’s Office since 2011, where she
has been at the heart of critical city efforts,
such as the development and implementation
of the City’s Legislative platform, community
revitalization projects, and affordable housing
programs. Dawn uses her skill and expertise
to bring together local and regional stake-
holders to increase funding opportunities and
further important projects. Recently she has
taken on the crucial task of addressing home-
lessness in the Fairfield area and works tire-
lessly to provide those experiencing homeless-
ness with the best possible outcomes. As the
leader of the City’s Homeless Services Divi-
sion, she brings people together from all levels
of government and industry to achieve a com-
mon goal. During the COVID–19 pandemic,
her work became that much more critical, and
she embraced the opportunity to build Fair-
field’s Project Room Key which secured shel-
ter for so many at-risk individuals. Building on
that momentum, Dawn helped lead an initia-
tive to open an emergency shelter and se-
cured additional funding to ensure individuals
would have the opportunity to move on to per-
manent housing. Dawn’s work, both through-
out her career and during this pandemic, has
had an incredibly positive impact on her com-
munity.
Janet Lacy is recognized throughout the re-
gion for her musical ability, mentorship, kind-
ness, and dedication to the Orland community.
As pianist and organist of the local Federated
Church of Orland, Janet has used her musical
talents to awe and inspire ever since she
came to Orland in the 1980s. Her kindness,
patience, and commitment have allowed her to
excel at mentoring local youth with an interest
in developing their musical abilities. Janet’s
musical accompaniments can be found at
nearly every community wedding or funeral in
Orland, while her talent and patience have
been foundational to the local community
choir, The Glenn Chorale. She also volunteers
her time as a docent at the Orland Art Center
where she shares her artistic knowledge with
visitors. Janet is also a member, and has
served as President for several terms, of the
Women’s Improvement Club. In that role, she
has spent her time furthering the group’s mis-
sion, providing scholarships for local high
school seniors, supporting the Orland Fire De-
partment, Library, and Glenn County Senior
Nutrition Center. In recognition of her special
place in the hearts of her friends and neigh-
bors, Janet has been selected as Orland Cit-
izen of the Year and served as the Grand
Marshall in the fall parade. Janet is a treas-
ured member of the community and an indis-
pensable resource for every group she serves.
With her vast array of accomplishments and
caring spirit, Janet serves as a shining exam-
ple of philanthropic generosity and passionate
service to everyone in her community. Her
work on behalf of women, children, and fami-
lies in her community will have a lasting im-
pact on generations to come.
Kathlan Latimer has dedicated her life to
education. Beyond her 27 years as a teacher
in the Fairfield-Suisun School District, Kathlan
has worked to help other teachers bring qual-
ity education to their students. Through her
work over the past 12 years as a lecturer at
UC Davis, and as a curriculum coach with the
California Department of Education, Kathlan
has had a positive impact on education pro-
grams throughout California. Kathlan’s passion
for education stems from a desire to improve
the lives of every one of her students. She
has long been a supporter of science and
math educational programs, particularly focus-
ing on underserved communities, working to
ensure that all students have equitable access
to STEM careers. To this end, Kathlan has
worked as a mathematics coach and served
on boards of professional mathematics edu-
cators at the county, state, and national levels.
In addition to her tireless work in support of
STEM education, Kathlan has been an invalu-
able resource to college students interested in
pursuing a career in education. Imbuing these
students with the same passion that has been
the foundation of her career, Kathlan has been
a mentor to many aspiring teachers and se-
cured internships for countless more at local
schools. Kathlan’s career and volunteer work
has had an immeasurable impact on the lives
of countless students and serves as a model
to all future educators.
Leticia Quirarte is a passionate activist dedi-
cated to serving her community. Leticia
spends her time as a certified Covered Cali-
fornia enrollment counselor with the Winters
Healthcare Foundation where she helps resi-
dents in her community find the necessary re-
sources to have healthy and long lives.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:46 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A16NO8.036 E16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1033
November 16, 2020
Leticia’s expertise in healthcare advising is
most evident through her crucial role in the
Winters Healthcare Foundation’s Promotora
program, actively advocating for the health of
local migrant seasonal farm workers. Serving
as one of the founders and current president
to the Winters Hispanic Advisory Committee,
Leticia helps provide health education and de-
votes her time to helping her community mem-
bers promote housing that is both inclusionary
and affordable. Serving as an organizer for
events like the Festival de la Comunidad and
Dı́a de los Muertos, Leticia helps to bring
3,000 residents together to rally behind the
Hispanic Advisory Committee. Passionate
about improving the lives of immigrants,
Leticia and the Hispanic Advisory Committee
have sponsored annual citizenship programs
to help people on the path to becoming a cit-
izen. Leticia’s philanthropic leadership in the
Hispanic Advisory Committee has enabled the
group to sponsor organizations throughout
Winters such as AYSO soccer, the Winters
Swim Team, Putah Creek Council student in-
ternship stipends, and the Winters’ Munchkin
Camp. Leticia’s care and commitment to her
community can be felt by many and her work
will have a lasting impact for years to come.
Dr. Phuong Luu has served both Yuba and
Sutter counties as the bi-county health officer
since early January, working tirelessly to en-
sure the health of the communities in both
counties. Dr. Luu began the position of health
officer at a time when COVID–19 was still a
mysterious virus with infections concentrated
in Wuhan, China. As the threat of a global
pandemic became apparent, Dr. Luu met with
community groups of all sizes to ensure that
concerns were addressed, awareness of the
disease spread, and to ensure the health of
every community under her care. Dr. Luu
brought a top tier education and years of pub-
lic health leadership experience to her role of
bi-county health officer, and despite having
very little time in the position at the start of the
outbreak, she was well prepared to hit the
ground running. Dr. Luu had served previously
as the Director of Public Health in the North-
ern Mariana Islands where she oversaw the
preparations, response, and recovery effort for
the deadly Typhoon Yutu. This high-pressure
experience prepared her well to do the work
necessary in a global pandemic. Dr. Luu has
been instrumental in developing all public
health policy in her community, working with
community leaders such as parent-teacher or-
ganizations, local medical associations, the
chamber of commerce, and Beale Air Force
Base leadership. Dr. Luu’s contributions to
both Yuba and Sutter counties will be felt for
years to come, not only through her continued
efforts to ensure the health of the bi-county
area, but also in the lives that she has helped
protect throughout this pandemic.
Barbara Mann has been a dedicated com-
munity servant for years, bringing time, dedi-
cation, and leadership to countless organiza-
tions throughout Glenn County. As a former
president of the local Parent Teacher Associa-
tion, she worked to promote the welfare of stu-
dents in her community. Her passion for edu-
cation was passed on to her two daughters
who became public school teachers. Barbara
has also served as treasurer for the Stonyford
Horseman’s Association and a board member
for the historical Willows Lamb Derby, helping
to preserve a community tradition over 80
years old. Barbara’s work also includes serv-
ing on the Willows Planning Commission, the
Glenn County Elections Board, and the Wil-
lows Museum Board. Her current work as
President of the Glenn County Seniors organi-
zation is more vital now than ever, as she
helps ensure that seniors in her community
have regular access to nutritious meals. Bar-
bara has made an impact on every organiza-
tion where she gave her time and is known
throughout her community as a positive role
model to all.
Corkey Mapalo has unparalleled passion
and dedication to helping those in need. She
has worked at the Yolo County Food Bank for
over a decade, both as a dedicated volunteer
and an invaluable employee. Having retired
from the County of Yolo, Corkey began volun-
teering at the food bank, where she found a
passion for their mission. She is now a dedi-
cated Director of Operations for the Yolo
County Food Bank where she works with her
colleagues to alleviate hunger and food inse-
curity throughout her community. Though al-
ways important, her work has never seemed
more urgent than during the current
Coronavirus pandemic. As need for food as-
sistance has increased in recent months,
Corkey has met the challenge head on, seek-
ing out any opportunity for increased funding,
greater donations, or increased distribution ca-
pacity. In just the past six months, Corkey has
led the Yolo County Food Bank team to dis-
tribute more than five million pounds of food
and is responsible for helping to feed over
45,000 residents of Yolo County each month.
In addition to food distribution, Corkey has led
efforts to distribute other essential items, most
recently devoting her weekends to collecting
and distributing essential supplies to victims of
the LNU Complex fire. Corkey’s devoted serv-
ice is responsible for helping countless sen-
iors, children, and residents of Yolo County.
Julie Martin is a natural leader who has con-
sistently dedicated her time and talent to im-
proving the lives of those in need. The founder
of the Yolo County chapter of 100+ Women
Who Care, Julie has been instrumental in or-
ganizing large-scale philanthropic campaigns,
volunteering her time and energy to ensuring
that local non-profit organizations receive the
funding they need to carry out their missions.
100+ Women Who Care is an organization
dedicated to organizing contributions from
women in the community into a bulk grant for
Yolo County non-profit groups. Though the
group’s original goal was to maintain a mem-
bership of 100 women who could each donate
$100 every three months, it has flourished
under Julie’s leadership, far exceeding that
original benchmark for success. The group
has donated hundreds of thousands of dollars
over the years to community groups in need,
often providing a financial influx at a critical
time. Though it would have been easy to allow
the group to fall by the wayside when the cur-
rent pandemic made in-person meetings im-
possible, Julie and her steering committee re-
alized that the need for their philanthropic
work was now more important than ever.
Since the onset of the pandemic, 100+
Women Who Care has donated tens of thou-
sands of dollars to STEAC and to the Yolo
Food Bank, enabling these organizations to
continue their vital work when the community
is most in need. Through her work with 100+
Women Who Care and her many other volun-
teer efforts, Julie has had an immeasurable
impact on her own community and beyond.
Alice McBride is a dynamic and gifted com-
munity leader who has been empowering oth-
ers to fulfill their potential for decades. Highly
respected throughout the Solano community,
Alice is a teacher, preacher, coach, mentor,
and consultant who selflessly draws on her
own knowledge, experience, and wisdom to
grow the lives of others. Her talents and inspi-
rational leadership make her a sought-after
speaker. As Founder and CEO of the Angelic
Tabernacle of Christ Universal Outreach Min-
istries, Alice has created numerous other min-
istries to provide aid to the community, includ-
ing the Divine Women Walking in Their Divine
Destiny Conference, the Men of Valor Con-
ference, Olives Around the Table, and the
Kenya Internal Network Outreach. For over 20
years, Alice has done important work through
the Youth 18Teen–20 Years program, which
seeks to avail young adults in need of re-
sources required to succeed in school. She
also selflessly serves as a Volunteer Hospital
Chapel Coordinator with David Grant USAF
Medical Group at Travis AFB. Here, she
brings to bear her extraordinary patience, dig-
nity, and emotional touch to help those who
have lost a loved one progress through grief.
Alice’s grace and professionalism have helped
countless people process loss and go on to
find strength and fortitude. As a mother of
three, grandmother of five, and now a great-
grandmother, Alice’s family spans five blessed
generations. Alice’s kindness, generosity, and
inspirational leadership will have an impact for
generations to come.
Janie Nall is a dedicated community leader
who is committed to serving those who serve
their country. She is known throughout her
community for her knowledge, leadership, and
extraordinary achievements. She has given
her time and expertise to countless community
organizations, including the Yuba-Sutter Arts
Council, Chamber of Commerce, Kiwanis
Club, Marysville Chinese Community, and the
boards for Rideout and Sutter North Health
Groups. Her passion for serving our men and
women in uniform, combined with her incred-
ible knowledge of issues of national defense
have made her an invaluable member of the
Beale Military Liaison Council, the California
Governor’s Military Council, the Air Combat
Commander’s Group, and the Air Force Civic
Leader Group. Those at Beale Air Force Base
know Janie to be a patriotic advocate for the
base, servicemembers, their families, and the
surrounding community. She currently serves
as the Chair of the Beale Military Liaison
Council, helping to raise over a million dollars
for much needed improvements on base.
Through her work, she helps raise the morale
of the airmen and has a direct impact on base
readiness, helping them to carry out their im-
portant mission. As a member of the Air Com-
bat Command Commander’s Group, Janie has
brought invaluable leadership and insight to
serious issues of national defense. In this role
she also mentored others, helping them to
grasp the importance of the Beale Air Force
Base mission to the community and the na-
tion. Her work ensures a legacy of leaders
who support our men and women in uniform.
As Chairman of the House Armed Services
Subcommittee on Readiness, I have had
many occasions to work with Janie and know
the incredible value of her perspective. Janie’s
work on behalf of her community and her
country cannot be overstated and her con-
tributions will leave a lasting impact for years
to come.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:46 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A16NO8.037 E16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1034 November 16, 2020
Betty Nelson is a dedicated and passionate
community servant who is driven to leave her
community better off than how she found it.
Over the years she has instilled this same
drive in many young girls through her work as
a Girl Scout troop leader. She taught them the
importance of giving and serving and led by
example. Betty has also worked at the Casa
de Esperanza for the past 32 years, where
she helps to educate the community and pre-
vent domestic violence and sexual assault.
Her unflagging energy and commitment to
helping survivors has made her an invaluable
member of the team. As a volunteer for Casa
de Esperanza, Betty used her experience
coming from a military family to pioneer the or-
ganization’s outreach to Beale and Travis Air
Force Bases. As part of this program, Betty
trained the bases’ First Sergeants and Lieu-
tenants, helping to construct the first Sexual
Assault Response Teams on these bases.
This work leaves an incredibly important and
lasting legacy. Betty now serves as the fi-
nance director and volunteer coordinator for
Casa de Esperanza where she has trained
countless volunteers, helping to expand the
role and capabilities of the organization. Betty
has provided decades of invaluable leadership
and service to her community and her positive
impact cannot be overstated.
Jenette Ochsner’s dedicated volunteer work
has helped to build strong community bonds
across cultural divides. Her work with both the
Multicultural Women’s Dance and the Sutter
County Library Literary Services has helped
shape the cultural vibrancy of her community.
As a volunteer for the Sutter County Library,
Jenette has served as a tutor both for the Citi-
zenship Preparation and the Adult ESL class-
es, using her skills as an instructor to help
those in her community become citizens.
These classes are not only a steppingstone
for citizenship, but for many these ESL class-
es provide the English skills needed to help
with future employment prospects and other
important goals. Her commitment to these in-
dividuals goes above and beyond her class-
room duties, leading her to help many obtain
their drivers licenses and take other steps to
build independence. Jenette’s passion for cul-
tural diversity has led her to volunteer coordi-
nating the Multicultural Women’s Dance for
the past six years. The Multicultural Women’s
Dance is a long-running event that encour-
ages participants to share the dances and
fashions of their cultures, build friendships
across different communities, and promote the
importance of diversity. Jenette’s work building
community for new immigrants and encour-
aging others to share their cultural heritage is
a model of acceptance for all who know her.
Susan Rotchy is a devoted advocate for
people with disabilities and has been instru-
mental in securing increased funding for med-
ical research. After becoming paralyzed from
an automobile accident 19 years ago, Susan
began her activism at the community college,
when she successfully compelled them to be-
come ADA compliant. Realizing her ability to
inspire change, she put her unique perspec-
tive to work by advocating for important legis-
lative change. Through her work with Califor-
nians for Cures, she helped pass the Roman
Reed Spinal Injury Research Act of 2000, as
well as the Stem Cell Research and Cures Act
of 2004. Susan also co-founded the non-profit
organization, Research for the Cure, which
raises money to fund research into neuro-
logical diseases and conditions. All told, her
personal experience of living with a disability,
combined with her wealth of experience work-
ing with her peers has endowed her with an
intimate knowledge of the needs and issues
facing disabled individuals. This expertise has
enabled her to offer guidance to countless ad-
visory committees and organizations through-
out Solano County, including the In-Home
Support Services committee, the Solano
Transportation Authority for Seniors and Dis-
abilities, and the Consolidated Transportation
Advisory. Her dedication was recognized in
2007, when she was named Miss Wheelchair
California based on her advocacy, achieve-
ment, and representation of Californians living
with disabilities. Susan is a vital member of
the community whose resiliency and advocacy
for others is an inspiration to all who meet her.
Julie Shepherd is a dedicated volunteer and
strong leader who has made lasting contribu-
tions throughout her community. As treasurer
of the Sutter Youth Organization, Julie works
to create an active community by helping to
maintain facilities for youth sports, recreational
activities, and schools. She plays a key role in
the organization’s fundraising efforts, ensuring
a treasured institution will continue serving the
city of Sutter. Her work enables the Sutter
Youth Organization to remain a core part of
the community, providing a central venue for
important programs and events to take place.
Julie also serves as the treasurer of the Yuba
City Type 1 Diabetes Support Group seeking
to create a safe space for those living with Di-
abetes in Yuba City. In addition to these lead-
ership roles, Julie volunteers for several orga-
nizations in her community, giving her time
and dedication to the annual Bike Around the
Buttes event which aims to raise diabetes
awareness, leading arts and crafts events with
Yuba Sutter 4H, volunteering with Sutter
County Friends of the Library, and supporting
Brittan School and Sutter Union High School
events. Julie’s work and volunteerism has
touched countless individuals and left a lasting
impact on her community.
I congratulate each of them and commend
them for their work. I am inspired by them and
firmly believe when women succeed, America
succeeds!
f
IN HONOR OF DAVID R. VERNON
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to honor David R. Vernon of
Huntingdon County for his service in the
United States Navy. David is an outstanding
Pennsylvanian, and I am grateful for his serv-
ice to our nation, the Commonwealth of Penn-
sylvania, and our community.
In Pennsylvania and across the country, our
veterans have served and sacrificed for Ameri-
cans’ freedom and our values. They answered
the call to serve and fight for us—at a great
cost. Truly, our veterans are the best of Amer-
ica.
In Congress, it is my privilege—and my re-
sponsibility—to stand up for those who have
served our country in uniform, as well as to
recognize these brave Americans. As a nation,
we are indebted to them. On behalf of the
13th Congressional District, I thank David for
his service to our nation and our community.
f
RECOGNIZING MAJOR JASON
BAHMER
HON. TIM RYAN
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. RYAN. Madam Speaker, I rise to pay
tribute to Major Jason Bahmer for his exem-
plary dedication to duty and service as an
Army Congressional Fellow and Congressional
Budget Liaison for the Assistant Secretary of
the Army (Financial Management and Comp-
troller). Major Bahmer is transitioning from his
present assignment to continue his service to
this nation in the United States Army.
A native of Barnesville, Ohio, Major Bahmer
graduated and received his commission from
the United States Military Academy at West
Point in 2008. MAJ Bahmer holds a Bachelor
of Science in Civil Engineering from the United
States Military Academy, a Master of Science
in Engineering Management from Missouri
University of Science and Technology, and a
Master of Professional Studies in Legislative
Affairs from George Washington University.
He is also a registered Professional Engineer
in the state of Missouri.
MAJ Bahmer has served in the Corps of En-
gineers for over twelve years in positions from
platoon to corps level. His assignments took
him across the country, including Joint Base
Elmendorf-Richardson, Alaska; Fort Leonard
Wood, Missouri; and Fort Bragg, North Caro-
lina. He has two combat deployments encom-
passing over 21 months in theater. While de-
ployed he spent 12 months conducting route
clearance operations near Kandahar, Afghani-
stan and nine months as an Aide-de-Camp to
an Australian Brigadier, who was serving as
the future operations director for the Inter-
national Security Assistance Forces Joint
Command. Both of his deployments were to
Afghanistan in support of Operation Enduring
Freedom.
In 2018, as an Army Congressional Fellow,
I had the privilege of working with Major
Bahmer in my office for a year and during his
subsequent assignment as a Congressional
Budget Liaison for the U.S. Army. Major
Bahmer worked tirelessly with Members of
Congress and their staffs to accurately articu-
late the Army’s budget positions to the Appro-
priations Committees. His professionalism, dili-
gence, and commitment to the mission are un-
matched, and his work both as a fellow and as
a liaison effectively represented the U.S. Army
and the Department of Defense to the United
States Congress.
The foundation of Jason’s military success
is his family. Raised in Barnesville by Lowell
and Patty Bahmer, particular values were es-
tablished early as paramount: service, sac-
rifice, hard-work and compassion. He is a de-
voted husband to his wife, Jami, and steadfast
son-in-law to her parents, Bill and Penny
Biedermann. Jason is a committed father to
his children; daughter Emery and son Chris-
tian. Jami, Emery and Christian provide the
foundation for Jason’s service. Their attitude
of service and care for others permeates
every organization and activity they participate
in. The Bahmer family are true examples of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:46 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A16NO8.038 E16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1035
November 16, 2020
servant leaders in the Army and the commu-
nities they engage.
Throughout his career, Major Bahmer has
positively impacted soldiers, peers, and supe-
riors. Our country has benefited tremendously
from his extraordinary leadership, judgment,
and passion. I join my colleagues today in
honoring his dedication to our Nation and in-
valuable service to the United States Con-
gress as an Army Congressional Liaison.
Madam Speaker, it has been a genuine
pleasure to have worked with Major Jason
Bahmer over the last three years. On behalf of
a grateful nation, I join my colleagues today in
recognizing and commending Jason for his
service to our country and we wish him all the
best as he continues his service in the United
States Army.
f
LYNNVILLE 200TH CELEBRATION
HON. JAMES COMER
OF KENTUCKY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the city of Lynnville, Kentucky, lo-
cated in south Graves County or, as locals call
it, ‘‘The Little Town That Won’t Die’’ for cele-
brating their bicentennial.
The earliest residents settled Eaker’s Settle-
ment before the Graves County’s establish-
ment and naming in 1823. In 1903 and 1911,
due to the ongoing Black Patch Tobacco
Wars, Lynnville was burned down. In 2011,
one hundred years after the burning, the city
experienced another disaster with an EF1 tor-
nado touching down in the area. Through both
tragedies, members of the community dem-
onstrated resilience and grit by regrouping and
rebuilding to keep the city standing.
While Lynnville in 2020 is much different
from the early 1800s, it has endured numer-
ous changes while remaining authentic to
itself. Lynnville residents should be honored to
have secured a historical marker for the city
through the Kentucky Historical Society.
I look forward to continuing to work with
local leaders and Lynnville residents to further
the prosperity of Graves County for genera-
tions to come, and want to join with the city’s
current and former residents to honor this
tight-knit, culturally rich community.
f
IN HONOR OF WILLIAM FORD
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 16, 2020
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to honor William Ford of Hun-
tingdon County for his service in the United
States Coast Guard. William is an outstanding
Pennsylvanian, and I am grateful for his serv-
ice to our nation, the Commonwealth of Penn-
sylvania, and our community.
In Pennsylvania and across the country, our
veterans have served and sacrificed for Ameri-
cans’ freedom and our values. They answered
the call to serve and fight for us—at a great
cost. Truly, our veterans are the best of Amer-
ica.
In Congress, it is my privilege—and my re-
sponsibility—to stand up for those who have
served our country in uniform, as well as to
recognize these brave Americans. As a nation,
we are indebted to them. On behalf of the
13th Congressional District, I thank William for
his service to our nation and our community.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Tuesday, No-
vember 17, 2020 may be found in the
Daily Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
NOVEMBER 18
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
Business meeting to consider S. 1031, to
implement recommendations related to
the safety of amphibious passenger ves-
sels, S. 1166, to direct the Assistant
Secretary of Commerce for Commu-
nications and Information to make
grants for the establishment or expan-
sion of internet exchange facilities, S.
3730, to amend title 49, United States
Code, to authorize and modernize the
registered traveler program of the
Transportation Security Administra-
tion, S. 3824, to require the Federal
Trade Commission to submit a report
to Congress on scams targeting seniors,
S. 3969, to amend title 49, United States
Code, to reform the Federal Aviation
Administration’s aircraft certification
process, S. 4472, to amend the Secure
and Trusted Communications Network
Reimbursement Program to include el-
igible telecommunications carriers and
providers of educational broadband
service, S. 4577, to require online en-
rollment for the PreCheck Program of
the Transportation Security Adminis-
tration, S. 4613, to amend the Fairness
to Contact Lens Consumers Act to pre-
vent certain automated calls and to re-
quire notice of the availability of con-
tact lens prescriptions to patients, S.
4719, to provide, temporarily, authority
for the Secretary of Commerce to
waive cost sharing requirements for
the Hollings Manufacturing Extension
Partnership, S. 4803, to make the 3450–
3550 MHz spectrum band available for
non-Federal use, S. 4827, to authorize
the Assistant Secretary of Space Com-
merce to provide space situational
awareness data, information, and serv-
ices to non-United States Government
entities, S. 4847, to direct the Secretary
of Commerce to conduct a study and
submit to Congress a report on the ef-
fects of the COVID–19 pandemic on the
travel and tourism industry in the
United States, S. 4884, to require the
Consumer Product Safety Commission
to study the effect of the COVID–19
pandemic on injuries and deaths associ-
ated with consumer products, and rou-
tine lists in the Coast Guard.
SD–G50
10 a.m.
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
Business meeting to consider the nomi-
nations of Allison Clements, of Ohio,
and Mark C. Christie, of Virginia, both
to be a Member of the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission.
SD–366
Committee on the Judiciary
To hold hearings to examine pending
nominations.
SD–106
Committee on Rules and Administration
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tions of Shana M. Broussard, of Lou-
isiana, Sean J. Cooksey, of Missouri,
and Allen Dickerson, of the District of
Columbia, each to be a Member of the
Federal Election Commission.
SR–301
10:30 a.m.
Conferees
Closed pass-the-gavel/general provisions
panel meeting of conferees on H.R.
6395, to authorize appropriations for
fiscal year 2021 for military activities
of the Department of Defense, for mili-
tary construction, and for defense ac-
tivities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year.
RHOB–2212
2 p.m.
Select Committee on Intelligence
To receive a closed briefing on certain
intelligence matters.
SVC–217
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
Subcommittee on Public Lands, Forests,
and Mining
To hold hearings to examine H.R. 823,
and S. 241, bills to provide for the des-
ignation of certain wilderness areas,
recreation management areas, and con-
servation areas in the State of Colo-
rado, S. 1695, to amend the Wilderness
Act to allow local Federal officials to
determine the manner in which non-
motorized uses may be permitted in
wilderness areas, S. 2804, to promote
conservation, improve public land
management, and provide for sensible
development in Pershing County, Ne-
vada, S. 2875, to amend the Smith River
National Recreation Area Act to in-
clude certain additions to the Smith
River National Recreation Area, to
amend the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act
to designate certain wild rivers in the
State of Oregon, S. 3492, to transfer ad-
ministrative jurisdiction over certain
Bureau of Land Management land from
the Secretary of the Interior to the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs for use as
a national cemetery, S. 4215, to des-
ignate and adjust certain lands in the
State of Utah as components of the Na-
tional Wilderness Preservation System,
S. 4569, to modify the boundary of the
Sunset Crater Volcano National Monu-
ment in the State of Arizona, S. 4599,
to withdraw certain Federal land in the
Pecos Watershed area of the State of
New Mexico from mineral entry, S.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:46 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16NO8.040 E16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1036 November 16, 2020
4603, to promote the use of forest res-
toration residue harvested on National
Forest System land for renewable en-
ergy, S. 4616, to direct the Secretary of
Agriculture to transfer certain Na-
tional Forest System land to the State
of South Dakota, S. 4625, to direct the
Secretary of the Interior and the Sec-
retary of Agriculture to encourage and
expand the use of prescribed fire on
land managed by the Department of
the Interior or the Forest Service, with
an emphasis on units of the National
Forest System in the western United
States, S. 4696, to provide for the con-
tinuation of higher education through
the conveyance to the University of
Alaska of certain public land in the
State of Alaska, and S. 4889, to amend
the Alaska Native Claims Settlement
Act to increase the dividend exclusion,
to exclude certain payments to Alaska
Native elders for determining eligi-
bility for certain programs, to provide
that Village Corporations shall not be
required to convey land in trust to the
State of Alaska for the establishment
of Municipal Corporations, and to pro-
vide for the recognition of certain
Alaska Native communities and the
settlement of certain claims under that
Act, to require the Secretary of the In-
terior to convey certain interests in
land in the State of Alaska.
SD–366
Committee on Indian Affairs
Business meeting to consider S. 790, to
clarify certain provisions of Public
Law 103–116, the Catawba Indian Tribe
of South Carolina Land Claims Settle-
ment Act of 1993, S. 3264, to expedite
and streamline the deployment of af-
fordable broadband service on Tribal
land, S. 4079, to authorize the Seminole
Tribe of Florida to lease or transfer
certain land, and S. 4556, to authorize
the Secretary of Health and Human
Services, acting through the Director
of the Indian Health Service, to acquire
private land to facilitate access to the
Desert Sage Youth Wellness Center in
Hemet, California.
SD–628
3 p.m.
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs and
Federal Management
To hold hearings to examine modernizing
Federal telework, focusing on moving
forward using the lessons learned dur-
ing the COVID–19 pandemic.
SD–342/WEBEX
NOVEMBER 19
10 a.m.
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
To hold hearings to examine an essential
part of a COVID–19 solution, focusing
on an early at home treatment.
SD–342/WEBEX
Committee on the Judiciary
Business meeting to consider S. 4632, to
amend title 17, United States Code, to
establish an alternative dispute resolu-
tion program for copyright small
claims, to amend the Communications
Act of 1934 to modify the scope of pro-
tection from civil liability for ‘‘good
Samaritan’’ blocking and screening of
offensive material.
SR–325
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:46 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\M16NO8.000 E16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D981
Monday, November 16, 2020
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S6687–S7018
Measures Introduced: Five bills and one resolution
were introduced, as follows: S. 4897–4901, and S.
Res. 774. Pages S6721–22
Measures Reported:
S. 1427, to amend the National Institute of
Standards and Technology Act to improve the Net-
work for Manufacturing Innovation Program, with
an amendment in the nature of a substitute. (S.
Rept. No. 116–291)
S. 2204, to allow the Federal Communications
Commission to carry out a pilot program under
which voice service providers could block certain
automated calls, with an amendment in the nature
of a substitute. (S. Rept. No. 116–292)
S. 2346, to improve the Fishery Resource Disaster
Relief program of the National Marine Fisheries
Service, with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute. (S. Rept. No. 116–293)
S. 3729, to provide relief for the recipients of fi-
nancial assistance awards from the Federal Motor
Carrier Safety Administration. (S. Rept. No.
116–294)
S. 2786, to establish a Federal advisory committee
to provide policy recommendations to the Secretary
of Transportation on positioning the United States
to take advantage of emerging opportunities for Arc-
tic maritime transportation, with an amendment in
the nature of a substitute. (S. Rept. No. 116–295)
S. 4162, to provide certainty for airport funding.
(S. Rept. No. 116–296) Page S6721
Measures Passed:
William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021: Senate
passed H.R. 6395, to authorize appropriations for
fiscal year 2021 for military activities of the Depart-
ment of Defense, for military construction, and for
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to
prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, after agreeing to the following amendment pro-
posed thereto: Page S6688
McConnell (for Inhofe) Amendment No. 2682, in
the nature of a substitute. Page S6688
Greg LeMond Congressional Gold Medal Act:
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs
was discharged from further consideration of H.R.
3589, to award a Congressional Gold Medal to Greg
LeMond, in recognition of his service to the Nation
as an athlete, activist, role model, and community
leader, and the bill was then passed. Page S6693
Rodchenkov Anti-Doping Act: Senate passed H.R.
835, to impose criminal sanctions on certain persons
involved in international doping fraud conspiracies,
to provide restitution for victims of such conspir-
acies, and to require sharing of information with the
United States Anti-Doping Agency to assist its fight
against doping. Page S6693
Negro Leagues Baseball Centennial Commemo-
rative Coin Act: Senate passed H.R. 4104, to re-
quire the Secretary of the Treasury to mint a coin
in commemoration of the 100th anniversary of the
establishment of the Negro Leagues baseball.
Page S6693
National Purple Heart Hall of Honor Com-
memorative Coin Act: Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs was discharged from
further consideration of H.R. 1830, to require the
Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in com-
memoration of the National Purple Heart Hall of
Honor, and the bill was then passed, after agreeing
to the following amendment proposed thereto:
Pages S6693–94
Cornyn (for Schumer) Amendment No. 2687, in
the nature of a substitute. Page S6694
FLOODS Act: Senate passed S. 4462, to establish
a national integrated flood information system with-
in the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration, after agreeing to the committee amendment
in the nature of a substitute. Pages S6694–98
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion Commissioned Officer Corps Amendments Act:
Senate passed S. 2981, to reauthorize and amend the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Commissioned Officer Corps Act of 2002, after
VerDate Sep 11 2014 11:40 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D16NO0.REC D16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D982 November 16, 2020
withdrawing the committee amendment, and agree-
ing to the following amendment proposed thereto:
Pages S6698–S6712
Cornyn (for Sullivan) Amendment No. 2683, in
the nature of a substitute. Page S6712
Great Lakes Environmental Sensitivity Index
Act: Senate passed S. 1342, to require the Under
Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere to update peri-
odically the environmental sensitivity index products
of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration for each coastal area of the Great Lakes, after
agreeing to the committee amendment.
Pages S6712–13
Crisis Stabilization and Community Reentry
Act: Committee on the Judiciary was discharged
from further consideration of S. 3312, to establish a
crisis stabilization and community reentry grant pro-
gram, and the bill was then passed, after agreeing to
the following amendment proposed thereto:
Pages S6713–14
Cornyn Amendment No. 2684, in the nature of
a substitute. Page S6713
Missing Persons and Unidentified Remains Act:
Committee on the Judiciary was discharged from
further consideration of S. 2174, to expand the
grants authorized under Jennifer’s Law and Kristen’s
Act to include processing of unidentified remains,
resolving missing persons cases, and the bill was
then passed, after agreeing to the following amend-
ment proposed thereto: Pages S6714–15
Cornyn Amendment No. 2685, to strike the pro-
vision giving entities in southern border States pri-
ority in the awarding of grants related to the identi-
fication and processing of unidentified remains.
Page S6714
United States Grain Standards Reauthorization
Act: Senate passed S. 4054, to reauthorize the
United States Grain Standards Act, after agreeing to
the following amendment proposed thereto:
Pages S6715–16
Cornyn (for Roberts) Amendment No. 2686, to
modify an authorization of appropriations.
Page S6715
Methamphetamine Response Act: Committee on
the Judiciary was discharged from further consider-
ation of S. 4612, to designate methamphetamine as
an emerging threat, and the bill was then passed.
Pages S6716–17
AMBER Alert Nationwide Act: Committee on
the Judiciary was discharged from further consider-
ation of S. 732, to amend the PROTECT Act to ex-
pand the national AMBER Alert system to terri-
tories of the United States, and the bill was then
passed. Pages S6717–18
Congressional Accountability Act Notice of Pro-
posed Rulemaking—Agreement: A unanimous
consent agreement was reached providing that the
notice of proposed rulemaking for the Congressional
Accountability Act from the Office of Congressional
Workplace Rights be printed in the Record.
Pages S6983–S7017
Johnson Nomination—Agreement: Senate re-
sumed consideration of the nomination of Kristi
Haskins Johnson, of Mississippi, to be United States
District Judge for the Southern District of Mis-
sissippi. Pages S6690–93, S6718–20
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 51 yeas to 38 nays (Vote No. EX. 229), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Pages S6719–20
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that notwithstanding the provisions of Rule
XXII, the post-cloture time on the nomination ex-
pire at 11 a.m., on Tuesday, November 17, 2020,
and Senate vote on confirmation of the nomination;
that if cloture is invoked on the nomination of Ben-
jamin Joel Beaton, of Kentucky, to be United States
District Judge for the Western District of Kentucky,
the post-cloture time expire at 2:15 p.m., on Tues-
day, November 17, 2020, and Senate vote on con-
firmation of the nomination. Page S6720
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the nomination,
post-cloture, at approximately 10:00 a.m., on Tues-
day, November 17, 2020. Page S7017
Nominations Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nominations:
Joseph L. Barloon, of Maryland, to be a Judge of
the United States Court of International Trade.
Thomas L. Kirsch II, of Indiana, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Seventh Circuit.
Page S7018
Messages from the House: Page S6721
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S6722–23
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Page S6723
Additional Statements: Pages S6720–21
Amendments Submitted: Pages S6723–S6983
Record Votes: One record vote was taken today.
(Total—229) Pages S6719–20
Adjournment: Senate convened at 3 p.m. and ad-
journed at 6:41 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Tuesday, No-
vember 17, 2020. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S7017.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 11:40 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D16NO0.REC D16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D983
November 16, 2020
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
No committee meetings were held.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 4 public
bills, H.R. 8752–8755; and 4 resolutions, H. Res.
1220–1223 were introduced. Pages H5795–96
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H5796–97
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
H.R. 6237, to amend the Indian Health Care Im-
provement Act to clarify the requirement of the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs and the Department of
Defense to reimburse the Indian Health Service for
certain health care services (H. Rept. 116–569, Part
1);
H.R. 5919, to amend title 40, United States
Code, to require the Administrator of General Serv-
ices to enter into a cooperative agreement with the
National Children’s Museum to provide the National
Children’s Museum rental space without charge in
the Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade
Center, and for other purposes (H. Rept. 116–570);
H.R. 4499, to amend the Public Health Service
Act to provide that the authority of the Director of
the National Institute on Minority Health and
Health Disparities to make certain research endow-
ments applies with respect to both current and
former centers of excellence, and for other purposes
(H. Rept. 116–571);
H.R. 4712, to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act with respect to limitations on exclu-
sive approval or licensure of orphan drugs, and for
other purposes, with an amendment (H. Rept.
116–572);
H.R. 5668, to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act to modernize the labeling of certain
generic drugs, and for other purposes, with an
amendment (H. Rept. 116–573);
H.R. 2914, to make available necessary disaster
assistance for families affected by major disasters, and
for other purposes, with an amendment (H. Rept.
116–574);
H.R. 4358, to direct the Administrator of the
Federal Emergency Management Agency to submit
to Congress a report on preliminary damage assess-
ment and to establish damage assessment teams in
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and for
other purposes, with an amendment (H. Rept.
116–575);
H.R. 4611, to modify permitting requirements
with respect to the discharge of any pollutant from
the Point Loma Wastewater Treatment Plant in cer-
tain circumstances, and for other purposes, with an
amendment (H. Rept. 116–576, Part 1);
H.R. 5953, to amend the Disaster Recovery Re-
form Act of 2018 to require the Administrator of
the Federal Emergency Management Agency to
waive certain debts owed to the United States re-
lated to covered assistance provided to an individual
or household, and for other purposes, with an
amendment (H. Rept. 116–577);
H.R. 8326, to amend the Public Works and Eco-
nomic Development Act of 1965 to require eligible
recipients of certain grants to develop a comprehen-
sive economic development strategy that directly or
indirectly increases the accessibility of affordable,
quality child care, and for other purposes (H. Rept.
116–578, Part 1);
H.R. 8408, to direct the Administrator of the
Federal Aviation Administration to require certain
safety standards relating to aircraft, and for other
purposes (H. Rept. 116–579);
H.R. 8266, to modify the Federal cost share of
certain emergency assistance provided under the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency
Assistance Act, to modify the activities eligible for
assistance under the emergency declaration issued by
the President on March 13, 2020, relating to
COVID–19, and for other purposes, with an amend-
ment (H. Rept. 116–580);
H.R. 2117, to improve the health and safety of
Americans living with food allergies and related dis-
orders, including potentially life-threatening anaphy-
laxis, food protein-induced enterocolitis syndrome,
and eosinophilic gastrointestinal diseases, and for
other purposes, with an amendment (H. Rept.
116–581);
H.R. 6096, to improve oversight by the Federal
Communications Commission of the wireless and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 11:40 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D16NO0.REC D16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D984 November 16, 2020
broadcast emergency alert systems (H. Rept.
116–582, Part 1);
H.R. 3878, to amend the Controlled Substances
Act to clarify the process for registrants to exercise
due diligence upon discovering a suspicious order,
and for other purposes, with an amendment (H.
Rept. 116–583, Part 1);
H.R. 4812, to amend the Controlled Substances
Act to provide for the modification, transfer, and
termination of a registration to manufacture, dis-
tribute, or dispense controlled substances or list I
chemicals, and for other purposes (H. Rept.
116–584, Part 1);
H.R. 4806, to amend the Controlled Substances
Act to authorize the debarment of certain registrants,
and for other purposes, with an amendment (H.
Rept. 116–585, Part 1);
H.R. 5855, to amend the Public Health Service
Act to establish a grant program supporting trauma
center violence intervention and violence prevention
programs, and for other purposes (H. Rept.
116–586);
H.R. 2281, to direct the Attorney General to
amend certain regulations so that practitioners may
administer not more than 3 days’ medication to a
person at one time when administering narcotic
drugs for the purpose of relieving acute withdrawal
symptoms, with amendments (H. Rept. 116–587,
Part 1);
H.R. 8121, to require the Consumer Product Safe-
ty Commission to study the effect of the COVID–19
pandemic on injuries and deaths associated with con-
sumer products, and for other purposes, with amend-
ments (H. Rept. 116–588);
H.R. 6624, to support supply chain innovation
and multilateral security, and for other purposes (H.
Rept. 116–589);
H.R. 2610, to establish a Senior Scams Prevention
Advisory Council to collect and disseminate model
educational materials useful in identifying and pre-
venting scams that affect seniors, with amendments
(H. Rept. 116–590); and
H.R. 6435, to direct the Federal Trade Commis-
sion to develop and disseminate information to the
public about scams related to COVID–19, and for
other purposes (H. Rept. 116–591). Pages H5794–95
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Gomez to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H5733
Communication from the Sergeant at Arms: The
House received a communication from Paul D. Ir-
ving, Sergeant at Arms. Pursuant to section 1(b)(2)
of House Resolution 965, following consultation
with the Office of Attending Physician, Mr. Irving
notified the House that the public health emergency
due to the novel coronavirus SARS–CoV–2 remains
in effect. Page H5734
Announcement by the Chair: The Chair an-
nounced the Speaker’s further extension, pursuant to
section 1(b)(2) of House Resolution 965, effective
November 17, 2020, of the covered period des-
ignated on May 20, 2020. Page H5734
Recess: The House recessed at 2:14 p.m. and recon-
vened at 4 p.m. Page H5735
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Lumbee Recognition Act: H.R. 1964, amended, to
provide for the recognition of the Lumbee Tribe of
North Carolina; Pages H5735–38
Proper and Reimbursed Care for Native Vet-
erans Act: H.R. 6237, amended, to amend the In-
dian Health Care Improvement Act to clarify the re-
quirement of the Department of Veterans Affairs and
the Department of Defense to reimburse the Indian
Health Service for certain health care services;
Page H5738
Wounded Veterans Recreation Act: S. 327, to
amend the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement
Act to provide for a lifetime National Recreational
Pass for any veteran with a service-connected dis-
ability, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of 401 yeas with
none voting ‘‘nay’’, Roll No. 219;
Pages H5738–39, H5748–49
Digital Coast Act: S. 1069, to require the Secretary
of Commerce, acting through the Administrator of
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, to establish a constituent-driven program to
provide a digital information platform capable of ef-
ficiently integrating coastal data with decision-sup-
port tools, training, and best practices and to sup-
port collection of priority coastal geospatial data to
inform and improve local, State, regional, and Fed-
eral capacities to manage the coastal region;
Pages H5739–41
National Sea Grant College Program Amend-
ments Act: S. 910, amended, to reauthorize and
amend the National Sea Grant College Program Act;
Pages H5741–44
Department of Veterans Affairs Website Acces-
sibility Act: S. 3587, to require the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to conduct a study on the accessi-
bility of websites of the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs to individuals with disabilities; Pages H5744–45
Designating the community-based outpatient
clinic of the Department of Veterans Affairs in
Bozeman, Montana, as the ‘‘Travis W. Atkins
Department of Veterans Affairs Clinic’’: S. 900,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 11:40 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D16NO0.REC D16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D985
November 16, 2020
amended, to designate the community-based out-
patient clinic of the Department of Veterans Affairs
in Bozeman, Montana, as the ‘‘Travis W. Atkins De-
partment of Veterans Affairs Clinic’’; and
Pages H5745–46
Improving Safety and Security for Veterans Act:
S. 3147, to require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
to submit to Congress reports on patient safety and
quality of care at medical centers of the Department
of Veterans Affairs, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of 394
yeas with none voting ‘‘nay’’, Roll No. 220.
Pages H5746–48, H5749–50
Recess: The House recessed at 5:23 p.m. and recon-
vened at 6:30 p.m. Page H5748
Recess: The House recessed at 7:26 p.m. and recon-
vened at 7:36 p.m. Page H5749
Senate Messages: Messages received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appear on pages H5733.
Quorum Calls Votes: Two yea-and-nay votes devel-
oped during the proceedings of today and appear on
pages H5748–49 and H5749–50.
Adjournment: The House met at 2 p.m. and ad-
journed at 9:12 p.m.
Committee Meetings
No hearings were held.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR TUESDAY,
NOVEMBER 17, 2020
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: to
hold an oversight hearing to examine the Securities and
Exchange Commission, 10 a.m., WEBEX.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: Sub-
committee on Manufacturing, Trade, and Consumer Pro-
tection, to hold hearings to examine the American manu-
facturing industry’s response to the COVID–19 pan-
demic, 2:30 p.m., SR–253.
Committee on the Judiciary: to hold hearings to examine
breaking the news, focusing on censorship, suppression,
and the 2020 election, 10 a.m., SD–G50.
Committee on Rules and Administration: to hold hearings
to examine S. 959, to establish in the Smithsonian Insti-
tution a comprehensive women’s history museum, and S.
1267, to establish within the Smithsonian Institution the
National Museum of the American Latino, 10 a.m.,
SR–301.
Select Committee on Intelligence: to hold closed hearings to
examine certain intelligence matters, 2:30 p.m.,
SVC–217.
House
Committee on Natural Resources, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Ocean Climate Action: Solutions to the Climate
Crisis’’, 12 p.m., Webex.
Committee on Rules, Full Committee, hearing on H.R.
8294, the ‘‘National Apprenticeship Act of 2020’’, 10
a.m., Webex.
f
CONGRESSIONAL PROGRAM AHEAD
Week of November 17 through
November 20, 2020
Senate Chamber
On Tuesday, Senate will continue consideration of
the nomination of Kristi Haskins Johnson, of Mis-
sissippi, to be United States District Judge for the
Southern District of Mississippi, post-cloture, and
vote on confirmation thereon at 11 a.m.
Following disposition of the nomination of Kristi
Haskins Johnson, Senate will vote on the motion to
invoke cloture on the nomination of Benjamin Joel
Beaton, of Kentucky, to be United States District
Judge for the Western District of Kentucky, and if
cloture is invoked, Senate will vote on confirmation
thereon at 2:15 p.m.
Following disposition of the nomination of Ben-
jamin Joel Beaton, Senate will vote on the motion
to invoke cloture on the nomination of Judy Shelton,
of California, to be a Member of the Board of Gov-
ernors of the Federal Reserve System.
During the balance of the week, Senate may con-
sider any cleared legislative and executive business.
Senate Committees
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: No-
vember 17, to hold an oversight hearing to examine the
Securities and Exchange Commission, 10 a.m., WEBEX.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: No-
vember 17, Subcommittee on Manufacturing, Trade, and
Consumer Protection, to hold hearings to examine the
American manufacturing industry’s response to the
COVID–19 pandemic, 2:30 p.m., SR–253.
November 18, Full Committee, business meeting to
consider S. 1031, to implement recommendations related
to the safety of amphibious passenger vessels, S. 1166, to
direct the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Commu-
nications and Information to make grants for the estab-
lishment or expansion of internet exchange facilities, S.
3730, to amend title 49, United States Code, to authorize
and modernize the registered traveler program of the
Transportation Security Administration, S. 3824, to re-
quire the Federal Trade Commission to submit a report
VerDate Sep 11 2014 11:40 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D16NO0.REC D16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D986 November 16, 2020
to Congress on scams targeting seniors, S. 3969, to
amend title 49, United States Code, to reform the Federal
Aviation Administration’s aircraft certification process, S.
4472, to amend the Secure and Trusted Communications
Network Reimbursement Program to include eligible
telecommunications carriers and providers of educational
broadband service, S. 4577, to require online enrollment
for the PreCheck Program of the Transportation Security
Administration, S. 4613, to amend the Fairness to Con-
tact Lens Consumers Act to prevent certain automated
calls and to require notice of the availability of contact
lens prescriptions to patients, S. 4719, to provide, tempo-
rarily, authority for the Secretary of Commerce to waive
cost sharing requirements for the Hollings Manufacturing
Extension Partnership, S. 4803, to make the 3450–3550
MHz spectrum band available for non-Federal use, S.
4827, to authorize the Assistant Secretary of Space Com-
merce to provide space situational awareness data, infor-
mation, and services to non-United States Government
entities, S. 4847, to direct the Secretary of Commerce to
conduct a study and submit to Congress a report on the
effects of the COVID–19 pandemic on the travel and
tourism industry in the United States, S. 4884, to require
the Consumer Product Safety Commission to study the
effect of the COVID–19 pandemic on injuries and deaths
associated with consumer products, and routine lists in
the Coast Guard, 9:30 a.m., SD–G50.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: November
18, business meeting to consider the nominations of Alli-
son Clements, of Ohio, and Mark C. Christie, of Virginia,
both to be a Member of the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission, 10 a.m., SD–366.
November 18, Subcommittee on Public Lands, Forests,
and Mining, to hold hearings to examine H.R. 823, and
S. 241, bills to provide for the designation of certain wil-
derness areas, recreation management areas, and conserva-
tion areas in the State of Colorado, S. 1695, to amend the
Wilderness Act to allow local Federal officials to deter-
mine the manner in which nonmotorized uses may be
permitted in wilderness areas, S. 2804, to promote con-
servation, improve public land management, and provide
for sensible development in Pershing County, Nevada, S.
2875, to amend the Smith River National Recreation
Area Act to include certain additions to the Smith River
National Recreation Area, to amend the Wild and Scenic
Rivers Act to designate certain wild rivers in the State
of Oregon, S. 3492, to transfer administrative jurisdiction
over certain Bureau of Land Management land from the
Secretary of the Interior to the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs for use as a national cemetery, S. 4215, to designate
and adjust certain lands in the State of Utah as compo-
nents of the National Wilderness Preservation System, S.
4569, to modify the boundary of the Sunset Crater Vol-
cano National Monument in the State of Arizona, S.
4599, to withdraw certain Federal land in the Pecos Wa-
tershed area of the State of New Mexico from mineral
entry, S. 4603, to promote the use of forest restoration
residue harvested on National Forest System land for re-
newable energy, S. 4616, to direct the Secretary of Agri-
culture to transfer certain National Forest System land to
the State of South Dakota, S. 4625, to direct the Sec-
retary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture to
encourage and expand the use of prescribed fire on land
managed by the Department of the Interior or the Forest
Service, with an emphasis on units of the National Forest
System in the western United States, S. 4696, to provide
for the continuation of higher education through the con-
veyance to the University of Alaska of certain public land
in the State of Alaska, and S. 4889, to amend the Alaska
Native Claims Settlement Act to increase the dividend
exclusion, to exclude certain payments to Alaska Native
elders for determining eligibility for certain programs, to
provide that Village Corporations shall not be required to
convey land in trust to the State of Alaska for the estab-
lishment of Municipal Corporations, and to provide for
the recognition of certain Alaska Native communities and
the settlement of certain claims under that Act, to re-
quire the Secretary of the Interior to convey certain inter-
ests in land in the State of Alaska, 2:30 p.m., SD–366.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
November 18, Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs and
Federal Management, to hold hearings to examine mod-
ernizing Federal telework, focusing on moving forward
using the lessons learned during the COVID–19 pan-
demic, 3 p.m., SD–342/WEBEX.
November 19, Full Committee, to hold hearings to ex-
amine an essential part of a COVID–19 solution, focusing
on an early at home treatment, 10 a.m., SD–342/
WEBEX.
Committee on Indian Affairs: November 18, business
meeting to consider S. 790, to clarify certain provisions
of Public Law 103–116, the Catawba Indian Tribe of
South Carolina Land Claims Settlement Act of 1993, S.
3264, to expedite and streamline the deployment of af-
fordable broadband service on Tribal land, S. 4079, to au-
thorize the Seminole Tribe of Florida to lease or transfer
certain land, and S. 4556, to authorize the Secretary of
Health and Human Services, acting through the Director
of the Indian Health Service, to acquire private land to
facilitate access to the Desert Sage Youth Wellness Center
in Hemet, California, 2:30 p.m., SD–628.
Committee on the Judiciary: November 17, to hold hear-
ings to examine breaking the news, focusing on censor-
ship, suppression, and the 2020 election, 10 a.m.,
SD–G50.
November 18, Full Committee, to hold hearings to ex-
amine pending nominations, 10 a.m., SD–106.
November 19, Full Committee, business meeting to
consider S. 4632, to amend title 17, United States Code,
to establish an alternative dispute resolution program for
copyright small claims, to amend the Communications
Act of 1934 to modify the scope of protection from civil
liability for ‘‘good Samaritan’’ blocking and screening of
offensive material, 10 a.m., SR–325.
Committee on Rules and Administration: November 17, to
hold hearings to examine S. 959, to establish in the
Smithsonian Institution a comprehensive women’s history
museum, and S. 1267, to establish within the Smithso-
nian Institution the National Museum of the American
Latino, 10 a.m., SR–301.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 11:40 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D16NO0.REC D16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D987
November 16, 2020
November 18, Full Committee, to hold hearings to ex-
amine the nominations of Shana M. Broussard, of Lou-
isiana, Sean J. Cooksey, of Missouri, and Allen Dickerson,
of the District of Columbia, each to be a Member of the
Federal Election Commission, 10 a.m., SR–301.
Select Committee on Intelligence: November 17, to hold
closed hearings to examine certain intelligence matters,
2:30 p.m., SVC–217.
November 18, Full Committee, to receive a closed
briefing on certain intelligence matters, 2 p.m.,
SVC–217.
House Committees
Committee on Armed Services, November 20, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘The U.S. Military Mission in
Afghanistan and Implications of the Peace Process on
U.S. Involvement’’, 9 a.m., 2118 Rayburn and Webex.
Committee on Financial Services, November 19, Sub-
committee on Housing, Community Development, and
Insurance, hearing entitled ‘‘Insuring Against a Pan-
demic: Challenges and Solutions for Policyholders and In-
surers’’, 10 a.m., Webex.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, November 18, Sub-
committee on National Security, hearing entitled
‘‘Karshi-Khanabad: Honoring the Heroes of Camp
Stronghold Freedom’’, 10 a.m., 2154 Rayburn and
Webex.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, November
18, Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous
Materials, hearing entitled ‘‘Examining the Surface Trans-
portation Board’s Role in Ensuring a Robust Passenger
Rail System’’, 10 a.m., 2167 Rayburn and Webex.
Committee on Ways and Means, November 20, Sub-
committee on Oversight, hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight
Subcommittee Hearing with the Commissioner of the In-
ternal Revenue Service’’, 10 a.m., 1100 Longworth and
Webex.
Joint Meetings
November 18, Senate Committee on Armed Services,
closed pass-the-gavel/general provisions panel meeting of
conferees on H.R. 6395, to authorize appropriations for
fiscal year 2021 for military activities of the Department
of Defense, for military construction, and for defense ac-
tivities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe mili-
tary personnel strengths for such fiscal year, 10:30 a.m.,
2212, Rayburn Building.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 11:40 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D16NO0.REC D16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D988 November 16, 2020
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Tuesday, November 17
Senate Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the nomination of Kristi Haskins Johnson, of
Mississippi, to be United States District Judge for the
Southern District of Mississippi, post-cloture, and vote on
confirmation thereon at 11 a.m.
Following disposition of the nomination of Kristi
Haskins Johnson, Senate will vote on the motion to in-
voke cloture on the nomination of Benjamin Joel Beaton,
of Kentucky, to be United States District Judge for the
Western District of Kentucky, and if cloture is invoked,
Senate will vote on confirmation thereon at 2:15 p.m.
Following disposition of the nomination of Benjamin
Joel Beaton, Senate will vote on the motion to invoke
cloture on the nomination of Judy Shelton, of California,
to be a Member of the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System.
(Senate will recess following the vote on the motion to invoke
cloture on the nomination of Benjamin Joel Beaton, until 2:15
p.m. for their respective party conferences.)
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Tuesday, November 17
House Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Consideration of measures
under suspension of the Rules.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Castor, Kathy, Fla., E1023
Comer, James, Ky., E1021, E1024, E1030, E1035
Davis, Danny K., Ill., E1030, E1031
Foster, Bill, Ill., E1031
Garamendi, John, Calif., E1022, E1027, E1032
Gomez, Jimmy, Calif., E1024, E1031
Griffith, H. Morgan, Va., E1025, E1031
Hastings, Alcee L., Fla., E1025
Hern, Kevin, Okla., E1025
Higgins, Brian, N.Y., E1023, E1026, E1031
Hudson, Richard, N.C., E1023
Joyce, John, Pa., E1021, E1022, E1024, E1024, E1026,
E1027, E1030, E1031, E1034, E1035
Rice, Tom, N.C., E1021
Ryan, Tim, Ohio, E1026, E1034
Simpson, Michael K., Idaho, E1021, E1027
Stefanik, Elise M., N.Y., E1021
Swalwell, Eric, Calif., E1030
Thompson, Mike, Calif., E1024
Vela, Filemon, Tex., E1030
VerDate Sep 11 2014 11:40 Nov 17, 2020 Jkt 019060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D16NO0.REC D16NOPT1
rfrederick
on
DSKBCBPHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
