Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H8301
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2019 No. 167
House of Representatives
The House met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER. Pursuant to the
order of the House of January 3, 2019,
the Chair will now recognize Members
from lists submitted by the majority
and minority leaders for morning-hour
debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 11:50 a.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
RECOGNIZING CYBERSECURITY
AWARENESS MONTH
The SPEAKER. The Chair recognizes
the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
THOMPSON) for 5 minutes.
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to recog-
nize October as National Cybersecurity
Awareness Month.
This month is a collaborative effort
between government and industry to
raise awareness about the importance
of cybersecurity in our increasingly
technology-driven world. We must em-
phasize the importance of cybersecu-
rity and take proactive steps to en-
hance our security both at home and in
the workplace.
That includes making a concerted ef-
fort to train dedicated professionals
who work to protect citizen privacy,
consumer data, and e-commerce.
Training postsecondary students in cy-
bersecurity-related fields of study will
be an instrumental part in protecting
data and the flow of sensitive informa-
tion.
That is why I join my colleague, Con-
gressman JIM LANGEVIN, in introducing
a bipartisan bill to strengthen cyberse-
curity education in career and tech-
nical education programs.
H.R. 1592, the Cybersecurity Skills
Integration Act, directs the Depart-
ment of Education to create a competi-
tive grant program that integrates cy-
bersecurity education into new and es-
tablished postsecondary career and
technical education programs. This bill
also requires the Secretary of Edu-
cation to coordinate with the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security, which
oversees the defense of our critical in-
frastructure and networks, to promote
a robust ecosystem of cybersecurity
education and training.
We must prepare our next generation
of learners to have the most sophisti-
cated and comprehensive educational
programs to protect our Nation’s crit-
ical asset systems and networks.
Despite the real harm and damage
that can result from cyberattacks, cy-
bersecurity is rarely covered enough in
our current workforce development
programs. That is why, together with
my friend Congressman LANGEVIN, we
have introduced this bill to help pro-
tect our sensitive data and critical in-
frastructure from bad actors.
Madam Speaker, we must continue
developing a 21st century workforce to
meet the technical demands our coun-
try is facing now and in the future.
This includes our cybersecurity.
I encourage my colleagues to support
this bill and for every citizen to learn
more about protecting their privacy
and data online during this Cybersecu-
rity Awareness Month.
f
CELEBRATING THE LIFE OF
ELIJAH CUMMINGS
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
CUELLAR). The Chair recognizes the
gentleman from Maryland (Mr. BROWN)
for 5 minutes.
Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Mr. Speak-
er, as we mourn our dear colleague,
Elijah Cummings, I rise today to say
farewell to a good man, a faithful serv-
ant, and a true friend.
During the past 2 days, much has
been said about Elijah. His life was
well documented, although his humil-
ity prevented him from seeking the at-
tention or the limelight, either in life
or in death.
I admired and respected Elijah. I
looked up to him.
When I was first elected in 1998 to the
Maryland House of Delegates, Elijah
was one of the first calls I got. He
didn’t call to say congratulations, al-
though his kind words meant a great
deal to me. Rather, he called to tell me
about my responsibility to the people
whom I serve. Elijah told me, if you are
going to be your best, you can only be
so if you focus your work on empow-
ering the people we serve.
Years later, when I struggled with
the decision to run for Lieutenant Gov-
ernor, I called Elijah for his advice.
During our conversation, he didn’t tell
me what to do. Rather, Elijah chal-
lenged me to do that which best posi-
tioned me to empower the people.
For Elijah, everything we did was
about empowering the people we serve.
In Elijah’s first floor speech delivered
231⁄2 years ago, after winning a special
election, he told us that he was on ‘‘a
mission and a vision to empower peo-
ple, to make people realize that the
power is within them.’’
Elijah, you did your job. You fulfilled
your mission.
Elijah was not an ordinary man who
lived an extraordinary life. No, Elijah
was an extraordinary man who did ex-
traordinary things during his life,
things to empower people.
Raised out of poverty and through
adversity, he achieved many successes
despite the odds and the obstacles. The
son of sharecroppers, he earned not
only a law degree but received 12 hon-
orary doctoral degrees, all of which
represent his dedication to empowering
people.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:58 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.000 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8302 October 22, 2019
I, like so many in this Chamber, was
the recipient of Elijah’s generosity. His
greatest gift to us was the ability to
challenge all of us to do better and not
just to accept things as they are.
Elijah would always say, ‘‘We are
better than this.’’ He led by example,
taught us by doing and showing, not
just talking—although his talk, his
speech, his quiet advice, and most
memorably, his powerful oratory were
truly inspiring and matchless.
When I ran for Governor, Elijah sup-
ported me. What I will always remem-
ber is not that he stood by my side on
the stage on the evening of my primary
election victory, but, rather, that
months later, he was standing by my
side late into the night as I experienced
a difficult general election defeat.
That was Elijah. His support was un-
wavering, his friendship unconditional,
and his encouragement uplifting.
When I successfully ran for Congress,
Elijah and Maya were there for me and
Karmen, ready and eager to help us
prepare for the rigors of Congress. I
thank both Elijah and Maya from the
bottom of my heart for always picking
up the phone, answering my texts,
lending an ear, and offering a word of
encouragement, advice, and support.
Mr. Speaker, Elijah was distin-
guished. He not only mastered the
science and statecraft of governing, but
he was also conspicuous in the art of
understanding and representing his
constituents, the people of the city of
Baltimore—their dreams and aspira-
tions, their challenges and frustra-
tions.
Elijah possessed a keen intellect and
understanding of government as a vehi-
cle to empower the people. He pos-
sessed a radiant, remarkable passion
that was both commanding and, when
necessary, calming, as only Elijah
could accomplish.
Whether Elijah was wielding the
gavel from his elevated positions as
chairman of the Oversight and Reform
Committee or when Elijah was wield-
ing a bullhorn on the streets of Balti-
more city, the community that he
cherished and that adored him, Elijah
was always leading at the intersection
of intellect and compassion, bringing
just the right mix, at the right mo-
ment, to address the right issues, and
moved us and his people in the right di-
rection. And that direction was always
toward righteousness.
History will be kind to Elijah, even
when others were not, because Elijah
did his work with kindness and com-
passion, and with moral clarity.
Mr. Speaker, Elijah closed his floor
speech in April 1996 with a poem. He
said:
I only have a minute, 60 seconds in it.
Forced upon me, I did not choose it.
But I know that I must use it, give account
if I abuse it, suffer if I lose it.
Only a tiny little minute, but eternity is in
it.
Elijah, what you did with the minute
that God gave you will last an eter-
nity.
Rest, my dear friend. Rest well.
f
OPPOSING UN-AMERICAN
IMPEACHMENT INVESTIGATION
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Florida (Mr. RUTHERFORD) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today in opposition to the secre-
tive and un-American impeachment in-
vestigation taking place right now in
the House of Representatives.
Behind closed doors, our President is
being tried, tried by my colleagues on
the other side of the aisle using an un-
democratic process that wouldn’t hold
up in any American court of law.
Democrats talk about Russian collu-
sion while using Soviet-style investiga-
tive techniques against President
Trump, denying him due process.
In fact, one of my Democratic col-
leagues from New York recently said:
‘‘The President says he is innocent, so
all we are saying is prove it.’’
Really? Mr. Speaker, I spent 41 years
in law enforcement, and I know a little
something about due process, and that
sure isn’t it.
What is taking place before us is an
insult to fairness, a mockery of justice,
and a political witch hunt designed to
reverse the will of the American voter.
There were over 62 million people who
voted for this President.
The Speaker hasn’t even formally
held a vote on whether or not this is an
impeachment inquiry. If this is an im-
peachment inquiry like the Speaker
says, come to the floor and hold a vote.
Some have called this process fair be-
cause Republican Members of certain
committees—only certain commit-
tees—are allowed to be in the room
during depositions and interviews.
However, they are not even allowed to
call witnesses or openly discuss the
smears that have been selectively
leaked by the Democrats.
But this is not about us. It is not
about the Members of this Congress. It
is about transparency for the American
public. The American people deserve to
know what is going on.
Let’s recap the last 3 years of search-
ing for a smoking gun that just did not
exist.
First, Democrats claimed that Presi-
dent Trump colluded with Russians to
influence the 2016 election. That was
the message played every single night
on television—collusion, collusion, col-
lusion.
Then, Democrats supported Robert
Mueller and told him to go find that
collusion, which, of course, he didn’t.
So they dragged Robert Mueller into
a congressional hearing room, and this
time, they had no problem being open
and transparent before the cameras.
But when that failed, I thought the
dog and pony show was going to be
over. I had to hope that my colleagues
on the other side would get this legisla-
tive body back to work for the Amer-
ican public, but, no, here we go again.
We have a whistleblower with sec-
ondary information, which the only
way they could do that was to change
the rule in secret—secret depositions in
the underbelly of Congress, targeted
leaks, and rampant speculation.
Mr. Speaker, this is the House of
Representatives, not the KGB. It is
about time my friends on the other
side of the aisle started acting like it.
If you actually believe the President
has committed an impeachable offense,
why hide the truth from the public?
If you don’t like this President, you
will have an opportunity to vote
against him in November 2020. Until
then, let’s stop wasting the taxpayers’
hard-earned money on frivolous, expen-
sive investigations to nowhere and
come together to solve America’s prob-
lems.
f
b 1015
STILL I RISE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. GREEN) for 5 minutes.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
and still I rise, Mr. Speaker. I rise
today with a heavy heart and tears
welling in my eyes.
I rise because how dare the President
compare lynching to impeachment?
How dare he do this?
Does he not know the history of
lynching in this country?
Does he not know that thousands of
African Americans were lynched—mob
violence?
Does he not know that this is the
equivalent of murder?
How dare the President compare Ar-
ticle II, Section 4 of the Constitution, a
lawful constitutional process, to mob
violence and lynching?
Mr. President, do you not understand
the history that you are encroaching
upon?
If you continue to weaponize racism
and bigotry, this makes you no better
than those who were screaming ‘‘blood
and soil’’ and ‘‘Jews will not replace
us.’’ It makes you no better than them.
It makes you no better than those who
burned crosses. It makes you no better
than those who wear hoods and white
robes.
Do you not understand what you are
doing to this country?
More importantly, do we, the Mem-
bers of this Congress, not understand
how he is denigrating and berating de-
cency in this country?
At some point, we must say that
enough is enough. At some point, we
must move on to impeach.
Mr. President, I beg that you would
reconsider your thoughts; but for fear
that you may not, I will say more of
this tonight, because I have been prom-
ised 30 minutes, and I will use these 30
minutes to talk about what you have
done and to also talk about what I may
do to continue this impeachment
movement.
You are unfit to hold this office.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:58 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.002 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8303
October 22, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President. Members are further re-
minded to address their remarks to the
Chair and not to a perceived viewing
audience.
f
THE NATION’S CATTLE MARKETS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Montana (Mr. GIANFORTE) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to bring attention to the state of
our Nation’s cattle markets.
Following the August fire at Tyson’s
beef packing plant in Holcomb, Kansas,
live cattle prices hit a 5-year low. At
the same time, retail beef prices rose.
It makes sense: if you can process less
cattle, then there is an oversupply in
the live cattle market and less proc-
essed beef, which increases retail beef
prices.
But the Holcomb processing plant
represented only 5 percent of America’s
processing capacity, and yet live cattle
prices fell 11 percent, while retail
prices hit their highest levels since
2015.
I asked Secretary Perdue to inves-
tigate the cattle market following the
Holcomb fire, and he agreed. The USDA
expects the investigation to wrap up by
the end of this year.
Mr. Speaker, I urge the House to do
the right thing by America’s ranchers
and also to look into this cattle mar-
ket. Montana ranchers produce the
world’s best beef, but current condi-
tions in the market are hurting them.
They deserve an explanation and to be
treated fairly.
I look forward to a full accounting of
the cattle market.
f
PRESCRIPTION DRUG COSTS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Arizona (Mr. O’HALLERAN) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. O’HALLERAN. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to discuss the high cost of
prescription drugs in this country.
This year, I have held 26 townhalls
across Arizona’s First Congressional
District. At each and every one, I hear
from families, seniors, and veterans
who are concerned about the over-
whelmingly high cost of their prescrip-
tion drugs.
I hear from people like Karen from
Globe, Arizona, a 74-year-old widow
who cannot afford her prescriptions
and often goes without them; or Eliza-
beth from Tucson, Arizona, who said:
‘‘I don’t have much hope.’’ An Amer-
ican saying ‘‘I don’t have much hope’’
is unacceptable in America.
Between the years 2012 and 2017, the
average annual cost of prescription
drug treatment increased by more than
50 percent—way above inflation rates—
while the annual income for Arizonans
increased by only 12 percent. In 2017, 26
percent of Arizona residents stopped
taking medication that is prescribed,
due to cost.
The skyrocketing cost of prescription
drugs has become a crisis in this coun-
try, and something must be done. It is
critical that we come together to iden-
tify commonsense, bipartisan solutions
to address these costs and ensure that
hardworking families can access the
care and prescriptions they need at af-
fordable prices.
I am working with my colleagues on
both sides of the aisle to bring down
these costs by identifying a holistic ap-
proach that allows Medicare to nego-
tiate for lower prices, caps out-of-pock-
et drug expenses for seniors, and im-
proves access to lower cost generic
drugs. Throughout this process, we
must protect innovation and allow for
the research and development of new
drugs on the market.
As we discuss these solutions, we
must also remember the ways this cri-
sis disproportionately affects medi-
cally underserved rural and Tribal
communities. We need to identify solu-
tions to address their unique needs be-
cause Americans deserve quality, af-
fordable care regardless of their ZIP
Code. No one should ever have to make
the choice between the medication
they need and putting food on the
table.
Mr. Speaker, I am working hard to
ensure this is a reality for all Ameri-
cans. Let us all start to begin to have
hope again.
f
A BURDEN ON SMALL BUSINESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Oklahoma (Mr. KEVIN HERN) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today in opposition to
H.R. 2513, the so-called Corporate
Transparency Act. I fear that, in the
pursuit of ‘‘transparency,’’ my col-
leagues have crossed a line.
This bill would be more appropriately
titled the Small Business Registration
and Surveillance Act because that is
exactly what it would do. This bill
would require America’s small business
owners—those with 20 or fewer employ-
ees—to register their confidential in-
formation with a Federal law enforce-
ment and intelligence agency they
have never heard of and allow that
agency to surveil them without a sub-
poena or a warrant.
As a former small business owner for
34 years, I know that paperwork is in-
credibly burdensome and small busi-
ness owners have to file paperwork
themselves. Unlike the big banks, they
don’t have compliance departments to
fill this information out.
NFIB estimates that this legislation
will cost small business owners $5.7 bil-
lion over 10 years. CBO estimates that
this bill will have a significant impact
on 25 to 30 million small businesses in
America. This is a slap in the face to
the small business owners who are
doing everything they can to achieve
the American Dream.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
vote ‘‘no’’ on H.R. 2513.
f
RECOGNIZING BETTY REID SOSKIN
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
California (Mr. DESAULNIER) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. DESAULNIER. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to recognize the service of
esteemed public servant, activist, and
great American Betty Reid Soskin.
Betty is a constituent, a friend, and a
pillar of Contra Costa County in the
Bay Area in California. She is fondly
known as the National Park Service’s
oldest serving ranger, at 98 years old,
and is assigned to the Rosie the Riv-
eter/World War II Home Front National
Historical Park in Richmond, Cali-
fornia.
As an interpretive park ranger for
the past 13 years, Betty has educated
thousands of visitors about the Rosies
and her own experience as a young
Black woman working in Richmond
during World War II. She worked as a
file clerk for the Boilermakers Union
A–36, a Jim Crow, all African American
union auxiliary.
Betty has been an activist her whole
life. She fought for civil rights during
Freedom Summer, was an activist
against the Vietnam war, helped with
faith-based racial healing work in the
Unitarian Universalist church, and be-
came a delegate to the 1972 Democratic
National Convention.
Betty also served as a legislative aide
for a Berkeley city council member
and as a field representative for two
California State Assembly members,
which led to her involvement in design-
ing the Rosie the Riveter National
Park. Her advocacy ensured that
marginalized communities’ narratives
and stories were included in the park’s
historical exhibits and resources on the
war efforts in Richmond, California.
In 1995, Betty was named a Woman of
the Year by the California State Legis-
lature. She was also named one of the
Nation’s 10 outstanding women in 2006
by the National Women’s History
Project.
In 2015, she was formally recognized
by President Barack Obama, who gave
her a silver coin with the Presidential
seal.
Born in 1921, Betty has lived through
many pivotal moments in U.S. history
and is a crucial voice in speaking to
the value of American democracy, the
realities of the African American
struggle, and the importance of contin-
ued progress.
In an interview for a feature in Glam-
our magazine, Betty said, when she was
Woman of the Year: ‘‘Democracy has
been experiencing these periods of
chaos since 1776. They come and go.
And it’s in those periods that democ-
racy is redefined. History has been
written by people who got it wrong, but
the people who are always trying to get
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:58 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.004 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8304 October 22, 2019
it right have prevailed. If that were not
true,’’ Betty said, ‘‘I would still be a
slave like my great-grandmother.’’
Betty’s colleagues, fans, and friends
deeply admire her activism, her leader-
ship, and her dedication to social jus-
tice and to America. Her positivity,
sense of self, and commitment to doing
what is right and preserving and hon-
oring our past continue to inspire us
all.
Mr. Speaker, please join me in con-
gratulating and celebrating this won-
derful American’s dedicated service
and in wishing her a speedy recovery
and good health. Her strong spirit and
perseverance are an inspiration to us
all.
f
BLOOD CANCER AWARENESS
MONTH
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. CARTER) for 5 minutes.
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize Blood Can-
cer Awareness Month this past Sep-
tember.
Including leukemia, non-Hodgkin’s
lymphoma, Hodgkin’s lymphoma, and
more, around 14,000 Americans are di-
agnosed with blood cancer types each
month.
Although a staggering statistic, doc-
tors and researchers across the globe
have made significant advances since
the 1960s. For some blood cancers, sur-
vival rates have more than quadrupled.
As with any illness, early detection
is important; so I encourage everyone
to see their doctor, get a check-up, and
discuss whether they have had any
symptoms that could be related to
blood cancer.
Mr. Speaker, if you have had bone
pain, frequent nose bleeds, or tiny red
spots on your skin, I especially encour-
age you to see a doctor.
I will continue supporting research-
ers to make further advances in eradi-
cating these diseases.
NATIONAL DISABILITY EMPLOYMENT AWARENESS
MONTH
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize October
2019 as National Disability Employ-
ment Awareness Month.
Workplaces that welcome the talents
of all people, including people with dis-
abilities, are a critical part of our ef-
forts to build an inclusive community
and a strong economy.
In the First Congressional District of
Georgia, I want to especially recognize
Goodwill Southeast Georgia, which is
working to raise awareness about dis-
ability employment issues and cele-
brate the many and varied contribu-
tions of people with disabilities.
Activities they are working on this
month reinforce the value and talent
that people with disabilities add to our
workplaces and communities while af-
firming Goodwill Southeast Georgia’s
commitment to an inclusive commu-
nity.
I encourage employers, schools, and
other community organizations around
the country to observe this month with
programs and activities, and to ad-
vance the important message that peo-
ple with disabilities are capable of sur-
passing any obstacle.
b 1030
CONGRATULATIONS TO SCOTT ISAACKS
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize Mr. Scott
Isaacks for receiving the inaugural
South Carolina Hospital Association
Drive to Zero Harm Leadership Award.
As director and CEO of the Ralph H.
Johnson VA Medical Center in Charles-
ton, South Carolina, Mr. Isaacks over-
sees 3,100 employees, who are some of
the best that the VA has to offer.
The first award of its kind in South
Carolina, Mr. Isaacks and his VA med-
ical center are being recognized for
their exceptional work in creating a
culture of high reliability and elimi-
nating harm from all facets of care.
This high-quality care is particularly
important to the First Congressional
District of Georgia because of the large
number of veterans using the VA med-
ical center there in Charleston. Our
veterans are our Nation’s heroes, and
they deserve the best when they return
home, which is why I am so proud to
see Mr. Isaacks working hard to
achieve this goal.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Isaacks for
his service to our veterans and con-
gratulations on his award.
IN REMEMBRANCE OF JAMES W. BOYKIN
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to remember the life of
Mr. James W. Boykin, who passed away
at the age of 80 on October 3.
In Jesup, Georgia, nearly everything
and everyone seems to have been im-
pacted by Mr. Boykin.
During his term serving as Wayne
County commissioner, he was a
staunch supporter of projects to boost
recreation activities, and now there is
even a community lake named in his
honor.
He took over his father’s construc-
tion company in 1975 and worked to
grow the business for over 25 years,
being largely responsible for its size
and success today. But whether in busi-
ness, government, church, or simply
playing sports, Mr. Boykin was always
well-respected and continuously men-
toring all who knew him.
Through all of his passion to improve
his community and the lives of others,
he never let his four battles with can-
cer ever impact his attitude or dedica-
tion.
I am proud to have had someone like
Mr. James Boykin in the First Con-
gressional District of Georgia. His fam-
ily and friends will be in my thoughts
and prayers during this most difficult
time.
f
STRENGTHEN OUR COUNTRY’S
DEMOCRACY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Washington (Mr. LARSEN) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. LARSEN of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today to speak on
strengthening America’s elections and
the democratic process.
The task we face is very simple: Con-
gress should secure elections from for-
eign interference and break down bar-
riers that prevent Americans from ac-
cessing the ballot. And the SHIELD
Act, which Congress will vote on this
week, protects elections from foreign
meddling by increasing oversight of
campaign contacts and online political
advertising.
U.S. citizens have a right to be fully
informed of their ballot box choices
without concerns of foreign inter-
ference. The 2016 election taught us in
the United States many lessons as for-
eign governments sought to influence
the outcome of our election.
The SHIELD Act builds on lessons
learned from the 2016 election by cre-
ating an obligation to report contacts
between campaigns and foreign nation-
als.
Additionally, the SHIELD Act pre-
sents modern-day solutions for the
problems of manipulative online polit-
ical advertisements by ensuring the
same standards applied to other polit-
ical ads will extend to these new adver-
tisements.
Mr. Speaker, the House will vote on
the SHIELD Act this week, and I urge
Members of the House to vote for the
SHIELD Act to strengthen our coun-
try’s democracy.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until noon
today.
Accordingly (at 10 o’clock and 33
minutes a.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
f
b 1200
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. RUIZ) at noon.
f
PRAYER
Reverend Dr. Marilyn Monroe Harris,
First Baptist Church of Teaneck, Tea-
neck, New Jersey, offered the following
prayer:
O Lord, our God, how excellent is
Your name in all the Earth. We thank
You for this day, and we pray for those
who gather in these hallowed Halls and
serve the United States of America. We
pray that You sustain their physical
bodies and wrap Your arms around
their loved ones.
On this day, we ask that Your holy
presence become manifest. Guide all
with wisdom and discernment to imple-
ment just and sound policy. Engulf all
with compassion for humanity and cre-
ation. Infuse our hearts with Your love.
For it is Your love, O Lord, that is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:58 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.006 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8305
October 22, 2019
transformational. It is Your love that
seeks the greater good. It is Your love
that heals.
Let us face this day knowing that
You are with us, and may all that is
done in this place on this day bring
You, and You alone, glory and honor.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from North Carolina (Mr.
MURPHY) come forward and lead the
House in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. MURPHY of North Carolina led
the Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
WELCOMING REVEREND DR.
MARILYN MONROE HARRIS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the gentleman from New
Jersey (Mr. GOTTHEIMER) is recognized
for 1 minute.
There was no objection.
Mr. GOTTHEIMER. Mr. Speaker, I
rise to welcome my dear friend and a
true leader, Reverend Dr. Marilyn Mon-
roe Harris, and thank her for delivering
today’s invocation.
Dr. Harris is the fifth pastor and the
first female pastor of the First Baptist
Church of Teaneck, Teaneck, New Jer-
sey, and she is a beacon of leadership
for north Jersey and our Nation.
She is joined today by her niece,
Amma, and fellow pastors, colleagues,
and friends from the Lott Carey For-
eign Mission Convention.
Pastor Harris is a lifelong civil serv-
ant; the founder of the Christian Wom-
en’s Alliance, allowing clergywomen to
grow together; a founder of the Foun-
dation Building Christian Institute;
and a recipient of New Jersey’s NAACP
Award for Pastoral Leadership and Ex-
cellence.
She has preached across the globe,
from Spain to South Africa. Reverend
Harris also supports our first respond-
ers back home, serving as the first fe-
male African American chaplain of the
Teaneck Fire Department, and she cur-
rently serves as the first female presi-
dent of the United Missionary Baptist
Convention of New Jersey.
Dr. Harris brings integrity and excel-
lence to everything she does. With so
much in our country dividing us, Rev-
erend Harris’ words can bring us to-
gether so that we can better serve our
great country, the greatest country in
the world.
I thank Reverend Harris for praying
with us today.
May God continue to bless the United
States of America.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT
A message in writing from the Presi-
dent of the United States was commu-
nicated to the House by Miss Kaitlyn
Roberts, one of his secretaries.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will entertain up to 15 further re-
quests for 1-minute speeches on each
side of the aisle.
f
HONORING AND LAYING TO REST
81 SOUTH VIETNAMESE SOLDIERS
(Mr. LOWENTHAL asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. LOWENTHAL. Mr. Speaker, in
late 1965, a C–123 transport was shot
down over Vietnam. The flight’s four
American crewmen were identified and
their remains returned home.
The 81 South Vietnamese soldiers
also on board were never identified,
their remains never properly interred.
The current Vietnamese Government
has twice refused to allow the soldiers’
remains to return home.
This Saturday, October 26, the re-
mains of these 81 soldiers will be fi-
nally laid to rest in the Little Saigon
community of Orange County, Cali-
fornia, in my district.
I thank Senator Jim Webb, the Lost
Soldiers Foundation, the Republic of
Vietnam Airborne Division’s national
and local chapters, and everyone in-
volved in making it possible to finally
honor and properly inter these 81 sol-
diers.
f
HOLD VOTE ON IMPEACHMENT OR
MOVE ON
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, efforts to impeach the
President began in January 2017 with
The Washington Post reporting: ‘‘The
effort to impeach President Donald
John Trump is already underway.’’
This was just minutes after the Presi-
dent was sworn into office.
Now, 4 weeks into the Speaker’s un-
precedented impeachment inquiry, we
learn of hidden transcripts, closed-door
meetings, complete disregard for trans-
parency and process, and the House has
not even been afforded the opportunity
to go on record with a vote to open an
inquiry.
If this were serious, House Democrats
would bring a vote to the floor to open
a formal impeachment inquiry, but
they won’t do that. This is a political
stunt beneath the dignity of this insti-
tution.
Perhaps more egregious, this stunt
has consumed valuable time that we
could have used to pass meaningful leg-
islation for all Americans: lowering
prescription drugs prices, securing the
border, repairing our infrastructure,
and moving the USMCA trade agree-
ment forward.
Hold a vote or move on. The Amer-
ican people deserve better.
f
HONORING DR. ALVIN POUSSAINT
(Mr. RUIZ asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. RUIZ. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the career of renown
psychiatrist, a former associate dean of
student affairs at Harvard Medical
School, a lifelong public servant, and
my mentor and friend, Dr. Alvin
Poussaint.
Dr. Poussaint’s career has been one
of passion and service. During the civil
rights movement, Dr. Poussaint
marched from Selma to Montgomery
with Martin Luther King, Jr., orga-
nizing Freedom Clinics with the Free-
dom Riders.
Over his accomplished career, Dr.
Poussaint and his experience, insight,
and intellect have been requested by
the FBI, the White House, and the De-
partment of Health and Human Serv-
ices.
One of the biggest blessings of my
life is that our paths crossed when I
was a student at Harvard Medical
School. Dr. Poussaint believed in me
and supported me in my studies and
my student advocacies.
Dr. Poussaint embraced me and my
approach to learning. He encouraged
me and guided my passion and energy,
and he defended me from those who
wanted me to think that I didn’t be-
long there.
Dr. Alvin Poussaint is one of the rea-
sons I am standing up here today as a
physician and Congressman standing
up for health and social justice.
I wish him well in his retirement and
celebrate his decades of professional
accomplishments and contributions to
our society.
f
IN MEMORY OF FIRST LIEUTEN-
ANT FRANK MONROE ‘‘SKIP’’
MURPHY
(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina.
Madam Speaker, this month, a bronze
statue was dedicated at Johnson
Hagood Stadium at The Citadel in
Charleston, South Carolina, in memory
of Lieutenant Joe Missar and Lieuten-
ant Skip Murphy, who died for freedom
in Vietnam.
First Lieutenant Frank M. ‘‘Skip’’
Murphy was from Florham Park, New
Jersey, graduating from The Citadel in
1965, achieving the dean’s list, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:58 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.008 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8306 October 22, 2019
going from football walk-on to team
captain, being an honorable mention in
the All-Southern Conference.
On December 7, 1966, Lieutenant Mur-
phy courageously rescued his fellow
members of the 2nd Battalion, 12th In-
fantry Rescue Platoon, cited by Ser-
geant Ken Eising. Sadly, a command-
detonated mine exploded under his ve-
hicle, killing him and two of his men.
He was survived by his wife, Molly.
I am grateful Lieutenant Murphy was
a student teacher with Ms. Sara
Bookhart DeLapp’s civic class at the
High School of Charleston. I learned
firsthand of his inspiring young people
to be the best they can be, to promote
freedom and democracy.
In conclusion, God bless our troops,
and we will never forget September the
11th in the global war on terrorism.
f
PRAISING THE BLACK STUDENT
FUND
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAYNE. Madam Speaker, I would
like to celebrate an organization right
here in Washington, D.C., that fights
every day to increase the academic
achievements of local African Amer-
ican students, the Black Student Fund.
The fund has provided educational
assistance and resources to promising
Black students since 1964.
Officials work with students from
pre-K to 12th grade to keep their
grades up, graduate high school, and go
on to college. Many of these students
are the first in their families to go to
college, and 70 percent of them are
from single-parent households.
The benefits of a quality education to
students and their communities are too
numerous to mention in 1 minute. That
is why we need more organizations like
the Black Student Fund to keep more
of our youth out of trouble and in the
classrooms where they belong.
f
STOP SECRET, PARTISAN
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY
(Mr. BUDD asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BUDD. Madam Speaker, last
month, House Democrats announced an
impeachment inquiry into the Presi-
dent without a formal vote, and they
chose ADAM SCHIFF to lead the process.
This effectively means that, for the
first time in American history, the im-
peachment of a duly elected President
will take place in secret.
Chairman SCHIFF has been caught on
at least three occasions making bla-
tantly false statements about this in-
vestigation. He has a complete lack of
credibility to lead this sham of an in-
quiry. This whole thing is profoundly
unfair and just not worthy of Congress.
So I say to my Democrat colleagues:
Stop this secret, partisan impeach-
ment, and let’s get back to work for
the American people.
f
REMEMBERING ELIJAH CUMMINGS
(Mr. TRONE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. TRONE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to remember my great friend and
hero, Elijah Cummings.
The enormity of the loss felt with the
passing of Elijah has reverberated
throughout Maryland and this entire
country. He was the voice of the power-
less in the Halls of power. He had a
giant heart and acted as the conscience
of America when we needed it most.
Baltimore had no greater champion.
Elijah and I shared a special concern
for those impacted by the opioid epi-
demic and the criminal justice system.
I will continue to work on those issues
while drawing on Elijah’s legacy for in-
spiration.
My wife, June, and I extend our con-
dolences to Maya and his three chil-
dren, and we take comfort in knowing
that our friend and hero is dancing
with the angels.
f
HONORING STATE TROOPER
PETER R. STEPHAN
(Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend her remarks.)
Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor Indiana
State Trooper Peter R. Stephan, or
‘‘Bo,’’ of Lafayette, Indiana, who paid
the ultimate price and sacrificed his
life while protecting his community.
He served with the Indiana State Po-
lice Department for 4 years and, trag-
ically, will never return home to his
wife, Jessica, or his 5-month-old daugh-
ter.
Two weeks ago, this 27-year-old
trooper was on his way to assist an-
other trooper who had called for assist-
ance. On his way, Trooper Stephan’s
car hit a curve and, for unknown rea-
sons, went off the road. The car rolled
at least once and hit a utility pole, and
he was pronounced dead at the scene.
Trooper Stephan is the 44th Indiana
State Police trooper to die in the line
of duty. A coworker of his said: ‘‘He did
what was right. He wasn’t pushed
around by public opinion. If there were
100 people doing the wrong thing, he
would be the one guy doing it right.’’
I offer my deepest condolences to his
family, the Indiana State Police De-
partment, all Hoosiers, and all of those
officers around our country who mourn
his loss and will forever cherish his
memory.
We will never forget.
f
b 1215
CONGRATULATING THE
WASHINGTON NATIONALS
(Ms. NORTON asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate D.C.’s own Wash-
ington Nationals for winning the Na-
tional League Championship to ad-
vance to the World Series—sweeping
the St. Louis Cardinals in four straight
games, no less. The Nationals will now
face the Houston Astros to compete for
the team’s first World Series title.
The Nation’s Capital has been on a
roll lately. Last year, the Washington
Capitals won their first Stanley Cup,
and earlier this month, the Washington
Mystics won their first WNBA cham-
pionship.
But, Madam Speaker, I also rise
today to issue a challenge to Houston
Representative and, yes, my friend,
SHEILA JACKSON LEE. I challenge my
colleague that, if the Nats win the
World Series—I should say, when the
Nats win the World Series—she and her
staff will wear, for a full day at least,
and take a photo in D.C. statehood T-
shirts to help us further nationalize
the fight for D.C. statehood in Texas.
Although the Nats are underdogs,
who doesn’t love an underdog story?
Go Nats.
f
THE PRESIDENT DESERVES DUE
PROCESS
(Mr. MURPHY of North Carolina
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. MURPHY of North Carolina.
Madam Speaker, today I rise in opposi-
tion to the unfair and unprecedented
process that is being used by my col-
leagues across the aisle to smear the
duly elected President of the United
States and make a mockery of Amer-
ican justice.
Since the day he was sworn in, Demo-
crats have dismissed their duty as the
majority party to lead this country. In-
stead, their agenda has revolved
around their desire to oust the duly
elected President.
Since hearings with Robert Mueller,
Joseph Maguire, and others did not
yield their desired results, Democrats
have changed their tactics. Those pub-
licity stunts backfired.
So what has been their response?
Hold Soviet-style, closed-door, ‘‘guilty
until proven innocent’’ investigations.
President Trump deserves due proc-
ess, and the American people deserve
transparency and fairness; but, more
importantly, Congress should be tend-
ing to the business of the people by
passing substantive legislation instead
of continuing to waste taxpayer time
and money on yet another witch hunt.
f
CONGRATULATING THE HISTORIC
ONCE-IN-A-CENTURY WIN OF THE
WASHINGTON NATIONALS
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:58 Oct 22, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.010 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8307
October 22, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker,
I accept the gentlewoman from the Dis-
trict of Columbia’s—my dear friend—
challenge.
While I congratulate the historic
once-in-a-century-win of the Nationals,
let me be very clear: The Houston
Astros have won the most games of any
of the Major League Baseball teams.
Let me thank the owner and manage-
ment, but also the team, the unifying
team, the team that does not have one
icon, one star, but all of them are
stars. Let me thank them for the great
work they do in charity throughout
our community helping our young peo-
ple.
Madam Speaker, might I take you
down memory lane, when the Astros—
can you imagine that late-night game
on Saturday night when you thought
there was not any hope and there was
going to be another game with the
Astros and the Yankees?
But what happened? My friend,
Altuve—what happened? You didn’t
even see the ball go. He hit a home run
and two came in.
I know this is going to be a great
game, and the new world champions of
baseball will be the Houston Astros.
Go ‘Stros. Go Astros.
I accept, Madam Speaker, and if we
win, she will wear this shirt with her
staff.
f
HOLD A VOTE ON IMPEACHMENT
(Mr. GREEN of Tennessee asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. GREEN of Tennessee. Madam
Speaker, the Democrat leadership in
this House, hell-bent on impeachment,
is trampling on precedent, fairness, and
our system of representative democ-
racy.
We are in the midst of a so-called im-
peachment inquiry despite no vote ever
having been held on the House floor, as
was the case for Nixon and Clinton.
I guess the majority has no concern
for what the people of Tennessee have
to say. It is as if they are saying: Hey,
you guys in Tennessee, we are going to
proceed with something as grave as im-
peaching the President of the United
States, and, oh, by the way, you don’t
get a say.
This is an insult to democracy.
This House—supposedly, the people’s
House—cannot pass a single law with-
out a vote. We are a legislative body,
and we speak after a vote is taken.
Failing to do so allows unchecked fac-
tions to control the direction of the en-
tire legislative branch. The Founders
never intended it as such. In fact, this
is the very definition of tyranny.
The people of Tennessee deserve to be
heard, and the people of America de-
serve to be heard on this issue. We need
to stop this charade now and hold a
vote.
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
UNDERWOOD) laid before the House the
following communication from the
Clerk of the House of Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, October 22, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on Oc-
tober 22, 2019, at 11:11 a.m.:
That the Senate passed with an amend-
ment H.R. 150.
With best wishes, I am,
Sincerely,
CHERYL L. JOHNSON.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM DIRECTOR
OF MEMBER SERVICES, HOUSE
REPUBLICAN CONFERENCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from Caroline Boothe, Direc-
tor of Member Services, House Repub-
lican Conference:
HOUSE REPUBLICAN CONFERENCE,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, October 21, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Dear MADAM SPEAKER: This is to notify
you formally, pursuant to Rule VIII of the
Rules of the House of Representatives, that
I, Caroline Boothe, have been served with a
subpoena for documents and testimony
issued by the United States District Court
for the Southern District of New York.
After consultation with the Office of Gen-
eral Counsel, I have determined that compli-
ance with the subpoena is not consistent
with the privileges and rights of the House.
Sincerely,
CAROLINE BOOTHE,
Diector of Member Services,
House Republican Conference.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.R. 2513, CORPORATE TRANS-
PARENCY ACT OF 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker,
by direction of the Committee on
Rules, I call up House Resolution 646
and ask for its immediate consider-
ation.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 646
Resolved, That at any time after adoption
of this resolution the Speaker may, pursuant
to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the
House resolved into the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union for
consideration of the bill (H.R. 2513) to ensure
that persons who form corporations or lim-
ited liability companies in the United States
disclose the beneficial owners of those cor-
porations or limited liability companies, in
order to prevent wrongdoers from exploiting
United States corporations and limited li-
ability companies for criminal gain, to assist
law enforcement in detecting, preventing,
and punishing terrorism, money laundering,
and other misconduct involving United
States corporations and limited liability
companies, and for other purposes. The first
reading of the bill shall be dispensed with.
All points of order against consideration of
the bill are waived. General debate shall be
confined to the bill and amendments speci-
fied in this resolution and shall not exceed
one hour equally divided and controlled by
the chair and ranking minority member of
the Committee on Financial Services. After
general debate the bill shall be considered
for amendment under the five-minute rule.
The amendment in the nature of a substitute
recommended by the Committee on Finan-
cial Services now printed in the bill, modi-
fied by the amendment printed in part A of
the report of the Committee on Rules accom-
panying this resolution, shall be considered
as adopted in the House and in the Com-
mittee of the Whole. The bill, as amended,
shall be considered as the original bill for
the purpose of further amendment under the
five-minute rule and shall be considered as
read. All points of order against provisions
in the bill, as amended, are waived. No fur-
ther amendment to the bill, as amended,
shall be in order except those printed in part
B of the report of the Committee on Rules.
Each such further amendment may be of-
fered only in the order printed in the report,
may be offered only by a Member designated
in the report, shall be considered as read,
shall be debatable for the time specified in
the report equally divided and controlled by
the proponent and an opponent, shall not be
subject to amendment, and shall not be sub-
ject to a demand for division of the question
in the House or in the Committee of the
Whole. All points of order against such fur-
ther amendments are waived. At the conclu-
sion of consideration of the bill for amend-
ment the Committee shall rise and report
the bill, as amended, to the House with such
further amendments as may have been
adopted. The previous question shall be con-
sidered as ordered on the bill, as amended,
and on any further amendment thereto to
final passage without intervening motion ex-
cept one motion to recommit with or with-
out instructions.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Colorado is recognized for
1 hour.
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker,
for the purpose of debate only, I yield
the customary 30 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. WOODALL),
pending which I yield myself such time
as I may consume. During consider-
ation of this resolution, all time yield-
ed is for the purpose of debate only.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker,
I ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers be given 5 legislative days to re-
vise and extend their remarks.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Colorado?
There was no objection.
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker,
the Rules Committee met last night
and reported a structured rule, House
Resolution 646, providing for consider-
ation of H.R. 2513, the Corporate Trans-
parency Act. The rule self-executes
Chairwoman WATERS’ manager’s
amendment and makes in order five
amendments. The rule provides 1 hour
of debate, equally divided and con-
trolled by the chair and ranking minor-
ity member of the Committee on Fi-
nancial Services, and provides for one
motion to recommit.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.012 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8308 October 22, 2019
Madam Speaker, I am pleased we are
here today to provide for consideration
of this important, bipartisan legisla-
tion to help law enforcement do their
job and protect our national security.
The lack of transparency in parts of
our financial system has created an en-
vironment in which criminals, who
should be shut out of the financial sys-
tem, can use anonymous shell compa-
nies to launder money, finance ter-
rorism, and engage in other illicit ac-
tivities.
I want to applaud the work of Sub-
committee on Investor Protection, En-
trepreneurship, and Capital Markets
Chairwoman CAROLYN MALONEY for her
work over the last decade to under-
stand these problems and develop the
solution we have in front of us this
week.
The Corporate Transparency Act
would require corporations and limited
liability companies to disclose their
true beneficial owners to the Financial
Crimes Enforcement Network, or
FinCEN, at the time a company is
formed and in annual corporate filings
thereafter. This beneficial ownership
information will be available to law en-
forcement so they can learn who con-
trols or financially benefits from the
company and end the current shell
game used by bad actors.
There are many examples of how in-
dividuals have used shell companies to
hide their activities. For instance,
there is one involving Viktor Bout,
otherwise known as the Merchant of
Death, who used shell companies to
hide his illicit weapons trafficking. In
another example, a former Russian cit-
izen moved $1.4 billion from Russia
into 236 different U.S. bank accounts
through the use of anonymous shell
companies.
This bill will be a game changer for
law enforcement investigating bad ac-
tors, and it will ensure criminals can
no longer hide behind these shell com-
panies. It would also bring the United
States in line with other developed
countries that already require bene-
ficial ownership disclosure.
b 1230
The rule will amend the bill to also
include my friend, Congressman EMAN-
UEL CLEAVER’s H.R. 2514, known as the
COUNTER Act, which would modernize
and improve the Bank Secrecy Act.
This bill passed the Financial Serv-
ices Committee unanimously in May.
Specifically, it would expand commu-
nication about anti-money laundering
data within financial institutions and
safeguard privacy by creating a civil
liberties and privacy officer within
each financial regulator. Additionally,
this legislation increases penalties for
bad actors and reduces barriers to in-
novation.
For years, Congress has proposed re-
forms to the Bank Secrecy Act, but
this is the first major legislation to re-
ceive broad bipartisan support. This
bill strikes a careful balance between
security and privacy and will be a big
step forward to strengthen anti-money
laundering tools.
Together, this combined legislation
will create a more secure and trans-
parent financial system. I urge all my
colleagues to support the rule and the
underlying bill, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. WOODALL. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume. I thank my friend from Colorado
(Mr. PERLMUTTER) for yielding me the
time.
I don’t want to take up too much
time, because I know we have the
chairwoman here. And as the gen-
tleman from Colorado pointed out, she
is one of the most studied Members in
this Chamber on this topic.
We did meet in the Rules Committee
last night. And for the second week in
a row, Madam Speaker, we have
brought rules out of the Rules Com-
mittee that gave the minority a voice
that we have not seen throughout this
Congress.
Candidly, the record of open rules in
the Chamber has been abysmal on both
sides of the aisle. I don’t believe while
Paul Ryan was Speaker, Republicans
on the Rules Committee made a single
open rule in order, and that has cer-
tainly been the way that things have
continued in the Pelosi majority.
But I want to mention to my col-
leagues, as learned as the chairwoman
is, I believe that Members in this
Chamber have something to offer on
these topics. And I just want to remind
the Chamber that in 1970, when we
passed the Bank Secrecy Act to begin
with—that is the bill that this bill be-
fore us today amends, Madam Speaker,
a very small portion of the Bank Se-
crecy Act that this bill amends—we
brought the Bank Secrecy Act to the
floor under an open rule, 2 hours of
general debate, and then amended it
under the 5-minute rule, ended up pass-
ing that bill unanimously out of this
Chamber.
As my friend from Colorado knows,
Madam Speaker, we had witnesses in
the Rules Committee last night who
had ideas that they wanted to have
considered on the floor of the House by
all of their colleagues, ideas that I
would tell you deserve consideration.
The gentleman from Ohio (Mr. DA-
VIDSON), my friend, brought an amend-
ment that said, Listen—as you heard
the gentleman from Colorado discuss
earlier—this is the creation of a new
government database for the purpose of
law enforcement querying it for its en-
forcement activities.
What my friend from Ohio said is, If
this is going to be a law enforcement
database, if we are creating new gov-
ernment databases, if we are creating
them for the sole purpose of law en-
forcement to query them for the sole
purpose of engaging in criminal pros-
ecutions, shouldn’t we ask for a war-
rant to query that database, just like
we would ask law enforcement for a
warrant in any other investigation?
These are, after all, American citizens.
Perhaps, because I don’t serve on the
Financial Services Committee, Madam
Speaker, I don’t fully understand the
ramifications of that, but I am not
afraid of this body considering it in its
collective wisdom. And I am dis-
appointed that even as broad as the
rule was, even the amendments that
were made in order, Mr. DAVIDSON is
not going to have a chance to talk
about this question of fundamental
civil liberties, which, again, I know is
important, from the most liberal Dem-
ocrat in this Chamber to the most con-
servative Republican.
There was a time in this Chamber
where we thought enough of ourselves
as a body and had enough respect for
one another as individuals that we
were not afraid of the open rule proc-
ess. There is enough blame to go
around on both sides of that. I am not
proud of the Republican record of the
last several years, but I do believe, and
I would say to my friend from Colo-
rado, because he has outsized influence
on the committee, this would be the
kind of bill where we could begin that
open-rule process, a very narrowly tai-
lored bill designed to do very specific
things.
I will go one more: I offered an
amendment last night, Madam Speak-
er, to allow consideration of an amend-
ment from another Member of this
body who thought that we should have
a cost–benefit analysis done of this bill.
I mean, undeniably, there is a paper-
work burden associated with it. That is
uncontested.
So the idea was, because we are doing
this on behalf of the American people,
do the costs outweigh the benefits or
do the benefits outweigh the cost. Can-
didly, my constituency back home
would imagine that we have that con-
versation about every piece of legisla-
tion that we pass every day. Of course,
the Members of this Chamber know
that we don’t.
That amendment was offered for con-
sideration. It was defeated on a party-
line vote, not the nature of the amend-
ment itself, Madam Speaker, but even
the ability to discuss it. I don’t think
any of my colleagues would say that
the legislative calendar of the last
week has been so aggressive that they
have no bandwidth to consider either
civil liberties on the one hand or cost-
benefit analysis on the other. I think
we do have that bandwidth.
And I recognize that in this culture
of outrage that we are in, Madam
Speaker, this culture of offense that we
have gotten ourselves into, it is often-
times true that in political discussions,
folks will believe that they can never
do good enough. However good a rule
the gentleman from Colorado crafts,
the other side is always going to say,
Well, you could have done better. I rec-
ognize that. In fact, that was confessed
from the witness table last night. The
gentleman from Ohio said, Listen, I
have been trying to defeat this bill be-
cause I disagree with it on its merits.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:35 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.016 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8309
October 22, 2019
Now, if we are going to pass this bill,
I think we should protect civil lib-
erties. And I am afraid my civil lib-
erties concerns are being dismissed be-
cause I have developed a reputation for
wanting to kill the bill altogether. We
recognize that is a very real cir-
cumstance that we have before us. But
when we pass the underlying legisla-
tion, the Bank Secrecy Act, I will re-
mind my colleagues, again, we came
together and did it unanimously, be-
cause it is important.
The chairwoman of the sub-
committee put together a big bipar-
tisan majority to move this legislation
out of her committee. She recognizes
how important that is. There are so
many opportunities for us to divide
ourselves in this Chamber, in this day.
It is my regret that we have not taken
this opportunity where the bill was so
narrow, where the topic was so tai-
lored, and where the expertise that is
so obvious, to those of us in the Cham-
ber who don’t have it as to which Mem-
bers do have it, that we did not allow a
more full-throated debate on this issue.
For that reason, Madam Speaker, I
will be opposing the rule, but I very
much would like to get to consider-
ation of the underlying bill. We offered
an amendment last night to do this in
an open rule. That amendment was re-
jected. Our ranking member offered it.
It was rejected on a party-line vote.
Let us recognize that we are includ-
ing more voices today than this Con-
gress has historically included. This is,
again, for only the second time this
year that I remember, there being as
many voices included as there are. But
that is a step in the right direction. It
is not the goal. The goal is to allow
every Member, each one of us rep-
resenting 700,000 American citizens
whose voice needs to be heard, to come
to the floor and have that debate.
Part of the reason you see the floor is
empty, as you do today, Madam Speak-
er, is because folks know the word has
already gone out. Folks have already
seen the literature. They know their
voices have already been shut out.
Those Members who have offered im-
provements, they know they have al-
ready been rejected. They know there
will not be a chance for their voice to
be heard, and, thus, they are not on the
floor today to pursue it.
So, again, to my friend from Colo-
rado, I would ask him to use his influ-
ence. I know we can do it. I know we
can be better.
And this, again, because of the chair-
woman’s expertise, because of the bi-
partisan way it moved through com-
mittee, this would have been the way,
this would have been the time for us to
begin trying to expect more of our-
selves. And we have not taken advan-
tage of that this time. I hope that we
will not miss that opportunity next
time.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
I just want to remind my friend that
we are dealing with a serious law en-
forcement issue here, something that
the chairwoman, who will speak, has
been dealing with for years, working
with law enforcement across the coun-
try and has full-throated support from
virtually every law enforcement agen-
cy in this country to deal with these
phony companies. These are phony
companies similar to the company that
was created by Lev Parnas and Igor
Fruman, who were friends of Rudy
Giuliani, created to upset elections and
elsewhere, who were arrested as they
were leaving the country 2 weeks ago.
That is the purpose, it is to get bad
actors who are using shell companies
to really contort U.S. law, to park
money in buildings where they have
gotten bribes and they have taken
them from their country and parked
them in, you know, big townhouses in
New York City or L.A. or Denver, Colo-
rado. This is serious stuff that we are
dealing with.
And I would remind my friend, as he
spoke about the gentleman from Ohio
(Mr. DAVIDSON), he is going to get to
debate an amendment he proposed. We
have five amendments that are going
to be considered by the full House.
That is after any amendment was al-
lowed in committee to be, you know,
voted up or down. And we have a big
committee with a lot of Democrats and
a lot of Republicans. And there are
many Republicans supporting this bill,
because they understand how impor-
tant this is to, you know, get dirty
money out of these shell companies.
David Petraeus, a former general,
former head of the CIA, and SHELDON
WHITEHOUSE wrote an op-ed in The
Washington Post dated March 8, 2019,
where they said, ‘‘Russian President
Vladimir Putin and other authori-
tarian rulers have worked assiduously
to weaponize corruption as an instru-
ment of foreign policy, using money in
opaque and illicit ways to gain influ-
ence over other countries, subvert the
rule of law and otherwise remake for-
eign governments in their own
kleptocratic image.’’
And I want to thank the chairwoman
for working so hard on this bill and
gaining so much support from Demo-
crats, Republicans, law enforcement,
and different organizations all across
the country to stop this kind of stuff
that could really undermine our de-
mocracy.
Madam Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to
the gentlewoman from New York (Mrs.
CAROLYN B. MALONEY).
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. Madam Speaker, first, I would
like to thank the gentleman from the
great State of Colorado (Mr. PERL-
MUTTER), my good friend, for his ex-
traordinary leadership, not only on the
Rules Committee, but on the Financial
Services Committee, and his work and
support on this bill over a decade. So I
thank him very much.
Madam Speaker, I rise in very strong
support of this rule which would make
a number of amendments in order, and
I think would improve the underlying
bill. Most importantly, the rule would
make in order the Waters manager’s
amendment, which contains the text of
Mr. CLEAVER’s bill, called the
COUNTER Act.
Mr. CLEAVER is the chairman of the
Subcommittee on National Security
and has been an exceptional leader on
anti-money laundering issues. His bill
would make a number of improvements
to the Bank Secrecy Act that would
protect our national security, make
our anti-money laundering regime
more effective, and would reduce bur-
dens on financial institutions.
For example, the bill would close
loopholes for high-risk commercial real
estate transactions and the transfer of
arts and antiquities, which we have
heard testimony about in our com-
mittee.
It would also make modest increases
to the threshold for currency trans-
action reports, which was a com-
promise that Mr. CLEAVER reached
with Mr. LOUDERMILK on the other side
of the aisle. This would provide finan-
cial institutions with regulatory relief,
while also ensuring that law enforce-
ment has the information they need to
catch bad actors who are using our fi-
nancial system to hide their illicit
money.
Finally, the bill protects privacy by
mandating a privacy and civil liberties
officer, as well as an innovation officer
in each of the Federal financial regu-
lators. These officials are required to
meet regularly, to consult on Bank Se-
crecy Act policy and regulation.
Madam Speaker, I want to thank Mr.
CLEAVER and Chairwoman WATERS for
this amendment, which I strongly be-
lieve will make my bill better and will
improve the chances that it gets passed
by the Senate and signed into law.
This bill before us today, the under-
lying bill, H.R. 2513, would crack down
on illicit use of anonymous shell com-
panies. This is one of the most pressing
national security problems we face in
this country, because anonymous shell
companies are the vehicle of choice for
money launderers, criminals, and ter-
rorists.
Coming from New York, I am par-
ticularly concerned about cracking
down on terrorism financing. Because
of the importance of this bill, it has
been endorsed by every single law en-
forcement agency in our country. They
say that passing this bill will help
them protect American citizens, Amer-
icans, visitors, anyone in our country.
Madam Speaker, I include in the
RECORD a listing of all of the law en-
forcement agencies that support this
bill, and it also has wide support from
stakeholders, major stakeholders in
our country from the business commu-
nity, the NGOs, and the not-for-profit
community.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.018 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8310 October 22, 2019
[From FACTCOALITION, Updated: October
15, 2019]
ENDORSEMENTS FOR BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP
TRANSPARENCY
ENDORSED LEGISLATION
Anti-Corruption/Transparency:
Citizens for Responsibility & Ethics in
Washington (CREW), Coalition for Integrity,
Corruption Watch UK, Financial Account-
ability & Corporate Transparency (FACT)
Coalition, Financial Transparency Coalition,
Global Financial Integrity, Global Integrity,
Global Witness, Government Accountability
Project (GAP), Natural Resource Governance
Institute, Open Contracting Partnership,
Open Ownership, Open the Government,
Project on Government Oversight (POGO),
Publish What You Pay—U.S. Repatriation
Group International, RepresentUs, Sunlight
Foundation, Transparency International.
Anti-Human Trafficking:
Alliance to End Slavery and Trafficking
(ATEST), Humanity United Action, Liberty
Shared, Polaris, Street Grace, Verité.
Business (Large):
Allianz, The B Team, Celtel International,
Chobani, Danone, Dow Chemical, Engie, The
Kering Group, National Foreign Trade Coun-
cil, Natura & Co., Safaricom, Salesforce,
Thrive Global, Unilever, The Virgin Group.
Business (Small):
American Sustainable Business Council,
Harpy IT Solutions, LLC (St. Louis, MO),
Luna Global Networks & Convergence Strat-
egies, LLC (Washington, DC), Maine Small
Business Coalition, Main Street Alliance,
Pax Advisory, Inc (Vienna, VA), Small Busi-
ness Majority, South Carolina Small Busi-
ness Chamber of Commerce.
Business (Financial Institutions):
Alabama Bankers Association, Alaska
Bankers Association, American Bankers As-
sociation, Arizona Bankers Association, Ar-
kansas Bankers Association, Bank Policy In-
stitute, Bankers Association for Finance and
Trade (BAFT), The Clearing House Associa-
tion, Colorado Bankers Association, Con-
necticut Bankers Association, Consumer
Bankers Association, Credit Union National
Association (CUNA), Delaware Bankers Asso-
ciation, Financial Services Roundtable,
Florida Bankers Association, Georgia Bank-
ers Association, Hawaii Bankers Association,
Idaho Bankers Association, Illinois Bankers
Association, Independent Community Bank-
ers of America (ICBA).
Indiana Bankers Association, Institute of
International Bankers (IIB), Institute of
International Finance (IIF), Iowa Bankers
Association, Kansas Bankers Association,
Kentucky Bankers Association, Louisiana
Bankers Association, Maine Bankers Asso-
ciation, Maryland Bankers Association, Mas-
sachusetts Bankers Association, Michigan
Bankers Association, Mid-Size Bank Coali-
tion of America, Minnesota Bankers Associa-
tion, Mississippi Bankers Association, Mis-
souri Bankers Association, Montana Bankers
Association, National Association of Feder-
ally-Insured Credit Unions (NAFCU), Ne-
braska Bankers Association, Nevada Bankers
Association, New Hampshire Bankers Asso-
ciation, New Jersey Bankers Association.
New Mexico Bankers Association, New
York Bankers Association, North Carolina
Bankers Association, North Dakota Bankers
Association, Ohio Bankers League, Okla-
homa Bankers Association, Oregon Bankers
Association, Pennsylvania Bankers Associa-
tion, Puerto Rico Bankers Association, Re-
gional Bank Coalition, Rhode Island Bankers
Association, Securities Industry & Financial
Markets Association (SIFMA), South Caro-
lina Bankers Association, South Dakota
Bankers Association, Tennessee Bankers As-
sociation, Texas Bankers Association, Utah
Bankers Association, Vermont Bankers As-
sociation, Virginia Bankers Association,
Washington Bankers Association, Western
Bankers Association, West Virginia Bankers
Association, Wisconsin Bankers Association,
Wyoming Bankers Association.
Business (Insurance):
Coalition Against Insurance Fraud.
Business (Real Estate):
American Escrow Association, American
Land Title Association (ALTA), National As-
sociation of REALTORS©, Real Estate Serv-
ices Providers Council, Inc. (RESPRO).
Faith:
Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsi-
bility (ICCR), Interfaith Worker Justice, Ju-
bilee USA Network, Maryknoll Fathers and
Brothers, Maryknoll Office for Global Con-
cerns, Missionary Oblates, NETWORK Lobby
for Catholic Social Justice, Society of Afri-
can Missions (SMA Fathers), United Church
of Christ, Justice and Witness Ministries,
The United Methodist Church—General
Board of Church and Society.
Human Rights:
Accountability Counsel, African Coalition
for Corporate Accountability (ACCA), Am-
nesty International USA, Business and
Human Rights (BHR), Business & Human
Rights Resource Centre, Center for Constitu-
tional Rights, EarthRights International.
EG Justice, Enough Project, Freedom House,
Human Rights First, Human Rights Watch,
International Corporate Accountability
Roundtable (ICAR), International Labor
Rights Forum, International Rights Advo-
cates, National Association for the Advance-
ment of Colored People (NAACP), Respon-
sible Sourcing Network, Rights and Account-
ability in Development (RAID), Rights
CoLab, The Sentry.
International Development:
ActionAid USA, Bread for the World, ONE
Campaign, Oxfam America.
Law Enforcement:
ATF Association, Federal Law Enforce-
ment Officers Association (FLEOA), Dennis
Lormel, former Chief of the FBI Financial
Crimes and Terrorist Financing Operations
Sections, Donald C. Semesky Jr., Former
Chief of Financial Operations, Drug Enforce-
ment Administration, John Cassara, former
U.S. Treasury Special Agent, National Asso-
ciation of Assistant United States Attorneys
(NAAUSA), National District Attorneys As-
sociation (NDAA), National Fraternal Order
of Police (FOP), Society of Former Special
Agents of the FBI; U.S. Marshals Service As-
sociation.
Lawyers:
Group of 11 business and human rights law-
yers.
NGOs (Misc.):
Africa Faith & Justice Network; Amazon
Watch; American Family Voices; Americans
for Democratic Action (ADA); Americans for
Financial Reform; Americans for Tax Fair-
ness; Association of Concerned Africa Schol-
ars (ACAS); Campaign for America’s Future;
Center for International Policy; Center for
Popular Democracy Action; Coalition on
Human Needs; Columban Center for Advo-
cacy and Outreach; Columbia Center on Sus-
tainable Investment; Consumer Action; Con-
sumer Federation of America; Corporate Ac-
countability Lab; CREDO Action; Demand
Progress; Economic Policy Institute.
Environmental Investigation Agency; Fair
Share; First Amendment Media Group;
Foundation Earth; Friends of the Earth;
Fund for Constitutional Government;
Greenpeace USA; Health Care for America
Now; Heartland Initiative; Institute for Pol-
icy Studies—Program on Inequality and the
Common Good; Institute on Taxation and
Economic Policy; International Campaign
for Responsible Technology; iSolon.org;
MomsRising; National Employment Law
Project; National Organization for Women
(NOW); New Rules for Global Finance; Patri-
otic Millionaires; People Demanding Action;
Project Expedite Justice.
Project on Organizing, Development, Edu-
cation, and Research (PODER); Public Cit-
izen; Responsible Sourcing Network; Respon-
sible Wealth; Responsive to Our Community
II, LLC; RootsAction.org; Stand Up America;
Sustentia; Take On Wall Street; Tax Justice
Network; Tax Justice Network USA; Tax
March; Trailblazers PAC; United for a Fair
Economy; U.S.-Africa Network; U.S. Public
Interest Research Group (U.S. PIRG); Voices
for Progress; Win Without War; Working
America.
Shareholders:
Avaron Asset Management; Bâtirente; Bos-
ton Common Asset Management; Candriam
Investors Group; Capricorn Investment
Group; Clean Yield Asset Management; CtW
Investment Group; Domini Social Invest-
ment LLC; Dominican Sisters of Hope; Her-
mes Equity Ownership Services; Hexavest;
Inflection Point Capital Management; Local
Authority Pension Fund Forum; Magni Glob-
al Asset Management LLC; Maryknoll Sis-
ters; Mercy Investment Services, Inc.;
NorthStar Asset Management, Inc.; Oblate
International Pastoral Investment Trust;
Sisters of Charity, BVM; Sisters of Saint Jo-
seph of Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia, PA.
Sisters of St. Dominic of Blauvelt, New
York; Sisters of St. Francis of Philadelphia;
Trillium Asset Management; Triodos Invest-
ment Advisory & Services BV; Ursuline Sis-
ters of Tildonk, U.S. Province; Verka VK
Kirchliche Vorsorge VVaG; Zevin Asset Man-
agement.
State Secretaries of State:
Delaware
Unions:
Alliance for Retired Americans; American
Federation of Labor and Congress of Indus-
trial Organizations (AFL–CIO); American
Federation of State, County and Municipal
Employees (AFCSME); American Federation
of Teachers; Communications Workers of
America (CWA); International Brotherhood
of Teamsters; International Union, United
Automobile, Aerospace, and Agricultural Im-
plement Workers of America, UAW; National
Education Association; National Latino
Farmers & Ranchers Trade Association;
Service Employees International Union
(SEIU).
ENDORSED CONCEPT
Anti-Human Trafficking:
3 Strands Global Foundation; Agape Inter-
national Missions; Amirah, Inc.; Baptist Re-
source Network; Candle of Hope Foundation;
Freedom Network USA; Shared Hope Inter-
national; Youth Underground.
Business (Large):
BHP; Deloitte; International Chamber of
Commerce; Philip Morris International; Rio
Tinto; Siemens AG; Thomson Reuters.
Business (Financial Institutions):
BMO Capital Markets.
Business (Small):
77% of U.S. small business owners; O’Neill
Electric (Portland; OR); Paperjam Press
(Portland; OR); Popcorn Heaven (Waterloo;
IA); Rivanna Natural Designs; Inc. (Char-
lottesville; VA).
Human Rights:
Better World Campaign; Center for Justice
and Accountability; Center for Victims of
Torture; Futures without Violence; Global
Rights; Global Solutions; Physicians for
Human Rights; Project on Middle East De-
mocracy; United to End Genocide.
Law Enforcement:
National Sheriffs’ Association.
National Security Officials:
2019 letter from bipartisan group of 61 na-
tional security experts; 2018 letter from bi-
partisan group of 3 dozen former national se-
curity leaders (military and civilian); David
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.010 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8311
October 22, 2019
Petraeus, GEN (Ret.) USA, former director
of the Central Intelligence Agency; Ben
Rhodes, former deputy national security ad-
viser to President Barack Obama.
Scholars (Think Tanks):
Anders Åslund, Atlantic Council; David
Mortlock, Atlantic Council; Josh Rudolph,
Atlantic Council; William F. Wechsler, At-
lantic Council; Clay Fuller, American Enter-
prise Institute; Michael Rubin, American En-
terprise Institute; Norm Eisen, Brookings In-
stitution; Aaron Klein, Brookings Institu-
tion; Jeff Hauser, Center for Economic and
Policy Research; Jarrett Blanc, Carnegie En-
dowment for International Peace; Sarah
Chayes, Carnegie Endowment for Inter-
national Peace; Jake Sullivan, Carnegie En-
dowment for International Peace; Jodi
Vittori, Carnegie Endowment for Inter-
national Peace; Andrew Weiss, Carnegie En-
dowment for International Peace; Molly
Elgin-Cossart, Center for American Progress;
Diana Pilipenko, Center for American
Progress; Trevor Sutton, Center for Amer-
ican Progress; Neil Bhatiya, Center for a
New American Security; Ashley Feng, Cen-
ter for a New American Security; Elizabeth
Rosenberg, Center for a New American Secu-
rity, Daleep Singh, Center for a New Amer-
ican Security; Heather Conley, Center for
Strategic and International Studies. Mat-
thew M. Taylor, Council on Foreign Rela-
tions; David Hamon, Economic Warfare In-
stitute; David Asher, Foundation for Defense
of Democracies; Yaya J. Fanusie, Founda-
tion for Defense of Democracies; Eric Lorber,
Foundation for Defense of Democracies;
Emanuele Ottolenghi, Foundation for De-
fense of Democracies; Chip Poncy, Founda-
tion for Defense of Democracies; Jonathan
Schanzer, Foundation for Defense of Democ-
racies; Juan C. Zarate, Foundation for De-
fense of Democracies; Jamie Fly, German
Marshall Fund of the United States; Joshua
Kirschenbaum, German Marshall Fund of the
United States; Laura Rosenberger, German
Marshall Fund of the United States; David
Salvo, German Marshall Fund of the United
States; Larry Diamond, Hoover Institution;
Michael McFaul, Amb. (Ret.), Hoover Insti-
tution; Ben Judah, Hudson Institute; Nate
Sibley, Hudson Institute; Richard Phillips,
Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy;
Michael Camilleri, Inter-American Dialogue;
David J. Kramer, McCain Institute; Paul D.
Hughes, COL (Ret.), USA, U.S. Institute of
Peace.
Scholars (Universities):
Smriti Rao, Assumption College (MA);
Daniel Nielson, Brigham Young University;
Branko Milanovic, City University of New
York; Martin Guzman, Columbia University;
Matthew Murray, Columbia University; Jose
Antonio Ocampo, Columbia University; Jef-
frey D. Sachs, Columbia University; Joseph
Stiglitz, Columbia University; Spencer J.
Pack, Connecticut College; Lourdes Beneria,
Cornell University; John Hoddinott, Cornell
University; Ravi Kanbur, Cornell University;
David Blanchflower, Dartmouth College;
Mark Paul, Duke University; Michael J.
Dziedzic, Col. (Ret.), USA, George Mason
University; David M. Luna, George Mason
University; Louise Shelley, George Mason
University; Laurie Nisonoff, Hampshire Col-
lege.
Matthew Stephenson, Harvard Law School;
Dani Rodrik, Harvard University; June
Zaccone, Hofstra University; Matteo M.
Galizzi, London School of Economics (UK);
John Hills, London School of Economics
(UK); Simona Iammarino, London School of
Economics (UK); Stephen Machin, London
School of Economics (UK); Vassilis
Monastiriotis, London School of Economics
(UK); Cecilia Ann Winters, Manhattanville
College (NY); Richard D. Wolff, New School
University; Bilge Erten, Northeastern Uni-
versity; Mary C. King, Portland State Uni-
versity (OR); Angus Deaton, Princeton Uni-
versity; Kimberly A. Clausing, Reed College;
Charles P. Rock, Rollins College (FL);
Radhika Balakrishnan, Rutgers University;
Aaron Pacitti, Siena College (NY); Smita
Ramnarain, Siena College (NY).
Vanessa Bouché, Texas Christian Univer-
sity; Nora Lustig, Tulane University; Karen
J. Finkenbinder, U.S. Army War College;
Max G. Manwaring, COL (Ret.), USA, U.S.
Army War College; Gabriel Zucman, Univer-
sity of California, Berkeley; Ha-Joon Chang,
University of Cambridge (UK); Ilene Grabel,
University of Denver; Tracy Mott, Univer-
sity of Denver; Arthur MacEwan, University
of Massachusetts, Boston; Valpy Fitzgerald,
University of Oxford (UK); Frances Stewart,
University of Oxford (UK); Michael Car-
penter, University of Pennsylvania; Dorene
Isenberg, University of Redlands (CA); Mike
Findley, University of Texas; Gunseli Berik,
University of Utah; Al Campbell, University
of Utah; Elaine McCrate, University of
Vermont; Stephanie Seguino, University of
Vermont; Thomas Pogge, Yale University.
State Attorneys General:
California, Colorado, Connecticut, Dela-
ware, District of Columbia, Hawaii, Illinois,
Iowa, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Min-
nesota, Mississippi, New Jersey, New Mexico,
North Carolina, Northern Mariana Islands,
Oregon, Pennsylvania, Puerto Rico, Rhode
Island, Vermont, Virginia, Washington.
U.S. Administration Officials:
Department of Justice, Department of the
Treasury, Federal Bureau of Investigation
(FBI), Financial Crimes Enforcement Net-
work (FinCEN), Immigration and Customs
Enforcement (ICE), Office of the Comptroller
of the Currency (OCC), Special Inspector
General for Afghanistan Reconstruction
(SIGAR).
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. Madam Speaker, this is a win-
win for protecting our citizens, and
like every national security issue, it
should have strong bipartisan support.
If you care about protecting American
citizens, you should be supporting this
bill.
b 1245
Mr. WOODALL. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I am willing to stip-
ulate that almost everything my two
friends have just said is absolutely
true. Law enforcement absolutely sup-
ports this provision. Law enforcement
absolutely believes pursuing criminals
will be easier under this provision.
Now, it would also be easier if we al-
lowed folks to kick in everybody’s
door, but we don’t. Protecting civil lib-
erties is about protecting American
citizens.
I am not even here today arguing
that we have to include the amend-
ment for the bill to go to the Presi-
dent’s desk. I am here arguing that
civil liberties deserve a conversation.
Madam Speaker, we did not come in
until noon today. We are not going to
burn the midnight oil tonight. We did
two small bills last week, in its en-
tirety, coming out of the Rules Com-
mittee.
We have the bandwidth to talk about
civil liberties. It does not advantage us
to pretend that folks who care about
civil liberties are somehow a threat to
democracy. People who care about civil
liberties are the ones who have always
protected democracy.
Whenever bad things happen in this
country, the pendulum automatically
swings in favor of protection of the
group against the protection of the
civil liberties of the individual.
It happened after 9/11. It happened
after Pearl Harbor. It happens time and
time again in this country.
What was asked in the Rules Com-
mittee is that we take 5 minutes. That
is not a figure of speech, Madam
Speaker. It is actually 5 minutes that
was requested to make the case on the
floor that civil liberties were not being
appropriately protected in this bill and
that we could do better. The answer
from the majority was, no, it is not
worth 5 minutes.
I stipulate that what my friends have
said about the value of this legislation
is absolutely true. So, when I offered
the amendment that said let’s do a
cost-benefit analysis to document the
truth of that, I expected the answer to
be yes. The answer wasn’t just no. The
answer was, no, we don’t even have the
ability to do a cost-benefit analysis of
this legislation.
Madam Speaker, that is just non-
sense. It is nonsense.
I was asking for 5 minutes—literally,
300 seconds—to talk about whether or
not American citizens were going to
get the value out of this bill that was
being suggested. The answer was, no,
we don’t have 300 seconds to spend
talking about it.
I would argue 300 seconds isn’t
enough. Three hundred seconds isn’t
enough to talk about civil liberties.
Three hundred seconds isn’t enough to
talk about taxpayer responsibilities.
But that was the ask, and that ask was
declined.
I can’t come to the House floor with
many of the rules that I am assigned to
carry, Madam Speaker, and make this
request because I don’t have partners
like the two partners that I have
today.
You may not have noticed it, Madam
Speaker, and you are kind if you tell
me that you didn’t, but I am the least
educated person on this House floor
when it comes to this bill. I am the
only one who doesn’t sit on the com-
mittee.
I am, today, down here discussing
this with two Members who have dedi-
cated their careers to the improvement
of the financial services system in
America, and I respect the time and ef-
fort they have committed to it. I re-
spect their counsel.
I don’t believe these two individuals
are threatened by 300 more seconds of
debate on any issue. They know what
they believe. They know why they be-
lieve it. They know why they believe
what they believe is good for America,
as do Members with opposing opinions.
I can’t ask, if we are down here talk-
ing about a tax bill, to have an open
rule on a Ways and Means bill because
that gets more complicated. I can’t
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:35 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.011 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8312 October 22, 2019
ask, if we are down here on a Judiciary
bill, to have an open rule on a Judici-
ary bill because that gets more com-
plicated.
What I have today, Madam Speaker,
are two Members who have worked in a
collaborative, bipartisan way to
produce the very best bill they could
out of their committee. I am asking for
an opportunity for the other several
hundred Members of this institution to
have a voice in the debate.
Just so that we are clear on what my
ask is, Madam Speaker, to make all
the amendments in order—all the
amendments—to allow for the free and
open debate that I am asking for, it
would have taken 1,200 more seconds,
20 minutes.
If the majority could have found, in
its wisdom, 20 more minutes, every
Member of this body could have been
heard on an issue that you have heard
the subject matter experts testify to
how important it is.
We have gotten out of the habit of
listening to one another. We have got-
ten out of the habit of trusting one an-
other. I don’t argue that either one of
those things has happened without
cause and effect. There is a reason we
are in the box that we are in. We have
to find narrowly tailored pieces of leg-
islation to begin to reverse that cycle.
This is one of those narrowly tailored
provisions.
It modifies one part—one part—of
what the Bank Secrecy Act tried to
achieve. The Bank Secrecy Act was
brought to the floor under a com-
pletely open rule with all voices to be
heard. Now, we can’t find 20 minutes to
have a full-throated debate on this. If
we defeat the previous question, I am
going to amend the rule.
Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous
consent to include the text of my
amendment in the RECORD imme-
diately prior to the vote on the pre-
vious question.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Georgia?
There was no objection.
Mr. WOODALL. It says: Upon adop-
tion of this resolution, the Committees
on the Judiciary, Ways and Means, Fi-
nancial Services, Oversight and Re-
form, Foreign Affairs, and the Perma-
nent Select Committee on Intelligence
shall suspend pursuing matters re-
ferred to by the Speaker in her an-
nouncement of September 24, 2019,
until such a time as a bill imple-
menting the United States-Mexico-
Canada Agreement becomes law.
That is a lot of text, Madam Speaker,
and I am going to yield to one of my
colleagues on the Rules Committee and
a learned member of the Judiciary
Committee to talk about it. But what
it says, in effect, is that we have real
legislative priorities that are not being
met.
We didn’t find the 20 minutes for a
full-throated debate here. We are not
finding the bandwidth to work on a
trade deal, the single best trade deal
done in my lifetime, a trade deal sup-
ported by the leadership in this House,
the leadership in the Senate, and by
the White House, a trade deal that is
going to make real differences to men
and women across this country, in your
district and in mine.
It says let’s stop the nonsense, let’s
stop the partisanship, and let’s focus
on some things that every single cit-
izen in this country cares about. Let’s
prioritize that, and perhaps, in doing
so, we will build some trust.
Madam Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to
the gentlewoman from Arizona (Mrs.
LESKO), my friend from the Rules Com-
mittee, to discuss this amendment in
detail.
Mrs. LESKO. Madam Speaker, I
thank my good friend from Georgia for
yielding me the time to speak on this
critical issue for my district, for the
State of Arizona, and for the country.
First, before I get into the previous
question amendment, I would like to
note that, on the underlying bill, the
ACLU, the Due Process Institute, and
FreedomWorks all oppose the under-
lying bill because of civil rights protec-
tions they are worried about being lost.
I represent Arizona’s Eighth Congres-
sional District, and I regularly speak
to my constituents. My district over-
whelmingly opposes impeachment.
They believe it is a waste of time. They
believe that Congress should be tack-
ling real issues, and I believe many
Americans across the country feel the
same way. They are like, what is Con-
gress doing? Why don’t you get any-
thing done?
But Democrats have chosen to ignore
the people they came to Congress to
represent. They chose, instead, to
prioritize impeachment. Instead of ad-
vancing legislation to make our Nation
safer or to better the lives of our fami-
lies, my Democratic colleagues have
perpetuated a witch hunt to undo the
2016 election and to influence the 2020
election.
One of the key legislative items that
my Democratic colleagues have sac-
rificed is the USMCA, the United
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement.
I have met with numerous Arizona
businesses that have told me, over and
over and over again, the importance of
the USMCA. I have told them that I
support it. I have told them I want this
to pass in Congress. But as we all
know, it hasn’t moved. It hasn’t been
heard.
My State of Arizona depends on trade
with Canada and Mexico. Over 228,000
Arizona jobs are supported by U.S.
trade with Canada and Mexico, and Ar-
izona exports over $9 billion in goods
and services to Canada and Mexico. We
supply them with agricultural prod-
ucts, engines and turbines, and over $1
billion a year in metal ores.
The USMCA would support this trade
through numerous key provisions. For
example, new customs and trade rules
will cut red tape and make it easier for
small businesses to participate in
trade.
It also protects American innovation
by modernizing rules related to intel-
lectual property. It also encourages
greater market access for America’s
farmers.
America and Arizona stand to benefit
from passage of the USMCA, but we are
not doing the USMCA because our
Speaker will not put it on the floor for
a vote.
I ask the Democrats to put their con-
stituents ahead of partisan politics and
consider the USMCA immediately. I
join my friend and Rules Committee
colleague in urging Members to vote
‘‘no’’ on the rule and ‘‘no’’ on the pre-
vious question so that we can prioritize
what is really important to America.
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
To my friends Mrs. LESKO and Mr.
WOODALL from the Rules Committee,
first, I remind my friend from Arizona
that we are actually working on legis-
lation that is bipartisan in nature and
something that is tremendously seri-
ous that has to be addressed.
Again, I would quote from the CNBC
article of October 17, where it talked
about these two cronies of Rudy
Giuliani: ‘‘Parnas and Fruman face
other charges in the indictment, which
alleges they created a shell company
and then used it to donate to political
committees, including a pro-Trump
super-PAC, while concealing that they
were the ones making the donations.’’
So here we have, on the political
side, the reason for this particular bill.
There is a 36-story skyscraper in Mid-
town Manhattan at 650 Fifth Avenue,
and I am reciting from an op-ed in The
Washington Post, dated September 20,
2019: ‘‘It is home to a Nike flagship
store and previously housed the cor-
porate offices of Starwood Hotels & Re-
sorts. It was also secretly owned by the
Iranian Government for almost 20
years. By running its ownership stake
in the building through an anonymous
front company, the Iranian regime
took advantage of the fact that firms
in the United States are not legally re-
quired to disclose who ultimately prof-
its from and controls them.’’
It goes on to say: ‘‘The story of 650
Fifth Avenue is not anomalous. The
United States has become one of the
world’s leading destinations for hiding
and legitimizing stolen wealth.’’
The purpose of this legislation, bipar-
tisan in nature, is something that is
very serious, and I appreciate the gen-
tlewoman for having been so perse-
vering to get this done, working with
law enforcement, working with Repub-
licans throughout.
In fact, one of the major cosponsors,
or somebody with whom Mrs. MALONEY
worked, was Mr. LUETKEMEYER, a sen-
ior member of the Republican Party on
the Financial Services Committee, to
come up with language that was ac-
ceptable not only to him but 11 or 10
other Republicans on the committee.
I would remind my friend Mr.
WOODALL that, in connection with civil
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.021 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8313
October 22, 2019
liberties that he was just talking
about, Mr. DAVIDSON raised his con-
cern. He has on a number of occasions,
and I have been there working with
him on that subject. But he was de-
feated.
This bill contains many civil rights
and privacy components. It protects
the privacy of any beneficial owner-
ship. It ensures that law enforcement
agencies requesting beneficial owner-
ship information from the Financial
Crimes Enforcement Network have an
existing investigatory basis for its re-
quests so that there is already some-
thing going on.
b 1300
There is an audit trail to make sure
that that information is not being dis-
closed improperly, and there are pen-
alties against the agencies if, in fact,
there are improper disclosures.
Now, I would also say—and I would
remind my friend, and we talked about
this last night at Rules—that when
people get together and they operate
under a corporation or a limited liabil-
ity company, they are drawing on law
to say: We want to operate this group,
and we want to have protection from
liability. We are going to operate as a
corporation. We want the State to pro-
tect us—State of Colorado, State of Ar-
izona—to protect us against us being
personally liable, individually liable.
All we are asking is stuff that you
would put down on a normal bank ac-
count, which is the names of the indi-
viduals, their date of birth, their ad-
dress, and identifying numbers; and, if
they are from another country, we de-
mand their passport numbers.
This is not terribly intrusive. This is
just basic information to make sure
that we don’t have bad actors and
scoundrels and people who would like
to undermine our Nation having phony
bank accounts or shell companies own-
ing skyscrapers in New York. So this is
serious stuff.
I have shared with the chairwoman
concerns over time, and she has actu-
ally worked—not actually. She has
worked with me to address concerns
that I particularly have in saying that,
before anybody is penalized for not dis-
closing information, they had to do it
willfully or knowingly, and that neg-
ligence is not a basis for any kind of an
action and that there are waivers if
somebody had just made a mistake.
So I just want to, again, thank the
gentlewoman from New York (Mrs.
CAROLYN B. MALONEY) for working with
Democrats and Republicans and all
sorts of groups across the country to
come up with something that balances
the need for real national security and
law enforcement measures with pri-
vacy.
We have allowed five amendments.
Mr. DAVIDSON, who, I am sure, will ad-
dress some of his concerns when he
brings up one of his amendments, is
going to be entitled to speak. And if
people don’t like the bill, they can vote
against it.
My guess is it is going to get a strong
bipartisan vote. I hope it does so that
we can send it.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. WOODALL. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, you and I don’t get
to be down here on the rule together
very often, and so I feel like I have got
a fresh ear in you.
My friend from Colorado, he and I
discuss these matters all the time, so I
understand his tone. It is as if I am
saying this bill has no merit because,
very often, we are down here and I am
saying exactly that.
This is a very different day that we
are down here, and I want to say it
again if I haven’t said it loud enough.
The chairwoman has worked incredibly
hard to build a partnership on this
issue. This bill came out of committee
with broad bipartisan support.
Madam Speaker, I don’t believe I
have handled a rule this year that has
had the partisan divide erased and had
folks collaborate to make a bill better.
All I am asking for is, because we have
such a wonderful work product, that we
go ahead and let every voice be heard.
In the same way that the gentleman
from Colorado is used to me saying a
bill has no merit whatsoever, he is used
to defending silencing voices. It rolled
off his tongue very easily: Oh, Mr. DA-
VIDSON, he gets to offer another amend-
ment. We don’t need his other ideas.
Well, for Pete’s sake, he is a gen-
tleman who serves on the Financial
Services Committee. He has expertise
that you and I do not have. He has a
voice that needs to be heard on this
floor. It was going to take 300 seconds
for him to share it, and the answer was:
No, no time for you.
We are better than that. We don’t al-
ways have the bills to demonstrate it;
and what I am saying today is that we
have a good, solid work product that
addresses a concern that we all agree
on. Why can’t we make the time to
make it better?
They took that time in the Financial
Services Committee, both in the two
amendments they considered during
the markup and in all the off-the-
record discussions that have gone on
behind closed doors, which are what
really make bills better.
I am just asking for the opportunity
to get out of the habit of making ex-
cuses for why we don’t want to hear
from our friends and colleagues in this
Chamber and getting back into the
habit of recognizing not just the merit
of their voice, but the responsibility we
have to hear their voice.
My friend from Colorado says, if you
don’t like this bill, just vote ‘‘no.’’
Well, there is some good stuff in this
bill.
My response would be: If you don’t
like the amendments I am going to
offer, just vote ‘‘no.’’ But he used the
power of the Rules Committee to si-
lence those voices. We won’t even have
votes on those amendments.
We have developed bad habits here as
legislators. We don’t always have the
right leaders to lead us out of the cor-
ner in which we have strapped our-
selves. We have the right leaders today
on that side of the aisle, Madam Speak-
er, and that is why I am asking my col-
leagues—they wouldn’t do it ordi-
narily, but I am asking my colleagues
to defeat the previous question so that
we can amend the rule.
And, even better, defeat the rule so
we can go back up, have every voice
heard, come back to this Chamber,
take a few extra minutes, perfect this
bill, and then do exactly what the
chairwoman wants done and exactly
what my friend from Colorado wants
done, and that is to send this bill out of
this Chamber not with a perfunctory
party-line bipartisan vote, but with a
full-throated, hearty bipartisan en-
dorsement that says we are speaking
with one voice on an issue that is im-
portant from corner to corner of this
institution.
Madam Speaker, I had hoped that
other learned voices would join me
today. I find myself alone, and I would
say to my friend from Colorado, I am
prepared to close if he is.
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker,
I was going to say to my friend: That
sounded like that was your closing.
Should we just take it as that?
Mr. WOODALL. Given that I did not
hear either an ‘‘amen’’ or ‘‘attaboy,’’ I
am thinking of saying it one more time
in hopes that the response is different.
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker,
I don’t have any other speakers.
Mr. WOODALL. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
I want to say this as sincerely as I
can. I know my colleagues believe me
to be sincere.
We bring a lot of bills to this floor
where no effort was made whatsoever
to include disparate voices, where the
party line, and the party line alone,
was the primary consideration. Madam
Speaker, that has been a flawed habit
when both Republican leaders have sat
in that chair and when Democratic
leaders have sat in that chair.
That is not the bill we have before us
today. The bill we have before us
today, I have got a Republican from
Georgia serving on the Financial Serv-
ices Committee; I have got a Democrat
from Georgia serving on the Financial
Services Committee; and, truth be told,
as often as not, they vote the same way
on the Financial Services Committee.
I can always tell when good legisla-
tion is coming out, because they are
not voting with a Republican or Demo-
cratic agenda in mind; they are voting
with the service of their constituents
in Georgia in the forefront of their
mind, and they vote side by side and
move arm in arm.
We don’t always get that oppor-
tunity. And so, when we have it today,
what a shame it is to waste it and not
try to get back in the habit of doing a
better job of hearing voices, defeating
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.022 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8314 October 22, 2019
those that need to be defeated, sup-
porting those that need to be sup-
ported, and letting the Chamber work
its will.
The National Federation of Inde-
pendent Business, NFIB, as we all
know it, represents mom-and-pop shops
across this country. They don’t rep-
resent mom-and-pop businesses be-
cause they think that big businesses
are bad. They represent mom-and-pop
businesses because they think mom-
and-pop businesses are good.
This bill creates a new burden on
those small businesses. That is undis-
puted. The question is: Is the burden
worth it or not?
We won’t get to hear amendments on
civil liberties to decide if it is worth it
or not; we won’t get to hear amend-
ments on cost-benefit analysis to de-
cide if it is worth it or not. And that is
a shame. That is a shame.
But when we have respected Members
in this institution, respected policy
shops outside of this institution say-
ing, ‘‘Hey, I just want to have my con-
cerns heard by the full House,’’ I think
it is incumbent upon us to try to find
some time to get that done.
I am not encouraging folks to defeat
the underlying bill. I am encouraging
folks to work with me to perfect the
underlying bill so that we can move it
forward collaboratively.
Defeat the previous question. Defeat
the rule. Take this opportunity to do
what all good institutions do.
Madam Speaker, we need good lead-
ers, and we need good followers. We
have got the good leaders on the other
side of the aisle today to get back in
the habit of making every voice heard.
What we need are some good followers
to defeat this rule and give them a
chance to do exactly that.
Madam Speaker, I thank my friend
from Colorado for yielding. I thank the
chairwoman for her leadership on the
issue.
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume to close.
I always enjoy debating with my
friend from Georgia on these rules mat-
ters, and, quite frankly, he has heaped
a lot of praise on this particular piece
of legislation, which it deserves. It has
gone through the crucible of a lot of
meetings and compromise and work
with a lot of different groups.
So I want to thank my colleagues for
joining me here today to speak on the
rule and the Corporate Transparency
Act of 2019.
Law enforcement needs to have the
tools necessary to shed light on the
true beneficial owners of shell compa-
nies in order to do their jobs and root
out illicit financial activity. They need
to be able to find out if Russians, Ira-
nians, North Koreans, ISIS, al-Qaida,
or criminal cartels may be engaging in
questionable activity, and this legisla-
tion will help law enforcement do ex-
actly that. It will also make the first
major reforms to the Bank Secrecy Act
and our anti-money laundering laws
since 2001.
These issues enjoy broad support
from the law enforcement community,
like the Fraternal Order of Police and
the National District Attorneys Asso-
ciation, as well as human rights
groups, anti-human trafficking organi-
zations, banks and credit unions of all
sizes, and many more.
These are bipartisan issues we have
been working on in the Financial Serv-
ices Committee, and I urge all my col-
leagues to vote for the bill. I encourage
a ‘‘yes’’ vote on the rule and the pre-
vious question.
The material previously referred to
by Mr. WOODALL is as follows:
AMENDMENT TO HOUSE RESOLUTION 646
At the end of the resolution, add the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 2 Upon adoption of this resolution, the
Committees on the Judiciary, Way and
Means, Financial Services, Oversight and
Reform, and Foreign Affairs and the Perma-
nent Select Committee on Intelligence shall
suspend pursuing matters referred to by the
Speaker in her announcement of September
24, 2019, until such time as a bill imple-
menting the United States-Mexico-Canada
Trade Agreement becomes law.
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker,
I yield back the balance of my time,
and I move the previous question on
the resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on ordering the previous
question.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. WOODALL. Madam Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, the Chair
will reduce to 5 minutes the minimum
time for any electronic vote on the
question of adoption of the resolution.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 228, nays
194, not voting 9, as follows:
[Roll No. 571]
YEAS—228
Adams
Aguilar
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—194
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.024 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8315
October 22, 2019
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—9
Allred
Bishop (NC)
Cole
Collins (GA)
Gabbard
McEachin
Peters
Takano
Timmons
b 1342
Messrs. BABIN and RICE of South
Carolina changed their vote from
‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Mr. VAN DREW and Mrs. HAYES
changed their vote from ‘‘nay’’ to
‘‘yea.’’
So the previous question was ordered.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
UNDERWOOD). The question is on the
resolution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. WOODALL. Madam Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This
will be a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 227, nays
195, not voting 9, as follows:
[Roll No. 572]
YEAS—227
Adams
Aguilar
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—195
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—9
Allred
Bishop (NC)
Collins (GA)
Gabbard
McEachin
Peters
Serrano
Takano
Timmons
b 1350
So the resolution was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. ALLRED. Madam Speaker, as I was
back home in Dallas, Texas in light of the tor-
nado and storm, I submit the following vote
explanation. Had I been present, I would have
voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 571, and ‘‘yea’’ on
rollcall No. 572.
f
CONTINUATION OF THE NATIONAL
EMERGENCY WITH RESPECT TO
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF
THE CONGO—MESSAGE FROM
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES (H. DOC. NO. 116–75)
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
CARSON of Indiana) laid before the
House the following message from the
President of the United States; which
was read and, together with the accom-
panying papers, referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs and ordered
to be printed:
To The Congress of The United States:
Section 202(d) of the National Emer-
gencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides
for the automatic termination of a na-
tional emergency unless, within 90
days before the anniversary date of its
declaration, the President publishes in
the Federal Register and transmits to
the Congress a notice stating that the
emergency is to continue in effect be-
yond the anniversary date. In accord-
ance with this provision, I have sent to
the Federal Register for publication the
enclosed notice stating that the na-
tional emergency with respect to the
situation in or in relation to the Demo-
cratic Republic of the Congo declared
in Executive Order 13413 of October 27,
2006, is to continue in effect beyond Oc-
tober 27, 2019.
The situation in or in relation to the
Democratic Republic of the Congo,
which has been marked by widespread
violence and atrocities that continue
to threaten regional stability, con-
tinues to pose an unusual and extraor-
dinary threat to the foreign policy of
the United States. For this reason, I
have determined that it is necessary to
continue the national emergency de-
clared in Executive Order 13413 with re-
spect to the situation in or in relation
to the Democratic Republic of the
Congo.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, October 22, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:35 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.008 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8316 October 22, 2019
CORPORATE TRANSPARENCY ACT
OF 2019
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks on H.R.
2513 and to insert extraneous material
thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 646 and rule
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union for the consider-
ation of the bill, H.R. 2513.
The Chair appoints the gentlewoman
from Illinois (Ms. UNDERWOOD) to pre-
side over the Committee of the Whole.
b 1355
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
consideration of the bill (H.R. 2513) to
ensure that persons who form corpora-
tions or limited liability companies in
the United States disclose the bene-
ficial owners of those corporations or
limited liability companies, in order to
prevent wrongdoers from exploiting
United States corporations and limited
liability companies for criminal gain,
to assist law enforcement in detecting,
preventing, and punishing terrorism,
money laundering, and other mis-
conduct involving United States cor-
porations and limited liability compa-
nies, and for other purposes, with Ms.
UNDERWOOD in the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to the rule, the
bill is considered read the first time.
General debate shall be confined to
the bill and amendments specified in
House Resolution 646 and shall not ex-
ceed 1 hour equally divided and con-
trolled by the chair and ranking minor-
ity member of the Committee on Fi-
nancial Services.
The gentlewoman from California
(Ms. WATERS) and the gentleman from
North Carolina (Mr. MCHENRY) each
will control 30 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
Ms. WATERS. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Chair, I rise in support of
H.R. 2513, the Corporate Transparency
Act of 2019, a bill introduced by Rep-
resentative CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York.
H.R. 2513 closes significant loopholes
in the law that are commonly abused
by bad actors and will make it harder
for terrorists, traffickers, corrupt offi-
cials, and other criminals to hide, laun-
der, move, and use their money.
Today, anyone can create a company
without providing any information
about the company’s actual owners.
This ability to remain anonymous
gives criminals and terrorists
unimpeded, hidden access to our bank-
ing and commercial systems.
It also makes it more difficult for
law enforcement and even our banks,
which have a duty to know their cus-
tomers and evaluate risk, to detect il-
licit activity.
For example, unbeknownst to au-
thorities for years, the skyscraper at
650 Fifth Avenue in New York City was
owned by Iranian-controlled entities
through shell companies. The Cor-
porate Transparency Act closes these
loopholes by requiring firms which do
not already report ownership, for ex-
ample through public SEC filings, to
share this information with the Finan-
cial Crimes Enforcement Network,
FinCEN.
This beneficial ownership database
created by the bill will be accessible
only by FinCEN-approved law enforce-
ment agencies and by financial institu-
tions, with customer consent, to fulfill
requirements to identify their bene-
ficial owners. Unapproved sharing of
this information would be subject to
criminal penalties, as would lying on
or intentional omission of beneficial
ownership information. For most
firms, which have only one or two own-
ers, this process would require only a
few lines of data. But for law enforce-
ment agencies, the additional informa-
tion will have great benefit, as their in-
vestigations will no longer be stymied
by anonymous shell companies.
The bill has also been broadened to
include the entirety of H.R. 2514, the
Coordinating Oversight, Upgrading and
Innovating Technology, and Examiner
Reform Act of 2019, the COUNTER Act,
a bill introduced by Representative
EMANUEL CLEAVER. The COUNTER Act
closes loopholes in the Bank Secrecy
Act, the key law aimed at countering
money laundering, terrorist financing,
and other criminal uses of the banking
system.
b 1400
For example, the bill requires the
identification of owners behind high-
risk commercial real estate trans-
actions and transactions involving arts
and antiquities, which are often used
by criminals to launder money.
The COUNTER Act examines Chinese
and Russian money laundering, an
issue that is seen in opioid and meth-
amphetamine production, as well as
human and wildlife trafficking.
The bill also creates a national strat-
egy to fight trade-based money laun-
dering, which is considered the most
pernicious but hard-to-detect form of
money laundering.
Mrs. MALONEY and Mr. CLEAVER’s bill
also works to lower the compliance
burden on financial institutions, most
of which are community banks, by es-
tablishing several tools to allow for
more targeted sharing of BSA-AML-re-
lated information.
The bill makes modest increases to
the currency transaction reporting
limit and studies ways to reduce the
costs associated with researching and
writing suspicious activity reports.
The bill also creates a new privacy
and civil liberties officer, as well as an
innovation officer in each of the Fed-
eral financial regulators.
Importantly, the bill imposes new
penalties on financial institutions and
personnel that violate the law and cre-
ates a whistleblower program to en-
courage and protect those who identify
such bad acts.
H.R. 2513, as amended, has the strong
support of financial institutions. It is
also supported by NGOs like the AFL–
CIO, Global Witness, Oxfam America,
Friends of the Earth U.S., Jubilee USA
Network, and the Small Business Ma-
jority, all of which are members of the
transparency-focused FACT Coalition.
It is widely supported by law enforce-
ment organizations such as the Fra-
ternal Order of Police, the National
District Attorneys Association, and
the Federal Law Enforcement Officers
Association. In addition, this legisla-
tion is supported by the Department of
the Treasury and the Federal Bureau of
Investigation.
I commend Congresswoman MALONEY
and Congressman CLEAVER for their
very hard work on the legislation, as
well as their collaboration to put to-
gether a comprehensive bill to reform
how this country fights against illicit
finance.
I urge passage of H.R. 2513, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself such time as I may consume. I
am opposed to H.R. 2513, and I want to
begin by outlining my opposition.
This bill before us is a new small
business mandate on the smallest busi-
nesses in America. The bill before us
today requires some of the smallest
businesses in America, those with
fewer than 20 employees and those with
less than $5 million in receipts, to file
annually a list of all of their owners
with the Financial Crimes Enforce-
ment Network, or FinCEN.
For those who are watching on C–
SPAN, I have a trivia question for
them, Mr. Chairman. I bet most of
them have never heard of FinCEN. I
bet those in the House office buildings,
Mr. Chairman, have not heard of
FinCEN. It is a little-known agency
even here in Washington that deals
with financial crimes, in the Treasury
Department.
Imagine you are a small business
owner. You are getting a notice from
the Financial Crimes Enforcement Net-
work mandating that you disclose the
owners of your entity. This would be
the first consumer-facing intelligence
bureau that we would have in the Fed-
eral Government.
This bill would require small busi-
ness owners and small business inves-
tors to submit their personal informa-
tion to a new Federal database without
adequate privacy protections. This new
Federal database will be accessible to
law enforcement without a warrant
and without a subpoena, a disturbing
violation of due process, in my view.
This has the fewest civil liberties
protections of any Federal intelligence
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.031 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8317
October 22, 2019
bureau database. It is a lower standard
of accountability than what Congress
provides in the PATRIOT Act, which
largely targets foreign actors.
According to the National Federation
of Independent Business, this bill
would also add more than $5.7 billion in
new regulatory costs for America’s
small businesses.
Supporters of the bill are calling for
these changes without any direct evi-
dence to justify the mandate. There is
plenty of anecdote, but no data.
For several months leading up to the
committee’s consideration of this bill,
I sought data from the intelligence bu-
reau called FinCEN and from the
Treasury Department, along with the
Department of Justice, to better under-
stand the need for this legislation.
They provided none. They gave anec-
dotes of very scary stories to try to
compel me as a legislator to vote for
what is a very specific threshold in law
and a very specific new small business
mandate.
I refuse to legislate based off of anec-
dotes. I would like to have hard data.
My questions have not been answered
by FinCEN, the Treasury Department,
or the Department of Justice.
We have no information on how bene-
ficial ownership information will be
protected, in addition to that. We do
not have information on how the pri-
vacy of small businesses will be pre-
served. In fact, we have an amendment
here considered on the House floor that
could further expose their data to the
public, so even that determination is
not in stone now with the bill before
us.
We don’t have information on how
many law enforcement agencies will
have access to the database, how many
financial institutions will have access
to the database, or what threshold for
amount of sales and the number of em-
ployees will yield the most effective
outcome.
In the bill, we have $5 million of rev-
enue and under, and 20 employees and
under. We have no data to back up that
that is the right threshold for either
the dollar amount or the number of
employees.
We will have stories, and we will
have Members come to the House floor
telling us stories of bad actors, but
that is anecdote. That is not data to
provide for this threshold.
If we are going to have such an en-
croachment on America’s personally
identifiable information of small busi-
nesses across this country, shouldn’t
we have solid data? I believe so.
I believe we have a number of issues
that need to be dealt with to make this
bill sustainable and provide protections
for civil liberties. I believe that com-
bating illicit finance is a nonpartisan
issue that all Members want to ad-
dress. Our actions must be thoughtful
and data-driven.
For example, in committee, we came
together in support of H.R. 2514, the
COUNTER Act, introduced by the gen-
tleman from Missouri (Mr. CLEAVER)
and the gentleman from Ohio (Mr.
STIVERS). H.R. 2514 is a compilation of
bipartisan policies that modernize and
reform the Bank Secrecy Act and anti-
money laundering regimes. It balances
security and privacy. I think we have a
nice bipartisan bill that was reported
out of the committee without a dis-
senting vote. It provides the Treasury
Department and other Federal agencies
with the resources they need to help
catch bad actors.
There have been years of work in the
production of that bill that is wrapped
up in this larger bill. I am disappointed
that the COUNTER Act is not being
considered as a standalone bill, instead
being swept into this bill. Because I be-
lieve as a standalone bill, we could get
that bill through the House, through
the Senate, and signed by the Presi-
dent into law this year. I think it is un-
fortunate that we are not considering
that as a standalone measure.
I thank my colleagues on the other
side of the aisle for listening to some of
our concerns on the Republican side of
the aisle. We will have some Repub-
lican Members who vote for this bill. I,
however, will not.
The encroachment on the question of
civil liberties, the lack of separation of
powers, the lack of the use of a sub-
poena, and the lack of regulatory relief
for those who are collecting this data,
both in terms of small businesses and
financial institutions, has not been
fixed nor dealt with.
In particular, the Rules Committee
last night rejected amendments that
would require law enforcement to ob-
tain a subpoena before accessing—I am
sorry, during committee, there was a
rejection of a subpoena in our discus-
sions, and then last night, the Rules
Committee rejected my amendment
that would provide greater certainty
for small businesses and for commu-
nity banks by repealing the customer
due diligence rule, which requires fi-
nancial institutions to collect similar
data that is being required in this bill.
I believe that issue still merits a
more thoughtful solution that doesn’t
treat legitimate small businesses as
collateral damage, like the current bill
does.
Mr. Chair, I am opposed to the bill,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chair, I yield 5
minutes to the gentlewoman from New
York (Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY), the
sponsor of the bill and chair of the Sub-
committee on Investor Protection, En-
trepreneurship, and Capital Markets.
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gen-
tlewoman for yielding and for her lead-
ership on the Financial Services Com-
mittee and on this bill.
Mr. Chair, I rise in support of H.R.
2513, the Corporate Transparency Act.
This bill would crack down on the il-
licit use of anonymous shell compa-
nies. This is one of the most pressing
national security problems that we
face as a country because anonymous
shell companies are the vehicle of
choice for money launderers, crimi-
nals, and terrorists.
The reason they are so popular is be-
cause they cannot be traced back to
their true owners. Shell companies
allow criminals and terrorists to move
money around in the United States fi-
nancial system and finance their oper-
ations freely and legally.
Unfortunately, we know that the
U.S. is one of the easiest places in the
entire world to set up an anonymous
shell company. The reason why these
shell companies are anonymous is be-
cause States do not require companies
to name their true beneficial owners,
the individuals who are collecting the
profits and who outright own the com-
pany.
As any FBI agent or prosecutor will
tell you, far too many of their inves-
tigations hit a dead-end at an anony-
mous shell company. They know there
is illegal money, yet they can’t pursue
and stop it.
Because they can’t find out who the
real owner of that shell company is,
they can’t follow the money past the
shell company, past this pile of cash
that they know is financing illegal ac-
tivity. The trail goes cold, and the in-
vestigation is stopped dead in its
tracks.
Treasury actually conducted a pilot
program a couple of years ago when
they collected beneficial ownership in-
formation for real estate transactions
in Manhattan and Miami over a 6-
month period. The results were stun-
ning.
Treasury found that about 30 percent
of the transactions reported in those 6
months involved a beneficial owner or
purchaser representative that had pre-
viously been the subject of a suspicious
activity report. In other words, these
were potentially suspicious people buy-
ing these properties. And this was after
the Treasury Department had an-
nounced to the world through the press
that they would be collecting bene-
ficial ownership information in these
two cities for 6 months, so this didn’t
even capture the money launderers
who simply avoided those two cities for
that 6-month period.
Our bill would fix this problem by re-
quiring companies to disclose their
true beneficial owners to the Financial
Crimes Enforcement Network, or
FinCEN, at the time the company is
formed. This information would only
be available to law enforcement and to
financial institutions so they can com-
ply with their know-your-customer
rules.
This bill would plug a huge hole in
our national security defenses and
would be a massive benefit to law en-
forcement.
We have a very large coalition sup-
porting the bill. We have the support of
127 NGOs. All of the law enforcement
groups in our Nation support this bill,
all of the banking trade associations,
the credit union trade associations,
human rights groups, antitrafficking
groups, State secretaries of state, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.032 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8318 October 22, 2019
most of the real estate industry, and
many more because law enforcement
has said that enacting this bill will
make our residents and our country
safer.
I want to specifically thank the
FACT Coalition, Global Witness, and
Global Financial Integrity for their
support. I want to thank the Bank Pol-
icy Institute, which has been a strong
supporter from the beginning. And I
want to thank my personal staff, espe-
cially Ben Harney.
b 1415
I also want to thank my Republican
partners on this bill, most notably
PETER KING from New York and BLAINE
LUETKEMEYER from Missouri. They
have been both fantastic to work with,
and I believe the changes that they ne-
gotiated in good faith on this bill have
made it an even better bill.
The two people I want to thank the
most are Congresswoman WATERS, who
has been a steadfast supporter of this
bill for years, and Congressman
CLEAVER, who has worked so hard on
the COUNTER Act, which has been
added to this bill. His leadership on the
anti-money laundering reforms in the
COUNTER Act have been indispen-
sable.
Mr. Chairman, this bill will make our
country safer, and I urge a strong
‘‘yes’’ vote for this bill.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chairman, I would like to com-
mend the chair of the Investor Protec-
tion, Entrepreneurship, and Capital
Markets Subcommittee, Mrs. MALO-
NEY, for the work that she has put into
this bill. She has been willing to ad-
dress many concerns from Republicans
about her legislation, though we are
not able to come to final terms be-
tween her and me; but, as she knows
and as I have stated clearly, it is for
lack of data from the Treasury Depart-
ment and from FinCEN itself, and
those issues still remain.
It is not because of a lack of good
will on her behalf or her staff’s behalf,
but an enormous amount of frustration
we have from one of our intelligence
bureaus that is not complying with
reasonable oversight from Congress.
So I want to commend Mrs. MALONEY
for her work that she put into this im-
portant piece of legislation, and I do
wish that we were able to come to
terms on the details in the finer points
of this bill.
Mr. Chairman, I yield 3 minutes to
the gentleman from Kentucky (Mr.
BARR), who is the Oversight and Inves-
tigations Subcommittee ranking mem-
ber.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Chairman, I thank
my friend from North Carolina for
yielding.
Mr. Chairman, I rise today in opposi-
tion to H.R. 2513, the Corporate Trans-
parency Act. I do so regrettably.
While I agree with the objective of
the bill to help law enforcement crack
down on the financing of illegal oper-
ations, this bill’s solution places undue
burdens on small businesses and pre-
sents unacceptable due process con-
cerns for millions of small business
owners whose sensitive personally
identifiable information will be col-
lected and stored in a new Federal
database accessible without a warrant
or a Federal subpoena.
I want to thank my friend, the spon-
sor of this bill, for her good faith at-
tempt to streamline beneficial owner-
ship reporting. I agree with her that we
need to do more to combat terrorist fi-
nancing, money laundering, drug traf-
ficking, and other national security
threats. I am sympathetic, also, to the
needs of law enforcement to identify
the financing sources of illicit oper-
ations and shut them down.
That said, the bill before us today
seeks to achieve these ends unneces-
sarily on the backs of America’s small
businesses. The bill would create addi-
tional regulatory reporting require-
ments for existing and newly created
small businesses. These businesses do
not have the compliance resources
comparable to larger firms. This re-
porting requirement will take a toll on
their productivity and their bottom
line.
According to the U.S. Small Business
Administration, 95 percent of new
firms begin with fewer than 20 employ-
ees and, thus, would most likely be
subject to the reporting and compli-
ance burdens of this bill. Accounting
for this growth and conservative esti-
mates of the time and expenses associ-
ated with completing the paperwork
required by the bill, the National Fed-
eration of Independent Business fore-
casts that the bill would cost Amer-
ica’s small businesses $5.7 billion over
10 years and result in 131 million new
hours of paperwork. These are dollars
that companies could spend on making
new investments or hiring new staff
and time they could spend on building
their businesses.
H.R. 2513 would require small busi-
ness owners or officers to report per-
sonally identifiable information such
as name, Social Security number, and
driver’s license number to a newly cre-
ated Federal Government database op-
erated by FinCEN. Law enforcement
can access this database without due
process, and the sensitive personal in-
formation contained in it is subject to
the ever-growing threat of malicious
cybercriminals.
Even with all the new requirements
and privacy concerns created by this
bill, it still does not fully address the
root issue with current beneficial own-
ership reporting rules. The supposed
justification of the bill is to ease the
burden on financial institutions associ-
ated with implementing FinCEN’s cus-
tomer due diligence rule. However,
H.R. 2513 fails to repeal and replace the
CDD rule, and the rule will continue to
coexist with the additional regulatory
burdens on small businesses created by
the bill.
Finally, the bill falls short if the goal
is to relieve financial institutions of
burdensome reporting requirements
that do not materially contribute to
countering money laundering and il-
licit finance. That is because it fails to
make inflation-adjusted changes to the
thresholds for filing suspicious activity
reports and currency transaction re-
ports.
While I recognize the need to combat
financing of illicit operations, this bill
attempts to do so by placing unjusti-
fied reporting requirements on our
small businesses that could cost them
time and money and hinder their
growth.
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. CUELLAR).
The time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Chairman, I yield
the gentleman from Kentucky an addi-
tional 30 seconds.
Mr. BARR. So, to conclude and to
summarize, Mr. Chairman, we can and
should update our AML/BSA laws, and
we can and should give FinCEN and
law enforcement better visibility into
the beneficial ownership information of
firms vulnerable to money laundering
and illicit finance, but this is the
wrong solution. I am hopeful that the
concerns of Main Street small busi-
nesses can be addressed if this bill
moves to the U.S. Senate.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chairman, I yield
3 minutes to the gentleman from Illi-
nois (Mr. FOSTER), who is the chair on
the Task Force on Artificial Intel-
ligence.
Mr. FOSTER. Mr. Chairman, I thank
the chairwoman for yielding, and I
thank my friend from New York,
Chairwoman MALONEY, for her leader-
ship on this issue.
Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of
H.R. 2513, which would help to end the
abuse of anonymous shell companies.
These entities have a well-documented
history of being used to hide money in
a wide variety of crimes, including
sanctions evasion, terrorist financing,
human trafficking, drug trafficking, il-
legal arms dealing, tax evasion, and
corruption. Anonymous shell corpora-
tions are also being subverted by crimi-
nals in ever-evolving schemes involv-
ing emerging digital technologies.
One of the many hats that I wear is
being a co-chair of the Blockchain Cau-
cus. Just in the past week, I have had
disquieting updates from officials from
the FBI and FinCEN about trends in
the abuse of cryptocurrencies for nefar-
ious purposes.
What was clear from these briefings
is that the use of anonymous shell
companies has greatly inhibited the
ability of law enforcement to go after
criminals who use cryptocurrency to
engage in illicit financing. The use of
anonymous shell companies also makes
it extremely difficult to uncover abu-
sive trading practices in unregulated
crypto exchanges.
In short, criminals and law enforce-
ment officers are engaged in a very so-
phisticated cat-and-mouse game in
which law enforcement is always play-
ing catch-up. Passing the Corporate
Transparency Act will give law en-
forcement officers a significant new
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.034 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8319
October 22, 2019
tool that could potentially lead them
to taking down more of the bad guys.
Let us not forget, the use of the bene-
ficial ownership registries is not some
wild-eyed, crazy concept where the
U.S. would be going out on a limb. This
is an area where the U.S. is signifi-
cantly behind other developed nations.
The Financial Action Task Force, a
respected intergovernmental policy-
making body established by the G7
countries in 2016, gave the U.S. a fail-
ing grade for its efforts to prevent the
laundering of criminal proceeds by
shell companies. According to FATF’s
report, the U.S. has not done enough to
rein in corporate secrecy, which pre-
sents serious gaps in law enforcement
efforts, leaving our financial system
vulnerable to dirty money.
They were blunt. We were scored as
noncompliant—the lowest possible
score—on our ability to determine the
true owners of shell companies. That is
simply unacceptable.
I would like to think that the U.S.
should be a standard setter amongst
nations when it comes to things like
anti-money laundering enforcement.
The current status quo, however, woe-
fully fails to measure up to our lofty
goals. We need to do better, and that is
why I support the commonsense meas-
ures put forth in H.R. 2513.
Mr. Chairman, I thank Congress-
woman MALONEY for her determined
and dogged leadership on this issue for
many years, and I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on
H.R. 2513.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Chairman, I yield
4 minutes to the gentleman from Little
Rock, Arkansas (Mr. HILL).
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Chair-
man, I thank the ranking member.
I am grateful for the opportunity to
come to the floor and talk about H.R.
2513, the Corporate Transparency Act.
I want to thank my good friend from
New York (Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY)
for her leadership in this area for well
over a decade, her hard work, and her
determination on improving our anti-
money laundering and Bank Secrecy
Act rules.
I appreciate the chair of the com-
mittee and her work as well.
The legislation addresses how we
might combat illicit finance activities
by appropriately strengthening the col-
lection of beneficial ownership infor-
mation.
Now, Mr. Chairman, a beneficial
owner is a person who enjoys the bene-
fits of ownership even though the title
to some form of property is in another
name. We have long debated in Con-
gress the best way for this information
to be collected. Let’s be clear here. It is
being collected by our financial serv-
ices industry under our know-your-cus-
tomer rules.
The ability to set up legal entities
without accurate beneficial ownership
information, however, has long rep-
resented a key vulnerability in the
U.S. financial system.
As I say, all U.S. banks, brokerage
firms, and financial services companies
have a know-your-customer obligation
to collect ownership information and,
importantly, collect beneficial owner-
ship information. This was further de-
fined in May 2008 by a FinCEN rule.
But not all shell companies are es-
tablished for malicious purposes. Own-
ers might create one temporarily to fi-
nance a company that has not yet
started operations or to proceed with
an acquisition in coming years. But in
this instance, they would have no em-
ployees and no revenue, so the struc-
ture would look like a shell company,
but it would be otherwise legal.
It is true, though, there are too many
instances of anonymous shell compa-
nies serving as a vehicle for ill-in-
tended activities, including money
laundering and terrorist financing. The
anti-money laundering system and the
sanctions system, both independently
and in tandem, are more important
than ever before, as we have seen in re-
cent debates.
For well over a decade, Congress-
woman MALONEY, author of the legisla-
tion, has been leading and working
hard to pass a bill that would enhance
our AML regime, including on bene-
ficial ownership. She and I agree, as do
all the Members of this House, Mr.
Chair, that it is vital to U.S. national
security to have a vigorous and good
AML/BSA system.
However, I cannot support the legis-
lation as currently written. In my
view, H.R. 2513 places a significant bur-
den on small business and, in my view,
unnecessarily. The rules have been out-
lined here.
I believe there is a better path for-
ward, which is why I have long sup-
ported aligning tax filing with the col-
lection of beneficial ownership infor-
mation. Small businesses are already
familiar with filing taxes.
A small business already files their
taxes, which includes disclosing their
owners, their capital, and their busi-
ness structure. On their returns, they
declare domestic and foreign aspects of
their business—all subject to common
existing processes and parameters, all
subject to privacy, and all subject to
existing penalties for failure to accu-
rately report.
I think we can all agree that closing
off access to illicit finance is laudable,
necessary, and appropriate; and I ex-
pect that we can agree that the collec-
tion of accurate beneficial ownership
information is a step in the right direc-
tion. I would just like to see us get
there without subjecting small busi-
nesses to new, unnecessarily com-
plicated reporting with the burden of
exceedingly severe penalties for failure
to comply.
Mr. Chairman, I hope that we can
reach a simple compromise that sees
stronger collection without jeopard-
izing small business.
b 1430
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chairman, I yield
5 minutes to the gentleman from Mis-
souri (Mr. CLEAVER), who is the sponsor
of the COUNTER Act which is part of
this bill. He is also the chair of the
Subcommittee on National Security,
International Development and Mone-
tary Policy.
Mr. CLEAVER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the chairwoman for her work in this
area, and for allowing those of us who
are interested in this legislation to
play a major role.
As many of my colleagues are aware,
national security is one of the most
pressing matters facing the United
States of America and the world. I am
excited for the opportunities that this
moment presents to address these
issues head on.
Our most profound responsibility as
Members of Congress is to preserve
America’s national security and the
United States’ global position as an
international leader in free and fair
markets.
Since the last major anti-money
laundering reforms of 2001, the national
security threats that face our country
have evolved profoundly and signifi-
cantly, and frighteningly. Cyber and
technological attacks have risen to the
top of our most recent worldwide
threat assessment as a paramount na-
tional security risk.
Underground online trafficking now
allows for simplified avenues to trans-
port illicit material across the Nation
and around the globe, and
cryptocurrencies now allow for stream-
lined means to fund criminal organiza-
tions. With virtual currency, dark web
marketplaces and illicit technologies
expanding to threaten citizens safety
and hard-earned savings, it is critically
important, Mr. Speaker, that our fed-
eral agencies evolve to meet and con-
quer these new challenges.
The COUNTER Act will do just that.
This legislation will empower the
Treasury Department to protect our
national security and explicitly safe-
guard our financial systems through
the Bank Secrecy Act.
It codifies a voluntary information-
sharing program between law enforce-
ment, financial institutions, and the
Treasury Department, better ensuring
the capture of illicit activities.
It balances national security and per-
sonal privacy by requiring Treasury
and financial regulators to create the
position of civil liberty and privacy of-
ficer. This officer will ensure that poli-
cies being developed and implemented
are not intruding or undermining citi-
zens’ constitutional rights.
While the bill will close a number of
loopholes that have allowed for finan-
cial crimes to be committed, it will
also pull us into the 21st century by po-
sitioning the United States to face to-
morrow’s challenges.
The bill encourages financial regu-
lators to work with companies to im-
plement innovative approaches to meet
the requirements in complying with ex-
isting law and encourages the use of in-
novative pilot programs.
Financial regulators will establish an
innovation lab that will provide out-
reach to law enforcement, financial in-
stitutions, and others, to coordinate on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.036 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8320 October 22, 2019
innovative and new technologies, en-
suring they comply with existing law
while fostering the implementation of
new technologies. An innovation coun-
cil will also be created, represented by
the directors from each innovation lab,
who will coordinate on active Bank Se-
crecy Act compliance.
It is imperative that we modernize
our efforts to combat financial crimes
because our adversaries will continue
to modernize. I am happy that this bill
is coming before us, the COUNTER
Act, as an amendment to Congress-
woman MALONEY’s bill, the Corporate
Transparency Act, which I know she
and her team have worked very hard to
produce.
The straightforward bill, Mr. Speak-
er, provides needed visibility by requir-
ing companies and the United States to
disclose the financial beneficiary in
order to prevent criminals and wrong-
doers from exploiting their status as a
company.
Mr. Speaker, these are critical pro-
posals. I urge my colleagues to support
this legislation, and I thank Chair-
woman WATERS.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Ohio
(Mr. STIVERS), the ranking member of
Subcommittee on Housing, Community
Development and Insurance.
Mr. STIVERS. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
opposition to H.R. 2513, although I do
want to acknowledge that the sponsor
has worked hard and in good faith to
try to make the bill work, and I think
the bill is well-intended.
There are two primary reasons why I
oppose the legislation:
Number 1, it imposes an undue bur-
den on small business, and;
Number 2, it doesn’t adequately pro-
tect personally identifiable informa-
tion of millions of Americans from
cyberattacks.
First, it imposes a new burden on
millions of small businesses, our con-
stituents, who aren’t aware we are hav-
ing this debate today. In fact, most of
them don’t even know what FinCen is,
but they will be forced to provide sen-
sitive personal information to FinCen,
an agency almost nobody knows, and
failure to do so could lead to up to 3
years of imprisonment.
I feel the bill was well-intended,
though, because I know that shell com-
panies are used by criminals to move
illicit money through our financial sys-
tem. But there is a better way to ad-
dress the problem. In committee, the
gentleman from Arkansas (Mr. HILL),
my colleague, offered an amendment
that would transfer the information
collected under this bill from FinCen
to the IRS as part of the annual tax fil-
ing process. That approach will impose
less burden on our constituents, the
small businesses that create jobs in
this country.
But a bigger obstacle would be here
on the Hill, because it would result in
shared jurisdiction with the Ways and
Means Committee, so that ‘‘good idea’’
couldn’t work because of jurisdictional
lines.
Second, my issue is this agency,
FinCen, will be the repository of a lot
of data from millions of Americans
with personally identifiable informa-
tion. It is Cybersecurity Awareness
Month; yet, there is not enough ade-
quate protections in this bill to ensure
that private data is secure from
cyberattacks.
For these reasons, I can’t vote for the
bill, but I do want to congratulate the
gentlewoman from New York (Mrs.
CAROLYN B. MALONEY), my colleague,
and sponsor of this bill, for her hard
work in trying to make the bill work.
Finally, I want to thank and recog-
nize my colleague, Representative
CLEAVER, whose bill, the COUNTER
Act, H.R. 2514, was rolled into this bill.
Representative CLEAVER worked with
Republicans and Democrats to ensure
our anti-money laundering and Bank
Secrecy Act regime was reformed in a
bipartisan way that makes our na-
tional security stronger.
I want to thank him and congratu-
late him on that work. And if that bill
was a standalone bill, I think it would
pass this institution nearly unani-
mously, if not unanimously. Again, un-
fortunately, I have to oppose H.R. 2513.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Florida
(Mr. LAWSON).
Mr. LAWSON of Florida. Mr. Speak-
er, I thank the chairwoman for yield-
ing me time.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to support H.R.
2513, the Corporate Transparency Act.
The bill would close loopholes that
bad actors have taken advantage of in
order to aid terrorist organizations,
corrupt officials, and other criminal
enterprises. Specifically, this bill re-
quires that those who form corpora-
tions must disclose who the true bene-
ficial owners are in order to thwart
hidden criminal activity.
Instilling these measures in place
will benefit consumers and small busi-
nesses by preventing unfair con-
tracting practices, including false bill-
ing, fraudulent certifications, and de-
frauding taxpayers.
In addition, this bill will help to curb
and prevent human trafficking, which
is very prevalent now, by eliminating
anonymous companies who hide the
identities of criminals engaged in traf-
ficking enterprises masked by a legiti-
mate business structure.
According to a study by the Univer-
sity of Texas, among over 100 countries
studied, the United States ranked the
easiest place for suspicious individuals
to incorporate an anonymous company.
Further, according to a 2017 GAO
study, it found that GAO was unable to
identify ownership information for
about one-third of the GSA’s high secu-
rity leases.
Mr. Speaker, the Corporate Trans-
parency Act will fix these issues and
provide much-needed transparency into
the corporate governing structure. I
encourage my colleagues on both sides
to support this bill.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from Mis-
souri (Mrs. WAGNER), the ranking mem-
ber of the Subcommittee on Diversity
and Inclusion, and the vice ranking
member of the Committee on Financial
Services.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from North Carolina
(Mr. MCHENRY), ranking member, for
yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 2513, the Corporate Trans-
parency Act. I thank my friend, CARO-
LYN MALONEY, for her tremendous work
to fight trafficking and expose crimi-
nals who make money for exploitation;
and my friend and colleague, BLAINE
LUETKEMEYER, the ranking member of
the Subcommittee on Consumer Pro-
tection and Financial Institutions for
all his work on this issue of beneficial
ownership.
I agree with my colleagues that we
should not place unnecessary require-
ments on small businesses, and I be-
lieve that this legislation strikes the
right balance.
It helps hardworking law enforce-
ment officials expose traffickers who
are laundering money through shell
companies without placing onerous
mandates on small businesses.
Human trafficking is an incredibly
lucrative industry, with profits esti-
mated at $150 billion a year. America
lags behind our peers in other coun-
tries in collecting the beneficial owner-
ship information that helps us to go
after these anonymous companies that
are exploiting the most vulnerable in
our society.
Mr. Speaker, my amendment further
simplifies the reporting process, and
prevents identity theft and fraud. It
creates a fast-tracked process for bene-
ficial ownership where any citizen who
is a frequent investor can be pre-
verified. I am glad to see my amend-
ment included in this underlying bill
today.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in voting ‘‘yes’’ so that Con-
gress can finally close the loopholes
that allow criminals to rapidly move
money and conceal illicit profits in the
U.S. banking process.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Illinois
(Mr. CASTEN).
Mr. CASTEN of Illinois. Mr. Speaker,
I rise in support of H.R. 2513. As a
member of the Committee on Financial
Services, I have witnessed firsthand
Representative MALONEY’s commit-
ment to advancing this important
piece of legislation, and I am so glad
that we are discussing it on the floor
today.
Sunlight is the best disinfectant. The
need for sunlight is especially urgent
today as it relates to the involvement
of foreign bad actors in our economy
and our political process. We have, all
of us here, taken an oath to support
and defend the Constitution of the
United States against all enemies, for-
eign and domestic, but regardless of
whether you take that oath, I would
submit to you that all patriotic Ameri-
cans feel that obligation. I certainly
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.038 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8321
October 22, 2019
do, and this bill is a furtherance of that
oath.
Before I got here, I was a CEO of an
LLC. In fact, I was the CEO of a lot of
LLCs. I couldn’t even tell you how
many LLCs I was the CEO of. And the
reason is, because like a lot of modern
companies, we set up a corporate struc-
ture to have a nested set of LLCs that
could isolate liabilities to be matched
to different rounds of investors in our
company.
Now, that is a great feature of LLCs,
but as is so often the case, a strength
is also a weakness. It is a weakness be-
cause if it allows us to hide investors
who want to use our financial system
in a nefarious way—like to launder
money—they can take advantage of
that strength.
And that is why this bill is so nec-
essary. Because companies like mine
already collect the data. Because
FinCen data is already classified as
FISMA high, which is the highest level
of cybersecurity for government agen-
cies. So the argument that data of all
filers is not protected is simply not
true. But ultimately, because sunlight
is the best disinfectant, and because we
are in a moment when too many power-
ful people are seeking to hide their
sources of capital, putting the trust in
our government and financial system
at risk.
This is the right bill for business. It
is the right bill for our financial sys-
tem. And it is the right bill for our
country.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Troy,
Ohio (Mr. DAVIDSON).
Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio. Mr. Speaker,
I thank my colleagues for the impor-
tant reforms that have been included
in this bill, very thoughtfully, to re-
form our Bank Secrecy Act.
The United States puts heavy bur-
dens on banks to know their cus-
tomers, to protect our country and our
financial system, and to make it easier
for the folks in law enforcement, and,
frankly, all layers of national security
to defend America.
It is an important way that our sanc-
tions regime works. It is an important
way that we detect and prosecute
crime. And it has worked very success-
fully for years in the current form.
The biggest complaint is often that
we required too much of banks. And so
that led to this consumer due diligence
rule that FinCen put out that put an
extra burden on banks, some would say
a redundant burden on banks, to report
the beneficial ownership of their com-
panies.
And so that created this provision
that is now blended into a single bill
rather than a standalone bill that was
known as the Corporate Transparency
Act. This is a horrible solution to a
real problem. And the solution is hor-
rible because it presumes that every-
one that would own a company that
has fewer than 20 employees is some-
how part of an illicit finance scheme in
America. The smallest, least-sophisti-
cated businesses are now required to
report annually and more frequently if
they change the composition of the
beneficial owners.
This is a violation of civil liberties
and constitutional rights that our body
should take seriously. Historically,
that has been something that has
united the parties.
b 1445
When Congress did the reforms to the
PATRIOT Act and the Foreign Intel-
ligence Surveillance Act, they put
these provisions in place with great
hesitation because it created a big
database and collected a great deal of
information.
This data would not be subject to
subpoena or control. It is a horrible so-
lution to a real problem, and I urge
greater consideration of alternatives in
opposition to this bill.
Mr. MCHENRY. May I inquire of the
Chair the time remaining.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from North Carolina has 71⁄2 minutes
remaining. The gentlewoman from
California has 81⁄2 minutes remaining.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Chair, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chair, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chair, the United States is vul-
nerable. According to a 2017 report by
the Government Accountability Office,
‘‘GAO was unable to identify ownership
information for about one-third of
GSA’s 1,406 high-security leases as of
March 2016 because ownership informa-
tion was not readily available for all
buildings.’’
This finding was a leading factor in
Congress voting to adopt a provision in
the fiscal year 2018 National Defense
Authorization Act for the Department
of Defense to collect beneficial owner-
ship information for all high-security
office space it leases.
As a matter of fact, there is more in-
formation required to obtain a library
card. According to a 2019 Global Finan-
cial Integrity analysis, ‘‘The Library
Card Project: The Ease of Forming
Anonymous Companies in the United
States,’’ in all 50 States and the Dis-
trict of Columbia, ‘‘more personal in-
formation is needed to obtain a library
card than to establish a legal entity
that can be used to facilitate tax eva-
sion, money laundering, fraud, and cor-
ruption.’’
The British model: The United King-
dom has a beneficial ownership direc-
tory, and an analysis found that the
average number of owners per business
in the U.K. is 1.13. Eighty-eight percent
had two or fewer owners. The most
common number of owners is one. More
than 99 percent of businesses listed less
than six owners.
According to the U.S. Small Business
Administration, approximately 78 per-
cent of all businesses in the U.S. are
nonemployer firms, meaning there is
only one person in the enterprise. This
suggests that the experience in the
U.S. would be similar to that in the
U.K.
Mr. Chair, I would like to share with
you that this legislation has tremen-
dous support, for example, from Main
Street Alliance, a network of over
30,000 small businesses; American
Bankers Association; Bank Policy In-
stitute; Mid-Size Bank Coalition of
America; National Foreign Trade
Council; Consumer Bankers Associa-
tion; Financial Services Forum; Bank-
ers Association for Finance and Trade;
American Land Title Association; Na-
tional Association of Realtors; One;
FACT Coalition, a collection of 100-
plus NGOs, including AFL–CIO, Global
Witness, Oxfam America, Friends of
the Earth U.S., Jubilee USA Network,
Public Citizen, and Small Business Ma-
jority.
We could go on and on and on, but I
think it is important to know that
members of the Financial Services
Committee, Representatives Maloney,
Luetkemeyer, and Cleaver, have
worked in good faith, along with the
Department of the Treasury, nonprofit
groups, and the financial services sec-
tor, to find consensus to close a mas-
sive loophole in our anti-money laun-
dering framework.
The resulting pieces of legislation to
modernize the anti-money laundering
processes and to create a secure finan-
cial ownership registry of legal entities
held at the Financial Crimes Enforce-
ment Network at the Department of
the Treasury represent the best path
forward to provide law enforcement
with needed information to pursue
money criminals looking to exploit our
financial system.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Chair, I include
in the RECORD a letter from the Na-
tional Federation of Independent Busi-
nesses in opposition to this bill and a
letter dated October 18, 2019, in opposi-
tion to the bill.
NFIB,
Washington, DC, October 21, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of NFIB,
the nation’s leading small business advocacy
organization, I write in strong opposition to
H.R. 2513, the Corporate Transparency Act of
2019. This bill saddles America’s smallest
businesses with 131.7 million new paperwork
hours at a cost of $5.7 billion, and treats
small business owners as criminals by
threatening them with jail time and oppres-
sive fines for paperwork violations. To make
matters even worse, the legislation puts the
personal information of small business own-
ers at serious risk.
The Corporate Transparency Act of 2019 re-
quires corporations and limited liability
companies with 20 or fewer employees to file
new reports with the Treasury Department’s
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
(FinCEN) regarding the personally identifi-
able information of businesses’ beneficial
owners and update that information every
year. The legislation imposes its reporting
mandates only on America’s small busi-
nesses, those least equipped to handle new
paperwork requirements. Moreover, the leg-
islation makes it a federal crime to fail to
provide completed and updated reports, with
civil penalties of up to $10,000, criminal pen-
alties of up to 3 years in prison, or both.
The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Of-
fice (CBO) agrees that this legislation would
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.039 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8322 October 22, 2019
impose a significant new regulatory burden
on small businesses. The CBO wrote, ‘‘Be-
cause of the high volume of businesses that
must meet the new reporting requirements
and the additional administrative burden to
file a new report, CBO estimates that the
total costs to comply with the mandate
would be substantial.’’ The Corporate Trans-
parency Act would generate between 25 mil-
lion to 30 million new reports annually.
NFIB members report that the burden of
federal paperwork ranks in the top 20% of
the problems they encounter as small busi-
ness owners. While large businesses and fi-
nancial institutions may have access to
teams of lawyers, accountants, and compli-
ance experts to gather beneficial ownership
information and report it to the government,
small business owners do not. Small business
owners have difficulty affording accounting
and legal experts to help them understand
and comply with federal reporting require-
ments. And small business owners lack the
time to track and gather information to fill
out yet more forms for the government.
When NFIB surveyed its membership con-
cerning beneficial ownership reporting in
August 2018, 80% opposed the idea of Con-
gress requiring small business owners to file
paperwork with the Treasury Department
each time they form or change ownership of
a business.
The Corporate Transparency Act of 2019
raises serious privacy concerns for small
businesses. This bill would allow federal,
state, tribal, local, and even foreign law en-
forcement access to business owners’ person-
ally identifiable information, via the
FinCEN database, without a subpoena or
warrant. The potential for improper disclo-
sure or misuse of private information in-
creases as the number of people with access
to the information increases.
The Corporate Transparency Act of 2019 es-
tablishes a first of its kind federal registry of
small business owners. While this registry
will not be publicly available initially, NFIB
has serious concerns that this legislation
would be a first step towards establishing a
publicly accessible federal registry, which
can be used to name and shame small busi-
ness owners.
NFIB strongly opposes H.R. 2513, the Cor-
porate Transparency Act of 2019 and will
consider it a Key Vote for the 116th Con-
gress.
Sincerely,
JUANITA D. DUGGAN,
President & CEO,
NFIB.
OCTOBER 18, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: While we support
the goal of preventing wrongdoers from ex-
ploiting United States corporations and lim-
ited liability companies (LLCs) for criminal
gain, the undersigned organizations write to
express our strong opposition to H.R. 2513,
the Corporate Transparency Act of 2019.
The Corporate Transparency Act would im-
pose burdensome, duplicative reporting bur-
dens on millions of small businesses in the
United States and threatens the privacy of
law-abiding, legitimate small business own-
ers.
The Financial Crimes Enforcement Net-
work’s (FinCEN) Customer Due Diligence
(CDD) rule became applicable on May 11,
2018. The CDD rule requires financial institu-
tions to collect the ‘‘beneficial ownership’’
information of legal entities with which they
conduct commerce. This legislation would
attempt to shift the reporting requirements
from large banks—those best equipped to
handle reporting requirements—to millions
of small businesses—those least equipped to
handle reporting requirements.
The reporting requirements in the legisla-
tion would not only be duplicative, they
would also be burdensome. Under this legis-
lation, millions of small businesses would be
required to register personally identifiable
information with FinCEN upon incorpora-
tion and file annual reports with FinCEN for
the life of the business. Failure to comply
with these reporting requirements would be
a federal crime with civil penalties up to
$10,000, criminal penalties up to 3 years in
prison, or both.
The Congressional Budget Office wrote,
‘‘Because of the high volume of businesses
that must meet the new reporting require-
ments and the additional administrative bur-
den to file a new report, CBO estimates that
the total costs to comply with the mandate
would be substantial.’’ The Corporate Trans-
parency Act would generate between 25 mil-
lion to 30 million new reports annually.
This legislation contains a definition of
‘‘beneficial ownership’’ that expands upon
the current CDD rule. The CDD rule requires
disclosure of individuals with a 25 percent
ownership interest in a business and an indi-
vidual with significant responsibilities to
control a business. The Corporate Trans-
parency Act would expand that definition,
requiring disclosure of any individual who
‘‘receives substantial economic benefits from
the assets of’’ a small business. The legisla-
tion defers to regulators at the Department
of Treasury to determine ‘‘substantial eco-
nomic benefits.’’
In addition, this legislation would impose a
‘‘look-through’’ reporting requirement, ne-
cessitating small business owners to look
through every layer of corporate and LLC af-
filiates to identify if any individuals associ-
ated with such entities are qualifying bene-
ficial owners. Ownership of an entity by one
or more other corporations or LLCs is com-
mon. Corporate and LLC shareholders would
already have their own independent report-
ing obligation under this bill to disclose any
beneficial owners, making this provision ex-
cessively burdensome.
The Corporate Transparency Act raises
significant privacy concerns as the proposed
FinCEN ‘‘beneficial ownership’’ database
would contain the names, dates of birth, ad-
dresses, and unexpired drivers’ license num-
bers or passport numbers of millions of small
business owners. This information would be
accessible upon request ‘‘through appro-
priate protocols’’ to any local, state, tribal,
or federal law enforcement agency or to law
enforcement agencies from other countries
via requests by U.S. federal agencies. This
type of regime presents unacceptable privacy
risks.
The Corporate Transparency Act also in-
troduces serious data breach and cybersecu-
rity risks. Under the legislation, FinCEN
would maintain a database of private infor-
mation that could be hacked for nefarious
reasons. As the 2015 breach of the Office of
Personnel Management demonstrated, the
federal government is not immune from
cyber-attacks and harmful disclosure of in-
formation. In addition, millions of American
companies would be required to maintain
and distribute information about owners and
investors in the company, thus creating an-
other point of vulnerability for attack. This
risk is particularly acute because the Cor-
porate Transparency Act is focused only on
small businesses and those entities are often
the least equipped to fight off cyber intru-
sions.
While this letter does not enumerate every
concern, it highlights fundamental problems
the Corporate Transparency Act would cause
for millions of small businesses in the United
States.
Because of the new reporting requirements
and privacy concerns, the undersigned orga-
nizations urge a no vote on H.R. 2513, the
Corporate Transparency Act.
Sincerely,
Air Conditioning Contractors of America,
American Business Conference, American
Farm Bureau Federation, American Foundry
Society, American Hotel and Lodging Asso-
ciation, American Rental Association, Asian
American Hotel Owners Association, Associ-
ated Builders and Contractors, Associated
General Contractors of America, Auto Care
Association, Family Business Coalition,
International Foodservice Distributors Asso-
ciation, International Franchise Association.
National Apartment Association, National
Association for the Self-Employed, National
Association of Home Builders, National As-
sociation of Wholesaler-Distributors, NFIB,
National Grocers Association, National
Lumber and Building Material Dealers Asso-
ciation, National Pest Management Associa-
tion, National Restaurant Association, Na-
tional Retail Federation, National Roofing
Contractors Association.
National Small Business Association, Na-
tional Tooling and Machining Association,
Petroleum Equipment Institute, Petroleum
Marketers Association of America, Policy
and Taxation Group, Precision Machined
Parts Association, Precision Metalforming
Association, Service Station Dealers of
America and Allied Trades, S-Corporation
Association, Small Business & Entrepreneur-
ship Council, Specialty Equipment Market
Association, The Real Estate Roundtable,
Tire Industry Association.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Chair, I include
in the RECORD an article on behalf of
the Due Process Institute, the Amer-
ican Civil Liberties Union, and
FreedomWorks in opposition to this
bill.
[From the Due Process Institute, ACLU, and
FreedomWorks]
NO BENEFIT TO A BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP RE-
PORTING SYSTEM THAT INCREASES AMER-
ICA’S OVER-INCARCERATION PROBLEM AND
FAILS TO ADEQUATELY PROTECT PRIVACY
H.R. 2513 would require people who form or
already own businesses, particularly small
businesses, to submit extensive personal, fi-
nancial, and business-related information to
the government’s Financial Crimes Enforce-
ment Network (FinCEN). Legislative efforts
to stop international crime by trying to ‘‘fol-
low the money’’ such as H.R. 2513 likely have
the best intentions in mind. However, the
Due Process Institute, the American Civil
Liberties Union, and FreedomWorks have se-
rious concerns with several provisions of the
Corporate Transparency Act of 2019 and be-
lieve the House should vote no TODAY on
H.R. 2513 until these issues are fully ad-
dressed.
In sum, the creation of at least 5 new fed-
eral crimes for first-time ‘‘paperwork’’ viola-
tions that are felony criminal offenses call-
ing for prison time is a dramatic step in the
wrong direction. No matter how well-inten-
tioned, this bill bears no real relation to
combatting terrorism or money laundering
and instead eliminates a significant amount
of personal and financial privacy. On that
score, the bill fails to adequately address
how all of the personal and financial infor-
mation disclosed to, and collected by, the
government will be used solely for legiti-
mate purposes or specifically address how
privacy interests will be protected.
KEY TERMS ARE TOO VAGUE
Importantly, numerous key terms and
phrases in the bill are poorly defined. For ex-
ample, the current definition of ‘‘beneficial
owner’’ includes anyone who ‘‘directly or in-
directly’’ exercises substantial control or re-
ceives substantial economic benefit from an
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.013 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8323
October 22, 2019
entity. What does it mean to indirectly con-
trol an entity? The bill does not explain. We
also cannot look to current FinCEN regula-
tions to divine meaning. The bill does not
replicate current FinCEN definitions of ben-
eficial ownership and broadens the current
definition to include an individual that ‘‘re-
ceives substantial economic benefits from
the assets of a corporation.’’ Again, the bill
does not explain the term. This lack of clar-
ity has very serious consequences when a bill
creates at least 5 new federal criminal laws
that do nothing but increase this nation’s
overreliance on criminalization as a cure for
every problem. Vague or overly broad statu-
tory text leaves people vulnerable to unfair
criminal investigations and prosecutions.
COMPLEX CRIMINAL COMPLIANCE LAWS UN-
FAIRLY BURDEN SMALL BUSINESSES & NON-
PROFITS
Furthermore, this bill exempts most large
entities with the compliance teams nec-
essary to help them navigate new and bur-
densome requirements. Determining what is
to be reported, when, and by whom, in a
complex regulatory scheme is difficult.
Large corporations are exempt—leaving the
reporting burdens solely to small or inde-
pendent businessowners as well as many non-
profits. Compounding this problem, these
new disclosure requirements would apply not
only to newly formed entities but also to
those that have already been in existence—
yet a businessowner (even a first-time of-
fender) who fails to comply with any aspect
of the requirements could face a prison sen-
tence, as might a non-profit organization
that inadvertently fails to meet all of the re-
quirements to qualify for an exemption in
the bill. These kinds of requirements easily
set traps for honest people trying to faith-
fully comply with complex laws, particularly
owners who lack experience or significant
funds and volunteer-based nonprofits also
lacking in funds and expertise to retain so-
phisticated business lawyers who can help
them.
BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP INFORMATION WOULD
LACK SUFFICIENT PRIVACY PROTECTION
The bill currently would permit beneficial
ownership information to be shared with
local, Tribal, State, or Federal law enforce-
ment under nearly any circumstances where
they may assert an existing investigatory
basis and agree to abide by vague privacy
standards. The receiving agency may then
use that information, without meaningful
limitation, for any other law enforcement,
national security, or intelligence purpose.
These standards are entirely too broad and
leave far too much personal information vul-
nerable to disclosure. The bill should permit
FinCEN to disclose beneficial ownership in-
formation only when presented with a war-
rant based on probable cause. Without a
clear standard limiting information disclo-
sure, there would be few if any limits on the
sharing of this information. Search warrants
based on probable cause are the standard for
obtaining information in criminal investiga-
tions and it would be reasonable to require
them in this context. Moreover, the bill con-
tains inadequate safeguards for protecting
against the improper disclosure of informa-
tion or for appropriately limiting the use of
the information disclosed. At a minimum,
the bill should limit use of the information
to the investigative purposes for which it
was collected and require the deletion of in-
formation after it is no longer useful for its
investigative purpose. And it fails to provide
either.
The truth is: there are already hundreds of
federal criminal laws on the books, along
with a wide swath of powerful investigative
tools and authorities, that the government
can use to adequately address or prevent
money laundering and this bill is an unnec-
essary step in the wrong direction.
We hope you share our bipartisan concerns
and oppose this legislation when voting
today unless serious amendments are made.
Mr. MCHENRY. And, Mr. Chair, I in-
clude in the RECORD two newspaper
pieces, or news articles, if you will,
from The Wall Street Journal and from
The Verge.
From The Verge, it says: ‘‘FBI vio-
lated Americans’ privacy by abusing
access to NSA surveillance data, court
rules.’’ And the second, from The Wall
Street Journal, says: ‘‘FBI’s Use of
Surveillance Database Violated Ameri-
cans’ Privacy Rights, Court Found.’’
These are two recent articles that have
been published in the last 10 days.
[From The Verge, Oct. 8, 2019]
FBI VIOLATED AMERICANS’ PRIVACY BY ABUS-
ING ACCESS TO NSA SURVEILLANCE DATA,
COURT RULES
(By Nick Statt)
FBI AGENTS MADE TENS OF THOUSANDS OF UN-
AUTHORIZED SEARCHES ON AMERICAN CITI-
ZENS
The Federal Bureau of Investigation made
tens of thousands of unauthorized searches
related to US citizens between 2017 and 2018,
a court ruled. The agency violated both the
law that authorized the surveillance pro-
gram they used and the Fourth Amendment
of the US Constitution.
The ruling was made in October 2018 by the
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court
(FISC), a secret government court respon-
sible for reviewing and authorizing searches
of foreign individuals inside and outside the
US. It was just made public today.
THE FBI MADE UNAUTHORIZED, WARRANTLESS
ELECTRONIC SEARCHES ON AMERICAN CITIZENS
The program itself, called Section 702 and
part of the broad and aggressive expansion of
US spy programs in the years after 9/11,
granted FBI agents the ability to search a
database of electronic intelligence, including
phone numbers, emails, and other identi-
fying data. It’s intended for use primarily by
the National Security Agency.
There’s a key limitation on Section 702: it
can only be used to search for evidence of a
crime or as part of an investigation into a
foreign target. The idea is to monitor ter-
rorism suspects and cyberthreats.
Yet the FBI vetted American sources using
the database, according to The Wall Street
Journal. The agents also used the database
to search for information about themselves.
Less amusingly, they also looked up friends,
family, and coworkers. The court deemed
this a clear violation of the Fourth Amend-
ment, which protects against unreasonable
search and seizure, because none of the
searches of US citizens had proper warrants
attached.
The FISC is responsible for evaluating the
use of these spy tools in secret as part of the
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of
1978, which pushed these governmental delib-
erations behind closed doors under the guise
of protecting national security. That’s why
this ruling went a full year before seeing the
light of day.
It’s public now because the government
lost an appeal in a separate, secret appeals
court, the WSJ says. The FBI must now cre-
ate new oversight procedures and a compli-
ance review team to protect against further
surveillance abuse.
[From WSJ, October 8, 2019]
FBI’S USE OF SURVEILLANCE DATABASE VIO-
LATED AMERICANS’ PRIVACY RIGHTS, COURT
FOUND
(By Dustin Volz and Byron Tau)
U.S. DISCLOSES RULING LAST YEAR BY FOREIGN
INTELLIGENCE SURVEILLANCE COURT THAT
FBI’S DATA QUERIES OF U.S. CITIZENS WERE
UNCONSTITUTIONAL
Washington—Some of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation’s electronic surveillance ac-
tivities violated the constitutional privacy
rights of Americans swept up in a controver-
sial foreign intelligence program, a secretive
surveillance court has ruled.
The ruling deals a rare rebuke to U.S. spy-
ing programs that have generally withstood
legal challenge and review since they were
dramatically expanded after the Sept. 11,
2001, attacks. The opinion resulted in the
FBI agreeing to better safeguard privacy and
apply new procedures, including recording
how the database is searched to detect pos-
sible future compliance issues.
The intelligence community disclosed
Tuesday that the Foreign Intelligence Sur-
veillance Court last year found that the
FBI’s efforts to search data about Americans
ensnared in a warrantless internet-surveil-
lance program intended to target foreign
suspects have violated the law authorizing
the program, as well as the Constitution’s
Fourth Amendment protections against un-
reasonable searches. The issue was made
public by the government only after it lost
an appeal of the judgment earlier this year
before another secret court.
The court concluded that in at least a
handful of cases, the FBI had been improp-
erly searching a database of raw intelligence
for information on Americans—raising con-
cerns about oversight of the program, which
as a spy program operates in near total se-
crecy.
The October 2018 court ruling identifies im-
proper searches of raw intelligence databases
by the bureau in 2017 and 2018 that were
deemed problematic in part because of their
breadth, which sometimes involved queries
related to thousands or tens of thousands of
pieces of data, such as emails or telephone
numbers. In one case, the ruling suggested,
the FBI was using the intelligence informa-
tion to vet its personnel and cooperating
sources. Federal law requires that the data-
base only be searched by the FBI as part of
seeking evidence of a crime or for foreign in-
telligence information.
In other instances, the court ruled that the
database had been improperly used by indi-
viduals. In one case, an FBI contractor ran a
query of an intelligence database—searching
information on himself, other FBI personnel
and his relatives, the court revealed.
The Trump administration failed to make
a persuasive argument that modifying the
program to better protect the privacy of
Americans would hinder the FBI’s ability to
address national security threats, wrote U.S.
District Judge James Boasberg, who serves
on the PISA Court, in the partially redacted
138-page opinion released Tuesday.
In one case central to the court’s opinion,
the FBI in March 2017 conducted a broad
search for information related to more than
70,000 emails, phone numbers and other dig-
ital identifiers. The bureau appeared to be
looking for data to conduct a security review
of people with access to its buildings and
computers—meaning the FBI was searching
for data linked to its own employees.
Judge Boasberg wrote that the case dem-
onstrated how a ‘‘single improper decision or
assessment’’ resulted in a search of data be-
longing to a large number of individuals. He
said the government had reported since April
2017 ‘‘a large number of FBI queries that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.015 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8324 October 22, 2019
were not reasonably likely to return foreign-
intelligence information or evidence of a
crime,’’ the standard required for such
searches.
‘‘The court accordingly finds that the
FBI’s querying procedures and minimization
procedures are not consistent with the re-
quirements of the Fourth Amendment,’’
Judge Boasberg concluded.
The legal fight over the FBI’s use of the
surveillance tool has played out in secret
since the courts that adjudicate these issues
under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance
Act of 1978 rarely publicize their work. It
was resolved last month after the govern-
ment created new procedures in the wake of
losing an appeal to the U.S. Foreign Intel-
ligence Surveillance Court of Review—a se-
cret appeals court that is rarely consulted
and seldom releases opinions publicly. That
resolution cleared the way for the disclosure
Tuesday.
Additionally, FBI Director Chris Wray or-
dered the creation of a compliance review
team following the October decision, a bu-
reau official said.
The program in question, known as Sec-
tion 702 surveillance, has roots in the na-
tional-security tools set up by the George W.
Bush administration following the Sept. 11,
2001, terrorist attacks. It was later enshrined
in law by Congress to target the electronic
communications of nonAmericans located
overseas. The program is principally used by
the National Security Agency to collect cer-
tain categories of foreign intelligence from
international phone calls and emails about
terrorism suspects, cyber threats and other
security risks.
Information from that surveillance is often
shared with relevant federal government
agencies with the names of any U.S. persons
redacted to protect their privacy, unless an
agency requests that identities be unmasked.
Privacy advocates have long criticized the
Section 702 law for allowing broad surveil-
lance that can implicate Americans and
doesn’t require individualized warrants. U.S.
intelligence officials have defended it as
among the most valuable national-security
tools at their disposal, even as intelligence
agencies have acknowledged that some com-
munications from Americans are swept up in
the process.
The court documents released Tuesday re-
veal unprecedented detail about how commu-
nications from Americans were ensnared and
searched by intelligence collection programs
that U.S. officials have publicly said are
aimed mainly at foreigners. They cast doubt
on whether law-enforcement and intelligence
agencies are carefully complying with pri-
vacy procedures Congress has mandated.
Sen. Ron Wyden (D., Ore.), a critic of U.S.
surveillance programs, said the disclosure
‘‘reveals serious failings in the FBI’s back-
door searches, underscoring the need for the
government to seek a warrant before search-
ing through mountains of private data on
Americans.’’
President Trump signed into law a six-year
renewal of the Section 702 program in early
2018. Changes to the law allowed the court to
review the FBI’s data handling ultimately
led to the October ruling.
The surveillance court opinions are the
latest setback for U.S. surveillance practices
during the Trump administration. The NSA
last year turned off a program that collects
domestic phone metadata—the time and du-
ration of a call but not its content—amid at
least two compliance issues involving the
overcollection of data the spy agency wasn’t
authorized to obtain.
The FBI has also been under intense polit-
ical pressure from Mr. Trump and his allies,
who allege that the bureau’s surveillance of
a Trump campaign associate was improper.
That surveillance of the aide, Carter Page,
fell under a different provision of the foreign
intelligence law but has nevertheless
sparked a major debate about the scope of
the bureau’s authorities.
CORRECTIONS & AMPLIFICATIONS
U.S District Judge James Boasberg’s opin-
ion on FBI surveillance was 138 pages long.
An earlier version of this article incorrectly
called it a 167-page opinion. (Oct. 8, 2019)
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Chair, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Ten-
nessee (Mr. JOHN W. ROSE), from Tem-
perance Hall.
Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee. Mr.
Chair, I rise in opposition to H.R. 2513,
the Corporate Transparency Act.
As a farmer and as someone who has
started a small business from the
ground up, I know firsthand the unnec-
essary burden government regulations
can place on small business owners.
Unlike large corporations, America’s
5 million small businesses do not have
the manpower, time, or resources to
comply with more undue regulatory
burdens.
Furthermore, it is concerning that
H.R. 2513 lacks provisions that would
ensure our small business owners’ pri-
vacy. Under H.R. 2513, small business
owners, after submitting their personal
information, cannot trust that it would
be safe or protected. As offered, H.R.
2513 lacks the safeguards necessary to
provide our small business owners the
confidence that their personal informa-
tion will be safe and protected, once
submitted.
At a minimum, if Big Government
demands personal information, it must
protect that data.
In addition, H.R. 2513 is built around
arbitrary thresholds. I have yet to see
a convincing explanation for why the
threshold is a maximum of 20 employ-
ees or $5 million in gross receipts.
Under this legislation, if small busi-
ness owners are unable to submit the
required personal information, they
may face criminal penalties of $10,000
and 3 years in prison. That would kill
any small business.
Let us not forget, small businesses
are the heart and drivers of job cre-
ation in many rural communities, as is
the case for many of the communities
I proudly represent in Tennessee’s
Sixth District.
We cannot unleash innovation in our
country when we continue to force Big
Government on America’s small farm-
ers and business owners.
The esteemed ranking member from
North Carolina and I urge our fellow
Members to join us in voting against
H.R. 2513, the latest rendition of bur-
densome regulations and personal pri-
vacy invasions.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chair, I yield 3
minutes to the gentlewoman from New
York (Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY) spon-
sor of the legislation, H.R. 2513.
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. Mr. Chair, critics on the other
side of the aisle have made wild claims
about the bill costing small businesses
millions of dollars. But in the U.K.,
where they already collect this infor-
mation, the cost of compliance for the
average small business was only about
$200, and that is a one-time cost. To
me, that is a very modest price to pay
for national security.
Every law enforcement agency in
this country is asking for this reform,
in order to make us safer.
In the U.K., the median company had
1.1 owners, which means that the vast
majority of small businesses only have
one owner, so that these businesses
only have to file one name.
We are asking for only four pieces of
information, and it is basic: name, date
of birth, current address, and driver’s
license.
Does that sound burdensome? For
most small business owners, it would
take less than 5 minutes to fill out the
form.
According to studies, it was pointed
out earlier, you have to disclose more
information to get a library card than
you need to disclose to create a cor-
poration or an LLC. And you don’t hear
people complaining about filling out
forms for library cards.
I think the idea that the disclosure
would be unduly burdensome is simply
and completely false.
The bill also goes out of its way to
exempt every category of business that
already discloses their beneficial own-
ers, either to regulators or the public
filings. This includes banks, credit
unions, insurance companies, and in-
vestment advisers, brokers, utilities,
and nonprofits.
The bill even exempts companies
with more than 20 employees and over
$5 million in revenues because, if you
have 20 employees, you are actually
generating a significant amount of rev-
enues and you are, certainly, a real
business and not a shell company that
is being used to launder money.
In fact, in almost all the cases where
law enforcement has uncovered a shell
company that is being used for illicit
purposes, the company had either zero
employees or one employee. That is
why we felt very comfortable exempt-
ing companies with more than 20 em-
ployees.
I think we have gone way out of our
way to ensure that the bill is appro-
priately tailored and is not burdensome
to small businesses.
I would like to repeat that, usually,
national security bills are bipartisan,
and I am proud that we had significant
support in the vote from our friends on
the other side of the aisle. I urge my
colleagues on both sides of the aisle to
support this important bill that will
make our citizens safer, will help law
enforcement do their jobs, and, there-
fore, will save lives in our country.
This is a serious bill. Most countries
already have it, and we are way behind.
We are the money laundering capital of
the world. It is just plain common
sense to protect our citizens.
Vote for national security, and vote
for this bill.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Chair, I am pre-
pared to close, and I yield myself the
remainder of my time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:35 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.019 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8325
October 22, 2019
Mr. Chair, this is a disappointing bill.
According to the National Federation
of Independent Businesses, this will
create $5.7 billion in new regulatory
costs for America’s smallest busi-
nesses.
My friend and colleague just said one
or two employees, but the bill before us
today says 20 or fewer employees. Tra-
ditionally, Congress has exempted
small businesses from onerous govern-
ment regulation, and Congress, in its
wisdom, has set a threshold of small
businesses that is 50 and above for
most regulations that are of national
import.
This bill turns all that on its head. It
turns it all on its head and says: No,
no, no. We are going to have a special
carve-out for all small businesses, $5
billion and under of revenue and 20 em-
ployees and fewer.
The whole mindset here is absolutely
wrong. We are putting a new small
business mandate on America’s small-
est businesses, and we have an intel-
ligence bureau that is going to go out
to the public and request information
directly from the public.
We don’t do that with NSA to look at
your cell phone records. In fact, we re-
quire the NSA to go before a court in
order to look at a cell phone database,
and there is an enormous amount of
litigation around that.
What we have here is a new Federal
Government database by an intel-
ligence bureau most people haven’t
heard of, and it is a mandate on small
businesses.
There are no due process protections
here. You don’t have to go before a
court in order to look at this. In fact,
they can just peruse it at will.
You have no data security standards,
so we don’t even know if this will be
held to the same standard of data
breaches that have already occurred in
our intelligence bureaus and for Fed-
eral employees, nor the same liability
standards for Federal users as the pri-
vate sector has to protect personally
identifiable information.
Again, there is not regulatory relief.
Our friends in the banks want this be-
cause they want to be relieved of the
burden of collecting this information. I
certainly understand that. But they
are still going to have to collect that
information.
There is no repeal of the underlying
rule that requires the banks to collect
that type of information in order to
transact business with those small
businesses and businesses of other
sizes.
b 1500
So there is no regulatory relief, with
few civil liberty protections. We don’t
have a cybersecurity standard in the
database. And it is a new mandate on
small businesses.
But if you are content with that,
vote ‘‘yes,’’ and if you don’t think that
is sufficient, vote ‘‘no.’’
I am going to stand with the NFIB,
the American Farm Bureau, the Na-
tional Association of Home Builders,
National Association of General Con-
tractors of America, the National Re-
tail Federation, the Real Estate
Roundtable, and other organizations
here in Washington, like the ACLU,
Heritage Action for America, the
FreedomWorks Foundation, and the
American Civil Liberties Union, as I
mentioned, but I want to mention
them twice so that people hear that
clearly.
There is bipartisan opposition to
this, and so I encourage my colleagues
to vote ‘‘no’’ against this new mandate.
Stand with your small business folks,
and we will come to a better com-
promise than what we have here before
us today. Please vote ‘‘no.’’
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chairman, I would
like to inquire as to how much time I
have left.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman
from California has 11⁄2 minutes re-
maining.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chair, I would like
to thank Representatives MALONEY and
CLEAVER for their work on these re-
forms.
I would like to just add that H.R. 2513
is an important, commonsense measure
that stops criminals from being able to
hide behind anonymous shell compa-
nies. It closes loopholes in the Bank
Secrecy Act, increases penalties for
those who break the law, and helps pro-
vide financial institutions with new
tools to more easily and accurately ful-
fill their obligations under the law.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
The Acting CHAIR. All time for gen-
eral debate has expired.
Pursuant to the rule, the bill shall be
considered for amendment under the 5-
minute rule.
The amendment in the nature of a
substitute recommended by the Com-
mittee on Financial Services, printed
in the bill, modified by the amendment
printed in part A of House Report 116–
247, shall be considered as adopted. The
bill, as amended, shall be considered as
the original bill for the purpose of fur-
ther amendment and shall be consid-
ered as read.
The text of the bill, as amended, is as
follows:
H.R. 2513
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
DIVISION A—CORPORATE TRANSPARENCY
ACT OF 2019
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—This Act may be cited as the
‘‘Corporate Transparency Act of 2019’’.
(b) REFERENCES TO THIS ACT.—In this divi-
sion—
(1) any reference to ‘‘this Act’’ shall be
deemed a reference to ‘‘this division’’; and
(2) except as otherwise expressly provided,
any reference to a section or other provision
shall be deemed a reference to that section or
other provision of this division.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) Nearly 2,000,000 corporations and limited
liability companies are being formed under the
laws of the States each year.
(2) Very few States require information about
the beneficial owners of the corporations and
limited liability companies formed under their
laws.
(3) A person forming a corporation or limited
liability company within the United States typi-
cally provides less information at the time of in-
corporation than is needed to obtain a bank ac-
count or driver’s license and typically does not
name a single beneficial owner.
(4) Criminals have exploited State formation
procedures to conceal their identities when
forming corporations or limited liability compa-
nies in the United States, and have then used
the newly created entities to commit crimes af-
fecting interstate and international commerce
such as terrorism, proliferation financing, drug
and human trafficking, money laundering, tax
evasion, counterfeiting, piracy, securities fraud,
financial fraud, and acts of foreign corruption.
(5) Law enforcement efforts to investigate cor-
porations and limited liability companies sus-
pected of committing crimes have been impeded
by the lack of available beneficial ownership in-
formation, as documented in reports and testi-
mony by officials from the Department of Jus-
tice, the Department of Homeland Security, the
Department of the Treasury, and the Govern-
ment Accountability Office, and others.
(6) In July 2006, the leading international
antimoney laundering standard-setting body,
the Financial Action Task Force on Money
Laundering (in this section referred to as the
‘‘FATF’’), of which the United States is a mem-
ber, issued a report that criticizes the United
States for failing to comply with a FATF stand-
ard on the need to collect beneficial ownership
information and urged the United States to cor-
rect this deficiency by July 2008. In December
2016, FATF issued another evaluation of the
United States, which found that little progress
has been made over the last ten years to address
this problem. It identified the ‘‘lack of timely ac-
cess to adequate, accurate and current bene-
ficial ownership information’’ as a fundamental
gap in United States efforts to combat money
laundering and terrorist finance.
(7) In response to the 2006 FATF report, the
United States has urged the States to obtain
beneficial ownership information for the cor-
porations and limited liability companies formed
under the laws of such States.
(8) In contrast to practices in the United
States, all 28 countries in the European Union
are required to have corporate registries that in-
clude beneficial ownership information.
(9) To reduce the vulnerability of the United
States to wrongdoing by United States corpora-
tions and limited liability companies with hid-
den owners, to protect interstate and inter-
national commerce from criminals misusing
United States corporations and limited liability
companies, to strengthen law enforcement inves-
tigations of suspect corporations and limited li-
ability companies, to set a clear, universal
standard for State incorporation practices, and
to bring the United States into compliance with
international anti-money laundering standards,
Federal legislation is needed to require the col-
lection of beneficial ownership information for
the corporations and limited liability companies
formed under the laws of such States.
SEC. 3. TRANSPARENT INCORPORATION PRAC-
TICES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—
(1) AMENDMENT TO THE BANK SECRECY ACT.—
Chapter 53 of title 31, United States Code, is
amended by inserting after section 5332 the fol-
lowing new section:
‘‘§ 5333 Transparent incorporation practices
‘‘(a) REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(1) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Each applicant to form a
corporation or limited liability company under
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.044 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8326 October 22, 2019
the laws of a State or Indian Tribe shall file a
report with FinCEN containing a list of the ben-
eficial owners of the corporation or limited li-
ability company that—
‘‘(i) except as provided in paragraphs (3) and
(4), and subject to paragraph (2), identifies each
beneficial owner by—
‘‘(I) full legal name;
‘‘(II) date of birth;
‘‘(III) current residential or business street ad-
dress; and
‘‘(IV) a unique identifying number from a
non-expired passport issued by the United
States, a non-expired personal identification
card, or a non-expired driver’s license issued by
a State; and
‘‘(ii) if the applicant is not a beneficial owner,
also provides the identification information de-
scribed in clause (i) relating to such applicant.
‘‘(B) UPDATED INFORMATION.—Each corpora-
tion or limited liability company formed under
the laws of a State or Indian Tribe shall—
‘‘(i) submit to FinCEN an annual filing con-
taining a list of—
‘‘(I) the current beneficial owners of the cor-
poration or limited liability company and the in-
formation described in subparagraph (A) for
each such beneficial owner; and
‘‘(II) any changes in the beneficial owners of
the corporation or limited liability company dur-
ing the previous year; and
‘‘(ii) pursuant to any rule issued by the Sec-
retary of the Treasury under subparagraph (C),
update the list of the beneficial owners of the
corporation or limited liability company within
the time period prescribed by such rule.
‘‘(C) RULEMAKING ON UPDATING INFORMA-
TION.—Not later than 9 months after the comple-
tion of the study required under section 4(a)(1)
of the Corporate Transparency Act of 2019, the
Secretary of the Treasury shall consider the
findings of such study and, if the Secretary de-
termines it to be necessary or appropriate, issue
a rule requiring corporations and limited liabil-
ity companies to update the list of the beneficial
owners of the corporation or limited liability
company within a specified amount of time after
the date of any change in the list of beneficial
owners or the information required to be pro-
vided relating to each beneficial owner.
‘‘(D) STATE NOTIFICATION.—Each State in
which a corporation or limited liability company
is being formed shall notify each applicant of
the requirements listed in subparagraphs (A)
and (B).
‘‘(2) CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS.—If an ap-
plicant to form a corporation or limited liability
company or a beneficial owner, or similar agent
of a corporation or limited liability company
who is required to provide identification infor-
mation under this subsection, does not have a
nonexpired passport issued by the United States,
a nonexpired personal identification card, or a
non-expired driver’s license issued by a State,
each such person shall provide to FinCEN the
full legal name, current residential or business
street address, a unique identifying number
from a non-expired passport issued by a foreign
government, and a legible and credible copy of
the pages of a non-expired passport issued by
the government of a foreign country bearing a
photograph, date of birth, and unique identi-
fying information for each beneficial owner,
and each application described in paragraph
(1)(A) and each update described in paragraph
(1)(B) shall include a written certification by a
person residing in the State or Indian country
under the jurisdiction of the Indian Tribe form-
ing the entity that the applicant, corporation,
or limited liability company—
‘‘(A) has obtained for each such beneficial
owner, a current residential or business street
address and a legible and credible copy of the
pages of a non-expired passport issued by the
government of a foreign country bearing a pho-
tograph, date of birth, and unique identifying
information for the person;
‘‘(B) has verified the full legal name, address,
and identity of each such person;
‘‘(C) will provide the information described in
subparagraph (A) and the proof of verification
described in subparagraph (B) upon request of
FinCEN; and
‘‘(D) will retain the information and proof of
verification under this paragraph until the end
of the 5-year period beginning on the date that
the corporation or limited liability company ter-
minates under the laws of the State or Indian
Tribe.
‘‘(3) EXEMPT ENTITIES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—With respect to an appli-
cant to form a corporation or limited liability
company under the laws of a State or Indian
Tribe, if such entity is described in subpara-
graph (C) or (D) of subsection (d)(4) and will be
exempt from the beneficial ownership disclosure
requirements under this subsection, such appli-
cant, or a prospective officer, director, or similar
agent of the applicant, shall file a written cer-
tification with FinCEN—
‘‘(i) identifying the specific provision of sub-
section (d)(4) under which the entity proposed
to be formed would be exempt from the bene-
ficial ownership disclosure requirements under
paragraphs (1) and (2);
‘‘(ii) stating that the entity proposed to be
formed meets the requirements for an entity de-
scribed under such provision of subsection
(d)(4); and
‘‘(iii) providing identification information for
the applicant or prospective officer, director, or
similar agent making the certification in the
same manner as provided under paragraph (1)
or (2).
‘‘(B) EXISTING CORPORATIONS OR LIMITED LI-
ABILITY COMPANIES.—On and after the date that
is 2 years after the final regulations are issued
to carry out this section, a corporation or lim-
ited liability company formed under the laws of
the State or Indian Tribe before such date shall
be subject to the requirements of this subsection
unless an officer, director, or similar agent of
the entity submits to FinCEN a written certifi-
cation—
‘‘(i) identifying the specific provision of sub-
section (d)(4) under which the entity is exempt
from the requirements under paragraphs (1) and
(2);
‘‘(ii) stating that the entity meets the require-
ments for an entity described under such provi-
sion of subsection (d)(4); and
‘‘(iii) providing identification information for
the officer, director, or similar agent making the
certification in the same manner as provided
under paragraph (1) or (2).
‘‘(C) EXEMPT ENTITIES HAVING OWNERSHIP IN-
TEREST.—If an entity described in subparagraph
(C) or (D) of subsection (d)(4) has or will have
an ownership interest in a corporation or lim-
ited liability company formed or to be formed
under the laws of a State or Indian Tribe, the
applicant, corporation, or limited liability com-
pany in which the entity has or will have the
ownership interest shall provide the information
required under this subsection relating to the
entity, except that the entity shall not be re-
quired to provide information regarding any
natural person who has an ownership interest
in, exercises substantial control over, or receives
substantial economic benefits from the entity.
‘‘(4) FINCEN ID NUMBERS.—
‘‘(A) ISSUANCE OF FINCEN ID NUMBER.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—FinCEN shall issue a
FinCEN ID number to any individual who re-
quests such a number and provides FinCEN
with the information described under subclauses
(I) through (IV) of paragraph (1)(A)(i).
‘‘(ii) UPDATING OF INFORMATION.—An indi-
vidual with a FinCEN ID number shall submit
an annual filing with FinCEN updating any in-
formation described under subclauses (I)
through (IV) of paragraph (1)(A)(i).
‘‘(B) USE OF FINCEN ID NUMBER IN REPORTING
REQUIREMENTS.—Any person required to report
the information described under paragraph
(1)(A)(i) with respect to an individual may in-
stead report the FinCEN ID number of the indi-
vidual.
‘‘(C) TREATMENT OF INFORMATION SUBMITTED
FOR FINCEN ID NUMBER.—For purposes of this
section, any information submitted under sub-
paragraph (A) shall be deemed to be beneficial
ownership information.
‘‘(5) RETENTION AND DISCLOSURE OF BENE-
FICIAL OWNERSHIP INFORMATION BY FINCEN.—
‘‘(A) RETENTION OF INFORMATION.—Beneficial
ownership information relating to each corpora-
tion or limited liability company formed under
the laws of the State or Indian Tribe shall be
maintained by FinCEN until the end of the 5-
year period (or such other period of time as the
Secretary of the Treasury may, by rule, deter-
mine) beginning on the date that the corpora-
tion or limited liability company terminates.
‘‘(B) DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION.—Bene-
ficial ownership information reported to
FinCEN pursuant to this section shall be pro-
vided by FinCEN only upon receipt of—
‘‘(i) subject to subparagraph (C), a request,
through appropriate protocols, by a local, Trib-
al, State, or Federal law enforcement agency;
‘‘(ii) a request made by a Federal agency on
behalf of a law enforcement agency of another
country under an international treaty, agree-
ment, or convention, or an order under section
3512 of title 18 or section 1782 of title 28; or
‘‘(iii) a request made by a financial institu-
tion, with customer consent, as part of the insti-
tution’s compliance with due diligence require-
ments imposed under the Bank Secrecy Act, the
USA PATRIOT Act, or other applicable Federal,
State, or Tribal law.
‘‘(C) APPROPRIATE PROTOCOLS.—
‘‘(i) PRIVACY.—The protocols described in sub-
paragraph (B)(i) shall—
‘‘(I) protect the privacy of any beneficial own-
ership information provided by FinCEN to a
local, Tribal, State, or Federal law enforcement
agency;
‘‘(II) ensure that a local, Tribal, State, or
Federal law enforcement agency requesting ben-
eficial ownership information has an existing
investigatory basis for requesting such informa-
tion;
‘‘(III) ensure that access to beneficial owner-
ship information is limited to authorized users
at a local, Tribal, State, or Federal law enforce-
ment agency who have undergone appropriate
training, and that the identity of such author-
ized users is verified through appropriate mech-
anisms, such as two-factor authentication;
‘‘(IV) include an audit trail of requests for
beneficial ownership information by a local,
Tribal, State, or Federal law enforcement agen-
cy, including, as necessary, information con-
cerning queries made by authorized users at a
local, Tribal, State, or Federal law enforcement
agency;
‘‘(V) require that every local, Tribal, State, or
Federal law enforcement agency that receives
beneficial ownership information from FinCEN
conducts an annual audit to verify that the
beneficial ownership information received from
FinCEN has been accessed and used appro-
priately, and consistent with this paragraph;
and
‘‘(VI) require FinCEN to conduct an annual
audit of every local, Tribal, State, or Federal
law enforcement agency that has received bene-
ficial ownership information to ensure that such
agency has requested beneficial ownership in-
formation, and has used any beneficial owner-
ship information received from FinCEN, appro-
priately, and consistent with this paragraph.
‘‘(ii) LIMITATION ON USE.—Beneficial owner-
ship information provided to a local, Tribal,
State, or Federal law enforcement agency under
this paragraph may only be used for law en-
forcement, national security, or intelligence pur-
poses.
‘‘(b) NO BEARER SHARE CORPORATIONS OR
LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANIES.—A corporation
or limited liability company formed under the
laws of a State or Indian Tribe may not issue a
certificate in bearer form evidencing either a
whole or fractional interest in the corporation
or limited liability company.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.001 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8327
October 22, 2019
‘‘(c) PENALTIES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—It shall be unlawful for
any person to affect interstate or foreign com-
merce by—
‘‘(A) knowingly providing, or attempting to
provide, false or fraudulent beneficial owner-
ship information, including a false or fraudu-
lent identifying photograph, to FinCEN in ac-
cordance with this section;
‘‘(B) willfully failing to provide complete or
updated beneficial ownership information to
FinCEN in accordance with this section; or
‘‘(C) knowingly disclosing the existence of a
subpoena or other request for beneficial owner-
ship information reported pursuant to this sec-
tion, except—
‘‘(i) to the extent necessary to fulfill the au-
thorized request; or
‘‘(ii) as authorized by the entity that issued
the subpoena, or other request.
‘‘(2) CIVIL AND CRIMINAL PENALTIES.—Any
person who violates paragraph (1)—
‘‘(A) shall be liable to the United States for a
civil penalty of not more than $10,000; and
‘‘(B) may be fined under title 18, United States
Code, imprisoned for not more than 3 years, or
both.
‘‘(3) LIMITATION.—Any person who neg-
ligently violates paragraph (1) shall not be sub-
ject to civil or criminal penalties under para-
graph (2).
‘‘(4) WAIVER.—The Secretary of the Treasury
may waive the penalty for violating paragraph
(1) if the Secretary determines that the violation
was due to reasonable cause and was not due to
willful neglect.
‘‘(5) CRIMINAL PENALTY FOR THE MISUSE OR
UNAUTHORIZED DISCLOSURE OF BENEFICIAL OWN-
ERSHIP INFORMATION.—The criminal penalties
provided for under section 5322 shall apply to a
violation of this section to the same extent as
such criminal penalties apply to a violation de-
scribed in section 5322, if the violation of this
section consists of the misuse or unauthorized
disclosure of beneficial ownership information.
‘‘(d) DEFINITIONS.—For the purposes of this
section:
‘‘(1) APPLICANT.—The term ‘applicant’ means
any natural person who files an application to
form a corporation or limited liability company
under the laws of a State or Indian Tribe.
‘‘(2) BANK SECRECY ACT.—The term ‘Bank Se-
crecy Act’ means—
‘‘(A) section 21 of the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Act;
‘‘(B) chapter 2 of title I of Public Law 91–508;
and
‘‘(C) this subchapter.
‘‘(3) BENEFICIAL OWNER.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in sub-
paragraph (B), the term ‘beneficial owner’
means a natural person who, directly or indi-
rectly, through any contract, arrangement, un-
derstanding, relationship, or otherwise—
‘‘(i) exercises substantial control over a cor-
poration or limited liability company;
‘‘(ii) owns 25 percent or more of the equity in-
terests of a corporation or limited liability com-
pany; or
‘‘(iii) receives substantial economic benefits
from the assets of a corporation or limited liabil-
ity company.
‘‘(B) EXCEPTIONS.—The term ‘beneficial
owner’ shall not include—
‘‘(i) a minor child, as defined in the State or
Indian Tribe in which the entity is formed;
‘‘(ii) a person acting as a nominee, inter-
mediary, custodian, or agent on behalf of an-
other person;
‘‘(iii) a person acting solely as an employee of
a corporation or limited liability company and
whose control over or economic benefits from the
corporation or limited liability company derives
solely from the employment status of the person;
‘‘(iv) a person whose only interest in a cor-
poration or limited liability company is through
a right of inheritance; or
‘‘(v) a creditor of a corporation or limited li-
ability company, unless the creditor also meets
the requirements of subparagraph (A).
‘‘(C) SUBSTANTIAL ECONOMIC BENEFITS DE-
FINED.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of subpara-
graph (A)(ii), a natural person receives substan-
tial economic benefits from the assets of a cor-
poration or limited liability company if the per-
son has an entitlement to more than a specified
percentage of the funds or assets of the corpora-
tion or limited liability company, which the Sec-
retary of the Treasury shall, by rule, establish.
‘‘(ii) RULEMAKING CRITERIA.—In establishing
the percentage under clause (i), the Secretary of
the Treasury shall seek to—
‘‘(I) provide clarity to corporations and lim-
ited liability companies with respect to the iden-
tification and disclosure of a natural person
who receives substantial economic benefits from
the assets of a corporation or limited liability
company; and
‘‘(II) identify those natural persons who, as a
result of the substantial economic benefits they
receive from the assets of a corporation or lim-
ited liability company, exercise a dominant in-
fluence over such corporation or limited liability
company.
‘‘(4) CORPORATION; LIMITED LIABILITY COM-
PANY.—The terms ‘corporation’ and ‘limited li-
ability company’—
‘‘(A) have the meanings given such terms
under the laws of the applicable State or Indian
Tribe;
‘‘(B) include any non-United States entity eli-
gible for registration or registered to do business
as a corporation or limited liability company
under the laws of the applicable State or Indian
Tribe;
‘‘(C) do not include any entity that is—
‘‘(i) a business concern that is an issuer of a
class of securities registered under section 12 of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C.
781) or that is required to file reports under sec-
tion 15(d) of that Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(d));
‘‘(ii) a business concern constituted, spon-
sored, or chartered by a State or Indian Tribe,
a political subdivision of a State or Indian
Tribe, under an interstate compact between two
or more States, by a department or agency of the
United States, or under the laws of the United
States;
‘‘(iii) a depository institution (as defined in
section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
(12 U.S.C. 1813));
‘‘(iv) a credit union (as defined in section 101
of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C.
1752));
‘‘(v) a bank holding company (as defined in
section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of
1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841)) or a savings and loan
holding company (as defined in section 10(a) of
the Home Owners’ Loan Act (12 U.S.C.
1467a(a));
‘‘(vi) a broker or dealer (as defined in section
3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15
U.S.C. 78c)) that is registered under section 15 of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C.
78o);
‘‘(vii) an exchange or clearing agency (as de-
fined in section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c)) that is registered under
section 6 or 17A of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78f and 78q–1);
‘‘(viii) an investment company (as defined in
section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940
(15 U.S.C. 80a–3)) or an investment adviser (as
defined in section 202(11) of the Investment Ad-
visers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b–2(11))), if the
company or adviser is registered with the Secu-
rities and Exchange Commission, has filed an
application for registration which has not been
denied, under the Investment Company Act of
1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a–1 et seq.) or the Investment
Adviser Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b–1 et seq.), or
is an investment adviser described under section
203(l) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15
U.S.C. 80b–3(l));
‘‘(ix) an insurance company (as defined in
section 2 of the Investment Company Act of 1940
(15 U.S.C. 80a–2));
‘‘(x) a registered entity (as defined in section
1a of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C.
1a)), or a futures commission merchant, intro-
ducing broker, commodity pool operator, or com-
modity trading advisor (as defined in section 1a
of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a))
that is registered with the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission;
‘‘(xi) a public accounting firm registered in
accordance with section 102 of the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7212) or an entity control-
ling, controlled by, or under common control of
such a firm;
‘‘(xii) a public utility that provides tele-
communications service, electrical power, nat-
ural gas, or water and sewer services, within the
United States;
‘‘(xiii) a church, charity, nonprofit entity, or
other organization that is described in section
501(c), 527, or 4947(a)(1) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, that has not been denied tax ex-
empt status, and that has filed the most recently
due annual information return with the Inter-
nal Revenue Service, if required to file such a
return;
‘‘(xiv) a financial market utility designated by
the Financial Stability Oversight Council under
section 804 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Re-
form and Consumer Protection Act;
‘‘(xv) an insurance producer (as defined in
section 334 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act);
‘‘(xvi) any pooled investment vehicle that is
operated or advised by a person described in
clause (iii), (iv), (v), (vi), (viii), (ix), or (xi);’’.
‘‘(xvii) any business concern that—
‘‘(I) employs more than 20 employees on a full-
time basis in the United States;
‘‘(II) files income tax returns in the United
States demonstrating more than $5,000,000 in
gross receipts or sales; and
‘‘(III) has an operating presence at a physical
office within the United States; or
‘‘(xviii) any corporation or limited liability
company formed and owned by an entity de-
scribed in this clause or in clause (i), (ii), (iii),
(iv), (v), (vi), (vii), (viii), (ix), (x), (xi), (xii),
(xiii), (xiv), (xv), or (xvi); and
‘‘(D) do not include any individual business
concern or class of business concerns which the
Secretary of the Treasury and the Attorney
General of the United States have jointly deter-
mined, by rule of otherwise, to be exempt from
the requirements of subsection (a), if the Sec-
retary and the Attorney General jointly deter-
mine that requiring beneficial ownership infor-
mation from the business concern would not
serve the public interest and would not assist
law enforcement efforts to detect, prevent, or
prosecute terrorism, money laundering, tax eva-
sion, or other misconduct.
‘‘(5) FINCEN.—The term ‘FinCEN’ means the
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the
Department of the Treasury.
‘‘(6) INDIAN COUNTRY.—The term ‘Indian
country’ has the meaning given that term in sec-
tion 1151 of title 18.
‘‘(7) INDIAN TRIBE.—The term ‘Indian Tribe’
has the meaning given that term under section
102 of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe
List Act of 1994.
‘‘(8) PERSONAL IDENTIFICATION CARD.—The
term ‘personal identification card’ means an
identification document issued by a State, In-
dian Tribe, or local government to an individual
solely for the purpose of identification of that
individual.
‘‘(9) STATE.—The term ‘State’ means any
State, commonwealth, territory, or possession of
the United States, the District of Columbia, the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Common-
wealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Amer-
ican Samoa, Guam, or the United States Virgin
Islands.’’.
(2) RULEMAKING.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of the Treasury shall issue regulations to carry
out this Act and the amendments made by this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.001 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8328 October 22, 2019
Act, including, to the extent necessary, to clar-
ify the definitions in section 5333(d) of title 31,
United States Code.
(B) REVISION OF FINAL RULE.—Not later than
1 year after the date of enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of the Treasury shall revise the
final rule titled ‘‘Customer Due Diligence Re-
quirements for Financial Institutions’’ (May 11,
2016; 81 Fed. Reg. 29397) to—
(i) bring the rule into conformance with this
Act and the amendments made by this Act;
(ii) account for financial institutions’ access
to comprehensive beneficial ownership informa-
tion filed by corporations and limited liability
companies, under threat of civil and criminal
penalties, under this Act and the amendments
made by this Act; and
(iii) reduce any burdens on financial institu-
tions that are, in light of the enactment of this
Act and the amendments made by this Act, un-
necessary or duplicative.
(3) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Title 31,
United States Code, is amended—
(A) in section 5321(a)—
(i) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘sections 5314
and 5315’’ each place it appears and inserting
‘‘sections 5314, 5315, and 5333’’; and
(ii) in paragraph (6), by inserting ‘‘(except
section 5333)’’ after ‘‘subchapter’’ each place it
appears; and
(B) in section 5322, by striking ‘‘section 5315 or
5324’’ each place it appears and inserting ‘‘sec-
tion 5315, 5324, or 5333’’.
(4) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents of chapter 53 of title 31, United States
Code, is amended by inserting after the item re-
lating to section 5332 the following:
‘‘5333. Transparent incorporation practices.’’.
(b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated
$20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020 and 2021
to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network to
carry out this Act and the amendments made by
this Act.
(c) FEDERAL CONTRACTORS.—Not later than
the first day of the first full fiscal year begin-
ning at least 1 year after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, the Administrator for Federal
Procurement Policy shall revise the Federal Ac-
quisition Regulation maintained under section
1303(a)(1) of title 41, United States Code, to re-
quire any contractor or subcontractor who is
subject to the requirement to disclose beneficial
ownership information under section 5333 of
title 31, United States Code, to provide the infor-
mation required to be disclosed under such sec-
tion to the Federal Government as part of any
bid or proposal for a contract with a value
threshold in excess of the simplified acquisition
threshold under section 134 of title 41, United
States Code.
SEC. 4. STUDIES AND REPORTS.
(a) UPDATING OF BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP IN-
FORMATION.—
(1) STUDY.—The Secretary of the Treasury, in
consultation with the Attorney General of the
United States, shall conduct a study to evalu-
ate—
(A) the necessity of a requirement for corpora-
tions and limited liability companies to update
the list of their beneficial owners within a speci-
fied amount of time after the date of any change
in the list of beneficial owners or the informa-
tion required to be provided relating to each
beneficial owner, taking into account the an-
nual filings required under section
5333(a)(1)(B)(i) of title 31, United States Code,
and the information contained in such annual
filings; and
(B) the burden that a requirement to update
the list of beneficial owners within a specified
period of time after a change in such list of ben-
eficial owners would impose on corporations
and limited liability companies.
(2) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
the Treasury shall submit a report on the study
required under paragraph (1) to the Committee
on Financial Services of the House of Represent-
atives and the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs of the Senate
(3) PUBLIC COMMENT.—The Secretary of the
Treasury shall seek and consider public input,
comments, and data in order to conduct the
study required under subparagraph paragraph
(1).
(b) OTHER LEGAL ENTITIES.—Not later than 2
years after the date of enactment of this Act,
the Comptroller General of the United States
shall conduct a study and submit to the Con-
gress a report—
(1) identifying each State or Indian Tribe that
has procedures that enable persons to form or
register under the laws of the State or Indian
Tribe partnerships, trusts, or other legal enti-
ties, and the nature of those procedures;
(2) identifying each State or Indian Tribe that
requires persons seeking to form or register part-
nerships, trusts, or other legal entities under the
laws of the State or Indian Tribe to provide in-
formation about the beneficial owners (as that
term is defined in section 5333(d)(1) of title 31,
United States Code, as added by this Act) or
beneficiaries of such entities, and the nature of
the required information;
(3) evaluating whether the lack of available
beneficial ownership information for partner-
ships, trusts, or other legal entities—
(A) raises concerns about the involvement of
such entities in terrorism, money laundering,
tax evasion, securities fraud, or other mis-
conduct;
(B) has impeded investigations into entities
suspected of such misconduct; and
(C) increases the costs to financial institutions
of complying with due diligence requirements
imposed under the Bank Secrecy Act, the USA
PATRIOT Act, or other applicable Federal,
State, or Tribal law; and
(4) evaluating whether the failure of the
United States to require beneficial ownership in-
formation for partnerships and trusts formed or
registered in the United States has elicited inter-
national criticism and what steps, if any, the
United States has taken or is planning to take
in response.
(c) EFFECTIVENESS OF INCORPORATION PRAC-
TICES.—Not later than 5 years after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General
of the United States shall conduct a study and
submit to the Congress a report assessing the ef-
fectiveness of incorporation practices imple-
mented under this Act and the amendments
made by this Act in—
(1) providing law enforcement agencies with
prompt access to reliable, useful, and complete
beneficial ownership information; and
(2) strengthening the capability of law en-
forcement agencies to combat incorporation
abuses, civil and criminal misconduct, and de-
tect, prevent, or punish terrorism, money laun-
dering, tax evasion, or other misconduct.
SEC. 5. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act, the terms ‘‘Bank Secrecy Act’’,
‘‘beneficial owner’’, ‘‘corporation’’, and ‘‘lim-
ited liability company’’ have the meaning given
those terms, respectively, under section 5333(d)
of title 31, United States Code.
DIVISION B—COUNTER ACT OF 2019
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Coordinating Oversight, Upgrading and
Innovating Technology, and Examiner Reform
Act of 2019’’ or the ‘‘COUNTER Act of 2019’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this Act is as follows:
DIVISION B—COUNTER ACT OF 2019
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Bank Secrecy Act definition.
TITLE I—STRENGTHENING TREASURY
Sec. 101. Improving the definition and purpose
of the Bank Secrecy Act.
Sec. 102. Special hiring authority.
Sec. 103. Civil Liberties and Privacy Officer.
Sec. 104. Civil Liberties and Privacy Council.
Sec. 105. International coordination.
Sec. 106. Treasury Attachés Program.
Sec. 107. Increasing technical assistance for
international cooperation.
Sec. 108. FinCEN Domestic Liaisons.
Sec. 109. FinCEN Exchange.
Sec. 110. Study and strategy on trade-based
money laundering.
Sec. 111. Study and strategy on de-risking.
Sec. 112. AML examination authority delega-
tion study.
Sec. 113. Study and strategy on Chinese money
laundering.
TITLE J—IMPROVING AML/CFT OVERSIGHT
Sec. 201. Pilot program on sharing of suspicious
activity reports within a financial
group.
Sec. 202. Sharing of compliance resources.
Sec. 203. GAO Study on feedback loops.
Sec. 204. FinCEN study on BSA value.
Sec. 205. Sharing of threat pattern and trend
information.
Sec. 206. Modernization and upgrading whistle-
blower protections.
Sec. 207. Certain violators barred from serving
on boards of United States finan-
cial institutions.
Sec. 208. Additional damages for repeat Bank
Secrecy Act violators.
Sec. 209. Justice annual report on deferred and
non-prosecution agreements.
Sec. 210. Return of profits and bonuses.
Sec. 211. Application of Bank Secrecy Act to
dealers in antiquities.
Sec. 212. Geographic targeting order.
Sec. 213. Study and revisions to currency trans-
action reports and suspicious ac-
tivity reports.
Sec. 214. Streamlining requirements for cur-
rency transaction reports and sus-
picious activity reports.
TITLE K—MODERNIZING THE AML SYSTEM
Sec. 301. Encouraging innovation in BSA com-
pliance.
Sec. 302. Innovation Labs.
Sec. 303. Innovation Council.
Sec. 304. Testing methods rulemaking.
Sec. 305. FinCEN study on use of emerging
technologies.
Sec. 306. Discretionary surplus funds.
(c) REFERENCES TO THIS ACT.—In this divi-
sion—
(1) any reference to ‘‘this Act’’ shall be
deemed a reference to ‘‘this division’’; and
(2) except as otherwise expressly provided,
any reference to a section or other provision
shall be deemed a reference to that section or
other provision of this division.
SEC. 2. BANK SECRECY ACT DEFINITION.
Section 5312(a) of title 31, United States Code,
is amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(7) BANK SECRECY ACT.—The term ‘Bank Se-
crecy act’ means—
‘‘(A) section 21 of the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Act;
‘‘(B) chapter 2 of title I of Public Law 91–508;
and
‘‘(C) this subchapter.’’.
TITLE I—STRENGTHENING TREASURY
SEC. 101. IMPROVING THE DEFINITION AND PUR-
POSE OF THE BANK SECRECY ACT.
Section 5311 of title 31, United States Code, is
amended—
(1) by inserting ‘‘to protect our national secu-
rity, to safeguard the integrity of the inter-
national financial system, and’’ before ‘‘to re-
quire’’; and
(2) by inserting ‘‘to law enforcement and’’ be-
fore ‘‘in criminal’’.
SEC. 102. SPECIAL HIRING AUTHORITY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 310 of title 31,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (d) as sub-
section (g); and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.001 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8329
October 22, 2019
(2) by inserting after subsection (c) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(d) SPECIAL HIRING AUTHORITY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the Treas-
ury may appoint, without regard to the provi-
sions of sections 3309 through 3318 of title 5,
candidates directly to positions in the competi-
tive service (as defined in section 2102 of that
title) in FinCEN.
‘‘(2) PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITIES.—The primary
responsibility of candidates appointed pursuant
to paragraph (1) shall be to provide substantive
support in support of the duties described in
subparagraphs (A), (B), (E), and (F) of sub-
section (b)(2).’’.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 360 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, and every year
thereafter for 7 years, the Director of the Finan-
cial Crimes Enforcement Network shall submit a
report to the Committee on Financial Services of
the House of Representatives and the Committee
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the
Senate that includes—
(1) the number of new employees hired since
the preceding report through the authorities de-
scribed under section 310(d) of title 31, United
States Code, along with position titles and asso-
ciated pay grades for such hires; and
(2) a copy of any Federal Government survey
of staff perspectives at the Office of Terrorism
and Financial Intelligence, including findings
regarding the Office and the Financial Crimes
Enforcement Network from the most recently ad-
ministered Federal Employee Viewpoint Survey.
SEC. 103. CIVIL LIBERTIES AND PRIVACY OFFI-
CER.
(a) APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.—Not later
than the end of the 3-month period beginning
on the date of enactment of this Act, a Civil Lib-
erties and Privacy Officer shall be appointed,
from among individuals who are attorneys with
expertise in data privacy laws—
(1) within each Federal functional regulator,
by the head of the Federal functional regulator;
(2) within the Financial Crimes Enforcement
Network, by the Secretary of the Treasury; and
(3) within the Internal Revenue Service Small
Business and Self-Employed Tax Center, by the
Secretary of the Treasury.
(b) DUTIES.—Each Civil Liberties and Privacy
Officer shall, with respect to the applicable reg-
ulator, Network, or Center within which the Of-
ficer is located—
(1) be consulted each time Bank Secrecy Act
or anti-money laundering regulations affecting
civil liberties or privacy are developed or re-
viewed;
(2) be consulted on information-sharing pro-
grams, including those that provide access to
personally identifiable information;
(3) ensure coordination and clarity between
anti-money laundering, civil liberties, and pri-
vacy regulations;
(4) contribute to the evaluation and regula-
tion of new technologies that may strengthen
data privacy and the protection of personally
identifiable information collected by each Fed-
eral functional regulator; and
(5) develop metrics of program success.
(c) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this section:
(1) BANK SECRECY ACT.—The term ‘‘Bank Se-
crecy Act’’ has the meaning given that term
under section 5312 of title 31, United States
Code.
(2) FEDERAL FUNCTIONAL REGULATOR.—The
term ‘‘Federal functional regulator’’ means the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Sys-
tem, the Comptroller of the Currency, the Fed-
eral Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Na-
tional Credit Union Administration, the Securi-
ties and Exchange Commission, and the Com-
modity Futures Trading Commission.
SEC. 104. CIVIL LIBERTIES AND PRIVACY COUN-
CIL.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established the
Civil Liberties and Privacy Council (hereinafter
in this section referred to as the ‘‘Council’’),
which shall consist of the Civil Liberties and
Privacy Officers appointed pursuant to section
103.
(b) CHAIR.—The Director of the Financial
Crimes Enforcement Network shall serve as the
Chair of the Council.
(c) DUTY.—The members of the Council shall
coordinate on activities related to their duties as
Civil Liberties Privacy Officers, but may not
supplant the individual agency determinations
on civil liberties and privacy.
(d) MEETINGS.—The meetings of the Council—
(1) shall be at the call of the Chair, but in no
case may the Council meet less than quarterly;
(2) may include open and partially closed ses-
sions, as determined necessary by the Council;
and
(3) shall include participation by public and
private entities and law enforcement agencies.
(e) REPORT.—The Chair of the Council shall
issue an annual report to the Congress on the
program and policy activities, including the suc-
cess of programs as measured by metrics of pro-
gram success developed pursuant to section
103(b)(5), of the Council during the previous
year and any legislative recommendations that
the Council may have.
(f) NONAPPLICABILITY OF FACA.—The Federal
Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall
not apply to the Council.
SEC. 105. INTERNATIONAL COORDINATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the Treas-
ury shall work with the Secretary’s foreign
counterparts, including through the Financial
Action Task Force, the International Monetary
Fund, the World Bank, the Egmont Group of Fi-
nancial Intelligence Units, the Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development, and
the United Nations, to promote stronger anti-
money laundering frameworks and enforcement
of anti-money laundering laws.
(b) COOPERATION GOAL.—In carrying out sub-
section (a), the Secretary of the Treasury may
work directly with foreign counterparts and
other organizations where the goal of coopera-
tion can best be met.
(c) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND.—
(1) SUPPORT FOR CAPACITY OF THE INTER-
NATIONAL MONETARY FUND TO PREVENT MONEY
LAUNDERING AND FINANCING OF TERRORISM.—
Title XVI of the International Financial Insti-
tutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262p et seq.) is amended
by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 1629. SUPPORT FOR CAPACITY OF THE
INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND
TO PREVENT MONEY LAUNDERING
AND FINANCING OF TERRORISM.
‘‘The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct
the United States Executive Director at the
International Monetary Fund to support the in-
creased use of the administrative budget of the
Fund for technical assistance that strengthens
the capacity of Fund members to prevent money
laundering and the financing of terrorism.’’.
(2) NATIONAL ADVISORY COUNCIL REPORT TO
CONGRESS.—The Chairman of the National Advi-
sory Council on International Monetary and Fi-
nancial Policies shall include in the report re-
quired by section 1701 of the International Fi-
nancial Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262r) a de-
scription of—
(A) the activities of the International Mone-
tary Fund in the most recently completed fiscal
year to provide technical assistance that
strengthens the capacity of Fund members to
prevent money laundering and the financing of
terrorism, and the effectiveness of the assist-
ance; and
(B) the efficacy of efforts by the United States
to support such technical assistance through the
use of the Fund’s administrative budget, and
the level of such support.
(3) SUNSET.—Effective on the date that is the
end of the 4-year period beginning on the date
of enactment of this Act, section 1629 of the
International Financial Institutions Act, as
added by paragraph (1), is repealed.
SEC. 106. TREASURY ATTACHÉS PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title 31, United States Code,
is amended by inserting after section 315 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘§ 316. Treasury Attachés Program
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—There is established the
Treasury Attachés Program, under which the
Secretary of the Treasury shall appoint employ-
ees of the Department of the Treasury, after
nomination by the Director of the Financial
Crimes Enforcement Network (‘FinCEN’), as a
Treasury attaché, who shall—
‘‘(1) be knowledgeable about the Bank Secrecy
Act and anti-money laundering issues;
‘‘(2) be co-located in a United States embassy;
‘‘(3) perform outreach with respect to Bank
Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering issues;
‘‘(4) establish and maintain relationships with
foreign counterparts, including employees of
ministries of finance, central banks, and other
relevant official entities;
‘‘(5) conduct outreach to local and foreign fi-
nancial institutions and other commercial ac-
tors, including—
‘‘(A) information exchanges through FinCEN
and FinCEN programs; and
‘‘(B) soliciting buy-in and cooperation for the
implementation of—
‘‘(i) United States and multilateral sanctions;
and
‘‘(ii) international standards on anti-money
laundering and the countering of the financing
of terrorism; and
‘‘(6) perform such other actions as the Sec-
retary determines appropriate.
‘‘(b) NUMBER OF ATTACHÉS.—The number of
Treasury attachés appointed under this section
at any one time shall be not fewer than 6 more
employees than the number of employees of the
Department of the Treasury serving as Treasury
attachés on March 1, 2019.
‘‘(c) COMPENSATION.—Each Treasury attaché
appointed under this section and located at a
United States embassy shall receive compensa-
tion at the higher of—
‘‘(1) the rate of compensation provided to a
Foreign Service officer at a comparable career
level serving at the same embassy; or
‘‘(2) the rate of compensation the Treasury
attaché would otherwise have received, absent
the application of this subsection.
‘‘(d) BANK SECRECY ACT DEFINED.—In this
section, the term ‘Bank Secrecy Act’ has the
meaning given that term under section 5312.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of con-
tents for chapter 3 of title 31, United States
Code, is amended by inserting after the item re-
lating to section 315 the following:
‘‘316. Treasury Attachés Program.’’.
SEC. 107. INCREASING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
FOR INTERNATIONAL COOPERA-
TION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—There is authorized to be
appropriated for each of fiscal years 2020
through 2024 to the Secretary of the Treasury
for purposes of providing technical assistance
that promotes compliance with international
standards and best practices, including in par-
ticular those aimed at the establishment of effec-
tive anti-money laundering and countering the
financing of terrorism regimes, in an amount
equal to twice the amount authorized for such
purpose for fiscal year 2019.
(b) ACTIVITY AND EVALUATION REPORT.—Not
later than 360 days after enactment of this Act,
and every year thereafter for five years, the Sec-
retary of the Treasury shall issue a report to the
Congress on the assistance (as described under
subsection (a)) of the Office of Technical Assist-
ance of the Department of the Treasury con-
taining—
(1) a narrative detailing the strategic goals of
the Office in the previous year, with an expla-
nation of how technical assistance provided in
the previous year advances the goals;
(2) a description of technical assistance pro-
vided by the Office in the previous year, includ-
ing the objectives and delivery methods of the
assistance;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.001 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8330 October 22, 2019
(3) a list of beneficiaries and providers (other
than Office staff) of the technical assistance;
(4) a description of how technical assistance
provided by the Office complements, duplicates,
or otherwise affects or is affected by technical
assistance provided by the international finan-
cial institutions (as defined under section
1701(c) of the International Financial Institu-
tions Act); and
(5) a copy of any Federal Government survey
of staff perspectives at the Office of Technical
Assistance, including any findings regarding
the Office from the most recently administered
Federal Employee Viewpoint Survey.
SEC. 108. FINCEN DOMESTIC LIAISONS.
Section 310 of title 31, United States Code, as
amended by section 102, is further amended by
inserting after subsection (d) the following:
‘‘(e) FINCEN DOMESTIC LIAISONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Director of FinCEN
shall appoint at least 6 senior FinCEN employ-
ees as FinCEN Domestic Liaisons, who shall—
‘‘(A) each be assigned to focus on a specific
region of the United States;
‘‘(B) be located at an office in such region (or
co-located at an office of the Board of Gov-
ernors of the Federal Reserve System in such re-
gion); and
‘‘(C) perform outreach to BSA officers at fi-
nancial institutions (including non-bank finan-
cial institutions) and persons who are not fi-
nancial institutions, especially with respect to
actions taken by FinCEN that require specific
actions by, or have specific effects on, such in-
stitutions or persons, as determined by the Di-
rector.
‘‘(2) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
‘‘(A) BSA OFFICER.—The term ‘BSA officer’
means an employee of a financial institution
whose primary job responsibility involves com-
pliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, as such term
is defined under section 5312.
‘‘(B) FINANCIAL INSTITUTION.—The term ‘fi-
nancial institution’ has the meaning given that
term under section 5312.’’.
SEC. 109. FINCEN EXCHANGE.
Section 310 of title 31, United States Code, as
amended by section 108, is further amended by
inserting after subsection (e) the following:
‘‘(f) FINCEN EXCHANGE.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The FinCEN Exchange
is hereby established within FinCEN, which
shall consist of the FinCEN Exchange program
of FinCEN in existence on the day before the
date of enactment of this paragraph.
‘‘(2) PURPOSE.—The FinCEN Exchange shall
facilitate a voluntary public-private information
sharing partnership among law enforcement, fi-
nancial institutions, and FinCEN to—
‘‘(A) effectively and efficiently combat money
laundering, terrorism financing, organized
crime, and other financial crimes;
‘‘(B) protect the financial system from illicit
use; and
‘‘(C) promote national security.
‘‘(3) REPORT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of enactment of this subsection,
and annually thereafter for the next five years,
the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit to the
Committee on Financial Services of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate a re-
port containing—
‘‘(i) an analysis of the efforts undertaken by
the FinCEN Exchange and the results of such
efforts;
‘‘(ii) an analysis of the extent and effective-
ness of the FinCEN Exchange, including any
benefits realized by law enforcement from part-
nership with financial institutions; and
‘‘(iii) any legislative, administrative, or other
recommendations the Secretary may have to
strengthen FinCEN Exchange efforts.
‘‘(B) CLASSIFIED ANNEX.—Each report under
subparagraph (A) may include a classified
annex.
‘‘(4) INFORMATION SHARING REQUIREMENT.—
Information shared pursuant to this subsection
shall be shared in compliance with all other ap-
plicable Federal laws and regulations.
‘‘(5) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing under
this subsection may be construed to create new
information sharing authorities related to the
Bank Secrecy Act (as such term is defined under
section 5312 of title 31, United States Code).
‘‘(6) FINANCIAL INSTITUTION DEFINED.—In this
subsection, the term ‘financial institution’ has
the meaning given that term under section
5312.’’.
SEC. 110. STUDY AND STRATEGY ON TRADE-
BASED MONEY LAUNDERING.
(a) STUDY.—The Secretary of the Treasury
shall carry out a study, in consultation with ap-
propriate private sector stakeholders and Fed-
eral departments and agencies, on trade-based
money laundering.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than the end of the 1-
year period beginning on the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, the Secretary shall issue a re-
port to the Congress containing—
(1) all findings and determinations made in
carrying out the study required under sub-
section (a); and
(2) proposed strategies to combat trade-based
money laundering.
(c) CLASSIFIED ANNEX.—The report required
under this section may include a classified
annex.
(d) CONTRACTING AUTHORITY.—The Secretary
may contract with a private third-party to carry
out the study required under this section. The
authority of the Secretary to enter into con-
tracts under this subsection shall be in effect for
each fiscal year only to the extent and in the
amounts as are provided in advance in appro-
priations Acts.
SEC. 111. STUDY AND STRATEGY ON DE-RISKING.
(a) REVIEW.—The Secretary of the Treasury,
in consultation with appropriate private sector
stakeholders, examiners, and the Federal func-
tional regulators (as defined under section 103)
and other relevant stakeholders, shall under-
take a formal review of—
(1) any adverse consequences of financial in-
stitutions de-risking entire categories of rela-
tionships, including charities, embassy ac-
counts, money services businesses (as defined
under section 1010.100(ff) of title 31, Code of
Federal Regulations) and their agents, coun-
tries, international and domestic regions, and
respondent banks;
(2) the reasons why financial institutions are
engaging in de-risking;
(3) the association with and effects of de-risk-
ing on money laundering and financial crime
actors and activities;
(4) the most appropriate ways to promote fi-
nancial inclusion, particularly with respect to
developing countries, while maintaining compli-
ance with the Bank Secrecy Act, including an
assessment of policy options to—
(A) more effectively tailor Federal actions and
penalties to the size of foreign financial institu-
tions and any capacity limitations of foreign
governments; and
(B) reduce compliance costs that may lead to
the adverse consequences described in para-
graph (1);
(5) formal and informal feedback provided by
examiners that may have led to de-risking;
(6) the relationship between resources dedi-
cated to compliance and overall sophistication
of compliance efforts at entities that may be ex-
periencing de-risking versus those that have not
experienced de-risking; and
(7) any best practices from the private sector
that facilitate correspondent bank relationships.
(b) DE-RISKING STRATEGY.—The Secretary
shall develop a strategy to reduce de-risking and
adverse consequences related to de-risking.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than the end of the 1-
year period beginning on the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, the Secretary, in consultation
with the Federal functional regulators and
other relevant stakeholders, shall issue a report
to the Congress containing—
(1) all findings and determinations made in
carrying out the study required under sub-
section (a); and
(2) the strategy developed pursuant to sub-
section (b).
(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) DE-RISKING.—The term ‘‘de-risking’’ means
the wholesale closing of accounts or limiting of
financial services for a category of customer due
to unsubstantiated risk as it relates to compli-
ance with the Bank Secrecy Act.
(2) BSA TERMS.—The terms ‘‘Bank Secrecy
Act’’ and ‘‘financial institution’’ have the
meaning given those terms, respectively, under
section 5312 off title 31, United States Code.
SEC. 112. AML EXAMINATION AUTHORITY DELE-
GATION STUDY.
(a) STUDY.—The Secretary of the Treasury
shall carry out a study on the Secretary’s dele-
gation of examination authority under the Bank
Secrecy Act, including—
(1) an evaluation of the efficacy of the delega-
tion, especially with respect to the mission of
the Bank Secrecy Act;
(2) whether the delegated agencies have ap-
propriate resources to perform their delegated
responsibilities; and
(3) whether the examiners in delegated agen-
cies have sufficient training and support to per-
form their responsibilities.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than one year after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of the Treasury shall submit to the Committee
on Financial Services of the House of Represent-
atives and the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs of the Senate a report con-
taining—
(1) all findings and determinations made in
carrying out the study required under sub-
section (a); and
(2) recommendations to improve the efficacy of
delegation authority, including the potential for
de-delegation of any or all such authority where
it may be appropriate.
(c) BANK SECRECY ACT DEFINED.—The term
‘‘Bank Secrecy Act’’ has the meaning given that
term under section 5312 off title 31, United
States Code.
SEC. 113. STUDY AND STRATEGY ON CHINESE
MONEY LAUNDERING.
(a) STUDY.—The Secretary of the Treasury
shall carry out a study on the extent and effect
of Chinese money laundering activities in the
United States, including territories and posses-
sions of the United States, and worldwide.
(b) STRATEGY TO COMBAT CHINESE MONEY
LAUNDERING.—Upon the completion of the study
required under subsection (a), the Secretary
shall, in consultation with such other Federal
departments and agencies as the Secretary de-
termines appropriate, develop a strategy to com-
bat Chinese money laundering activities.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than the end of the 1-
year period beginning on the date of enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall
issue a report to Congress containing—
(1) all findings and determinations made in
carrying out the study required under sub-
section (a); and
(2) the strategy developed under subsection
(b).
TITLE J—IMPROVING AML/CFT
OVERSIGHT
SEC. 201. PILOT PROGRAM ON SHARING OF SUS-
PICIOUS ACTIVITY REPORTS WITHIN
A FINANCIAL GROUP.
(a) IN GENERAL.—
(1) SHARING WITH FOREIGN BRANCHES AND AF-
FILIATES.—Section 5318(g) of title 31, United
States Code, is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(5) PILOT PROGRAM ON SHARING WITH FOR-
EIGN BRANCHES, SUBSIDIARIES, AND AFFILIATES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the
Treasury shall issue rules establishing the pilot
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.001 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8331
October 22, 2019
program described under subparagraph (B), sub-
ject to such controls and restrictions as the Di-
rector of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Net-
work determines appropriate, including controls
and restrictions regarding participation by fi-
nancial institutions and jurisdictions in the
pilot program. In prescribing such rules, the
Secretary shall ensure that the sharing of infor-
mation described under such subparagraph (B)
is subject to appropriate standards and require-
ments regarding data security and the confiden-
tiality of personally identifiable information.
‘‘(B) PILOT PROGRAM DESCRIBED.—The pilot
program required under this paragraph shall—
‘‘(i) permit a financial institution with a re-
porting obligation under this subsection to share
reports (and information on such reports) under
this subsection with the institution’s foreign
branches, subsidiaries, and affiliates for the
purpose of combating illicit finance risks, not-
withstanding any other provision of law except
subparagraphs (A) and (C);
‘‘(ii) terminate on the date that is five years
after the date of enactment of this paragraph,
except that the Secretary may extend the pilot
program for up to two years upon submitting a
report to the Committee on Financial Services of
the House of Representatives and the Committee
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the
Senate that includes—
‘‘(I) a certification that the extension is in the
national interest of the United States, with a
detailed explanation of the reasons therefor;
‘‘(II) an evaluation of the usefulness of the
pilot program, including a detailed analysis of
any illicit activity identified or prevented as a
result of the program; and
‘‘(III) a detailed legislative proposal providing
for a long-term extension of the pilot program
activities, including expected budgetary re-
sources for the activities, if the Secretary deter-
mines that a long-term extension is appropriate.
‘‘(C) PROHIBITION INVOLVING CERTAIN JURIS-
DICTIONS.—In issuing the regulations required
under subparagraph (A), the Secretary may not
permit a financial institution to share informa-
tion on reports under this subsection with a for-
eign branch, subsidiary, or affiliate located in—
‘‘(i) the People’s Republic of China;
‘‘(ii) the Russian Federation; or
‘‘(iii) a jurisdiction that—
‘‘(I) is subject to countermeasures imposed by
the Federal Government;
‘‘(II) is a state sponsor of terrorism; or
‘‘(III) the Secretary has determined cannot
reasonably protect the privacy and confiden-
tiality of such information or would otherwise
use such information in a manner that is not
consistent with the national interest of the
United States.
‘‘(D) IMPLEMENTATION UPDATES.—Not later
than 360 days after the date rules are issued
under subparagraph (A), and annually there-
after for three years, the Secretary, or the Sec-
retary’s designee, shall brief the Committee on
Financial Services of the House of Representa-
tives and the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs of the Senate on—
‘‘(i) the degree of any information sharing
permitted under the pilot program, and a de-
scription of criteria used by the Secretary to
evaluate the appropriateness of the information
sharing;
‘‘(ii) the effectiveness of the pilot program in
identifying or preventing the violation of a
United States law or regulation, and mecha-
nisms that may improve such effectiveness; and
‘‘(iii) any recommendations to amend the de-
sign of the pilot program.
‘‘(E) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this
paragraph shall be construed as limiting the
Secretary’s authority under provisions of law
other than this paragraph to establish other
permissible purposes or methods for a financial
institution sharing reports (and information on
such reports) under this subsection with the in-
stitution’s foreign headquarters or with other
branches of the same institution.
‘‘(F) NOTICE OF USE OF OTHER AUTHORITY.—If
the Secretary, pursuant to any authority other
than that provided under this paragraph, per-
mits a financial institution to share information
on reports under this subsection with a foreign
branch, subsidiary, or affiliate located in a for-
eign jurisdiction, the Secretary shall notify the
Committee on Financial Services of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs of such permission
and the applicable foreign jurisdiction.
‘‘(6) TREATMENT OF FOREIGN JURISDICTION-
ORIGINATED REPORTS.—A report received by a fi-
nancial institution from a foreign affiliate with
respect to a suspicious transaction relevant to a
possible violation of law or regulation shall be
subject to the same confidentiality requirements
provided under this subsection for a report of a
suspicious transaction described under para-
graph (1).’’.
(2) NOTIFICATION PROHIBITIONS.—Section
5318(g)(2)(A) of title 31, United States Code, is
amended—
(A) in clause (i), by inserting after ‘‘trans-
action has been reported’’ the following: ‘‘or
otherwise reveal any information that would re-
veal that the transaction has been reported’’;
and
(B) in clause (ii), by inserting after ‘‘trans-
action has been reported,’’ the following: ‘‘or
otherwise reveal any information that would re-
veal that the transaction has been reported,’’.
(b) RULEMAKING.—Not later than the end of
the 360-day period beginning on the date of en-
actment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treas-
ury shall issue regulations to carry out the
amendments made by this section.
SEC. 202. SHARING OF COMPLIANCE RESOURCES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 5318 of title 31,
United States Code, is amended by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘(o) SHARING OF COMPLIANCE RESOURCES.—
‘‘(1) SHARING PERMITTED.—Two or more finan-
cial institutions may enter into collaborative ar-
rangements in order to more efficiently comply
with the requirements of this subchapter.
‘‘(2) OUTREACH.—The Secretary of the Treas-
ury and the appropriate supervising agencies
shall carry out an outreach program to provide
financial institutions with information, includ-
ing best practices, with respect to the sharing of
resources described under paragraph (1).’’.
(b) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—The amendment
made by subsection (a) may not be construed to
require financial institutions to share resources.
SEC. 203. GAO STUDY ON FEEDBACK LOOPS.
(a) STUDY.—The Comptroller General of the
United States shall carry out a study on—
(1) best practices within the United States
Government for providing feedback (‘‘feedback
loop’’) to relevant parties (including regulated
private entities) on the usage and usefulness of
personally identifiable information (‘‘PII’’), sen-
sitive-but-unclassified (‘‘SBU’’) data, or similar
information provided by such parties to Govern-
ment users of such information and data (in-
cluding law enforcement or regulators); and
(2) any practices or standards inside or out-
side the United States for providing feedback
through sensitive information and public-pri-
vate partnership information sharing efforts,
specifically related to efforts to combat money
laundering and other forms of illicit finance.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than the end of the 18-
month period beginning on the date of the en-
actment of this Act, the Comptroller General
shall issue a report to the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate
and the Committee on Financial Services of the
House of Representatives containing—
(1) all findings and determinations made in
carrying out the study required under sub-
section (a);
(2) with respect to each of paragraphs (1) and
(2) of subsection (a), any best practices or sig-
nificant concerns identified by the Comptroller
General, and their applicability to public-pri-
vate partnerships and feedback loops with re-
spect to U.S. efforts to combat money laundering
and other forms of illicit finance; and
(3) recommendations to reduce or eliminate
any unnecessary Government collection of the
information described under subsection (a)(1).
SEC. 204. FINCEN STUDY ON BSA VALUE.
(a) STUDY.—The Director of the Financial
Crimes Enforcement Network shall carry out a
study on Bank Secrecy Act value.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than the end of the 30-
day period beginning on the date the study
under subsection (a) is completed, the Director
shall issue a report to the Committee on Finan-
cial Services of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs of the Senate containing all find-
ings and determinations made in carrying out
the study required under this section.
(c) CLASSIFIED ANNEX.—The report required
under this section may include a classified
annex, if the Director determines it appropriate.
(d) BANK SECRECY ACT DEFINED.—For pur-
poses of this section, the term ‘‘Bank Secrecy
Act’’ has the meaning given that term under
section 5312 of title 31, United States Code.
SEC. 205. SHARING OF THREAT PATTERN AND
TREND INFORMATION.
Section 5318(g) of title 31, United States Code,
as amended by section 201(a)(1), is further
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(7) SHARING OF THREAT PATTERN AND TREND
INFORMATION.—
‘‘(A) SAR ACTIVITY REVIEW.—The Director of
the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
shall restart publication of the ‘SAR Activity
Review – Trends, Tips & Issues’, on not less
than a semi-annual basis, to provide meaningful
information about the preparation, use, and
value of reports filed under this subsection by fi-
nancial institutions, as well as other reports
filed by financial institutions under the Bank
Secrecy Act.
‘‘(B) INCLUSION OF TYPOLOGIES.—In each pub-
lication described under subparagraph (A), the
Director shall provide financial institutions
with typologies, including data that can be
adapted in algorithms (including for artificial
intelligence and machine learning programs)
where appropriate, on emerging money laun-
dering and counter terror financing threat pat-
terns and trends.
‘‘(C) TYPOLOGY DEFINED.—For purposes of
this paragraph, the term ‘typology’ means the
various techniques used to launder money or fi-
nance terrorism.’’.
SEC. 206. MODERNIZATION AND UPGRADING
WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTIONS.
(a) REWARDS.—Section 5323(d) of title 31,
United States Code, is amended to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘(d) SOURCE OF REWARDS.—For the purposes
of paying a reward under this section, the Sec-
retary may, subject to amounts made available
in advance by appropriation Acts, use criminal
fine, civil penalty, or forfeiture amounts recov-
ered based on the original information with re-
spect to which the reward is being paid.’’.
(b) WHISTLEBLOWER INCENTIVES.—
Chapter 53 of title 31, United States Code, is
amended—
(1) by inserting after section 5323 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘§ 5323A. Whistleblower incentives
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) COVERED JUDICIAL OR ADMINISTRATIVE
ACTION.—The term ‘covered judicial or adminis-
trative action’ means any judicial or adminis-
trative action brought by FinCEN under the
Bank Secrecy Act that results in monetary sanc-
tions exceeding $1,000,000.
‘‘(2) FINCEN.—The term ‘FinCEN’ means the
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network.
‘‘(3) MONETARY SANCTIONS.—The term ‘mone-
tary sanctions’, when used with respect to any
judicial or administrative action, means—
‘‘(A) any monies, including penalties,
disgorgement, and interest, ordered to be paid;
and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.001 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8332 October 22, 2019
‘‘(B) any monies deposited into a
disgorgement fund as a result of such action or
any settlement of such action.
‘‘(4) ORIGINAL INFORMATION.—The term ‘origi-
nal information’ means information that—
‘‘(A) is derived from the independent knowl-
edge or analysis of a whistleblower;
‘‘(B) is not known to FinCEN from any other
source, unless the whistleblower is the original
source of the information; and
‘‘(C) is not exclusively derived from an allega-
tion made in a judicial or administrative hear-
ing, in a governmental report, hearing, audit, or
investigation, or from the news media, unless
the whistleblower is a source of the information.
‘‘(5) RELATED ACTION.—The term ‘related ac-
tion’, when used with respect to any judicial or
administrative action brought by FinCEN,
means any judicial or administrative action that
is based upon original information provided by
a whistleblower that led to the successful en-
forcement of the action.
‘‘(6) SECRETARY.—The term ‘Secretary’ means
the Secretary of the Treasury.
‘‘(7) WHISTLEBLOWER.—The term ‘whistle-
blower’ means any individual who provides, or
2 or more individuals acting jointly who pro-
vide, information relating to a violation of laws
enforced by FinCEN, in a manner established,
by rule or regulation, by FinCEN.
‘‘(b) AWARDS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In any covered judicial or
administrative action, or related action, the Sec-
retary, under such rules as the Secretary may
issue and subject to subsection (c), shall pay an
award or awards to 1 or more whistleblowers
who voluntarily provided original information
to FinCEN that led to the successful enforce-
ment of the covered judicial or administrative
action, or related action, in an aggregate
amount equal to not more than 30 percent, in
total, of what has been collected of the mone-
tary sanctions imposed in the action.
‘‘(2) SOURCE OF AWARDS.—For the purposes of
paying any award under paragraph (1), the
Secretary may, subject to amounts made avail-
able in advance by appropriation Acts, use mon-
etary sanction amounts recovered based on the
original information with respect to which the
award is being paid.
‘‘(c) DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT OF AWARD;
DENIAL OF AWARD.—
‘‘(1) DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT OF AWARD.—
‘‘(A) DISCRETION.—The determination of the
amount of an award made under subsection (b)
shall be in the discretion of the Secretary.
‘‘(B) CRITERIA.—In responding to a disclosure
and determining the amount of an award made,
FinCEN staff shall meet with the whistleblower
to discuss evidence disclosed and rebuttals to
the disclosure, and shall take into consider-
ation—
‘‘(i) the significance of the information pro-
vided by the whistleblower to the success of the
covered judicial or administrative action;
‘‘(ii) the degree of assistance provided by the
whistleblower and any legal representative of
the whistleblower in a covered judicial or ad-
ministrative action;
‘‘(iii) the mission of FinCEN in deterring vio-
lations of the law by making awards to whistle-
blowers who provide information that lead to
the successful enforcement of such laws; and
‘‘(iv) such additional relevant factors as the
Secretary may establish by rule.
‘‘(2) DENIAL OF AWARD.—No award under sub-
section (b) shall be made—
‘‘(A) to any whistleblower who is, or was at
the time the whistleblower acquired the original
information submitted to FinCEN, a member, of-
ficer, or employee of—
‘‘(i) an appropriate regulatory agency;
‘‘(ii) the Department of Justice;
‘‘(iii) a self-regulatory organization; or
‘‘(iv) a law enforcement organization;
‘‘(B) to any whistleblower who is convicted of
a criminal violation, or who the Secretary has a
reasonable basis to believe committed a criminal
violation, related to the judicial or administra-
tive action for which the whistleblower other-
wise could receive an award under this section;
‘‘(C) to any whistleblower who gains the in-
formation through the performance of an audit
of financial statements required under the Bank
Secrecy Act and for whom such submission
would be contrary to its requirements; or
‘‘(D) to any whistleblower who fails to submit
information to FinCEN in such form as the Sec-
retary may, by rule, require.
‘‘(3) STATEMENT OF REASONS.—For any deci-
sion granting or denying an award, the Sec-
retary shall provide to the whistleblower a state-
ment of reasons that includes findings of fact
and conclusions of law for all material issues.
‘‘(d) REPRESENTATION.—
‘‘(1) PERMITTED REPRESENTATION.—Any whis-
tleblower who makes a claim for an award
under subsection (b) may be represented by
counsel.
‘‘(2) REQUIRED REPRESENTATION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Any whistleblower who
anonymously makes a claim for an award under
subsection (b) shall be represented by counsel if
the whistleblower anonymously submits the in-
formation upon which the claim is based.
‘‘(B) DISCLOSURE OF IDENTITY.—Prior to the
payment of an award, a whistleblower shall dis-
close their identity and provide such other in-
formation as the Secretary may require, directly
or through counsel for the whistleblower.
‘‘(e) APPEALS.—Any determination made
under this section, including whether, to whom,
or in what amount to make awards, shall be in
the discretion of the Secretary. Any such deter-
mination, except the determination of the
amount of an award if the award was made in
accordance with subsection (b), may be ap-
pealed to the appropriate court of appeals of the
United States not more than 30 days after the
determination is issued by the Secretary. The
court shall review the determination made by
the Secretary in accordance with section 706 of
title 5.
‘‘(f) EMPLOYEE PROTECTIONS.—The Secretary
of the Treasury shall issue regulations pro-
tecting a whistleblower from retaliation, which
shall be as close as practicable to the employee
protections provided for under section 1057 of
the Consumer Financial Protection Act of
2010.’’; and
(2) in the table of contents for such chapter,
by inserting after the item relating to section
5323 the following new item:
‘‘5323A. Whistleblower incentives.’’.
SEC. 207. CERTAIN VIOLATORS BARRED FROM
SERVING ON BOARDS OF UNITED
STATES FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS.
Section 5321 of title 31, United States Code, is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(f) CERTAIN VIOLATORS BARRED FROM SERV-
ING ON BOARDS OF UNITED STATES FINANCIAL IN-
STITUTIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—An individual found to
have committed an egregious violation of a pro-
vision of (or rule issued under) the Bank Se-
crecy Act shall be barred from serving on the
board of directors of a United States financial
institution for a 10-year period beginning on the
date of such finding.
‘‘(2) EGREGIOUS VIOLATION DEFINED.—With re-
spect to an individual, the term ‘egregious viola-
tion’ means—
‘‘(A) a felony criminal violation for which the
individual was convicted; and
‘‘(B) a civil violation where the individual
willfully committed such violation and the vio-
lation facilitated money laundering or the fi-
nancing of terrorism.’’.
SEC. 208. ADDITIONAL DAMAGES FOR REPEAT
BANK SECRECY ACT VIOLATORS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 5321 of title 31,
United States Code, as amended by section 208,
is further amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(g) ADDITIONAL DAMAGES FOR REPEAT VIO-
LATORS.—In addition to any other fines per-
mitted by this section and section 5322, with re-
spect to a person who has previously been con-
victed of a criminal provision of (or rule issued
under) the Bank Secrecy Act or who has admit-
ted, as part of a deferred- or non-prosecution
agreement, to having previously committed a
violation of a criminal provision of (or rule
issued under) the Bank Secrecy Act, the Sec-
retary may impose an additional civil penalty
against such person for each additional such
violation in an amount equal to up three times
the profit gained or loss avoided by such person
as a result of the violation.’’.
(b) PROSPECTIVE APPLICATION OF AMEND-
MENT.—For purposes of determining whether a
person has committed a previous violation under
section 5321(g) of title 31, United States Code,
such determination shall only include violations
occurring after the date of enactment of this
Act.
SEC. 209. JUSTICE ANNUAL REPORT ON DE-
FERRED AND NON-PROSECUTION
AGREEMENTS.
(a) ANNUAL REPORT.—The Attorney General
shall issue an annual report, every year for the
five years beginning on the date of enactment of
this Act, to the Committees on Financial Serv-
ices and the Judiciary of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Committees on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs and the Judiciary
of the Senate containing—
(1) a list of deferred prosecution agreements
and non-prosecution agreements that the Attor-
ney General has entered into during the pre-
vious year with any person with respect to a
violation or suspected violation of the Bank Se-
crecy Act;
(2) the justification for entering into each
such agreement;
(3) the list of factors that were taken into ac-
count in determining that the Attorney General
should enter into each such agreement; and
(4) the extent of coordination the Attorney
General conducted with the Financial Crimes
Enforcement Network prior to entering into each
such agreement.
(b) CLASSIFIED ANNEX.—Each report under
subsection (a) may include a classified annex.
(c) BANK SECRECY ACT DEFINED.—For pur-
poses of this section, the term ‘‘Bank Secrecy
Act’’ has the meaning given that term under
section 5312 of title 31, United States Code.
SEC. 210. RETURN OF PROFITS AND BONUSES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 5322 of title 31,
United States Code, is amended by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘(e) RETURN OF PROFITS AND BONUSES.—A
person convicted of violating a provision of (or
rule issued under) the Bank Secrecy Act shall—
‘‘(1) in addition to any other fine under this
section, be fined in an amount equal to the prof-
it gained by such person by reason of such vio-
lation, as determined by the court; and
‘‘(2) if such person is an individual who was
a partner, director, officer, or employee of a fi-
nancial institution at the time the violation oc-
curred, repay to such financial institution any
bonus paid to such individual during the Fed-
eral fiscal year in which the violation occurred
or the Federal fiscal year after which the viola-
tion occurred.’’.
(b) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—The amendment
made by subsection (a) may not be construed to
prohibit a financial institution from requiring
the repayment of a bonus paid to a partner, di-
rector, officer, or employee if the financial insti-
tution determines that the partner, director, of-
ficer, or employee engaged in unethical, but
non-criminal, activities.
SEC. 211. APPLICATION OF BANK SECRECY ACT
TO DEALERS IN ANTIQUITIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 5312(a)(2) of title 31,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (Y), by striking ‘‘or’’ at
the end;
(2) by redesignating subparagraph (Z) as sub-
paragraph (AA); and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.001 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8333
October 22, 2019
(3) by inserting after subsection (Y) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(Z) a person trading or acting as an inter-
mediary in the trade of antiquities, including an
advisor, consultant or any other person who en-
gages as a business in the solicitation of the sale
of antiquities; or’’.
(b) STUDY ON THE FACILITATION OF MONEY
LAUNDERING AND TERROR FINANCE THROUGH
THE TRADE OF WORKS OF ART OR ANTIQUITIES.—
(1) STUDY.—The Secretary of the Treasury, in
coordination with Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion, the Attorney General, and Homeland Secu-
rity Investigations, shall perform a study on the
facilitation of money laundering and terror fi-
nance through the trade of works of art or an-
tiquities, including an analysis of—
(A) the extent to which the facilitation of
money laundering and terror finance through
the trade of works of art or antiquities may
enter or affect the financial system of the
United States, including any qualitative data or
statistics;
(B) whether thresholds and definitions should
apply in determining which entities to regulate;
(C) an evaluation of which markets, by size,
entity type, domestic or international geo-
graphical locations, or otherwise, should be sub-
ject to regulations, but only to the extent such
markets are not already required to report on
the trade of works of art or antiquities to the
Federal Government;
(D) an evaluation of whether certain exemp-
tions should apply; and
(E) any other points of study or analysis the
Secretary determines necessary or appropriate.
(2) REPORT.—Not later than the end of the
180-day period beginning on the date of the en-
actment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treas-
ury shall issue a report to the Committee on Fi-
nancial Services of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs of the Senate containing all find-
ings and determinations made in carrying out
the study required under paragraph (1).
(c) RULEMAKING.—Not later than the end of
the 180-day period beginning on the date the
Secretary issues the report required under sub-
section (b)(2), the Secretary shall issue regula-
tions to carry out the amendments made by sub-
section (a).
SEC. 212. GEOGRAPHIC TARGETING ORDER.
The Secretary of the Treasury shall issue a
geographic targeting order, similar to the order
issued by the Financial Crimes Enforcement
Network on November 15, 2018, that—
(1) applies to commercial real estate to the
same extent, with the exception of having the
same thresholds, as the order issued by FinCEN
on November 15, 2018, applies to residential real
estate; and
(2) establishes a specific threshold for commer-
cial real estate.
SEC. 213. STUDY AND REVISIONS TO CURRENCY
TRANSACTION REPORTS AND SUS-
PICIOUS ACTIVITY REPORTS.
(a) CURRENCY TRANSACTION REPORTS.—
(1) CTR INDEXED FOR INFLATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Every 5 years after the date
of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the
Treasury shall revise regulations issued with re-
spect to section 5313 of title 31, United States
Code, to update each $10,000 threshold amount
in such regulation to reflect the change in the
Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers
published by the Department of Labor, rounded
to the nearest $100. For purposes of calculating
the change described in the previous sentence,
the Secretary shall use $10,000 as the base
amount and the date of enactment of this Act as
the base date.
(B) EXCEPTION.—Notwithstanding subpara-
graph (A), the Secretary may make appropriate
adjustments to the threshold amounts described
under subparagraph (A) in high-risk areas (e.g.,
High Intensity Financial Crime Areas or
HIFCAs), if the Secretary has demonstrable evi-
dence that shows a threshold raise would in-
crease serious crimes, such as trafficking, or en-
danger national security.
(2) GAO CTR STUDY.—
(A) STUDY.—The Comptroller General of the
United States shall carry out a study of cur-
rency transaction reports. Such study shall in-
clude—
(i) a review (carried out in consultation with
the Secretary of the Treasury, the Financial
Crimes Enforcement Network, the United States
Attorney General, the State Attorneys General,
and State, Tribal, and local law enforcement) of
the effectiveness of the current currency trans-
action reporting regime;
(ii) an analysis of the importance of currency
transaction reports to law enforcement; and
(iii) an analysis of the effects of raising the
currency transaction report threshold.
(B) REPORT.—Not later than the end of the 1-
year period beginning on the date of enactment
of this Act, the Comptroller General shall issue
a report to the Secretary of the Treasury and
the Congress containing—
(i) all findings and determinations made in
carrying out the study required under subpara-
graph (A); and
(ii) recommendations for improving the cur-
rent currency transaction reporting regime.
(b) MODIFIED SARS STUDY AND DESIGN.—
(1) STUDY.—The Director of the Financial
Crimes Enforcement Network shall carry out a
study, in consultation with industry stake-
holders (including money services businesses,
community banks, and credit unions), regu-
lators, and law enforcement, of the design of a
modified suspicious activity report form for cer-
tain customers and activities. Such study shall
include—
(A) an examination of appropriate optimal
SARs thresholds to determine the level at which
a modified SARs form could be employed;
(B) an evaluation of which customers or
transactions would be appropriate for a modi-
fied SAR, including—
(i) seasoned business customers;
(ii) financial technology (Fintech) firms;
(iii) structuring transactions; and
(iv) any other customer or transaction that
may be appropriate for a modified SAR; and
(C) an analysis of the most effective methods
to reduce the regulatory burden imposed on fi-
nancial institutions in complying with the Bank
Secrecy Act, including an analysis of the effect
of—
(i) modifying thresholds;
(ii) shortening forms;
(iii) combining Bank Secrecy Act forms;
(iv) filing reports in periodic batches; and
(v) any other method that may reduce the reg-
ulatory burden.
(2) STUDY CONSIDERATIONS.—In carrying out
the study required under paragraph (1), the Di-
rector shall seek to balance law enforcement pri-
orities, regulatory burdens experienced by fi-
nancial institutions, and the requirement for re-
ports to have a ‘‘high degree of usefulness to
law enforcement’’ under the Bank Secrecy Act.
(3) REPORT.—Not later than the end of the 1-
year period beginning on the date of enactment
of this Act, the Director shall issue a report to
Congress containing—
(A) all findings and determinations made in
carrying out the study required under sub-
section (a); and
(B) sample designs of modified SARs forms
based on the study results.
(4) CONTRACTING AUTHORITY.—The Director
may contract with a private third-party to carry
out the study required under this subsection.
The authority of the Director to enter into con-
tracts under this paragraph shall be in effect for
each fiscal year only to the extent and in the
amounts as are provided in advance in appro-
priations Acts.
(c) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this section:
(1) BANK SECRECY ACT.—The term ‘‘Bank Se-
crecy Act’’ has the meaning given that term
under section 5312 of title 31, United States
Code.
(2) REGULATORY BURDEN.—The term ‘‘regu-
latory burden’’ means the man-hours to com-
plete filings, cost of data collection and anal-
ysis, and other considerations of chapter 35 of
title 44, United States Code (commonly referred
to as the Paperwork Reduction Act).
(3) SAR; SUSPICIOUS ACTIVITY REPORT.—The
term ‘‘SAR’’ and ‘‘suspicious activity report’’
mean a report of a suspicious transaction under
section 5318(g) of title 31, United States Code.
(4) SEASONED BUSINESS CUSTOMER.—The term
‘‘seasoned business customer’’, shall have such
meaning as the Secretary of the Treasury shall
prescribe, which shall include any person that—
(A) is incorporated or organized under the
laws of the United States or any State, or is reg-
istered as, licensed by, or otherwise eligible to do
business within the United States, a State, or
political subdivision of a State;
(B) has maintained an account with a finan-
cial institution for a length of time as deter-
mined by the Secretary; and
(C) meet such other requirements as the Sec-
retary may determine necessary or appropriate.
SEC. 214. STREAMLINING REQUIREMENTS FOR
CURRENCY TRANSACTION REPORTS
AND SUSPICIOUS ACTIVITY RE-
PORTS.
(a) REVIEW.—The Secretary of the Treasury
(in consultation with Federal law enforcement
agencies, the Director of National Intelligence,
and the Federal functional regulators and in
consultation with other relevant stakeholders)
shall undertake a formal review of the current
financial institution reporting requirements
under the Bank Secrecy Act and its imple-
menting regulations and propose changes to fur-
ther reduce regulatory burdens, and ensure that
the information provided is of a ‘‘high degree of
usefulness’’ to law enforcement, as set forth
under section 5311 of title 31, United States
Code.
(b) CONTENTS.—The review required under
subsection (a) shall include a study of—
(1) whether the timeframe for filing a sus-
picious activity report should be increased from
30 days;
(2) whether or not currency transaction report
and suspicious activity report thresholds should
be tied to inflation or otherwise periodically be
adjusted;
(3) whether the circumstances under which a
financial institution determines whether to file
a ‘‘continuing suspicious activity report’’, or the
processes followed by a financial institution in
determining whether to file a ‘‘continuing sus-
picious activity report’’ (or both) can be nar-
rowed;
(4) analyzing the fields designated as ‘‘crit-
ical’’ on the suspicious activity report form and
whether the number of fields should be reduced;
(5) the increased use of exemption provisions
to reduce currency transaction reports that are
of little or no value to law enforcement efforts;
(6) the current financial institution reporting
requirements under the Bank Secrecy Act and
its implementing regulations and guidance; and
(7) such other items as the Secretary deter-
mines appropriate.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than the end of the
one year period beginning on the date of the en-
actment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treas-
ury, in consultation with law enforcement and
persons subject to Bank Secrecy Act require-
ments, shall issue a report to the Congress con-
taining all findings and determinations made in
carrying out the review required under sub-
section (a).
(d) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this sec-
tion:
(1) FEDERAL FUNCTIONAL REGULATOR.—The
term ‘‘Federal functional regulator’’ has the
meaning given that term under section 103.
(2) OTHER TERMS.—The terms ‘‘Bank Secrecy
Act’’ and ‘‘financial institution’’ have the
meaning given those terms, respectively, under
section 5312 of title 31, United States Code.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.001 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8334 October 22, 2019
TITLE K—MODERNIZING THE AML SYSTEM
SEC. 301. ENCOURAGING INNOVATION IN BSA
COMPLIANCE.
Section 5318 of title 31, United States Code, as
amended by section 202, is further amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(p) ENCOURAGING INNOVATION IN COMPLI-
ANCE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Federal functional reg-
ulators shall encourage financial institutions to
consider, evaluate, and, where appropriate, re-
sponsibly implement innovative approaches to
meet the requirements of this subchapter, in-
cluding through the use of innovation pilot pro-
grams.
‘‘(2) EXEMPTIVE RELIEF.—The Secretary, pur-
suant to subsection (a), may provide exemptions
from the requirements of this subchapter if the
Secretary determines such exemptions are nec-
essary to facilitate the testing and potential use
of new technologies and other innovations.
‘‘(3) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—This subsection
may not be construed to require financial insti-
tutions to consider, evaluate, or implement inno-
vative approaches to meet the requirements of
the Bank Secrecy Act.
‘‘(4) FEDERAL FUNCTIONAL REGULATOR DE-
FINED.—In this subsection, the term ‘Federal
functional regulator’ means the Board of Gov-
ernors of the Federal Reserve System, the Comp-
troller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit In-
surance Corporation, the National Credit Union
Administration, the Securities and Exchange
Commission, and the Commodity Futures Trad-
ing Commission.’’.
SEC. 302. INNOVATION LABS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter II of chapter 53
of title 31, United States Code, is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘§ 5333. Innovation Labs
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
within the Department of the Treasury and
each Federal functional regulator an Innova-
tion Lab.
‘‘(b) DIRECTOR.—The head of each Innovation
Lab shall be a Director, to be appointed by the
Secretary of the Treasury or the head of the
Federal functional regulator, as applicable.
‘‘(c) DUTIES.—The duties of the Innovation
Lab shall be—
‘‘(1) to provide outreach to law enforcement
agencies, financial institutions, and other per-
sons (including vendors and technology compa-
nies) with respect to innovation and new tech-
nologies that may be used to comply with the re-
quirements of the Bank Secrecy Act;
‘‘(2) to support the implementation of respon-
sible innovation and new technology, in a man-
ner that complies with the requirements of the
Bank Secrecy Act;
‘‘(3) to explore opportunities for public-private
partnerships; and
‘‘(4) to develop metrics of success.
‘‘(d) FINCEN LAB.—The Innovation Lab es-
tablished under subsection (a) within the De-
partment of the Treasury shall be a lab within
the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network.
‘‘(e) FEDERAL FUNCTIONAL REGULATOR DE-
FINED.—In this subsection, the term ‘Federal
functional regulator’ means the Board of Gov-
ernors of the Federal Reserve System, the Comp-
troller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit In-
surance Corporation, the National Credit Union
Administration, the Securities and Exchange
Commission, and the Commodity Futures Trad-
ing Commission.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of con-
tents for subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31,
United States Code, is amended by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘5333. Innovation Labs.’’.
SEC. 303. INNOVATION COUNCIL.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter II of chapter 53
of Title 31, United States Code, as amended by
section 302, is further amended by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘§ 5334. Innovation Council
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
the Innovation Council (hereinafter in this sec-
tion referred to as the ‘Council’), which shall
consist of each Director of an Innovation Lab
established under section 5334 and the Director
of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network.
‘‘(b) CHAIR.—The Director of the Innovation
Lab of the Department of the Treasury shall
serve as the Chair of the Council.
‘‘(c) DUTY.—The members of the Council shall
coordinate on activities related to innovation
under the Bank Secrecy Act, but may not sup-
plant individual agency determinations on inno-
vation.
‘‘(d) MEETINGS.—The meetings of the Coun-
cil—
‘‘(1) shall be at the call of the Chair, but in no
case may the Council meet less than semi-annu-
ally;
‘‘(2) may include open and closed sessions, as
determined necessary by the Council; and
‘‘(3) shall include participation by public and
private entities and law enforcement agencies.
‘‘(e) REPORT.—The Council shall issue an an-
nual report, for each of the 7 years beginning on
the date of enactment of this section, to the Sec-
retary of the Treasury on the activities of the
Council during the previous year, including the
success of programs as measured by metrics of
success developed pursuant to section 5334(c)(4),
and any regulatory or legislative recommenda-
tions that the Council may have.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of con-
tents for subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31,
United States Code, is amended by adding the
end the following:
‘‘5334. Innovation Council.’’.
SEC. 304. TESTING METHODS RULEMAKING.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 5318 of title 31,
United States Code, as amended by section 301,
is further amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(q) TESTING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the Treas-
ury, in consultation with the head of each agen-
cy to which the Secretary has delegated duties
or powers under subsection (a), shall issue a
rule to specify—
‘‘(A) with respect to technology and related
technology-internal processes (‘new technology’)
designed to facilitate compliance with the Bank
Secrecy Act requirements, the standards by
which financial institutions are to test new
technology; and
‘‘(B) in what instances or under what cir-
cumstance and criteria a financial institution
may replace or terminate legacy technology and
processes for any examinable technology or
process without the replacement or termination
being determined an examination deficiency.
‘‘(2) STANDARDS.—The standards described
under paragraph (1) may include—
‘‘(A) an emphasis on using innovative ap-
proaches, such as machine learning, rather than
rules-based systems;
‘‘(B) risk-based back-testing of the regime to
facilitate calibration of relevant systems;
‘‘(C) requirements for appropriate data pri-
vacy and security; and
‘‘(D) a requirement that the algorithms used
by the regime be disclosed to the Financial
Crimes Enforcement Network, upon request.
‘‘(3) CONFIDENTIALITY OF ALGORITHMS.—If a
financial institution or any director, officer, em-
ployee, or agent of any financial institution,
voluntarily or pursuant to this subsection or
any other authority, discloses the institution’s
algorithms to a Government agency, such algo-
rithms and any materials associated with the
creation of such algorithms shall be considered
confidential and not subject to public disclo-
sure.’’.
(b) UPDATE OF MANUAL.—The Financial Insti-
tutions Examination Council shall ensure—
(1) that any manual prepared by the Council
is updated to reflect the rulemaking required by
the amendment made by subsection (a); and
(2) that financial institutions are not penal-
ized for the decisions based on such rulemaking
to replace or terminate technology used for com-
pliance with the Bank Secrecy Act (as defined
under section 5312 of title 31, United States
Code) or other anti-money laundering laws.
SEC. 305. FINCEN STUDY ON USE OF EMERGING
TECHNOLOGIES.
(a) STUDY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Director of the Finan-
cial Crimes Enforcement Network (‘‘FinCEN’’)
shall carry out a study on—
(A) the status of implementation and internal
use of emerging technologies, including artificial
intelligence (‘‘AI’’), digital identity tech-
nologies, blockchain technologies, and other in-
novative technologies within FinCEN;
(B) whether AI, digital identity technologies,
blockchain technologies, and other innovative
technologies can be further leveraged to make
FinCEN’s data analysis more efficient and effec-
tive; and
(C) how FinCEN could better utilize AI, dig-
ital identity technologies, blockchain tech-
nologies, and other innovative technologies to
more actively analyze and disseminate the infor-
mation it collects and stores to provide inves-
tigative leads to Federal, State, Tribal, and local
law enforcement, and other Federal agencies
(collective, ‘‘Agencies’’), and better support its
ongoing investigations when referring a case to
the Agencies.
(2) INCLUSION OF GTO DATA.—The study re-
quired under this subsection shall include data
collected through the Geographic Targeting Or-
ders (‘‘GTO’’) program.
(3) CONSULTATION.—In conducting the study
required under this subsection, FinCEN shall
consult with the Directors of the Innovations
Labs established in section 302.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than the end of the 6-
month period beginning on the date of the en-
actment of this Act, the Director shall issue a re-
port to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Com-
mittee on Financial Services of the House of
Representatives containing—
(1) all findings and determinations made in
carrying out the study required under sub-
section (a);
(2) with respect to each of subparagraphs (A),
(B) and (C) of subsection (a)(1), any best prac-
tices or significant concerns identified by the
Director, and their applicability to AI, digital
identity technologies, blockchain technologies,
and other innovative technologies with respect
to U.S. efforts to combat money laundering and
other forms of illicit finance; and
(3) any policy recommendations that could fa-
cilitate and improve communication and coordi-
nation between the private sector, FinCEN, and
Agencies through the implementation of innova-
tive approaches, in order to meet their Bank Se-
crecy Act (as defined under section 5312 of title
31, United States Code) and anti-money laun-
dering compliance obligations.
SEC. 306. DISCRETIONARY SURPLUS FUNDS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 7(a)(3)(A) of the
Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 289(a)(3)(A)) is
amended by striking ‘‘$6,825,000,000’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘$6,798,000,000’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made
by subsection (a) shall take effect on September
30, 2029.
The Acting CHAIR. No further
amendment to the bill, as amended,
shall be in order except those printed
in part B of House Report 116–247. Each
such further amendment may be of-
fered only in the order printed in the
report, may be offered only by a Mem-
ber designated in the report, shall be
considered as read, shall be debatable
for the time specified in the report
equally divided and controlled by the
proponent and an opponent, shall not
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.001 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8335
October 22, 2019
be subject to amendment, and shall not
be subject to a demand for division of
the question.
AMENDMENT NO. 1 OFFERED BY MR. BURGESS
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 1 printed in
part B of House Report 116–247.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 36, after line 8, insert the following:
(d) ANNUAL REPORT ON BENEFICIAL OWNER-
SHIP INFORMATION.—
(1) REPORT.—The Secretary of the Treasury
shall issue an annual report to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the
Senate with respect to the beneficial owner-
ship information collected pursuant to sec-
tion 5333 of title 31, United States Code, that
contains—
(A) aggregate data on the number of bene-
ficial owners per reporting corporation or
limited liability company;
(B) the industries or type of business of
each reporting corporation or limited liabil-
ity company; and
(C) the locations of the beneficial owners.
(2) PRIVACY.—In issuing reports under
paragraph (1), the Secretary shall not reveal
the identities of beneficial owners or names
of the reporting corporations or limited li-
ability companies.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 646, the gentleman
from Texas (Mr. BURGESS) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Texas.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Chairman,
amendment No. 1 to H.R. 2513 requires
an annual report to Congress of
anonymized, aggregate data on the
number of beneficial owners per report-
ing corporation or limited liability
company, the industry of each report-
ing corporation or limited liability
company, and the location of the bene-
ficial owners.
One of the greatest beneficiaries of
the crisis on our southern border has
been the cartels and coyotes. They
charge from $6,000 to $10,000 to smuggle
people into our country who do not
have legal documentation.
Despite the danger, these individuals
borrow money from normal banks in
their home country. Their family
members put up collateral—their
farms, their houses—to pay these car-
tels and coyotes. If the individual
makes it into the United States, they
will send remittances home through
the same legitimate financial trans-
action to pay back those family loans.
Throughout this process, the coyotes
and cartels are making a significant
amount of money off of these very vul-
nerable individuals. While many of
them likely deal mostly in cash, the
possibility exists that they are using
shell companies to store or move this
illicit money.
Providing data to Congress on how
many beneficial owners are behind a
company, the industries of the report-
ing companies, and the locations of the
beneficial owners will help identify
trends and patterns that could aid in
the fight to combat money laundering
and the financing of human trafficking.
We should not be facilitating coyotes
and cartels to take advantage of des-
perate people. Providing this aggre-
gate, anonymized data to Congress will
provide some transparency on the net-
works behind the illicit financing of
human and drug smuggling and other
nefarious financial activities.
I urge the support of this amend-
ment, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chair, I claim the
time in opposition, although I do not
oppose the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentlewoman from California
is recognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chairman, the
Burgess amendment would require an
annual report to Congress that exam-
ines the aggregated submissions to the
beneficial ownership database, thus
providing a snapshot of the size, type,
and location of reporting entities.
I agree that an examination of this
data will be helpful to FinCEN as it
contemplates rulemakings and to Con-
gress should we consider future refine-
ments of the law. So I would encourage
Members to support the amendment.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Chairman, I urge
support of the amendment, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chairman, I yield
the balance of my time to the gentle-
woman from New York (Mrs. CAROLYN
B. MALONEY), the sponsor of this im-
portant legislation.
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. Mr. Chair, I support this amend-
ment, which would simply require
Treasury to submit an annual report to
Congress with basic statistics on the
beneficial ownership information that
is filed under the bill.
This is very similar to a recent re-
port that the U.K. conducted, that they
started collecting beneficial informa-
tion. The U.K.’s report was very helpful
because it highlighted that the vast
majority of companies have only one
beneficial owner, which makes compli-
ance with the bill extremely easy.
I think that the data that Treasury
would be required to report to Congress
under this amendment would be helpful
in case we decide that we need to
tweak the bill in the future to address
any unforeseeable future issues that
arise.
So I want to thank the gentleman
from Texas for offering the amend-
ment. I think it is a very good idea,
and I urge my colleagues to support it
and to support the underlying bill,
which will increase national security
for our country.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chairman, I yield
back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. BURGESS).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chairman, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from Texas will be post-
poned.
AMENDMENT NO. 2 OFFERED BY MR. HILL OF
ARKANSAS
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 2 printed in
part B of House Report 116–247.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Chair, I
have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 17, after line 19, insert the following:
‘‘(D) ACCESS PROCEDURES.—FinCEN shall
establish stringent procedures for the protec-
tion and proper use of beneficial ownership
information disclosed pursuant to subpara-
graph (B), including procedures to ensure
such information is not being inappropri-
ately accessed or misused by law enforce-
ment agencies.
‘‘(E) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—FinCEN shall
issue an annual report to Congress stating—
‘‘(i) the number of times law enforcement
agencies and financial institutions have
accessed beneficial ownership information
pursuant to subparagraph (B);
‘‘(ii) the number of times beneficial owner-
ship information reported to FinCEN pursu-
ant to this section was inappropriately
accessed, and by whom; and
‘‘(iii) the number of times beneficial own-
ership information was disclosed under sub-
paragraph (B) pursuant to a subpoena.’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 646, the gentleman
from Arkansas (Mr. HILL) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Arkansas.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Chair, I
want to again thank my friend from
New York for her hard work on
crafting this legislation. While we have
had differences along the way, it is
critical that we strengthen our na-
tional security and AML BSA system
and strengthen the transparency of
beneficial ownership.
As I have previously discussed, I am
concerned with several aspects of the
bill, and I am offering this amendment
which I believe will help improve its
overall purpose.
When we heard testimony, a retired
FBI agent testified to our committee
acknowledging that law enforcement
wants this data, this new database at
FinCEN to search, essentially, without
a warrant or a subpoena.
My amendment would require the Fi-
nancial Crimes Enforcement Network
to develop stringent procedures around
the beneficial ownership database per-
taining to who and how it has been
accessed.
Per the bill’s requirements, many
businesses will be providing this infor-
mation into a repository that will con-
tain sensitive information. Who can ac-
cess and how they can access it should
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.048 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8336 October 22, 2019
have clearer guidelines and ensure that
this information is not being inappro-
priately accessed.
Additionally, the amendment re-
quires FinCEN to report to Congress,
annually, the number of times law en-
forcement, banks, or other parties ac-
cess the database, how many times it
was inappropriately accessed, and the
number of subpoenas obtained to gain
access to the database. This will ensure
that Congress maintains oversight of
the database and that banks or law en-
forcement are not abusing this new
system.
Our committee has heard hours of
testimony about Federal Government
data breaches over these years: OPM,
the SEC, IRS, CFPB. As such, we have
to make sure this information is as se-
cure as possible.
As previously mentioned, this infor-
mation is highly sensitive and should
remain extremely confidential to the
extent possible. As policymakers, we
have an obligation to our constituents
to ensure that we uphold their privacy,
and this amendment will better help us
achieve that goal.
I urge my colleagues to support this
commonsense amendment. It is good
for businesses, good for our bankers
and lawmakers, and, ultimately, good
for our citizens.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chair, I claim the
time in opposition, although I do not
oppose.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentlewoman from California
is recognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chairman, the Hill
amendment requires FinCEN to de-
velop protocols governing how law en-
forcement and others can access the
beneficial ownership database.
Today, in order for law enforcement
to access FinCEN’s Bank Secrecy Act
database, they must comply with a
stringent process requiring assessment,
training, and review.
H.R. 2513 also includes protocols gov-
erning access to the new beneficial
ownership database, including creating
an audit trail of the law enforcement
agencies that access the data.
Mr. HILL’s amendment would provide
an added measure of protection, rein-
forcing the importance of clear proce-
dures to ensure that such information
is not inappropriately accessed or mis-
used by law enforcement agencies. I
will vote in support of this amendment.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Chair-
man, may I ask how much time I have
remaining.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Arkansas has 21⁄2 minutes remain-
ing.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. I yield such
time as he may consume to the gen-
tleman from North Carolina (Mr.
MCHENRY).
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Chair, I appre-
ciate my colleague for yielding.
I do believe, notwithstanding the
lack of warrant or subpoena, the gen-
tleman’s amendment gives us greater
confidence that the agency and law en-
forcement officials will be using this
database more appropriately. I think
this is a necessary amendment for this
bill to move forward, though we still
have greater issues to contend with.
I appreciate the gentleman working
in such a constructive way and bipar-
tisan way.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chairman, I yield
the balance of my time to the gentle-
woman from New York (Mrs. CAROLYN
B. MALONEY), the sponsor of this im-
portant legislation.
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. Mr. Chairman, I support this
amendment, and I would like to thank
Mr. HILL for offering it.
This amendment would require
FinCEN to establish stringent proce-
dures to ensure the beneficial owner-
ship information isn’t being inappro-
priately accessed or misused by law en-
forcement agencies.
I believe the underlying bill already
addresses these issues—certainly, it
was the intent to protect against unau-
thorized access and misuse of bene-
ficial ownership information—but I am
not opposed to making that language
even more explicit.
His amendment would also require
FinCEN to submit an annual report to
Congress detailing the number of times
beneficial ownership information was
accessed, either by law enforcement or
by financial institutions.
b 1515
I think this information would be
very helpful because it would tell us
how useful the information is to both
law enforcement and financial institu-
tions. So while Mr. HILL and I have had
disagreements over this bill, I think
this amendment is a helpful addition to
the bill, and I want to thank him for
offering it.
I urge my colleagues to support it
and the underlying bill.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chairman, I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Chair-
man, I want to thank my friend from
New York for her working with me on
this amendment. I thank her for ac-
cepting it. And I want to thank the
Chair of the full committee for its re-
port.
I want to just close and emphasize
that under the law as drafted today
there are about 10,000 law-enforcement
qualified people that can access that
database. That is a lot of people, Mr.
Chair, that have access to this data-
base that we are concerned about in
making sure that it is maintained in a
very confidential manner.
I appreciate the consideration of the
amendment, and I appreciate its adop-
tion. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the
balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Arkansas (Mr. HILL).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 3 OFFERED BY MR. BROWN OF
MARYLAND
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 3 printed in
part B of House Report 116–247.
Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Mr. Chair,
I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 16, line 8, after ‘‘training,’’ insert the
following: ‘‘and refresher training no less
than every two years,’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 646, the gentleman
from Maryland (Mr. BROWN) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Maryland.
Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Mr. Chair,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
I want to thank my colleague from
California, the chairwoman of the com-
mittee, Chairwoman WATERS, for her
leadership on the Financial Services
Committee. And I want to recognize
the hard work of my colleague and
friend from New York, Chairwoman
CAROLYN B. MALONEY, on the under-
lying bill. I also want to thank you,
Representative MALONEY, for inviting
me last Congress to visit several Euro-
pean countries to explore and better
understand how those countries ad-
dress the problems that this bill seeks
to address.
Currently, no state requires compa-
nies to provide the identities of their
true beneficial owners. This lack of
oversight and transparency makes it
easy for criminals, dictators, and
kleptocrats to launder money, hide
their illicit activities, and invade law
enforcement through anonymous shell
companies.
These anonymous shell companies
can be used for everything from fund-
ing terrorist organizations, supporting
human traffickers, and helping corrupt
foreign leaders evade sanctions and
threaten our national security. These
so-called companies have no employ-
ees, no physical offices but are estab-
lished simply to access our banking
system.
The 2016 Panama Papers leak exposed
just how powerful and corrupt these
anonymous shell companies are. And
the United States is the only advanced
economy in the world that doesn’t al-
ready require this disclosure. To com-
bat this, this bill requires corporations
to disclose their beneficial owners at
the time the company is formed. This
is a commonsense requirement, consid-
ering you often need more documenta-
tion to get a library card than to start
a company or an LLC.
This bill provides much needed trans-
parency without being burdensome on
legitimate businesses. The bill also
protects the privacy of Americans by
ensuring law enforcement officials at
the State and Federal level with access
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:35 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.051 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8337
October 22, 2019
to this new information are properly
trained, have an existing investigatory
basis before searching, and maintain an
audit log.
Mr. Chair, my amendment strength-
ens and builds upon these protections.
It requires law enforcement officials
tasked with handling a beneficial own-
er’s personal information to go through
retraining at a minimum of every 2
years. This will ensure they are keep-
ing up with the latest rules, systems,
and processes and will lower the risk of
misuse or improper disclosure.
The retraining is critical to ensuring
that our law enforcement officials, at
all levels of government, are under-
taking best practices when handling
sensitive information during their in-
vestigations. Together we can finally
tackle the issues surrounding shell
companies and their opaque beneficial
ownership structure and give law en-
forcement the tools they need to track
the money that threatens our national
security.
I strongly encourage my colleagues
to support the underlying bill and my
amendment. I yield back the balance of
my time
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Chair, I claim
the time in opposition to the amend-
ment, even though I am not opposed to
it.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman from North Caro-
lina is recognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. MCHENRY. The gentleman’s
amendment would ensure that law en-
forcement professionals who access the
beneficial ownership’s database under-
stand the importance of protecting the
privacy of beneficial owners. I think
this is a necessary and proper addition
to the bill. I think this highlights the
fact that we don’t have the basic due
process rights or constitutional protec-
tions that we have under the FISA
court or under the Patriot Act.
The Wall Street Journal recently re-
ported that the FISA ‘‘court concluded
that in at least a handful of cases, the
FBI had been improperly searching a
database of raw intelligence for infor-
mation on Americans—raising con-
cerns about oversight of the program.’’
This refresher training is an impor-
tant step to ensure individuals who
have access to highly sensitive and pri-
vate information of millions of Ameri-
cans are properly trained. Authorized
users should only be able to access in-
formation for officially sanctioned
uses.
I thank the gentleman for offering
this amendment. And while this
amendment is not a sufficient replace-
ment for a warrant or subpoena, it rec-
ognizes that law enforcement must
know how to handle personal informa-
tion and the need to protect that infor-
mation. I urge its adoption.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Maryland (Mr. BROWN).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 4 OFFERED BY MR. LEVIN OF
MICHIGAN
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 4 printed in
part B of House Report 116–247.
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. Mr. Chair, I rise as the designee
of the gentleman from Michigan (Mr.
LEVIN) to offer amendment No. 4.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 17, after line 19, insert the following:
‘‘(D) DISCLOSURE OF NON-PII DATA.—Not-
withstanding subparagraph (B), FinCEN may
issue guidance and otherwise make mate-
rials available to financial institutions and
the public using beneficial ownership infor-
mation reported pursuant to this section if
such information is aggregated in a manner
that removes all personally identifiable in-
formation. For purposes of this subpara-
graph, ‘personally identifiable information’
includes information that would allow for
the identification of a particular corporation
or limited liability company.’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 646, the gentlewoman
from New York (Mrs. CAROLYN B.
MALONEY) and a Member opposed each
will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New York.
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. Mr. Chairman, this amendment
is a clarifying amendment. It would
clarify that FinCEN can actually use
the beneficial ownership information it
is collecting under the bill. This was
always our intent, but we were con-
cerned that because FinCEN tech-
nically isn’t a law enforcement agency,
their authority to use the information
under the bill might be unclear.
Mr. LEVIN’s amendment fixes this by
explicitly stating that FinCEN can use
the information to issue public
advisories and to share the information
with financial institutions in order to
improve compliance with their know-
your-customer rules. However, FinCEN
would only be able to disclose the in-
formation in an aggregated format so
that it protects the disclosure of per-
sonally identifiable information.
I want to thank Mr. LEVIN for work-
ing closely with my office and with the
committee on this amendment. I urge
my colleagues to support the amend-
ment and the underlying bill, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Chair, I rise in
opposition to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The Gentleman
from North Carolina is recognized for 5
minutes.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chairman, this amendment ex-
poses the very problem I have with this
new governmental database. We put
enormous protections into the collec-
tion of foreigners into our database and
intelligence bureaus. We have granted
rights to special courts and that is for
information that is less specific than
the information that will be a part of
this beneficial owner or ownership
database of America’s small businesses.
The amendment here says that basi-
cally you redact the specific personally
identifiable information of the bene-
ficial owners of the small business.
Now, it doesn’t have provision for
small areas. Let’s say that you are
from my hometown or you are from the
town I lived in for nearly a decade, a
small town that only has a handful of
businesses, and so, you aggregate the
data, but you can still expose people to
enormous amounts of unwanted tar-
geting.
It also exposes to me the additional
issues that we have with another gov-
ernment database, that a future Con-
gress could then take this data and
make it public or some congressional
investigator could just want this for
partisan political reasons and try to
seek it out of the executive branch.
This amendment highlights to me
the grave concerns I have with a mass
collection of this type of data, no mat-
ter how justified the anecdotes are
from law enforcement.
The amendment specifically allows
FinCEN to ‘‘issue guidance and other-
wise make materials available to fi-
nancial institutions and the public
using beneficial ownership informa-
tion.’’ That is deeply problematic, and
I do not believe appropriate protections
are in place for an amendment like this
to be made reasonable. I think if you
have civil liberties concerns, I would
say that this amendment highlights
the very civil liberties concerns you
would have with the new Federal Gov-
ernment database.
I would like to ask the bill’s sponsor,
though he is not here, about the intent
of creating this type of information,
but he is not here. I don’t think this is
a wise amendment. I think it should be
rejected for a number of different
counts. I would urge my colleagues to
vote ‘‘no,’’ and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. Mr. Chairman, I have no further
speakers, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself the balance of my time. I in-
clude in the RECORD a letter in opposi-
tion to this very amendment from the
National Federation of Independent
Business opposing this amendment.
[From NFIB]
HOUSE MAKES LAST MINUTE BAIT-AND-SWITCH
ON CORPORATE TRANSPARENCY ACT
In advance of today’s vote, an amendment
filed last night shows the true motivations
of those pushing the Corporate Transparency
Act of 2019 (H.R. 2513).
Despite months of rhetoric about pro-
tecting the privacy of small business owners,
this last-minute amendment would allow the
Treasury Department’s Financial Crimes En-
forcement Network to make public the indi-
vidual names, addresses, birth dates, and
even the driver’s license numbers of small
business owners. This is a complete reversal
of what promoters of this bill have been say-
ing over the last several months.
Purportedly about national security, in re-
ality, this bill shifts a burden from big
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.054 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8338 October 22, 2019
banks, something they said today is merely
‘‘a client pain point,’’ to small businesses
who simply cannot absorb an additional 131.7
million hours of paperwork over the first 10
years at a cost of $5.7 billion. And, with the
last-minute amendment, it allows for the
creation a public registry.
‘‘Supporters of this bill have revealed their
cards today,’’ said Brad Close, NFIB’s Senior
Vice President, Public Policy. ‘‘This amend-
ment confirms one of small business owners’
greatest fears—that the true intention of
those pushing this bill is to establish a pub-
lic registry of every small business owner—
something that can be used to shame law-
abiding small business owners for free speech
activities or political purposes. This is a se-
rious breach of the privacy and first amend-
ment rights, and we urge members of the
United States House of Representatives to
defeat this amendment today.’’
The amendment filed last night would pro-
hibit FinCEN from making public the names
of specific businesses but would not prohibit
FinCEN from listing the names of business
owners or the personally identifiable infor-
mation of business owners such as home ad-
dresses.
This morning, The Hill published an op-ed
by NFIB President and CEO Juanita D.
Duggan on the significant risks and pen-
alties the Corporate Transparency Act im-
poses on small business owners. This fol-
lowed on the heels of an announcement by
NFIB of a coalition of 38 business groups, in-
cluding NFIB, who joined together in strong
oppositior of this legislation.
To read more on NFIB’s efforts to protect
small business privacy, visit https://nfib.com/
protectprivacy.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Chair, again, I
would highlight that the civil liberties
concerns here are enormous. When you
do minimal redaction of specific per-
sonally identifiable information, you
could still expose data in certain juris-
dictions of small business owners in a
way that I don’t think is warranted,
nor do I think the bill’s sponsor would
like to seek, and I think this is deeply
problematic.
I would urge my colleagues to look at
the contents of this amendment and
then to think through the concerns
that they would have if it were their
information exposed in a minimally re-
dacted way. I don’t think they would
be quite comfortable with it.
Now, think of asking every small
business owner in your district to sub-
mit this information to another Fed-
eral database and then explain to them
that they will minimally redact their
information, maybe not their name,
maybe their address, right, and then
otherwise the explanation of their busi-
ness would be exposed to the public.
I don’t think it is a smart way to go
here. I don’t think this is the way we
should be legislating. I do think it out-
lines the underlying concerns I have
with this type of database, in not being
required to get a subpoena in order to
access it. And then an amendment that
says that we are going to basically, I
don’t know, outline in Cherryville,
North Carolina, every small business
ownership structure in our little town
or in Denver, North Carolina, which is
an unincorporated area that I live in,
likewise, taking a small population
with a few small businesses and expos-
ing the ownership structure of small
businesses.
I don’t think this is a smart amend-
ment. I don’t think it is what we
should be intending as Members of Con-
gress, and I think both folks on the left
and the right and in the middle can
look at this and think this is not the
way to go. So I urge you to vote
against this amendment, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from New York (Mrs. CARO-
LYN B. MALONEY).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Chair, I demand
a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentlewoman from New York will
be postponed.
b 1530
AMENDMENT NO. 5 OFFERED BY MR. DAVIDSON
OF OHIO
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 5 printed in
part B of House Report 116–247.
Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio. Mr. Chair-
man, I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Strike sections 1 through 5 and insert the
following:
SECTION 1. TERMINATION OF CDD RULE.
The final rule of the Department of the
Treasury titled ‘‘Customer Due Diligence Re-
quirements for Financial Institutions’’ (pub-
lished May 11, 2016; 81 Fed. Reg. 29397) shall
have no force or effect.
SEC. 2. FINCEN STUDY.
(a) STUDY.—FinCEN shall carry out a
study that shall include—
(1) a review of all existing data collected
by the Department of the Treasury (includ-
ing the Internal Revenue Service), by State
Secretaries of State, by financial institu-
tions due to current statutory and regu-
latory mandates (excluding the CDD rule), or
by other Federal Government entities, that
in whole or in part would allow FinCEN to
discern the beneficial owners of companies
operating in the United States financial sys-
tem;
(2) recommendations for the sharing of in-
formation described under paragraph (1) with
FinCEN along with proposed safeguards for
protecting personally identifiable informa-
tion from unauthorized access, including by
Federal intelligence and law enforcement of-
ficials, as well as internal risk control mech-
anisms for prevention of unauthorized access
through a cyber breach; and
(3) an estimation of the cost of the compli-
ance burden for the CDD rule.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than September 30,
2019, FinCEN shall issue a report to the Con-
gress containing all findings and determina-
tions made in carrying out the study re-
quired under subsection (a).
(c) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this sec-
tion:
(1) CDD RULE.—The term ‘‘CDD rule’’
means the final rule of the Department of
the Treasury described under section 1.
(2) FINANCIAL INSTITUTION.—The term ‘‘fi-
nancial institution’’ has the meaning given
that tem under section 5312 of title 31,
United States Code.
(3) FINCEN.—The term ‘‘FinCEN’’ means
the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 646, the gentleman
from Ohio (Mr. DAVIDSON) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Ohio.
Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio. Mr. Chair-
man, today, I offer an amendment to
address the serious flaws within the
underlying bill.
Under the guise of tracking money
laundering, this bill imposes a crushing
paperwork burden squarely targeted at
small business owners. It creates a
massive new Federal Government data-
base containing the addresses of inno-
cent American citizens and will do
nothing to track down criminals.
Under the Obama administration,
FinCEN issued regulations that banks
collect the beneficial ownership infor-
mation of these businesses. The regula-
tions have proven so confusing, burden-
some, and unnecessary that banks have
sought relief from these regulations.
This bill effectively shifts the report-
ing burden onto mom-and-pop busi-
nesses that have never even heard of
FinCEN.
The bill adopts a different definition
of beneficial ownership that is even
more confusing and vague than the one
used by Treasury’s rules, which has al-
ready puzzled regulators and banks for
years.
According to the Congressional Budg-
et Office, the bill would generate 25 to
30 million new filings every year. Fail-
ure to comply could result in jail time
up to 3 years, thousands of dollars in
fines, compromise of private informa-
tion, and more.
The bill also raises serious privacy
concerns by creating yet another data-
base that is effectively the first-of-its-
kind Federal registry of small busi-
nesses and small business ownership. It
contains no subpoena or warrant-type
restrictions for Federal law enforce-
ment to access.
In the era of naming and shaming of
companies and owners for political pur-
poses, and findings that Federal law
enforcement have abused their existing
authorities in accessing section 702
FISA data, this bill should give serious
pause about how we as Members of
Congress protect civil liberties for
American citizens.
My amendment would simply strike
the underlying bill’s burdensome man-
date, nullify the Obama-era regulations
on banks, and instead require FinCEN
to go back to the drawing board by re-
viewing how already existing Federal
datasets from banking know-your-cus-
tomer and anti-money laundering rules
can assist law enforcement in deter-
mining the beneficial owners of busi-
nesses.
As my colleague FRENCH HILL has of-
fered, the IRS already contains all of
this information.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.022 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8339
October 22, 2019
Lastly, I would say that if we are
going to criminalize private ownership
of businesses, why not do that in the
beginning rather than criminalize fail-
ure to report to an agency that doesn’t
exist.
All of these questions have failed to
be addressed directly by the executive
branch, and they are blown through
with the way this bill addresses the
problem.
This type of information already ex-
ists. We do not need another Federal
database prone to be abused or a crush-
ing mandate that will harm law-abid-
ing Americans and be ignored by crimi-
nals.
Mr. Chair, I urge support for my
amendment and opposition to the bill
without it.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chair, I claim the
time in opposition to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman
from California is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chair, I firmly op-
pose the Davidson amendment because
it would gut the bill.
After years of working to ensure that
criminals, terrorists, and enemies of
the United States can no longer use
loopholes to cloak their dangerous acts
from law enforcement, this amendment
heedlessly tries to jettison this signifi-
cant layer of defense.
If the amendment is adopted, there
would be no requirement to share the
identities of the beneficial owners of
corporations and LLCs that currently
do not make such disclosures.
If adopted, there would be no ability
for law enforcement to get information
that it needs to unmask the wrong-
doers who abuse State laws to hide
their global criminal activities.
To make things worse, the amend-
ment would repeal the FinCEN cus-
tomer due diligence, or CDD, rule,
which currently requires banks to iden-
tify and verify the beneficial ownership
of corporate customers. It prevents
criminals, kleptocrats, and others
looking to hide ill-gotten proceeds
from accessing the financial system
anonymously.
The Director of FinCEN said that the
CDD rule is ‘‘but one critical step to-
ward closing this national security
gap. The second critical step . . . is col-
lecting beneficial ownership informa-
tion at the corporate formation stage.’’
An outright and immediate repeal of
this rule endangers the financial sys-
tem by leaving a dangerous new gap in
information about bank customers
while the implementation of H.R. 2513
gears up.
The safer approach, and one sup-
ported by the financial institutions, is
to require the Treasury to remove
identified redundancies after the data-
base becomes operational. This is pre-
cisely what H.R. 2513 already does.
Mr. Chairman, the AFL–CIO, Oxfam,
the FACT Coalition, FBI, Treasury,
DOJ, FinCEN, as well as the Fraternal
Order of Police, the Federal Law En-
forcement Officers Association, and
most State attorneys general have
urged Congress to pass H.R. 2513 to de-
velop a Federal beneficial ownership
database.
The Davidson amendment would un-
dermine this effort before it can begin.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to
vote ‘‘no’’ on this amendment, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio. Mr. Chair-
man, may I inquire as to the balance of
my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Ohio has 2 minutes remaining.
Mr. MCHENRY. Will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio. I yield to
the gentleman from North Carolina
(Mr. MCHENRY).
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Chair, I appre-
ciate my colleague for yielding.
I think this highlights the very fact
that this bill provides no regulatory re-
lief for financial institutions to collect
information under the customer due
diligence rule. It highlights the nature
of this obligation, especially on small
businesses, and the paperwork burden
on small businesses and, on top of that,
the paperwork burden on financial in-
stitutions to collect enormous amounts
of information.
The very nature of this amendment
highlights the missing elements of the
underlying bill.
Mr. Chair, I appreciate my colleague
for yielding.
Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio. Mr. Chair-
man, I yield myself the balance of my
time to close.
In closing, I would simply say that
this would presume that criminals are
somehow going to cease their criminal
activity, all because they have to file a
report.
The reality is this is going to crim-
inalize business ownership, violate the
civil liberties of business owners across
America, and make them vulnerable to
further abuse by criminals.
Mr. Chair, I urge support for this
amendment and opposition to the un-
derlying bill without its adoption.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chair, I yield the
balance of my time to the gentle-
woman from New York (Mrs. CAROLYN
B. MALONEY), the sponsor of this im-
portant legislation.
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. Mr. Chair, I thank the chair-
woman for yielding.
Mr. Chair, I strongly oppose this
amendment, which would completely
gut the bill and would dramatically
weaken our national security.
Right now, the only protection we
have in place against bad actors using
anonymous shell companies to launder
their money through the U.S. is
FinCEN’s customer due diligence rule,
which requires financial institutions to
find out the beneficial owners of the
corporations and the entities that open
accounts with them.
The FinCEN rule, which is very im-
portant, is still only half a measure.
When FinCEN passed the rule, they ex-
plicitly said that Congress still needed
to pass the bill that is before us today.
Mr. DAVIDSON’s amendment would
not only delete the underlying bill but
would also repeal the FinCEN rule. In
other words, it is worse than the status
quo and practically invites criminals
and money launderers to use the U.S.
financial system.
Mr. Chair, this is a deeply irrespon-
sible amendment, and I strongly urge
my colleagues to oppose it and to sup-
port the underlying bill.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chair, I yield back
the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Ohio (Mr. DAVIDSON).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the noes ap-
peared to have it.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chair, I demand a
recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from Ohio will be post-
poned.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Chair, I move that
the Committee do now rise.
The motion was agreed to.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr.
PAPPAS) having assumed the chair, Mr.
CUELLAR, Acting Chair of the Com-
mittee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union, reported that that Com-
mittee, having had under consideration
the bill (H.R. 2513) to ensure that per-
sons who form corporations or limited
liability companies in the United
States disclose the beneficial owners of
those corporations or limited liability
companies, in order to prevent wrong-
doers from exploiting United States
corporations and limited liability com-
panies for criminal gain, to assist law
enforcement in detecting, preventing,
and punishing terrorism, money laun-
dering, and other misconduct involving
United States corporations and limited
liability companies, and for other pur-
poses, had come to no resolution there-
on.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
CUELLAR). Pursuant to clause 8 of rule
XX, the Chair will postpone further
proceedings today on motions to sus-
pend the rules on which a recorded vote
or the yeas and nays are ordered, or
votes objected to under clause 6 of rule
XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
RODCHENKOV ANTI-DOPING ACT
OF 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 835) to impose criminal sanc-
tions on certain persons involved in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.060 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8340 October 22, 2019
international doping fraud conspir-
acies, to provide restitution for victims
of such conspiracies, and to require
sharing of information with the United
States Anti-Doping Agency to assist
its fight against doping, and for other
purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 835
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Rodchenkov
Anti-Doping Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
(1) ANTI-DOPING ORGANIZATION.—The term
‘‘anti-doping organization’’ has the meaning
given the term in Article 2 of the Conven-
tion.
(2) ATHLETE.—The term ‘‘athlete’’ has the
meaning given the term in Article 2 of the
Convention.
(3) CODE.—The term ‘‘Code’’ means the
World Anti-Doping Code most recently
adopted by WADA on March 5, 2003.
(4) CONVENTION.—The term ‘‘Convention’’
means the United Nations Educational, Sci-
entific, and Cultural Organization Inter-
national Convention Against Doping in
Sport done at Paris October 19, 2005, and
ratified by the United States in 2008.
(5) MAJOR INTERNATIONAL SPORT COMPETI-
TION.—The term ‘‘Major International Sport
Competition’’—
(A) means a competition—
(i) in which 1 or more United States ath-
letes and 3 or more athletes from other coun-
tries participate;
(ii) that is governed by the anti-doping
rules and principles of the Code; and
(iii) in which—
(I) the competition organizer or sanc-
tioning body receives sponsorship or other fi-
nancial support from an organization doing
business in the United States; or
(II) the competition organizer or sanc-
tioning body receives compensation for the
right to broadcast the competition in the
United States; and
(B) includes a competition that is a single
event or a competition that consists of a se-
ries of events held at different times which,
when combined, qualify an athlete or team
for an award or other recognition.
(6) PERSON.—The term ‘‘person’’ means any
individual, partnership, corporation, associa-
tion, or other entity.
(7) PROHIBITED METHOD.—The term ‘‘prohib-
ited method’’ has the meaning given the
term in Article 2 of the Convention.
(8) PROHIBITED SUBSTANCE.—The term ‘‘pro-
hibited substance’’ has the meaning given
the term in Article 2 of the Convention.
(9) SCHEME IN COMMERCE.—The term
‘‘scheme in commerce’’ means any scheme
effectuated in whole or in part through the
use in interstate or foreign commerce of any
facility for transportation or communica-
tion.
(10) USADA.—The term ‘‘USADA’’ means
the United States Anti-Doping Agency.
(11) WADA.—The term ‘‘WADA’’ means the
World Anti-Doping Agency.
SEC. 3. MAJOR INTERNATIONAL DOPING FRAUD
CONSPIRACIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—It shall be unlawful for
any person, other than an athlete, to know-
ingly carry into effect, attempt to carry into
effect, or conspire with any other person to
carry into effect a scheme in commerce to
influence by use of a prohibited substance or
prohibited method any major international
sports competition.
(b) EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.—
There is extraterritorial Federal jurisdiction
over an offense under this section.
SEC. 4. CRIMINAL PENALTIES AND STATUTE OF
LIMITATIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—
(1) CRIMINAL PENALTY.—Whoever violates
section 3 shall be sentenced to a term of im-
prisonment for not more than 10 years, fined
$250,000 if the person is an individual or
$1,000,000 if the defendant is other than an in-
dividual, or both.
(2) FORFEITURE.—Any property real or per-
sonal, tangible or intangible, may be seized
and criminally forfeited to the United States
if that property—
(A) is used or intended to be used, in any
manner, to commit or facilitate a violation
of section 3; or
(B) constitutes or is traceable to the pro-
ceeds taken, obtained, or retained in connec-
tion with or as a result of a violation of sec-
tion 3.
(b) LIMITATION ON PROSECUTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—No person shall be pros-
ecuted, tried, or punished for violation of
section 3 unless the indictment is returned
or the information is filed within 10 years
after the date on which the offense was com-
pleted.
(2) TOLLING.—Upon application in the
United States, filed before a return of an in-
dictment, indicating that evidence of an of-
fense under this chapter is in a foreign coun-
try, the district court before which a grand
jury is impaneled to investigate the offense
shall suspend the running of this statute of
limitation for the offense if the court finds
by a preponderance of the evidence that an
official request has been made for such evi-
dence and that it reasonably appears, or rea-
sonably appeared at the time the request was
made, that such evidence is, or was, in such
foreign country.
SEC. 5. RESTITUTION.
Section 3663A of title 18, United States
Code, is amended in subsection (c)—
(1) in paragraph (1)(A)—
(A) by redesignating clauses (iii) and (iv)
as clauses (iv) and (v), respectively; and
(B) by inserting after clause (ii) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(iii) an offense described in section 3 of
the Rodchenkov Anti-Doping Act of 2019;’’;
and
(2) in paragraph (3), in the matter pre-
ceding subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘or
(iii)’’ after ‘‘paragraph (1)(A)(ii)’’.
SEC. 6. COORDINATION AND SHARING OF INFOR-
MATION WITH USADA.
Except as otherwise prohibited by law and
except in cases in which the integrity of a
criminal investigation would be affected, in
furtherance of the obligation of the United
States under Article 7 of the Convention, the
Department of Justice, the Department of
Homeland Security, and the Food and Drug
Administration shall coordinate with
USADA with regard to any investigation re-
lated to a potential violation of section 3 of
this Act, to include sharing with USADA all
information in the possession of the Depart-
ment of Justice, the Department of Home-
land Security, or the Food and Drug Admin-
istration which may be relevant to any such
potential violation.
SEC. 7. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, and the
amendments made by this Act, for the pur-
pose of complying with the Statutory Pay-
As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined
by reference to the latest statement titled
‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legislation’’
for this Act, submitted for printing in the
Congressional Record by the Chairman of the
House Budget Committee, provided that such
statement has been submitted prior to the
vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. JACKSON LEE) and the gen-
tleman from Virginia (Mr. CLINE) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Texas.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers have 5 legislative days to revise
and extend their remarks and include
extraneous material on the bill under
consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I thank all of my spon-
sors, but I particularly thank Dr. BUR-
GESS, who I will mention again, who
joined me more than a year ago to
move forward on a bill that we hope
will give fairness to all the wonderful
young athletes around the world.
H.R. 835, the Rodchenkov Anti-
Doping Act of 2019, would strengthen
the integrity of international sports
competitions by imposing criminal
sanctions on certain persons involved
in international doping fraud conspir-
acies. It would also provide restitution
for victims of such conspiracies and
would require coordination and sharing
of information with the United States
Anti-Doping Agency to assist its fight
against doping.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
an article from The New York Times
regarding manipulated drug tests.
RUSSIAN DOPING CHIEF SAYS THOUSANDS OF
DRUG TESTS WERE MANIPULATED
[From the New York Times, Oct. 14, 2019]
(By Tariq Panja)
COLORADO SPRINGS.—Russia made thou-
sands of changes to the drug-test results of
an unspecified number of its athletes, the
head of the country’s own antidoping agency
said this week, confirming the suspicions of
global officials who are considering severe
penalties against Russian sports programs.
The official, Yuri Ganus, the director gen-
eral of the Russian antidoping agency, sug-
gested in an interview at a conference in Col-
orado that the data had been concealed or al-
tered to protect the reputations and posi-
tions of former star athletes who now have
roles in government or who function as sen-
ior sports administrators in Russia.
His comments went farther than his pre-
vious remarks about possible Russian manip-
ulation of doping results, and they could
complicate the country’s efforts to avoid
new punishments from global antidoping of-
ficials. Russian was already barred from
international sporting events, including the
2018 Winter Olympics, after the discovery of
a broad, state-sponsored doping program in
2015.
In less than two weeks, a committee at the
World Anti-Doping Agency will decide
whether to press for more serious bans
against Russian sports federations. Russia
faces possible expulsion from international
sports—a return to the pariah status that
followed the 2015 discovery—if its authorities
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.062 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8341
October 22, 2019
cannot provide an explanation for missing or
manipulated test results in a database that
Russia turned over to WADA.
Russia’s promise to deliver that database
of thousands of athlete records was a key
factor in WADA’s decision to lift a suspen-
sion of the country’s antidoping agency in
late 2018. That determination, criticized by
athletes and other antidoping officials at the
time, ended a three-year suspension that had
been imposed after the discovery of one of
the most audacious and sophisticated cheat-
ing schemes in history, a conspiracy that
corrupted a number of major international
sporting events, including several Olympics.
Ganus, 55, said Sunday that he believed
only individuals with access to some of Rus-
sia’s most powerful institutions could have
been able to manipulate the data, which
WADA investigators crosschecked against a
separate set provided by a whistle-blower in
2017.
‘‘In this case, you have to understand what
has to be the power which will receive ac-
cess,’’ Ganus said.
Ganus said he had spoken out to ensure
that current and future generations of Rus-
sian athletes do not suffer because of the ac-
tions of others.
But his outspokenness has come as a sur-
prise to some, given the risks whistle-blow-
ers with information related to the case ap-
pear to face. Two other Russian antidoping
officials with ties to the scandal—including
one of Ganus’s predecessors—have died under
suspicious circumstances in recent years,
and Ganus said he believed the Russian au-
thorities were monitoring his electronic
communications and his phone calls, as well
as conducting surveillance near his home.
‘‘It’s really dangerous for me,’’ he said. But
Ganus said he was driven to complete what
he described as ‘‘the mission’’ to assure that
a new generation of Russian athletes could
return, untainted, to international sports.
‘‘Russia is a high level sports country, but
those people who are responsible to solve
this situation for many years chose the
wrong way, the wrong approach,’’ he said.
There is a suspicion in sporting circles
that Russia has allowed Ganus to speak out
publicly so that he can separate the work of
his agency, which has drawn praise from
WADA for changes it has made, from that of
the state authorities that control the Mos-
cow laboratory where the athletes’ data was
stored. The government still considers that
lab a crime scene under the control of state
officials, not of domestic antidoping regu-
lators.
‘‘Certainly if he’s speaking truth to power,
maybe he’s going to defect sometime soon or
it’s a strategic move,’’ Travis Tygart, the
head of the United States Anti-Doping Agen-
cy, said of Ganus. ‘‘I think the real issue is:
Can the WADA system hold the national
antidoping system responsible for something
that the minister’s office is ultimately re-
sponsible for?’’
By lifting its ban on Russia last year be-
fore the country had complied with two re-
maining provisions of its so-called road map
to reinstatement—namely, providing the
athletes’ data to WADA and acknowledging
that Russia’s doping program was state-con-
trolled—WADA effectively freed the authori-
ties who control the lab from the need to fol-
low the terms of that agreement. Those offi-
cials might not fall under WADA’s jurisdic-
tion, as the Russian antidoping agency,
known as Rusada, does.
‘‘When they let them out of that road map,
it put a lot of pressure on their ability under
the new rules to hold Russia’s state min-
ister’s office and sport community respon-
sible through their authority over the na-
tional antidoping organization,’’ Tygart
said. ‘‘That’s what’s going to come to a head.
And let’s hope it does:’
Last month, the English lawyer Jonathan
Taylor, who leads the WADA committee
overseeing Russian compliance, said the
country would need to ‘‘pull a rabbit out of
the hat’’ to provide a credible explanation
for anomalies in the data extracted from the
Moscow lab.
Taylor’s committee will convene, probably
by phone, on Oct. 23 to decide whether to
recommend to WADA’s executive board that
Russia be designated ‘‘noncompliant:’’ If the
board agrees, a case most likely will be fast-
tracked to the international Court of Arbi-
tration for Sport for a final ruling.
In the past, individual sports had the
power to decide whether to punish countries
for doping offenses. But rules adopted in
April 2018 mean a negative ruling for Russia
at the arbitration court could trigger an
automatic suspension for the country across
a wide range of sports and federations bound
by the WADA code. Under such a ban, Rus-
sian teams and athletes would be ineligible
to compete in international sporting events,
and the country would be barred from
hosting them, until the WADA suspension
was lifted.
That could lead to Russia’s missing out on
next summer’s Olympics in Tokyo, and even
put at risk its national soccer team’s partici-
pation in qualification matches for the 2022
World Cup in Qatar.
[From the New York Times, June 12, 2018]
U.S. LAWMAKERS SEEK TO CRIMINALIZE
DOPING IN GLOBAL COMPETITIONS
(By Rebecca R. Ruiz)
United States lawmakers took a step on
Tuesday toward criminalizing doping in
international sports, introducing a bill in
the House that would attach prison time to
the use, manufacturing or distribution of
performance-enhancing drugs in global com-
petitions.
The legislation, inspired by the Russian
doping scandal, would echo the Foreign Cor-
rupt Practices Act, which makes it illegal to
bribe foreign officials to gain a business ad-
vantage. The statute would be the first of its
kind with global reach, empowering Amer-
ican prosecutors to act on doping violations
abroad, and to file fraud charges of a dif-
ferent variety than those the Justice Depart-
ment brought against top international soc-
cer officials in 2015.
Although American leagues like Major
League Baseball would not be affected by the
legislation, which would apply only to com-
petitions among countries, it could apply to
a league’s athletes when they participate in
global events like the Ryder Cup, the Davis
Cup or the World Baseball Classic.
The law would establish America’s juris-
diction over international sports events,
even those outside of the United States, if
they include at least three other nations,
with at least four American athletes partici-
pating or two American companies acting as
sponsors. It would also enhance the ability of
cheated athletes and corporate sponsors to
seek damages, expanding the window of time
during which civil lawsuits could be filed.
To justify the United States’ broader juris-
diction over global competitions, the House
bill invokes the United States’ contribution
to the World Anti-Doping Agency, the global
regulator of drugs in sports. At $2.3 million,
the United States’ annual contribution is the
single largest of any nation. ‘‘Doping fraud
in major international competitions also ef-
fectively defrauds the United States:’ the bill
states.
The lawmakers behind the bill were instru-
mental in the creation of the 2012 Magnitsky
Act, which gave the government the right to
freeze financial assets and impose visa re-
strictions on Russian nationals accused of
serious human rights violations and corrup-
tion. On Tuesday, the lawmakers framed
their interest in sports fraud around inter-
national relations and broader networks of
crime that can accompany cheating.
‘‘Doping fraud is a crime in which big
money, state assets and transnational crimi-
nals gain advantage and honest athletes and
companies are defrauded;’ said Sheila Jack-
son Lee, Democrat of Texas, who introduced
the legislation on Tuesday. ‘‘This practice,
some of it state-sanctioned, has the ability
to undermine international relations, and is
often connected to more nefarious actions by
state actors?’
Along with Ms. Jackson Lee, the bill was
sponsored by two other congressional rep-
resentatives, Michael C. Burgess, Republican
of Texas, and Gwen Moore, Democrat of Wis-
consin.
It was put forward just as Russia prepares
to host soccer’s World Cup, which starts
Thursday. That sporting event will be the
nation’s biggest since the 2014 Sochi Olym-
pics, where one of the most elaborate doping
ploys in history took place.
The bill, the Rodchenkov Anti-Doping Act,
takes its name from Dr. Grigory
Rodchenkov, the chemist who ran Russia’s
antidoping laboratory for 10 years before he
spoke out about the state-sponsored cheat-
ing he had helped carry out—most notori-
ously in Sochi. At those Games, Dr.
Rodchenkov said, he concealed widespread
drug use among Russia’s top Olympians by
tampering with more than 100 urine samples
with the help of Russia’s Federal Security
Service.
Investigations commissioned by inter-
national sports regulators confirmed his ac-
count and concluded that Russia had cheated
across competitions and years, tainting the
performance of more than 1,000 athletes. In
early 2017, American intelligence officials
concluded that Russia’s meddling in the 2016
American election had been, in part, a form
of retribution for the Olympic doping scan-
dal, whose disclosures Russian officials
blamed on the United States.
Nations including Germany, France, Italy,
Kenya and Spain have established criminal
penalties for sports doping perpetrated with-
in their borders. Russia, too, passed a law in
2017 that made it a crime to assist or coerce
doping, though no known charges have been
brought under that law to date.
Under the proposed American law, crimi-
nal penalties for offenders would include a
prison term of up to five years as well as
fines that could stretch to $250,000 for indi-
viduals and $1 million for organizations.
‘‘We could have real change if people think
they could actually go to jail for this,’’ said
Jim Walden, a lawyer for Dr. Rodchenkov,
who met with the lawmakers as they consid-
ered the issue in recent months. ‘‘I think it
will have a meaningful impact on coaches
and athletes if they realize they might not
be able to travel outside of their country for
fear of being arrested?’
The legislation also authorizes civil ac-
tions for doping fraud, giving athletes who
may have been cheated in competitions—as
well as corporations acting as sponsors—the
right to sue in federal court to recover dam-
ages from people who may have defrauded
competitions.
Ms. Jackson Lee cited the American run-
ner Alysia Montaño, who placed fifth in the
800 meters at the 2012 Summer Olympics.
Two Russian women who placed first and
third in that race were later disqualified for
doping, elevating Ms. Montaño years later.
‘‘She had rightfully finished third, which
would have earned her a bronze medal:’ Ms.
Jackson Lee said, noting the financial bene-
fits and sponsorships Ms. Montaño could
have captured.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:35 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.026 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8342 October 22, 2019
The bill would establish a window of seven
years for criminal actions and 10 years for
civil lawsuits. It also seeks to protect whis-
tle-blowers from retaliation, making it ille-
gal to take ‘‘adverse action’’ against a per-
son because he or she has disclosed informa-
tion about doping fraud.
Dr. Rodchenkov, who has lived in the
United States since fall 2015, has been crimi-
nally charged in Russia after he publicly
deconstructed the cheating he said he car-
ried out on orders from a state minister.
‘‘While he was complicit in Russia’s past
bad acts, Dr. Rodchenkov regrets his past
role in Russia’s state-run doping program
and seeks to atone for it by aiding the effort
to clean up international sports and to curb
the corruption rampant in Russia,’’ Ms.
Jackson Lee said, calling Tuesday’s bill ‘‘an
important step to stemming the tide of Rus-
sian corruption in sport and restoring con-
fidence in international competition.’’
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
introduced this bill, as I said, with Mr.
BURGESS of Texas because the wide-
spread use of performance-enhancing
substances had come to light in recent
years, harming athletes and fans alike.
Clean U.S. athletes and sports orga-
nizations that participate in these
competitions, as well as their U.S.
sponsors, are denied their due recogni-
tion and economic rewards. Young peo-
ple who have worked all of their lives
for this miraculous and important time
in their lives and their fans lose when
the legitimacy and integrity of the
competition they enjoy are debased.
b 1545
In recent years, there have been nu-
merous allegations and instances of
doping by professional and amateur
athletes. The Summer and Winter
Olympic Games, in particular, have
been plagued with doping scandals,
which has left an indelible stain on the
reputation of those major inter-
national sports events.
The infamous Russian doping scandal
during the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics
is one notable example of the corrup-
tion and fraud that has damaged the
integrity of sports competitions. After
the Sochi games, whistleblowers
Yuliya Stepanova, a former Russian
track star, and her husband, Vitaly
Stepanov, a former employee at the
Russian Anti-Doping Agency, exposed
the Russian Government’s vast state-
sponsored doping system, which subse-
quently led to further revelations by
Dr. Grigory Rodchenkov, the chemist
who ran the Russian anti-doping lab-
oratory.
Mr. Speaker, they simply could not
take it anymore. Mr. Rodchenkov be-
came a whistleblower and exposed the
dozens of Russian athletes partici-
pating in the Sochi games, including 15
medal winners, who were part of a
state-run doping program.
In addition, Dr. Rodchenkov revealed
that with the help of Russian intel-
ligence—I want our Members to hear
that again—Russian intelligence—the
laboratory switched steroid-tainted
urine of the Russian national team
with clean samples, evading positive
detection. It was an intelligence catas-
trophe, using that community to un-
dermine the healthy work and the
healthy commitment and participation
of athletes all around the world.
The ineffective response from inter-
national organizations with oversight
responsibilities, such as the World
Anti-Doping Agency, the Court of Arbi-
tration for Sport, and the Inter-
national Olympic Committee has only
emboldened the Russian Government.
Although Russia has denied its in-
volvement, evidence shows that it op-
erated a systematic state-sponsored
doping program and cover-up scheme.
Russia has cheated and defrauded all
Olympic athletes, including its own
and the general public, and has de-
graded the meaning and purpose of the
games. Unfortunately, because the or-
chestrators of the Russian doping scan-
dal operated with the blessing of the
Russian Government, and because
there is no legal mechanism in the
United States to bring them to justice,
they all escaped punishment for their
actions. But imagine the hurt of all of
these young athletes, in all of the
countries, who worked so hard all of
their life.
Currently, there is no Federal stat-
ute that provides explicit, comprehen-
sive protection against doping conspir-
acies in international sports competi-
tions, and the actions are crying out
for relief. The Federal statutory pro-
tections that currently exist are lim-
ited, and criminalize activities, such as
conspiracies to commit wire and mail
fraud, bribery, kickbacks, and money
laundering.
This legislation that we have intro-
duced would fill that gap by estab-
lishing appropriate criminal penalties
and civil penalties for international
doping fraud. In addition to imposing
criminal penalties on the conspirators,
the bill would authorize private civil
actions for doping fraud, which would
give athletes and corporate sponsors
the right to sue in Federal court to re-
cover damages from individuals who
may have defrauded competitions.
We thought it was extremely impor-
tant to cover our corporate sponsors.
They willingly and enthusiastically
help these young athletes, particularly
these amateur athletes who have no
other sources of income. They provide
our international competition the sup-
port to have these athletes travel and
provide other necessities so that they
can compete without worry.
This bill will provide justice to clean
U.S. athletes, such as Olympic runner
Alysia Montano, skeleton racer Katie
Uhlaender, bobsledder Steve Holcomb,
and many other champions who pursue
excellence over glory. They have been
denied medals that were rightfully
theirs and cheated out of lucrative op-
portunities such as sponsorships. Most
importantly, they have been deprived
of the pride of seeing their country’s
flag being raised on the Olympic po-
dium, an emotional moment that was
stolen from them.
In the case of Mr. Holcomb, his bob-
sled team’s bronze medal was upgraded
to silver in the spring of 2019 after the
Russian teams were disqualified for
doping offenses during the 2014 Sochi
games. Tragically, Mr. Holcomb was
not here to see it, having died in 2017.
This bill also would provide much-
needed protection and support for
brave whistleblowers, such as Dr.
Rodchenkov, who appeared here in the
United States before the Helsinki Com-
mission, and the Stepanovs, who have
exposed major international doping
fraud conspiracies, all at considerable
personal risk and sacrifice. They
should be honored. The exposure of this
criminal activity would not have oc-
curred without the courage and
strength of these individuals, and this
legislation would not have the very
strong basis upon which it is written.
Accordingly, I support H.R. 835, and I
ask my colleagues to do so.
Mr. Speaker, the proliferation of legal per-
formance-enhancing drugs (‘‘PEDs’’) in sports
damages the integrity of competition and de-
frauds individuals and corporate entities who
participate in sporting competitions, including
clean U.S. athletes and U.S. corporate spon-
sors.
However, due to the efforts of gallant whis-
tleblowers, the complex inner workings of
large-scale doping schemes are public knowl-
edge.
In 2016, Dr. Grigory Rodchenkov exposed
the Russian state-sponsored doping scandal
during the 2014 Sochi Olympics, which teams
were disqualified for doping offenses during
the 2014 Sochi Games.
Tragically, Mr. Holcomb was not here to see
it, having died in 2017.
The Rodchenkov Act comes at a crucial
time for the international fight against doping
in sports and is supported by the U.S. Helsinki
Commission.
On October 14, 2019, the New York Times
reported that, as suspected, Russia made
thousands of changes to the drug-test results
of an unspecified number of its athletes, the
head of the country’s own antidoping agency
said this week, confirming the suspicions of
global officials who are considering severe
penalties against Russian sports programs.
The Russian doping fraud scandal shook
the very foundations of the global anti-doping
system and the problem shows no signs of
stopping.
The ultimate victims of doping fraud are
clean athletes, who want nothing more than to
compete on a level playing field.
There are countless examples of U.S. ath-
letes who have been defrauded by inter-
national doping fraud conspiracies.
These athletes are deprived of Olympic
glory and denied their rightful prize money and
sponsorships.
The Rodchenkov Act is fully compatible with
the UNESCO Convention Against Doping in
Sport and the World Anti-Doping Code, greatly
enhances the fight against doping by creating
additional legal tools to help guard against the
type of behavior discovered in the Russian
doping scandal.
By criminalizing international doping conspir-
acies, the Rodchenkov Act provides law en-
forcement with a greater ability to investigate
and pursue, and ultimately hold accountable,
doping fraud perpetrators.
In addition, this act will provide doping whis-
tleblowers the same protections that are given
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.027 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8343
October 22, 2019
to whistleblowers of other serious crimes, and
are all acutely aware of the current importance
of protecting whistleblowers.
This legislation is not only vital, but it is fully
consistent with international law.
I urge my colleagues on both sides of the
aisle to support this legislation.
Mr. Speaker, we all have an interest in en-
suring that our country and our athletes are
not defrauded in international sports competi-
tions. This bipartisan bill would fill an unfortu-
nate gap with regard to the U.S. law enforce-
ment to hold accountable those who engage
in such fraud. It would also serve as a deter-
rent to those considering engaging in doping
fraud conspiracies, and would provide a mech-
anism to gain visibility into a wider net of inter-
national corrupt practices that are connected
to doping fraud.
I urge my colleagues to support this com-
monsense measure.
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 835, the ‘‘Rodchenkov
Anti-Doping Act of 2019,’’ would strengthen
the integrity of international sports competi-
tions by imposing criminal sanctions on certain
persons involved in international doping fraud
conspiracies. It would also provide restitution
for victims of such conspiracies, and would re-
quire coordination and sharing of information
with the United States Anti-Doping Agency to
assist its fight against doping.
I introduced this bill along with Mr. BURGESS
of Texas, because the widespread use of per-
formance enhancing substances has come to
light in recent years, harming athletes and
fans alike. Clean U.S. athletes and sports or-
ganizations who participate in these competi-
tions, as well as their U.S. sponsors, are de-
nied their due recognition and economic re-
wards. And their fans lose when the legitimacy
and integrity of the competitions they enjoy
are debased.
In recent years, there have been numerous
allegations and instances of doping by profes-
sional and amateur athletes. The summer and
winter Olympic Games, in particular, have
been plagued with doping scandals, which has
left an indelible stain on the reputation of
these major international sports events.
The infamous Russian doping scandal dur-
ing the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics is one no-
table example of the corruption and fraud that
has damaged the integrity of sports competi-
tions. After the Sochi Games, whistleblowers
Yuliya Stepanova, a former Russian track star,
and her husband Vitaly Stepanov, a former
employee at the Russian Anti-Doping Agency,
exposed the Russian Government’s vast state-
sponsored doping system, which subsequently
led to further revelations by Dr. Grigory
Rodchenkov, the chemist who ran the Russian
anti-doping laboratory.
Dr. Rodchenkov became a whistleblower
and exposed the dozens of Russian athletes
participating in the Sochi Games, including 15
medal winners, who were part of a state-run
doping program. In addition, Dr. Rodchenkov
revealed that with the help of Russian intel-
ligence, the laboratory switched steroid-tainted
urine of the Russian national team with clean
samples, evading positive detection.
The ineffective response from international
organizations with oversight responsibilities,
such as the World Anti-Doping Agency, the
Court of Arbitration for Sport, and the Inter-
national Olympic Committee, has only
emboldened the Russian Government. Al-
though Russia has denied its involvement, evi-
dence shows that it operated a systematic,
state-sponsored doping program and cover-up
scheme.
Russia has cheated and defrauded all the
Olympic athletes, including its own, and the
general public, and has degraded the meaning
and purpose of the Games. Unfortunately, be-
cause the orchestrators of the Russian doping
scandal operated with the blessing of the Rus-
sian government, and because there is no
legal mechanism in the United States to bring
them to justice, they all escaped punishment
for their actions.
Currently, there is no federal statute that
provides explicit comprehensive protection
against doping conspiracies in international
sports competitions. The federal statutory pro-
tections that currently exist are limited, and
criminalize activities such as conspiracies to
commit wire and mail fraud, bribery, kick-
backs, and money laundering.
This legislation would fill that gap by estab-
lishing appropriate criminal penalties and civil
remedies for international doping fraud. In ad-
dition to imposing criminal penalties on the
conspirators, the bill would authorize private
civil actions for doping fraud, which would give
athletes and corporate sponsors the right to
sue in federal court to recover damages from
individuals who may have defrauded competi-
tions.
This bill would provide justice to clean U.S.
athletes, such as Olympic runner Alysia
Montario, skeleton racer Katie Uhlaender, bob-
sledder Steve Holcomb, and many other
champions who pursue excellence over glory.
They have been denied medals that were
rightfully theirs and cheated out of lucrative
opportunities, such as sponsorships. Most im-
portantly, they have been deprived of the pride
of seeing their country’s flag being raised on
the Olympic podium an emotional moment that
was stolen from them.
In the case of Mr. Holcomb, his bobsled
team’s bronze medals were upgraded to silver
in the spring of 2019, after the Russian teams
were disqualified for doping offenses during
the 2014 Sochi Games. Tragically, Mr. Hol-
comb was not here to see it, having died in
2017.
This bill also would also provide much-need-
ed protection and support for brave whistle-
blowers, such as Dr. Rodchenkov and the
Stepanovas, who have exposed major inter-
national doping fraud conspiracies at consider-
able personal risk and sacrifice. The exposure
of this criminal activity would not have oc-
curred without the courage and strength of
these individuals.
Accordingly, I support H.R. 835.
Mr. Speaker, we all have an interest in en-
suring that our country and our athletes are
not defrauded in international sports competi-
tions. This bipartisan bill would fill an unfortu-
nate gap with regard to the U.S. law enforce-
ment to hold accountable those who engage
in such fraud. It would also serve as a deter-
rent to those considering engaging in doping
fraud conspiracies, and would provide a mech-
anism to gain visibility into a wider net of inter-
national corrupt practices that are connected
to doping fraud.
I urge my colleagues to support this com-
monsense measure.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY,
Washington, DC, October 18, 2019.
Hon. FRANK PALLONE, Jr.,
Chairman, Committee on Energy and Commerce,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN PALLONE: I am writing to
you concerning H.R. 835, the ‘‘Rodchenkov
Anti-Doping Act of 2019.’’
I appreciate your willingness to work coop-
eratively on this legislation. I recognize that
the bill contains provisions that fall within
the jurisdiction of the Committee on Energy
and Commerce. I acknowledge that your
Committee will not formally consider H.R.
835 and agree that the inaction of your Com-
mittee with respect to the bill does not
waive any future jurisdictional claim over
the matters contained in H.R. 835 which fall
within your Committee’s Rule X jurisdic-
tion.
I will ensure that our exchange of letters is
included in the Congressional Record during
floor consideration of the bill. I appreciate
your cooperation regarding this legislation
and look forward to continuing to work with
you as this measure moves through the legis-
lative process.
Sincerely,
JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE,
Washington, DC, October 18, 2019.
Hon. JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN NADLER: I am writing to
you concerning H.R. 835, the ‘‘Rodchenkov
Anti-Doping Act of 2019,’’ which was addi-
tionally referred to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce. Certain provisions in
the bill fall within the jurisdiction of the
Committee on Energy and Commerce. In the
interest of permitting your committee to
proceed expeditiously to floor consideration
of this important bill, the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce agrees to waive formal
consideration of the bill.
The Committee takes this action with the
mutual understanding that it is not waiving
any jurisdictional claim over this or similar
legislation, and that the Committee will be
appropriately consulted and involved as this
bill or similar legislation moves forward so
that we may address any remaining issues
within our jurisdiction. I further request
that you support my request to name mem-
bers of the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce to any conference committee to con-
sider such provisions.
Finally, I would appreciate a response to
this letter confirming this understanding
and your inclusion of that response into the
Congressional Record during floor consider-
ation of H.R. 835.
Sincerely,
FRANK PALLONE, JR,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY,
Washington, DC, October 18, 2019.
Hon. FRANK PALLONE, Jr.,
Chairman, Committee on Energy and Commerce,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN PALLONE: I am writing to
acknowledge your letter dated October 18,
2019 responding to our request to your Com-
mittee that it waive any jurisdictional
claims over the matters contained in H.R.
835, the ‘‘Rodchenkow Anti-Doping Act of
2019,’’ that fall within your Committee’s
Rule X jurisdiction. The Committee on the
Judiciary confirms our mutual under-
standing that your Committee does not
waive any jurisdiction over the subject mat-
ter contained in this or similar legislation,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.028 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8344 October 22, 2019
and your Committee will be appropriately
consulted and involved as the bill or similar
legislation moves forward so that we may
address any remaining issues within your
Committee’s jurisdiction.
I will ensure that this exchange of letters
is included in the Congressional Record dur-
ing floor consideration of the bill. I appre-
ciate your cooperation regarding this legis-
lation and look forward to continuing to
work with you as this measure moves
through the legislative process.
Sincerely,
JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman.
Mr. CLINE. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentle-
woman from Texas for her leadership
on this issue, and I thank the members
of the committee for their hard work.
Mr. Speaker, amateur and profes-
sional sports are an essential part of
American society. We spend over $50
billion each year on sporting events.
Billions more in revenue are generated
from advertising, athlete endorse-
ments, and broadcast rights of thou-
sands of sporting events each year. The
impact of sports in the United States is
over half a trillion dollars, and the ef-
fects on local, State, national, and
global economies are considerable.
In other words, there is a great deal
at stake. The integrity of leagues,
coaches, athletes, and their sponsors is
critical. Governments around the world
sponsor their athletes in amateur
sports, most notably in the Olympics.
Scandals over the past 20 years involv-
ing doping and the use of performance-
enhancing drugs have tarnished the
reputations of players and coaches, and
especially clean athletes who follow
the rules and do not use prohibited
drugs and substances.
The widespread doping by Russian
athletes at the 2014 Winter Olympics
led to Russia being banned from the
2018 Winter Olympics. Subsequent in-
vestigation revealed a massive govern-
ment-sponsored doping program where
a Russian drug testing laboratory di-
rector used a three-drug cocktail of an-
abolic steroids to boost the perform-
ance of Russian athletes. Even more
distressing, Russian intelligence
operatives switched the steroid-tainted
urine samples of the Russian athletes
with clean samples. In the end, 43
Olympic medals were stripped from
Russia for doping violations.
Federal law already contains pen-
alties for kickbacks, bribery, corrup-
tion, foreign corrupt practices, and re-
lated crimes. However, it does not
criminalize fraud through doping in
international sport competitions, nor
does it provide protections for the vic-
tims of doping fraud, such as athletes
and whistleblowers.
H.R. 835 would enhance America’s ju-
risdiction over international sports and
help ensure the integrity of athletes
and coaches in the Olympics and simi-
lar competitions.
Doping fraud conspiracies harm clean
athletes and their coaches and cospon-
sors. They also defraud those who pay
to watch sporting events and set an ex-
tremely poor example for our youth. It
is time for the United States to join
several European nations and add an-
other means by which criminals en-
gaged in doping fraud can be held ac-
countable for their actions and no
longer tarnish the honor and image of
clean athletes.
This bill is a unique example of bi-
partisan efforts. I am encouraged by
the ability of Members and staff from
both sides of the aisle to craft legisla-
tion which will help root out fraud and
corruption in international sports.
As the lead sponsor of several other
bipartisan pieces of legislation, I look
forward to finding more common
ground for the benefit of the American
people. I am pleased to support this
bill, and I urge my colleagues to sup-
port it, as well.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
continue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. CLINE. Mr. Speaker, I am
pleased to yield 4 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. BURGESS).
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 835, the Rodchenkov Anti-
Doping Act, a bill that was introduced
with Ms. JACKSON LEE to combat inter-
national doping schemes.
The bill is named after Dr. Grigory
Rodchenkov, the former head of Rus-
sia’s anti-doping agency lab that blew
the whistle on the massive, state-run
doping scheme that led the Inter-
national Olympic Committee to sus-
pend Russia from the 2018 Winter
Olympics.
From 2011 to 2015, over 1,000 Russian
athletes in 30 sports benefited from an
illegal program executed by numerous
Russian state agencies at the direction
of Russian President Putin.
Another whistleblower, Yuliya
Stepanova, revealed information that
led to the formation of an independent
commission at the World Anti-Doping
Agency that investigated finding a
deeply-rooted culture of cheating that
existed in Russia. We heard from Ms.
Stepanova and the lawyer for Dr.
Rodchenkov during the Helsinki Com-
mission hearing in July of 2018. Also
present was Katie Uhlaender, who had
been defrauded and cheated out of an
Olympic medal as a result of the Rus-
sian doping scheme. No athlete should
be subjected to doping, either through
a state-run program or as a clean com-
petitor.
In 2015, the Russian Anti-Doping
Agency entered into a Roadmap to
Code Compliance agreement with the
World Anti-Doping Agency involving 31
criteria for the Russian agency to be
reinstated. Russia’s agreement to de-
liver additional drug-test lab samples
is one of the reasons the World Anti-
Doping Agency agreed to reinstate the
Russian Anti-Doping Agency in 2018.
But, just last week, the current head
of the Russian Anti-Doping Agency
said thousands of changes were made
to those drug-test results. The World
Anti-Doping Agency had only been able
to verify the authenticity of a portion
of the provided samples, and these
statements confirmed that Russia is
still intent on cheating in inter-
national sport competitions. The World
Anti-Doping Agency is currently con-
sidering how to respond, including pos-
sibly designating Russia as noncompli-
ant and suspending Russian athletes
from international sport competitions
until that country is again designated
as compliant.
But the doping program goes beyond
just harming clean athletes. President
Putin views this type of illegal scheme
as a geopolitical tool to characterize
the West as unfair and oppressive. One
year ago, the United States Depart-
ment of Justice indicted seven Russian
military intelligence officials for a
cyberattack on the United States and
other international organizations be-
cause they exposed Russia’s state-run
doping scheme and for protecting the
whistleblowers, namely Dr.
Rodchenkov.
The Rodchenkov Anti-Doping Act
would combat this type of illegal
doping scheme and limit Russia’s
sphere of influence as they seek to un-
dermine Western values around the
world. This bill will criminalize know-
ingly facilitating a doping scheme in a
major international sport competition
where United States athletes are com-
peting, and the competition organizer
receives sponsorship or financial sup-
port from a U.S. entity. The bill also
allows U.S. citizens to pursue civil ac-
tion against deceptive competition and
provides protection for whistleblowers.
The Rodchenkov Anti-Doping Act
will ensure that athletes’ rights are re-
spected, whistleblowers are protected,
and criminals are brought to justice.
The bill will restore the integrity of
international sport competition and
uphold the rule of law around the
world.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support the bill.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
have no further speakers, and I con-
tinue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. CLINE. Mr. Speaker, in closing,
again, I would say that this is an im-
portant bill designed to restore integ-
rity to international sport competi-
tion. Right now, you only need to look
outside in the Nation’s Capital to see
that World Series fear has hit our Na-
tion’s Capital. As we all watch with en-
thusiasm, we are reminded of the noble
goals and noble values inherent in
sport and competition and look to pre-
serve those goals and values with the
passage of this legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I urge its passage, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Virginia for
his kind remarks and support. And I
thank Dr. BURGESS, as well, for his in-
volvement and commitment to this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.034 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8345
October 22, 2019
legislation. I also thank the chairman
and ranking member of the Judiciary
Committee for really helping us move
this bill very quickly. I thank the
staffs of both the majority and the mi-
nority who have worked so very hard
on moving this bill forward. And I ac-
knowledge, in particular, the staff on
the Subcommittee on Crime, Ter-
rorism, and Homeland Security for
their particular help and leadership on
this.
b 1600
Mr. Speaker, I am glad that we are
talking about healthy sports and the
recognition and the acceptance, if you
will, of those who worked so long and
so hard, many from their earlier years,
to be Olympians, to play baseball, bas-
ketball, football, track, and the many
sports that come under the Olympic
mandate.
This bill, in particular, I wish to re-
mind our colleagues, again, provides
relief, but we really hope it is a deter-
rent and works to move other nations,
the European Union, to be able to es-
tablish these kinds of responses to
doping.
This act establishes criminal pen-
alties for participating in a scheme in
commerce to influence a major inter-
national sports competition through
prohibitive substances or methods. It
also provides restitution to victims of
such conspiracy, athletes in particular,
many of whom have suffered great
losses because of this fraud.
It protects whistleblowers from retal-
iation by criminalizing participation in
international doping fraud conspir-
acies. Whistleblowers will be included
under existing witness protection laws.
It establishes coordination and shar-
ing information with the U.S. Anti-
Doping Agency to establish a matrix, if
you will, a format.
I want to say that we all have an in-
terest in ensuring our country and our
athletes are not defrauded in inter-
national sports competitions. This bi-
partisan bill would fill an unfortunate
gap with regard to U.S. law enforce-
ment to hold accountable those who
engage in such fraud.
It would also serve as a deterrent to
those considering engaging in doping-
fraud conspiracies and would provide a
mechanism to gain visibility in a wider
net of international corrupt practices
that are connected to doping fraud.
I leave my colleagues with the very
visual that so many of us, if we were
not able to be at the Olympics,
watched as our athletes were able to
stand under our flag, the emotion of
that moment, the emotion of the ath-
letes, the emotion of those watching,
the excitement of standing in honor of
your Nation and representing your Na-
tion. Anyone who has talked to an
Olympian knows that that is one of
their greatest honors. Let’s give them
that honor fair and square, if you will.
Since we believe in fairness and
squareness in all of our athletic en-
deavors here in the United States, I
certainly will end, as my friend com-
mented here on the floor, I will end
with the healthiness and the upstand-
ing of the World Series and those who
will play in it.
I will take the opportunity at this
time to say: Go Astros.
I urge my colleagues to support the
underlying, commonsense measure, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
JACKSON LEE) that the House suspend
the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 835, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
COPYRIGHT ALTERNATIVE IN
SMALL-CLAIMS ENFORCEMENT
ACT OF 2019
Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 2426) to amend title 17, United
States Code, to establish an alternative
dispute resolution program for copy-
right small claims, and for other pur-
poses, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2426
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Copyright
Alternative in Small-Claims Enforcement
Act of 2019’’ or the ‘‘CASE Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. COPYRIGHT SMALL CLAIMS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title 17, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘CHAPTER 15—COPYRIGHT SMALL
CLAIMS
‘‘Sec.
‘‘1501. Definitions.
‘‘1502. Copyright Claims Board.
‘‘1503. Authority and duties of the Copyright
Claims Board.
‘‘1504. Nature of proceedings.
‘‘1505. Registration requirement.
‘‘1506. Conduct of proceedings.
‘‘1507. Effect of proceeding.
‘‘1508. Review and confirmation by district
court.
‘‘1509. Relationship to other district court
actions.
‘‘1510. Implementation by Copyright Office.
‘‘1511. Funding.
‘‘§ 1501. Definitions
‘‘In this chapter—
‘‘(1) the term ‘party’—
‘‘(A) means a party; and
‘‘(B) includes the attorney of a party, as
applicable;
‘‘(2) the term ‘claimant’ means the real
party in interest that commences a pro-
ceeding before the Copyright Claims Board
under section 1506(e), pursuant to a permis-
sible claim of infringement brought under
section 1504(c)(1), noninfringement brought
under section 1504(c)(2), or misrepresentation
brought under section 1504(c)(3);
‘‘(3) the term ‘counterclaimant’ means a
respondent in a proceeding before the Copy-
right Claims Board that—
‘‘(A) asserts a permissible counterclaim
under section 1504(c)(4) against the claimant
in the proceeding; and
‘‘(B) is the real party in interest with re-
spect to the counterclaim described in sub-
paragraph (A); and
‘‘(4) the term ‘respondent’ means any per-
son against whom a proceeding is brought
before the Copyright Claims Board under
section 1506(e), pursuant to a permissible
claim of infringement brought under section
1504(c)(1), noninfringement brought under
section 1504(c)(2), or misrepresentation
brought under section 1504(c)(3).
‘‘§ 1502. Copyright Claims Board
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—There is established in
the Copyright Office the Copyright Claims
Board, which shall serve as an alternative
forum in which parties may voluntarily seek
to resolve certain copyright claims regard-
ing any category of copyrighted work, as
provided in this chapter.
‘‘(b) OFFICERS AND STAFF.—
‘‘(1) COPYRIGHT CLAIMS OFFICERS.—The Reg-
ister of Copyrights shall recommend 3 full-
time Copyright Claims Officers to serve on
the Copyright Claims Board in accordance
with paragraph (3)(A). The Officers shall be
appointed by the Librarian of Congress to
such positions after consultation with the
Register of Copyrights.
‘‘(2) COPYRIGHT CLAIMS ATTORNEYS.—The
Register of Copyrights shall hire not fewer
than 2 full-time Copyright Claims Attorneys
to assist in the administration of the Copy-
right Claims Board.
‘‘(3) QUALIFICATIONS.—
‘‘(A) COPYRIGHT CLAIMS OFFICERS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Each Copyright Claims
Officer shall be an attorney who has not
fewer than 7 years of legal experience.
‘‘(ii) EXPERIENCE.—Two of the Copyright
Claims Officers shall have—
‘‘(I) substantial experience in the evalua-
tion, litigation, or adjudication of copyright
infringement claims; and
‘‘(II) between those 2 Officers, have rep-
resented or presided over a diversity of copy-
right interests, including those of both own-
ers and users of copyrighted works.
‘‘(iii) ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION.—
The Copyright Claims Officer not described
in clause (ii) shall have substantial famili-
arity with copyright law and experience in
the field of alternative dispute resolution,
including the resolution of litigation mat-
ters through that method of resolution.
‘‘(B) COPYRIGHT CLAIMS ATTORNEYS.—Each
Copyright Claims Attorney shall be an attor-
ney who has not fewer than 3 years of sub-
stantial experience in copyright law.
‘‘(4) COMPENSATION.—
‘‘(A) COPYRIGHT CLAIMS OFFICERS.—
‘‘(i) DEFINITION.—In this subparagraph, the
term ‘senior level employee of the Federal
Government’ means an employee, other than
an employee in the Senior Executive Serv-
ice, the position of whom is classified above
GS–15 of the General Schedule.
‘‘(ii) PAY RANGE.—Each Copyright Claims
Officer shall be compensated at a rate of pay
that is not less than the minimum, and not
more than the maximum, rate of pay payable
for senior level employees of the Federal
Government, including locality pay, as ap-
plicable.
‘‘(B) COPYRIGHT CLAIMS ATTORNEYS.—Each
Copyright Claims Attorney shall be com-
pensated at a rate of pay that is not more
than the maximum rate of pay payable for
level 10 of GS–15 of the General Schedule, in-
cluding locality pay, as applicable.
‘‘(5) TERMS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B), a Copyright Claims Officer shall serve
for a renewable term of 6 years.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.068 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8346 October 22, 2019
‘‘(B) INITIAL TERMS.—The terms for the
first Copyright Claims Officers appointed
under this chapter shall be as follows:
‘‘(i) The first such Copyright Claims Offi-
cer appointed shall be appointed for a term
of 4 years.
‘‘(ii) The second Copyright Claims Officer
appointed shall be appointed for a term of 5
years.
‘‘(iii) The third Copyright Claims Officer
appointed shall be appointed for a term of 6
years.
‘‘(6) VACANCIES AND INCAPACITY.—
‘‘(A) VACANCY.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—If a vacancy occurs in
the position of a Copyright Claims Officer,
the Librarian of Congress shall, upon the
recommendation of and in consultation with
the Register of Copyrights, act expeditiously
to appoint a Copyright Claims Officer for
that position.
‘‘(ii) VACANCY BEFORE EXPIRATION.—An in-
dividual appointed to fill a vacancy occur-
ring before the expiration of the term for
which the predecessor of the individual was
appointed shall be appointed to serve a 6-
year term.
‘‘(B) INCAPACITY.—If a Copyright Claims
Officer is temporarily unable to perform the
duties of the Officer, the Librarian of Con-
gress shall, upon recommendation of and in
consultation with the Register of Copy-
rights, act expeditiously to appoint an in-
terim Copyright Claims Officer to perform
such duties during the period of such inca-
pacity.
‘‘(7) SANCTION OR REMOVAL.—Subject to sec-
tion 1503(b), the Librarian of Congress may
sanction or remove a Copyright Claims Offi-
cer.
‘‘(8) ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT.—The Reg-
ister of Copyrights shall provide the Copy-
right Claims Officers and Copyright Claims
Attorneys with necessary administrative
support, including technological facilities, to
carry out the duties of the Officers and At-
torneys under this chapter.
‘‘(9) LOCATION OF COPYRIGHT CLAIMS
BOARD.—The offices and facilities of the
Copyright Claims Officers and Copyright
Claims Attorneys shall be located at the
Copyright Office.
‘‘§ 1503. Authority and duties of the Copyright
Claims Board
‘‘(a) FUNCTIONS.—
‘‘(1) COPYRIGHT CLAIMS OFFICERS.—Subject
to the provisions of this chapter and applica-
ble regulations, the functions of the Copy-
right Claims Officers shall be as follows:
‘‘(A) To render determinations on the civil
copyright claims, counterclaims, and de-
fenses that may be brought before the Offi-
cers under this chapter.
‘‘(B) To ensure that claims, counterclaims,
and defenses are properly asserted and other-
wise appropriate for resolution by the Copy-
right Claims Board.
‘‘(C) To manage the proceedings before the
Officers and render rulings pertaining to the
consideration of claims, counterclaims, and
defenses, including with respect to sched-
uling, discovery, evidentiary, and other mat-
ters.
‘‘(D) To request, from participants and
nonparticipants in a proceeding, the produc-
tion of information and documents relevant
to the resolution of a claim, counterclaim, or
defense.
‘‘(E) To conduct hearings and conferences.
‘‘(F) To facilitate the settlement by the
parties of claims and counterclaims.
‘‘(G)(i) To award monetary relief; and
‘‘(ii) to include in the determinations of
the Officers a requirement that certain ac-
tivities under section 1504(e)(2) cease or be
mitigated, if the party to undertake the ap-
plicable measure has so agreed.
‘‘(H) To provide information to the public
concerning the procedures and requirements
of the Copyright Claims Board.
‘‘(I) To maintain records of the proceedings
before the Officers, certify official records of
such proceedings as needed, and, as provided
in section 1506(t), make the records in such
proceedings available to the public.
‘‘(J) To carry out such other duties as are
set forth in this chapter.
‘‘(K) When not engaged in performing the
duties of the Officers set forth in this chap-
ter, to perform such other duties as may be
assigned by the Register of Copyrights.
‘‘(2) COPYRIGHT CLAIMS ATTORNEYS.—Sub-
ject to the provisions of this chapter and ap-
plicable regulations, the functions of the
Copyright Claims Attorneys shall be as fol-
lows:
‘‘(A) To provide assistance to the Copy-
right Claims Officers in the administration
of the duties of those Officers under this
chapter.
‘‘(B) To provide assistance to members of
the public with respect to the procedures and
requirements of the Copyright Claims Board.
‘‘(C) To provide information to potential
claimants contemplating bringing a permis-
sible action before the Copyright Claims
Board about obtaining a subpoena under sec-
tion 512(h) for the sole purpose of identifying
a potential respondent in such an action.
‘‘(D) When not engaged in performing the
duties of the Attorneys set forth in this
chapter, to perform such other duties as may
be assigned by the Register of Copyrights.
‘‘(b) INDEPENDENCE IN DETERMINATIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Copyright Claims
Board shall render the determinations of the
Board in individual proceedings independ-
ently on the basis of the records in the pro-
ceedings before it and in accordance with the
provisions of this title, judicial precedent,
and applicable regulations of the Register of
Copyrights.
‘‘(2) CONSULTATION.—The Copyright Claims
Officers and Copyright Claims Attorneys—
‘‘(A) may consult with the Register of
Copyrights on general issues of law; and
‘‘(B) subject to section 1506(x), may not
consult with the Register of Copyrights with
respect to—
‘‘(i) the facts of any particular matter
pending before the Officers and the Attor-
neys; or
‘‘(ii) the application of law to the facts de-
scribed in clause (i).
‘‘(3) PERFORMANCE APPRAISALS.—Notwith-
standing any other provision of law or any
regulation or policy of the Library of Con-
gress or Register of Copyrights, any perform-
ance appraisal of a Copyright Claims Officer
or Copyright Claims Attorney may not con-
sider the substantive result of any individual
determination reached by the Copyright
Claims Board as a basis for appraisal except
to the extent that result may relate to any
actual or alleged violation of an ethical
standard of conduct.
‘‘(c) DIRECTION BY REGISTER.—Subject to
subsection (b), the Copyright Claims Officers
and Copyright Claims Attorneys shall, in the
administration of their duties, be under the
general direction of the Register of Copy-
rights.
‘‘(d) INCONSISTENT DUTIES BARRED.—A
Copyright Claims Officer or Copyright
Claims Attorney may not undertake any
duty that conflicts with the duties of the Of-
ficer or Attorney in connection with the
Copyright Claims Board.
‘‘(e) RECUSAL.—A Copyright Claims Officer
or Copyright Claims Attorney shall recuse
himself or herself from participation in any
proceeding with respect to which the Copy-
right Claims Officer or Copyright Claims At-
torney, as the case may be, has reason to be-
lieve that he or she has a conflict of interest.
‘‘(f) EX PARTE COMMUNICATIONS.—Except as
may otherwise be permitted by applicable
law, any party to a proceeding before the
Copyright Claims Board shall refrain from ex
parte communications with the Copyright
Claims Officers and the Register of Copy-
rights concerning the substance of any ac-
tive or pending proceeding before the Copy-
right Claims Board.
‘‘(g) JUDICIAL REVIEW.—Actions of the
Copyright Claims Officers and Register of
Copyrights under this chapter in connection
with the rendering of any determination are
subject to judicial review as provided under
section 1508(c) and not under chapter 7 of
title 5.
‘‘§ 1504. Nature of proceedings
‘‘(a) VOLUNTARY PARTICIPATION.—Partici-
pation in a Copyright Claims Board pro-
ceeding shall be on a voluntary basis in ac-
cordance with this chapter and the right of
any party to instead pursue a claim, coun-
terclaim, or defense in a district court of the
United States, any other court, or any other
forum, and to seek a jury trial, shall be pre-
served. The rights, remedies, and limitations
under this section may not be waived except
in accordance with this chapter.
‘‘(b) STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A proceeding may not be
maintained before the Copyright Claims
Board unless the proceeding is commenced,
in accordance with section 1506(e), before the
Copyright Claims Board within 3 years after
the claim accrued.
‘‘(2) TOLLING.—Subject to section 1507(a), a
proceeding commenced before the Copyright
Claims Board shall toll the time permitted
under section 507(b) for the commencement
of an action on the same claim in a district
court of the United States during the period
in which the proceeding is pending.
‘‘(c) PERMISSIBLE CLAIMS, COUNTERCLAIMS,
AND DEFENSES.—The Copyright Claims Board
may render determinations with respect to
the following claims, counterclaims, and de-
fenses, subject to such further limitations
and requirements, including with respect to
particular classes of works, as may be set
forth in regulations established by the Reg-
ister of Copyrights:
‘‘(1) A claim for infringement of an exclu-
sive right in a copyrighted work provided
under section 106 by the legal or beneficial
owner of the exclusive right at the time of
the infringement for which the claimant
seeks damages, if any, within the limitations
set forth in subsection (e)(1).
‘‘(2) A claim for a declaration of non-
infringement of an exclusive right in a copy-
righted work provided under section 106, con-
sistent with section 2201 of title 28.
‘‘(3) A claim under section 512(f) for mis-
representation in connection with a notifica-
tion of claimed infringement or a counter
notification seeking to replace removed or
disabled material, except that any remedies
relating to such a claim in a proceeding be-
fore the Copyright Claims Board shall be
limited to those available under this chap-
ter.
‘‘(4) A counterclaim that is asserted solely
against the claimant in a proceeding—
‘‘(A) pursuant to which the counterclaim-
ant seeks damages, if any, within the limita-
tions set forth in subsection (e)(1); and
‘‘(B) that—
‘‘(i) arises under section 106 or section
512(f) and out of the same transaction or oc-
currence that is the subject of a claim of in-
fringement brought under paragraph (1), a
claim of noninfringement brought under
paragraph (2), or a claim of misrepresenta-
tion brought under paragraph (3); or
‘‘(ii) arises under an agreement pertaining
to the same transaction or occurrence that
is the subject of a claim of infringement
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.035 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8347
October 22, 2019
brought under paragraph (1), if the agree-
ment could affect the relief awarded to the
claimant.
‘‘(5) A legal or equitable defense under this
title or otherwise available under law, in re-
sponse to a claim or counterclaim asserted
under this subsection.
‘‘(6) A single claim or multiple claims per-
mitted under paragraph (1), (2), or (3) by one
or more claimants against one or more re-
spondents, but only if all claims asserted in
any one proceeding arise out of the same al-
legedly infringing activity or continuous
course of infringing activities and do not, in
the aggregate, result in the recovery of such
claim or claims for damages that exceed the
limitations under subsection (e)(1).
‘‘(d) EXCLUDED CLAIMS.—The following
claims and counterclaims are not subject to
determination by the Copyright Claims
Board:
‘‘(1) A claim or counterclaim that is not a
permissible claim or counterclaim under
subsection (c).
‘‘(2) A claim or counterclaim that has been
finally adjudicated by a court of competent
jurisdiction or that is pending before a court
of competent jurisdiction, unless that court
has granted a stay to permit that claim or
counterclaim to proceed before the Copy-
right Claims Board.
‘‘(3) A claim or counterclaim by or against
a Federal or State governmental entity.
‘‘(4) A claim or counterclaim asserted
against a person or entity residing outside of
the United States, except in a case in which
the person or entity initiated the proceeding
before the Copyright Claims Board and is
subject to counterclaims under this chapter.
‘‘(e) PERMISSIBLE REMEDIES.—
‘‘(1) MONETARY RECOVERY.—
‘‘(A) ACTUAL DAMAGES, PROFITS, AND STATU-
TORY DAMAGES FOR INFRINGEMENT.—With re-
spect to a claim or counterclaim for in-
fringement of copyright, and subject to the
limitation on total monetary recovery under
subparagraph (D), the Copyright Claims
Board may award either of the following:
‘‘(i) Actual damages and profits deter-
mined in accordance with section 504(b), with
that award taking into consideration, in ap-
propriate cases, whether the infringing party
has agreed to cease or mitigate the infring-
ing activity under paragraph (2).
‘‘(ii) Statutory damages, which shall be de-
termined in accordance with section 504(c),
subject to the following conditions:
‘‘(I) With respect to works timely reg-
istered under section 412, so that the works
are eligible for an award of statutory dam-
ages in accordance with that section, the
statutory damages may not exceed $15,000 for
each work infringed.
‘‘(II) With respect to works not timely reg-
istered under section 412, but eligible for an
award of statutory damages under this sec-
tion, statutory damages may not exceed
$7,500 per work infringed, or a total of $15,000
in any 1 proceeding.
‘‘(III) The Copyright Claims Board may not
make any finding that, or consider whether,
the infringement was committed willfully in
making an award of statutory damages.
‘‘(IV) The Copyright Claims Board may
consider, as an additional factor in awarding
statutory damages, whether the infringer
has agreed to cease or mitigate the infring-
ing activity under paragraph (2).
‘‘(B) ELECTION OF DAMAGES.—With respect
to a claim or counterclaim of infringement,
at any time before final determination is
rendered, and notwithstanding the schedule
established by the Copyright Claims Board
under section 1506(k), the claimant or
counterclaimant shall elect—
‘‘(i) to recover actual damages and profits
or statutory damages under subparagraph
(A); or
‘‘(ii) not to recover damages.
‘‘(C) DAMAGES FOR OTHER CLAIMS.—Dam-
ages for claims and counterclaims other than
infringement claims, such as those brought
under section 512(f), shall be subject to the
limitation under subparagraph (D).
‘‘(D) LIMITATION ON TOTAL MONETARY RE-
COVERY.—Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, a party that pursues any one or
more claims or counterclaims in any single
proceeding before the Copyright Claims
Board may not seek or recover in that pro-
ceeding a total monetary recovery that ex-
ceeds the sum of $30,000, exclusive of any at-
torneys’ fees and costs that may be awarded
under section 1506(y)(2).
‘‘(2) AGREEMENT TO CEASE CERTAIN ACTIV-
ITY.—In a determination of the Copyright
Claims Board, the Board shall include a re-
quirement to cease conduct if, in the pro-
ceeding relating to the determination—
‘‘(A) a party agrees—
‘‘(i) to cease activity that is found to be in-
fringing, including removing or disabling ac-
cess to, or destroying, infringing materials;
or
‘‘(ii) to cease sending a takedown notice or
counter notice under section 512 to the other
party regarding the conduct at issue before
the Board if that notice or counter notice
was found to be a knowing material mis-
representation under section 512(f); and
‘‘(B) the agreement described in subpara-
graph (A) is reflected in the record for the
proceeding.
‘‘(3) ATTORNEYS’ FEES AND COSTS.—Not-
withstanding any other provision of law, ex-
cept in the case of bad faith conduct as pro-
vided in section 1506(y)(2), the parties to pro-
ceedings before the Copyright Claims Board
shall bear their own attorneys’ fees and
costs.
‘‘(f) JOINT AND SEVERAL LIABILITY.—Parties
to a proceeding before the Copyright Claims
Board may be found jointly and severally lia-
ble if all such parties and relevant claims or
counterclaims arise from the same activity
or activities.
‘‘(g) PERMISSIBLE NUMBER OF CASES.—The
Register of Copyrights may establish regula-
tions relating to the permitted number of
proceedings each year by the same claimant
under this chapter, in the interests of justice
and the administration of the Copyright
Claims Board.
‘‘§ 1505. Registration requirement
‘‘(a) APPLICATION OR CERTIFICATE.—A claim
or counterclaim alleging infringement of an
exclusive right in a copyrighted work may
not be asserted before the Copyright Claims
Board unless—
‘‘(1) the legal or beneficial owner of the
copyright has first delivered a completed ap-
plication, a deposit, and the required fee for
registration of the copyright to the Copy-
right Office; and
‘‘(2) a registration certificate has either
been issued or has not been refused.
‘‘(b) CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.—Not-
withstanding any other provision of law, a
claimant or counterclaimant in a proceeding
before the Copyright Claims Board shall be
eligible to recover actual damages and prof-
its or statutory damages under this chapter
for infringement of a work if the require-
ments of subsection (a) have been met, ex-
cept that—
‘‘(1) the Copyright Claims Board may not
render a determination in the proceeding
until—
‘‘(A) a registration certificate with respect
to the work has been issued by the Copyright
Office, submitted to the Copyright Claims
Board, and made available to the other par-
ties to the proceeding; and
‘‘(B) the other parties to the proceeding
have been provided an opportunity to ad-
dress the registration certificate;
‘‘(2) if the proceeding may not proceed fur-
ther because a registration certificate for
the work is pending, the proceeding shall be
held in abeyance pending submission of the
certificate to the Copyright Claims Board,
except that, if the proceeding is held in abey-
ance for more than 1 year, the Copyright
Claims Board may, upon providing written
notice to the parties to the proceeding, and
30 days to the parties to respond to the no-
tice, dismiss the proceeding without preju-
dice; and
‘‘(3) if the Copyright Claims Board receives
notice that registration with respect to the
work has been refused, the proceeding shall
be dismissed without prejudice.
‘‘(c) PRESUMPTION.—In a case in which a
registration certificate shows that registra-
tion with respect to a work was issued not
later than 5 years after the date of the first
publication of the work, the presumption
under section 410(c) shall apply in a pro-
ceeding before the Copyright Claims Board,
in addition to relevant principles of law
under this title.
‘‘(d) REGULATIONS.—In order to ensure that
actions before the Copyright Claims Board
proceed in a timely manner, the Register of
Copyrights shall establish regulations allow-
ing the Copyright Office to make a decision,
on an expedited basis, to issue or deny copy-
right registration for an unregistered work
that is at issue before the Board.
‘‘§ 1506. Conduct of proceedings
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—
‘‘(1) APPLICABLE LAW.—Proceedings of the
Copyright Claims Board shall be conducted
in accordance with this chapter and regula-
tions established by the Register of Copy-
rights under this chapter, in addition to rel-
evant principles of law under this title.
‘‘(2) CONFLICTING PRECEDENT.—If it appears
that there may be conflicting judicial prece-
dent on an issue of substantive copyright law
that cannot be reconciled, the Copyright
Claims Board shall follow the law of the Fed-
eral jurisdiction in which the action could
have been brought if filed in a district court
of the United States, or, if the action could
have been brought in more than 1 such juris-
diction, the jurisdiction that the Copyright
Claims Board determines has the most sig-
nificant ties to the parties and conduct at
issue.
‘‘(b) RECORD.—The Copyright Claims Board
shall maintain records documenting the pro-
ceedings before the Board.
‘‘(c) CENTRALIZED PROCESS.—Proceedings
before the Copyright Claims Board shall—
‘‘(1) be conducted at the offices of the
Copyright Claims Board without the require-
ment of in-person appearances by parties or
others; and
‘‘(2) take place by means of written sub-
missions, hearings, and conferences carried
out through internet-based applications and
other telecommunications facilities, except
that, in cases in which physical or other non-
testimonial evidence material to a pro-
ceeding cannot be furnished to the Copyright
Claims Board through available tele-
communications facilities, the Copyright
Claims Board may make alternative ar-
rangements for the submission of such evi-
dence that do not prejudice any other party
to the proceeding.
‘‘(d) REPRESENTATION.—A party to a pro-
ceeding before the Copyright Claims Board
may be, but is not required to be, rep-
resented by—
‘‘(1) an attorney; or
‘‘(2) a law student who is qualified under
applicable law governing representation by
law students of parties in legal proceedings
and who provides such representation on a
pro bono basis.
‘‘(e) COMMENCEMENT OF PROCEEDING.—In
order to commence a proceeding under this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.035 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8348 October 22, 2019
chapter, a claimant shall, subject to such ad-
ditional requirements as may be prescribed
in regulations established by the Register of
Copyrights, file a claim with the Copyright
Claims Board, that—
‘‘(1) includes a statement of material facts
in support of the claim;
‘‘(2) is certified under subsection (y)(1); and
‘‘(3) is accompanied by a filing fee in such
amount as may be prescribed in regulations
established by the Register of Copyrights.
‘‘(f) REVIEW OF CLAIMS AND COUNTER-
CLAIMS.—
‘‘(1) CLAIMS.—Upon the filing of a claim
under subsection (e), the claim shall be re-
viewed by a Copyright Claims Attorney to
ensure that the claim complies with this
chapter and applicable regulations, subject
to the following:
‘‘(A) If the claim is found to comply, the
claimant shall be notified regarding that
compliance and instructed to proceed with
service of the claim under subsection (g).
‘‘(B) If the claim is found not to comply,
the claimant shall be notified that the claim
is deficient and be permitted to file an
amended claim not later than 30 days after
the date on which the claimant receives the
notice, without the requirement of an addi-
tional filing fee. If the claimant files a com-
pliant claim within that 30-day period, the
claimant shall be so notified and be in-
structed to proceed with service of the claim.
If the claim is refiled within that 30-day pe-
riod and still fails to comply, the claimant
shall again be notified that the claim is defi-
cient and shall be provided a second oppor-
tunity to amend the claim within 30 days
after the date of that second notice, without
the requirement of an additional filing fee. If
the claim is refiled again within that second
30-day period and is compliant, the claimant
shall be so notified and shall be instructed to
proceed with service of the claim, but if the
claim still fails to comply, upon confirma-
tion of such noncompliance by a Copyright
Claims Officer, the proceeding shall be dis-
missed without prejudice. The Copyright
Claims Board shall also dismiss without prej-
udice any proceeding in which a compliant
claim is not filed within the applicable 30-
day period.
‘‘(C)(i) Subject to clause (ii), for purposes
of this paragraph, a claim against an online
service provider for infringement by reason
of the storage of or referral or linking to in-
fringing material that may be subject to the
limitations on liability set forth in sub-
section (b), (c), or (d) of section 512 shall be
considered noncompliant unless the claim-
ant affirms in the statement required under
subsection (e)(1) of this section that the
claimant has previously notified the service
provider of the claimed infringement in ac-
cordance with subsection (b)(2)(E), (c)(3), or
(d)(3) of section 512, as applicable, and the
service provider failed to remove or disable
access to the material expeditiously upon
the provision of such notice.
‘‘(ii) If a claim is found to be noncompliant
under clause (i), the Copyright Claims Board
shall provide the claimant with information
concerning the service of such a notice under
the applicable provision of section 512.
‘‘(2) COUNTERCLAIMS.—Upon the filing and
service of a counterclaim, the counterclaim
shall be reviewed by a Copyright Claims At-
torney to ensure that the counterclaim com-
plies with the provisions of this chapter and
applicable regulations. If the counterclaim is
found not to comply, the counterclaimant
and the other parties to the proceeding shall
be notified that the counterclaim is defi-
cient, and the counterclaimant shall be per-
mitted to file and serve an amended counter-
claim within 30 days after the date of such
notice. If the counterclaimant files and
serves a compliant counterclaim within that
30-day period, the counterclaimant and such
other parties shall be so notified. If the coun-
terclaim is refiled and served within that 30-
day period but still fails to comply, the
counterclaimant and such other parties shall
again be notified that the counterclaim is
deficient, and the counterclaimant shall be
provided a second opportunity to amend the
counterclaim within 30 days after the date of
the second notice. If the counterclaim is
refiled and served again within that second
30-day period and is compliant, the counter-
claimant and such other parties shall be so
notified, but if the counterclaim still fails to
comply, upon confirmation of such non-
compliance by a Copyright Claims Officer,
the counterclaim, but not the proceeding,
shall be dismissed without prejudice.
‘‘(3) DISMISSAL FOR UNSUITABILITY.—The
Copyright Claims Board shall dismiss a
claim or counterclaim without prejudice if,
upon reviewing the claim or counterclaim,
or at any other time in the proceeding, the
Copyright Claims Board concludes that the
claim or counterclaim is unsuitable for de-
termination by the Copyright Claims Board,
including on account of any of the following:
‘‘(A) The failure to join a necessary party.
‘‘(B) The lack of an essential witness, evi-
dence, or expert testimony.
‘‘(C) The determination of a relevant issue
of law or fact that could exceed either the
number of proceedings the Copyright Claims
Board could reasonably administer or the
subject matter competence of the Copyright
Claims Board.
‘‘(g) SERVICE OF NOTICE AND CLAIMS.—In
order to proceed with a claim against a re-
spondent, a claimant shall, within 90 days
after receiving notification under subsection
(f) to proceed with service, file with the
Copyright Claims Board proof of service on
the respondent. In order to effectuate service
on a respondent, the claimant shall cause no-
tice of the proceeding and a copy of the
claim to be served on the respondent, either
by personal service or pursuant to a waiver
of personal service, as prescribed in regula-
tions established by the Register of Copy-
rights. Such regulations shall include the
following requirements:
‘‘(1) The notice of the proceeding shall ad-
here to a prescribed form and shall set forth
the nature of the Copyright Claims Board
and proceeding, the right of the respondent
to opt out, and the consequences of opting
out and not opting out, including a promi-
nent statement that, by not opting out with-
in 60 days after receiving the notice, the re-
spondent—
‘‘(A) loses the opportunity to have the dis-
pute decided by a court created under article
III of the Constitution of the United States;
and
‘‘(B) waives the right to a jury trial regard-
ing the dispute.
‘‘(2) The copy of the claim served on the re-
spondent shall be the same as the claim that
was filed with the Copyright Claims Board.
‘‘(3) Personal service of a notice and claim
may be effected by an individual who is not
a party to the proceeding and is older than 18
years of age.
‘‘(4) An individual, other than a minor or
incompetent individual, may be served by—
‘‘(A) complying with State law for serving
a summons in an action brought in courts of
general jurisdiction in the State where serv-
ice is made;
‘‘(B) delivering a copy of the notice and
claim to the individual personally;
‘‘(C) leaving a copy of the notice and claim
at the individual’s dwelling or usual place of
abode with someone of suitable age and dis-
cretion who resides there; or
‘‘(D) delivering a copy of the notice and
claim to an agent designated by the respond-
ent to receive service of process or, if not so
designated, an agent authorized by appoint-
ment or by law to receive service of process.
‘‘(5)(A) A corporation, partnership, or unin-
corporated association that is subject to suit
in courts of general jurisdiction under a
common name shall be served by delivering
a copy of the notice and claim to its service
agent. If such service agent has not been des-
ignated, service shall be accomplished—
‘‘(i) by complying with State law for serv-
ing a summons in an action brought in
courts of general jurisdiction in the State
where service is made; or
‘‘(ii) by delivering a copy of the notice and
claim to an officer, a managing or general
agent, or any other agent authorized by ap-
pointment or by law to receive service of
process in an action brought in courts of
general jurisdiction in the State where serv-
ice is made and, if the agent is one author-
ized by statute and the statute so requires,
by also mailing a copy of the notice and
claim to the respondent.
‘‘(B) A corporation, partnership or unincor-
porated association that is subject to suit in
courts of general jurisdiction under a com-
mon name may elect to designate a service
agent to receive notice of a claim against it
before the Copyright Claims Board by com-
plying with requirements that the Register
of Copyrights shall establish by regulation.
The Register of Copyrights shall maintain a
current directory of service agents that is
available to the public for inspection, includ-
ing through the internet, and may require
such corporations, partnerships, and unin-
corporated associations designating such
service agents to pay a fee to cover the costs
of maintaining the directory.
‘‘(6) In order to request a waiver of per-
sonal service, the claimant may notify a re-
spondent, by first class mail or by other rea-
sonable means, that a proceeding has been
commenced, such notice to be made in ac-
cordance with regulations established by the
Register of Copyrights, subject to the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(A) Any such request shall be in writing,
shall be addressed to the respondent, and
shall be accompanied by a prescribed notice
of the proceeding, a copy of the claim as
filed with the Copyright Claims Board, a pre-
scribed form for waiver of personal service,
and a prepaid or other means of returning
the form without cost.
‘‘(B) The request shall state the date on
which the request is sent, and shall provide
the respondent a period of 30 days, beginning
on the date on which the request is sent, to
return the waiver form signed by the re-
spondent. The signed waiver form shall, for
purposes of this subsection, constitute ac-
ceptance and proof of service as of the date
on which the waiver is signed.
‘‘(7)(A) A respondent’s waiver of personal
service shall not constitute a waiver of the
respondent’s right to opt out of the pro-
ceeding.
‘‘(B) A respondent who timely waives per-
sonal service under paragraph (6) and does
not opt out of the proceeding shall be per-
mitted a period of 30 days, in addition to the
period otherwise permitted under the appli-
cable procedures of the Copyright Claims
Board, to submit a substantive response to
the claim, including any defenses and coun-
terclaims.
‘‘(8) A minor or an incompetent individual
may only be served by complying with State
law for serving a summons or like process on
such an individual in an action brought in
the courts of general jurisdiction of the
State where service is made.
‘‘(9) Service of a claim and waiver of per-
sonal service may only be effected within the
United States.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.035 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8349
October 22, 2019
‘‘(h) NOTIFICATION BY COPYRIGHT CLAIMS
BOARD.—The Register of Copyrights shall es-
tablish regulations providing for a written
notification to be sent by, or on behalf of,
the Copyright Claims Board to notify the re-
spondent of a pending proceeding against the
respondent, as set forth in those regulations,
which shall—
‘‘(1) include information concerning the re-
spondent’s right to opt out of the proceeding,
the consequences of opting out and not opt-
ing out, and a prominent statement that, by
not opting out within 60 days after the date
of service under subsection (g), the respond-
ent loses the opportunity to have the dispute
decided by a court created under article III
of the Constitution of the United States and
waives the right to a jury trial regarding the
dispute; and
‘‘(2) be in addition to, and separate and
apart from, the notice requirements under
subsection (g).
‘‘(i) OPT-OUT PROCEDURE.—Upon being
properly served with a notice and claim, a
respondent who chooses to opt out of the
proceeding shall have a period of 60 days, be-
ginning on the date of service, in which to
provide written notice of such choice to the
Copyright Claims Board, in accordance with
regulations established by the Register of
Copyrights. If proof of service has been filed
by the claimant and the respondent does not
submit an opt-out notice to the Copyright
Claims Board within that 60-day period, the
proceeding shall be deemed an active pro-
ceeding and the respondent shall be bound by
the determination in the proceeding to the
extent provided under section 1507(a). If the
respondent opts out of the proceeding during
that 60-day period, the proceeding shall be
dismissed without prejudice, except that, in
exceptional circumstances and upon written
notice to the claimant, the Copyright Claims
Board may extend that 60-day period in the
interests of justice.
‘‘(j) SERVICE OF OTHER DOCUMENTS.—Docu-
ments submitted or relied upon in a pro-
ceeding, other than the notice and claim,
shall be served in accordance with regula-
tions established by the Register of Copy-
rights.
‘‘(k) SCHEDULING.—Upon confirmation that
a proceeding has become an active pro-
ceeding, the Copyright Claims Board shall
issue a schedule for the future conduct of the
proceeding. The schedule shall not specify a
time that a claimant or counterclaimant is
required make an election of damages that is
inconsistent with section 1504(e). A schedule
issued by the Copyright Claims Board may
be amended by the Copyright Claims Board
in the interests of justice.
‘‘(l) CONFERENCES.—One or more Copyright
Claims Officers may hold a conference to ad-
dress case management or discovery issues
in a proceeding, which shall be noted upon
the record of the proceeding and may be re-
corded or transcribed.
‘‘(m) PARTY SUBMISSIONS.—A proceeding of
the Copyright Claims Board may not include
any formal motion practice, except that,
subject to applicable regulations and proce-
dures of the Copyright Claims Board—
‘‘(1) the parties to the proceeding may
make requests to the Copyright Claims
Board to address case management and dis-
covery matters, and submit responses there-
to; and
‘‘(2) the Copyright Claims Board may re-
quest or permit parties to make submissions
addressing relevant questions of fact or law,
or other matters, including matters raised
sua sponte by the Copyright Claims Officers,
and offer responses thereto.
‘‘(n) DISCOVERY.—Discovery in a pro-
ceeding shall be limited to the production of
relevant information and documents, written
interrogatories, and written requests for ad-
mission, as provided in regulations estab-
lished by the Register of Copyrights, except
that—
‘‘(1) upon the request of a party, and for
good cause shown, the Copyright Claims
Board may approve additional relevant dis-
covery, on a limited basis, in particular mat-
ters, and may request specific information
and documents from participants in the pro-
ceeding and voluntary submissions from non-
participants, consistent with the interests of
justice;
‘‘(2) upon the request of a party, and for
good cause shown, the Copyright Claims
Board may issue a protective order to limit
the disclosure of documents or testimony
that contain confidential information; and
‘‘(3) after providing notice and an oppor-
tunity to respond, and upon good cause
shown, the Copyright Claims Board may
apply an adverse inference with respect to
disputed facts against a party who has failed
to timely provide discovery materials in re-
sponse to a proper request for materials that
could be relevant to such facts.
‘‘(o) EVIDENCE.—The Copyright Claims
Board may consider the following types of
evidence in a proceeding, and such evidence
may be admitted without application of for-
mal rules of evidence:
‘‘(1) Documentary and other nontesti-
monial evidence that is relevant to the
claims, counterclaims, or defenses in the
proceeding.
‘‘(2) Testimonial evidence, submitted under
penalty of perjury in written form or in ac-
cordance with subsection (p), limited to
statements of the parties and nonexpert wit-
nesses, that is relevant to the claims, coun-
terclaims, and defenses in a proceeding, ex-
cept that, in exceptional cases, expert wit-
ness testimony or other types of testimony
may be permitted by the Copyright Claims
Board for good cause shown.
‘‘(p) HEARINGS.—The Copyright Claims
Board may conduct a hearing to receive oral
presentations on issues of fact or law from
parties and witnesses to a proceeding, in-
cluding oral testimony, subject to the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(1) Any such hearing shall be attended by
not fewer than two of the Copyright Claims
Officers.
‘‘(2) The hearing shall be noted upon the
record of the proceeding and, subject to para-
graph (3), may be recorded or transcribed as
deemed necessary by the Copyright Claims
Board.
‘‘(3) A recording or transcript of the hear-
ing shall be made available to any Copyright
Claims Officer who is not in attendance.
‘‘(q) VOLUNTARY DISMISSAL.—
‘‘(1) BY CLAIMANT.—Upon the written re-
quest of a claimant that is received before a
respondent files a response to the claim in a
proceeding, the Copyright Claims Board
shall dismiss the proceeding, or a claim or
respondent, as requested, without prejudice.
‘‘(2) BY COUNTERCLAIMANT.—Upon written
request of a counterclaimant that is received
before a claimant files a response to the
counterclaim, the Copyright Claims Board
shall dismiss the counterclaim, such dis-
missal to be without prejudice.
‘‘(3) CLASS ACTIONS.—Any party in an ac-
tive proceeding before the Copyright Claims
Board who receives notice of a pending or pu-
tative class action, arising out of the same
transaction or occurrence, in which that
party is a class member may request in writ-
ing dismissal of the proceeding before the
Board. Upon notice to all claimants and
counterclaimants, the Copyright Claims
Board shall dismiss the proceeding without
prejudice.
‘‘(r) SETTLEMENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—At any time in an active
proceeding, some or all of the parties may—
‘‘(A) jointly request a conference with a
Copyright Claims Officer for the purpose of
facilitating settlement discussions; or
‘‘(B) submit to the Copyright Claims Board
an agreement providing for settlement and
dismissal of some or all of the claims and
counterclaims in the proceeding.
‘‘(2) ADDITIONAL REQUEST.—A submission
under paragraph (1)(B) may include a request
that the Copyright Claims Board adopt some
or all of the terms of the parties’ settlement
in a final determination in the proceeding.
‘‘(s) FACTUAL FINDINGS.—Subject to sub-
section (n)(3), the Copyright Claims Board
shall make factual findings based upon a pre-
ponderance of the evidence.
‘‘(t) DETERMINATIONS.—
‘‘(1) NATURE AND CONTENTS.—A determina-
tion rendered by the Copyright Claims Board
in a proceeding shall—
‘‘(A) be reached by a majority of the Copy-
right Claims Board;
‘‘(B) be in writing, and include an expla-
nation of the factual and legal basis of the
determination;
‘‘(C) set forth any terms by which a re-
spondent or counterclaim respondent has
agreed to cease infringing activity under sec-
tion 1504(e)(2);
‘‘(D) to the extent requested under sub-
section (r)(2), set forth the terms of any set-
tlement agreed to under subsection (r)(1);
and
‘‘(E) include a clear statement of all dam-
ages and other relief awarded, including
under subparagraphs (C) and (D).
‘‘(2) DISSENT.—A Copyright Claims Officer
who dissents from a decision contained in a
determination under paragraph (1) may ap-
pend a statement setting forth the grounds
for that dissent.
‘‘(3) PUBLICATION.—Each final determina-
tion of the Copyright Claims Board shall be
made available on a publicly accessible
website. The Register shall establish regula-
tions with respect to the publication of other
records and information relating to such de-
terminations, including the redaction of
records to protect confidential information
that is the subject of a protective order
under subsection (n)(2).
‘‘(4) FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT.—All in-
formation relating to proceedings of the
Copyright Claims Board under this title is
exempt from disclosure to the public under
section 552(b)(3) of title 5, except for deter-
minations, records, and information pub-
lished under paragraph (3).
‘‘(u) RESPONDENT’S DEFAULT.—If a pro-
ceeding has been deemed an active pro-
ceeding but the respondent has failed to ap-
pear or has ceased participating in the pro-
ceeding, as demonstrated by the respondent’s
failure, without justifiable cause, to meet
one or more deadlines or requirements set
forth in the schedule adopted by the Copy-
right Claims Board under subsection (k), the
Copyright Claims Board may enter a default
determination, including the dismissal of
any counterclaim asserted by the respond-
ent, as follows and in accordance with such
other requirements as the Register of Copy-
rights may establish by regulation:
‘‘(1) The Copyright Claims Board shall re-
quire the claimant to submit relevant evi-
dence and other information in support of
the claimant’s claim and any asserted dam-
ages and, upon review of such evidence and
any other requested submissions from the
claimant, shall determine whether the mate-
rials so submitted are sufficient to support a
finding in favor of the claimant under appli-
cable law and, if so, the appropriate relief
and damages, if any, to be awarded.
‘‘(2) If the Copyright Claims Board makes
an affirmative determination under para-
graph (1), the Copyright Claims Board shall
prepare a proposed default determination,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.035 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8350 October 22, 2019
and shall provide written notice to the re-
spondent at all addresses, including email
addresses, reflected in the records of the pro-
ceeding before the Copyright Claims Board,
of the pendency of a default determination
by the Copyright Claims Board and of the
legal significance of such determination.
Such notice shall be accompanied by the pro-
posed default determination and shall pro-
vide that the respondent has a period of 30
days, beginning on the date of the notice, to
submit any evidence or other information in
opposition to the proposed default deter-
mination.
‘‘(3) If the respondent responds to the no-
tice provided under paragraph (2) within the
30-day period provided in such paragraph, the
Copyright Claims Board shall consider re-
spondent’s submissions and, after allowing
the other parties to address such submis-
sions, maintain, or amend its proposed deter-
mination as appropriate, and the resulting
determination shall not be a default deter-
mination.
‘‘(4) If the respondent fails to respond to
the notice provided under paragraph (2), the
Copyright Claims Board shall proceed to
issue the default determination as a final de-
termination. Thereafter, the respondent may
only challenge such determination to the ex-
tent permitted under section 1508(c), except
that, before any additional proceedings are
initiated under section 1508, the Copyright
Claims Board may, in the interests of jus-
tice, vacate the default determination.
‘‘(v) CLAIMANT’S FAILURE TO PROCEED.—
‘‘(1) FAILURE TO COMPLETE SERVICE.—If a
claimant fails to complete service on a re-
spondent within the 90-day period required
under subsection (g), the Copyright Claims
Board shall dismiss that respondent from the
proceeding without prejudice. If a claimant
fails to complete service on all respondents
within that 90-day period, the Copyright
Claims Board shall dismiss the proceeding
without prejudice.
‘‘(2) FAILURE TO PROSECUTE.—If a claimant
fails to proceed in an active proceeding, as
demonstrated by the claimant’s failure,
without justifiable cause, to meet one or
more deadlines or requirements set forth in
the schedule adopted by the Copyright
Claims Board under subsection (k), the Copy-
right Claims Board may, upon providing
written notice to the claimant and a period
of 30 days, beginning on the date of the no-
tice, to respond to the notice, and after con-
sidering any such response, issue a deter-
mination dismissing the claimants’ claims,
which shall include an award of attorneys’
fees and costs, if appropriate, under sub-
section (y)(2). Thereafter, the claimant may
only challenge such determination to the ex-
tent permitted under section 1508(c), except
that, before any additional proceedings are
initiated under section 1508, the Copyright
Claims Board may, in the interests of jus-
tice, vacate the determination of dismissal.
‘‘(w) REQUEST FOR RECONSIDERATION.—A
party may, within 30 days after the date on
which the Copyright Claims Board issues a
final determination in a proceeding under
this chapter, submit a written request for re-
consideration of, or an amendment to, such
determination if the party identifies a clear
error of law or fact material to the outcome,
or a technical mistake. After providing the
other parties an opportunity to address such
request, the Copyright Claims Board shall ei-
ther deny the request or issue an amended
final determination.
‘‘(x) REVIEW BY REGISTER.—If the Copy-
right Claims Board denies a party a request
for reconsideration of a final determination
under subsection (w), that party may, within
30 days after the date of such denial, request
review of the final determination by the Reg-
ister of Copyrights in accordance with regu-
lations established by the Register. Such re-
quest shall be accompanied by a reasonable
filing fee, as provided in such regulations.
The review by the Register shall be limited
to consideration of whether the Copyright
Claims Board abused its discretion in deny-
ing reconsideration of the determination.
After providing the other parties an oppor-
tunity to address the request, the Register
shall either deny the request for review, or
remand the proceeding to the Copyright
Claims Board for reconsideration of issues
specified in the remand and for issuance of
an amended final determination. Such
amended final determination shall not be
subject to further consideration or review,
other than under section 1508(c).
‘‘(y) CONDUCT OF PARTIES AND ATTOR-
NEYS.—
‘‘(1) CERTIFICATION.—The Register of Copy-
rights shall establish regulations requiring
certification of the accuracy and truthful-
ness of statements made by participants in
proceedings before the Copyright Claims
Board.
‘‘(2) BAD FAITH CONDUCT.—Notwithstanding
any other provision of law, in any proceeding
in which a determination is rendered and it
is established that a party pursued a claim,
counterclaim, or defense for a harassing or
other improper purpose, or without a reason-
able basis in law or fact, then, unless incon-
sistent with the interests of justice, the
Copyright Claims Board shall in such deter-
mination award reasonable costs and attor-
neys’ fees to any adversely affected party of
in an amount of not more than $5,000, except
that—
‘‘(A) if an adversely affected party ap-
peared pro se in the proceeding, the award to
that party shall be for costs only, in an
amount of not more than $2,500; and
‘‘(B) in extraordinary circumstances, such
as where a party has demonstrated a pattern
or practice of bad faith conduct as described
in this paragraph, the Copyright Claims
Board may, in the interests of justice, award
costs and attorneys’ fees in excess of the lim-
itations under this paragraph.
‘‘(3) ADDITIONAL PENALTY.—If the Board
finds that on more than one occasion within
a 12-month period a party pursued a claim,
counterclaim, or defense before the Copy-
right Claims Board for a harassing or other
improper purpose, or without a reasonable
basis in law or fact, that party shall be
barred from initiating a claim before the
Copyright Claims Board under this chapter
for a period of 12 months beginning on the
date on which the Board makes such a find-
ing. Any proceeding commenced by that
party that is still pending before the Board
when such a finding is made shall be dis-
missed without prejudice, except that if a
proceeding has been deemed active under
subsection (i), the proceeding shall be dis-
missed under this paragraph only if the re-
spondent provides written consent thereto.
‘‘(z) REGULATIONS FOR SMALLER CLAIMS.—
The Register of Copyrights shall establish
regulations to provide for the consideration
and determination, by at least one Copyright
Claims Officer, of any claim under this chap-
ter in which total damages sought do not ex-
ceed $5,000 (exclusive of attorneys’ fees and
costs) that are otherwise consistent with
this chapter. A determination issued under
this subsection shall have the same effect as
a determination issued by the entire Copy-
right Claims Board.
‘‘§ 1507. Effect of proceeding
‘‘(a) DETERMINATION.—Subject to the re-
consideration and review processes provided
under subsections (w) and (x) of section 1506
and section 1508(c), the issuance of a final de-
termination by the Copyright Claims Board
in a proceeding, including a default deter-
mination or determination based on a failure
to prosecute, shall, solely with respect to the
parties to such determination, preclude re-
litigation before any court or tribunal, or be-
fore the Copyright Claims Board, of the
claims and counterclaims asserted and fi-
nally determined by the Board, and may be
relied upon for such purpose in a future ac-
tion or proceeding arising from the same spe-
cific activity or activities, subject to the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(1) A determination of the Copyright
Claims Board shall not preclude litigation or
relitigation as between the same or different
parties before any court or tribunal, or the
Copyright Claims Board, of the same or simi-
lar issues of fact or law in connection with
claims or counterclaims not asserted or not
finally determined by the Copyright Claims
Board.
‘‘(2) A determination of ownership of a
copyrighted work for purposes of resolving a
matter before the Copyright Claims Board
may not be relied upon, and shall not have
any preclusive effect, in any other action or
proceeding before any court or tribunal, in-
cluding the Copyright Claims Board.
‘‘(3) Except to the extent permitted under
this subsection and section 1508, any deter-
mination of the Copyright Claims Board may
not be cited or relied upon as legal precedent
in any other action or proceeding before any
court or tribunal, including the Copyright
Claims Board.
‘‘(b) CLASS ACTIONS NOT AFFECTED.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A proceeding before the
Copyright Claims Board shall not have any
effect on a class action proceeding in a dis-
trict court of the United States, and section
1509(a) shall not apply to a class action pro-
ceeding in a district court of the United
States.
‘‘(2) NOTICE OF CLASS ACTION.—Any party to
an active proceeding before the Copyright
Claims Board who receives notice of a pend-
ing class action, arising out of the same
transaction or occurrence as the proceeding
before the Copyright Claims Board, in which
the party is a class member shall either—
‘‘(A) opt out of the class action, in accord-
ance with regulations established by the
Register of Copyrights; or
‘‘(B) seek dismissal under section 1506(q)(3)
of the proceeding before the Copyright
Claims Board.
‘‘(c) OTHER MATERIALS IN PROCEEDING.—Ex-
cept as permitted under this section and sec-
tion 1508, a submission or statement of a
party or witness made in connection with a
proceeding before the Copyright Claims
Board, including a proceeding that is dis-
missed, may not be cited or relied upon in, or
serve as the basis of, any action or pro-
ceeding concerning rights or limitations on
rights under this title before any court or
tribunal, including the Copyright Claims
Board.
‘‘(d) APPLICABILITY OF SECTION 512(g).—A
claim or counterclaim before the Copyright
Claims Board that is brought under sub-
section (c)(1) or (c)(4) of section 1504, or
brought under subsection (c)(6) of section
1504 and that relates to a claim under sub-
section (c)(1) or (c)(4) of such section, quali-
fies as an action seeking an order to restrain
a subscriber from engaging in infringing ac-
tivity under section 512(g)(2)(C) if—
‘‘(1) notice of the commencement of the
Copyright Claims Board proceeding is pro-
vided by the claimant to the service pro-
vider’s designated agent before the service
provider replaces the material following re-
ceipt of a counter notification under section
512(g); and
‘‘(2) the claim brought alleges infringe-
ment of the material identified in the notifi-
cation of claimed infringement under section
512(c)(1)(C).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.035 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8351
October 22, 2019
‘‘(e) FAILURE TO ASSERT COUNTERCLAIM.—
The failure or inability to assert a counter-
claim in a proceeding before the Copyright
Claims Board shall not preclude the asser-
tion of that counterclaim in a subsequent
court action or proceeding before the Copy-
right Claims Board.
‘‘(f) OPT-OUT OR DISMISSAL OF PARTY.—If a
party has timely opted out of a proceeding
under section 1506(i) or is dismissed from a
proceeding before the Copyright Claims
Board issues a final determination in the
proceeding, the determination shall not be
binding upon and shall have no preclusive ef-
fect with respect to that party.
‘‘§ 1508. Review and confirmation by district
court
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—In any proceeding in
which a party has failed to pay damages, or
has failed otherwise to comply with the re-
lief, awarded in a final determination of the
Copyright Claims Board, including a default
determination or a determination based on a
failure to prosecute, the aggrieved party
may, not later than 1 year after the date on
which the final determination is issued, any
reconsideration by the Copyright Claims
Board or review by the Register of Copy-
rights is resolved, or an amended final deter-
mination is issued, whichever occurs last,
apply to the United States District Court for
the District of Columbia or any other appro-
priate district court of the United States for
an order confirming the relief awarded in the
final determination and reducing such award
to judgment. The court shall grant such
order and direct entry of judgment unless
the determination is or has been vacated,
modified, or corrected under subsection (c).
If the United States District Court for the
District of Columbia or other district court
of the United States, as the case may be,
issues an order confirming the relief awarded
by the Copyright Claims Board, the court
shall impose on the party who failed to pay
damages or otherwise comply with the relief,
the reasonable expenses required to secure
such order, including attorneys’ fees, that
were incurred by the aggrieved party.
‘‘(b) FILING PROCEDURES.—
‘‘(1) APPLICATION TO CONFIRM DETERMINA-
TION.—Notice of the application under sub-
section (a) for confirmation of a determina-
tion of the Copyright Claims Board and
entry of judgment shall be provided to all
parties to the proceeding before the Copy-
right Claims Board that resulted in the de-
termination, in accordance with the proce-
dures applicable to service of a motion in the
district court of the United States where the
application is made.
‘‘(2) CONTENTS OF APPLICATION.—The appli-
cation shall include the following:
‘‘(A) A certified copy of the final or amend-
ed final determination of the Copyright
Claims Board, as reflected in the records of
the Copyright Claims Board, following any
process of reconsideration or review by the
Register of Copyrights, to be confirmed and
rendered to judgment.
‘‘(B) A declaration by the applicant, under
penalty of perjury—
‘‘(i) that the copy is a true and correct
copy of such determination;
‘‘(ii) stating the date it was issued;
‘‘(iii) stating the basis for the challenge
under subsection (c)(1); and
‘‘(iv) stating whether the applicant is
aware of any other proceedings before the
court concerning the same determination of
the Copyright Claims Board.
‘‘(c) CHALLENGES TO THE DETERMINATION.—
‘‘(1) BASES FOR CHALLENGE.—Not later than
90 days after the date on which Copyright
Claims Board issues a final or amended final
determination in a proceeding, or not later
than 90 days after the date on which the Reg-
ister of Copyrights completes any process of
reconsideration or review of the determina-
tion, whichever occurs later, a party may
seek a court order vacating, modifying, or
correcting the determination of the Copy-
right Claims Board in the following cases:
‘‘(A) If the determination was issued as a
result of fraud, corruption, misrepresenta-
tion, or other misconduct.
‘‘(B) If the Copyright Claims Board exceed-
ed its authority or failed to render a final de-
termination concerning the subject matter
at issue.
‘‘(C) In the case of a default determination
or determination based on a failure to pros-
ecute, if it is established that the default or
failure was due to excusable neglect.
‘‘(2) PROCEDURE TO CHALLENGE.—
‘‘(A) NOTICE OF APPLICATION.—Notice of the
application to challenge a determination of
the Copyright Claims Board shall be pro-
vided to all parties to the proceeding before
the Copyright Claims Board, in accordance
with the procedures applicable to service of
a motion in the court where the application
is made.
‘‘(B) STAYING OF PROCEEDINGS.—For pur-
poses of an application under this sub-
section, any judge who is authorized to issue
an order to stay the proceedings in an any
other action brought in the same court may
issue an order, to be served with the notice
of application, staying proceedings to en-
force the award while the challenge is pend-
ing.
‘‘§ 1509. Relationship to other district court
actions
‘‘(a) STAY OF DISTRICT COURT PRO-
CEEDINGS.—Subject to section 1507(b), a dis-
trict court of the United States shall issue a
stay of proceedings or such other relief as
the court determines appropriate with re-
spect to any claim brought before the court
that is already the subject of a pending or
active proceeding before the Copyright
Claims Board.
‘‘(b) ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION
PROCESS.—A proceeding before the Copyright
Claims Board under this chapter shall qual-
ify as an alternative dispute resolution proc-
ess under section 651 of title 28 for purposes
of referral of eligible cases by district courts
of the United States upon the consent of the
parties.
‘‘§ 1510. Implementation by Copyright Office
‘‘(a) REGULATIONS.—
‘‘(1) IMPLEMENTATION GENERALLY.—The
Register of Copyrights shall establish regula-
tions to carry out this chapter. Such regula-
tions shall include the fees prescribed under
subsections (e) and (x) of section 1506. The
authority to issue such fees shall not limit
the authority of the Register of Copyrights
to establish fees for services under section
708. All fees received by the Copyright Office
in connection with the activities under this
chapter shall be deposited by the Register of
Copyrights and credited to the appropria-
tions for necessary expenses of the Office in
accordance with section 708(d). In estab-
lishing regulations under this subsection,
the Register of Copyrights shall provide for
the efficient administration of the Copyright
Claims Board, and for the ability of the
Copyright Claims Board to timely complete
proceedings instituted under this chapter,
including by implementing mechanisms to
prevent harassing or improper use of the
Copyright Claims Board by any party.
‘‘(2) LIMITS ON MONETARY RELIEF.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B), not earlier than 3 years after the date on
which Copyright Claims Board issues the
first determination of the Copyright Claims
Board, the Register of Copyrights may, in
order to further the goals of the Copyright
Claims Board, conduct a rulemaking to ad-
just the limits on monetary recovery or at-
torneys’ fees and costs that may be awarded
under this chapter.
‘‘(B) EFFECTIVE DATE OF ADJUSTMENT.—Any
rule under subparagraph (A) that makes an
adjustment shall take effect at the end of
the 120-day period beginning on the date on
which the Register of Copyrights submits
the rule to Congress and only if Congress
does not, during that 120-day period, enact a
law that provides in substance that Congress
does not approve the rule.
‘‘(b) NECESSARY FACILITIES.—Subject to ap-
plicable law, the Register of Copyrights may
retain outside vendors to establish internet-
based, teleconferencing, and other facilities
required to operate the Copyright Claims
Board.
‘‘(c) FEES.—Any filing fees, including the
fee to commence a proceeding under section
1506(e), shall be prescribed in regulations es-
tablished by the Register of Copyrights. The
sum total of such filing fees shall be in an
amount of at least $100, may not exceed the
cost of filing an action in a district court of
the United States, and shall be fixed in
amounts that further the goals of the Copy-
right Claims Board.
‘‘§ 1511. Funding
‘‘There are authorized to be appropriated
such sums as may be necessary to pay the
costs incurred by the Copyright Office under
this chapter that are not covered by fees col-
lected for services rendered under this chap-
ter, including the costs of establishing and
maintaining the Copyright Claims Board and
its facilities.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
chapters for title 17, United States Code, is
amended by adding after the item relating to
chapter 14 the following:
‘‘15. Copyright Small Claims .............. 1501’’.
SEC. 3. IMPLEMENTATION.
Not later 1 year after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, the Copyright Claims
Board established under section 1502 of title
17, United States Code, as added by section 2
of this Act, shall begin operations.
SEC. 4. STUDY.
Not later than 3 years after the date on
which Copyright Claims Board issues the
first determination of the Copyright Claims
Board under chapter 15 of title 17, United
States Code, as added by section 2 of this
Act, the Register of Copyrights shall con-
duct, and report to Congress on, a study that
addresses the following:
(1) The use and efficacy of the Copyright
Claims Board in resolving copyright claims,
including the number of proceedings the
Copyright Claims Board could reasonably ad-
minister.
(2) Whether adjustments to the authority
of the Copyright Claims Board are necessary
or advisable, including with respect to—
(A) eligible claims, such as claims under
section 1202 of title 17, United States Code;
and
(B) works and applicable damages limita-
tions.
(3) Whether greater allowance should be
made to permit awards of attorneys’ fees and
costs to prevailing parties, including poten-
tial limitations on such awards.
(4) Potential mechanisms to assist copy-
right owners with small claims in
ascertaining the identity and location of un-
known online infringers.
(5) Whether the Copyright Claims Board
should be expanded to offer mediation or
other nonbinding alternative dispute resolu-
tion services to interested parties.
(6) Such other matters as the Register of
Copyrights believes may be pertinent con-
cerning the Copyright Claims Board.
SEC. 5. SEVERABILITY.
If any provision of this Act, an amendment
made by this Act, or the application of such
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.035 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8352 October 22, 2019
provision or amendment to any person or
circumstance is held to be unconstitutional,
the remainder of this Act and the amend-
ments made by this Act, and the application
of the provision or the amendment to any
other person or circumstance, shall not be
affected.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. JEFFRIES) and the gen-
tleman from Virginia (Mr. CLINE) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and include extra-
neous material on the bill under con-
sideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, today, we will vote on
H.R. 2426, the Copyright Alternative in
Small-Claims Enforcement Act, other-
wise known as the CASE Act, a bill
that will allow creators to protect
their copyrighted work under law.
Copyright infringement is not a
victimless crime. Photographers, illus-
trators, visual artists, authors, song-
writers, and musicians all rely upon
their protected works to put food on
the table, clothing on their backs, and
support their families. When their
copyrighted work is used unlawfully or
pirated, that is the functional equiva-
lent of a burglary.
But small creators victimized by in-
fringement often find themselves in a
tough spot. They have a right to en-
force their work under copyright law
but are often unable to do so in a prac-
tical sense.
On the one hand, you have the notice
and takedown process that can be inef-
ficient, cumbersome, and, as many
small creators will tell you, often
pointless. On the other hand, there is
the Article III Federal court system
that can be expensive, time-consuming,
and often out of reach for many work-
ing-class and middle-class creators.
For instance, the average cost of liti-
gating an infringement case in Federal
court is approximately $350,000, but the
total amount of damages that can be
awarded, for instance, in a CASE Act-
eligible matter cannot exceed $30,000.
In that instance, the cost of litigating
a case could be more than 10 times the
damages that are at issue.
According to a survey by the Amer-
ican Bar Association, which supports
this legislation, most lawyers will not
take infringement cases with damages
at or lower than $30,000. As a result,
many petitioners are functionally un-
able to vindicate their rights under
law. In other words, these creators are
given a right without a remedy.
The CASE Act will provide a viable
alternative. This legislation would es-
tablish a voluntary forum for small
copyright claims housed within the
Copyright Office. Disputes would be
heard by a new entity called the Copy-
right Claims Board made up of intellec-
tual property experts with experience
representing both creators and the
users of copyrighted material.
Unlike Federal court, the cases be-
fore the board will have limited dam-
ages. Parties would not have to appear
in person and can proceed, if they
choose, without an attorney.
These provisions address the signifi-
cant burdens that currently exist, im-
posed by Federal court litigation, mak-
ing this system more user-friendly for
all, regardless of your side, but inclu-
sive of working-class and middle-class
members of the creative community.
Both sides must agree to participate
in order for the small claims tribunal
to have jurisdiction. It is a voluntary
system where either side can opt out.
Simply put, the legislation allows for
copyright disputes to be resolved in a
fair, timely, and affordable manner.
I urge my colleagues to support this
bill, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. CLINE. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman
from New York for his leadership on
this important issue.
The United States Constitution ex-
pressly calls for the protection of cre-
ative works in order to promote inno-
vation and creativity. Under that lofty
authority, Congress established the
copyright system. As was the hope,
copyright-intensive industries have be-
come critical to our economy, report-
edly contributing more than $1 trillion.
Unfortunately, in the system that we
have today, many small businesses and
individuals are unable to enforce their
copyrights because they do not have
deep enough pockets. It costs tens or
hundreds of thousands of dollars to
hire lawyers to litigate a copyright
claim in Federal court.
Sadly, this forces individuals to
stand idly by as thieves profit off of
their work. Our Founding Fathers
wouldn’t want a copyright system that
discourages creators. After all, they
wanted to create a system that fosters
the creation of artistic works. That is
why so many members of the Judiciary
Committee helped craft legislation to
stop the theft of copyrighted works and
so many Members of the House have
joined in support of it.
H.R. 2426, the CASE Act, would estab-
lish a copyright small claims pro-
ceeding within the Copyright Office to
provide a less expensive alternative to
costly Federal court litigation.
The proceedings would be simple,
conducted remotely, handled by a
panel of copyright experts, and limited
to straightforward cases of alleged
copyright infringement.
Damage awards would be low, reach-
ing a maximum of no greater than
$15,000 per work, with a total award for
a case capped at $30,000. Participation
in such a small claims proceeding
would be completely voluntary, and
anyone falsely accused of infringement
could simply opt out of the small
claims proceeding.
The CASE Act includes a number of
other safeguards to prevent abuse. The
Copyright Office is authorized to limit
the number of cases one person can file
and will review the allegations for suf-
ficiency before forwarding them to the
accused infringer.
If an accuser files in bad faith, he or
she would have to pay fees to the party
falsely accused of infringement and be
barred for 1 year.
Several other provisions of H.R. 2426
would protect against inadvertent de-
fault judgments. They include require-
ments that the accused infringer be
physically served; the complaint warn
the accused infringer of the ramifica-
tions of not responding; and the ac-
cused be given several notices and
chances to respond to the allegations
against them.
Most importantly, before a default
judgment can be granted, the copyright
owner must establish that their copy-
right was actually infringed by the ac-
cused.
The bill is intended to provide a
streamlined, inexpensive alternative
for parties to resolve small claims of
copyright infringement outside of
court. H.R. 2426 accomplishes all of
these goals.
I am proud to join my colleagues—
Congressman JEFFRIES, Ranking Mem-
ber COLLINS, Chairman NADLER, MAR-
THA ROBY, HANK JOHNSON, JUDY CHU,
TED LIEU, and BRIAN FITZPATRICK—to
provide an important avenue of relief
to the creators in our communities
who provide such significant support to
our local economies.
I urge my colleagues to support this
legislation, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Speaker, let me
first thank the distinguished gen-
tleman from the Commonwealth of
Virginia (Mr. CLINE) for his leadership
as it relates to the CASE Act.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the
gentleman from New York (Mr. NAD-
LER), the distinguished chair of the
House Judiciary Committee.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H.R. 2426, the Copyright Alternative
in Small-Claims Enforcement Act of
2019, or the CASE Act.
This important bipartisan legislation
would establish a voluntary small
claims court within the Copyright Of-
fice to hear copyright suits seeking
$30,000 or less in total damages.
Today, many small creators, espe-
cially visual artists, are unable to pro-
tect their rights because the cost of
pursuing an infringement claim in Fed-
eral court is far greater, as much as 10
times or more than the damages they
could ever hope to receive. Few attor-
neys would take a case when such lim-
ited damages are at stake because they
would not likely recoup their costs.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.035 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8353
October 22, 2019
It is a fundamental principle of the
American legal system that a right
must have a remedy. But if it costs
$250,000 to recover a few thousand dol-
lars from someone who has infringed
your copyright, then what remedy do
you really have?
The CASE Act would provide impor-
tant protections for the many inde-
pendent creators who are currently un-
able to protect their work in Federal
court. It would establish a small claims
board within the Copyright Office to
resolve infringement claims seeking
$30,000 or less in total damages, with
claims officers appointed by the Li-
brarian of Congress.
The proceedings are designed to be
less expensive and much easier to navi-
gate, even without an attorney, than
Federal court. And they would enable
parties to represent themselves or to
seek pro bono assistance from law stu-
dents.
The board would conduct its pro-
ceedings entirely by telephone and the
internet, and no one would need to
travel to a hearing or a courthouse.
The bill caps damages at no more
than $15,000 per work infringed, and no
more than $30,000 total. The board
would work with the parties to settle
their claims.
Importantly, the proceedings would
be voluntary. Plaintiffs can decide
whether this is the proper forum to file
their claim, and defendants may opt
out of the process if they prefer to have
their case heard by a Federal judge.
b 1615
The sponsor of this legislation, the
gentleman from New York (Mr.
JEFFRIES), has worked tirelessly to en-
sure that this legislation includes revi-
sions and suggestions from many Mem-
bers and stakeholders. The revisions
include various heightened due process
protections and provisions intended to
reduce potential abuse of the system,
all of which has made a good bill even
better.
For far too long, it has been virtually
impossible for small creators to vindi-
cate their right to a just measure of
damages from infringers. Today we
have an opportunity to take an impor-
tant step in helping independent pho-
tographers, filmmakers, graphic de-
signers, and other creators to protect
their work.
I would like to thank Mr. JEFFRIES
and Ranking Member COLLINS for their
outstanding leadership on the CASE
Act.
I would also like to thank the Copy-
right Office, which conducted an ex-
haustive study on the issue and whose
recommendations form the basis for
the bill.
In addition, I appreciate the support
of colleagues on both sides of the aisle,
including the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Ms. JUDY CHU), who has intro-
duced similar legislation in previous
Congresses and who has been tireless in
her work to protect creators’ rights.
Mr. Speaker, I am proud to be a co-
sponsor of this important legislation,
and I urge my colleagues to support
the bill.
Mr. CLINE. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self the balance of my time to close.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman
again for his leadership on this issue,
and I thank the chairman for his re-
marks.
Again, this bill is a purely optional
system and allows anyone who doesn’t
wish to participate to opt out. The
Copyright Office considered this fea-
ture in its report back in 2013 and high-
lighted significant shortcomings of an
opt-in approach, including concerns
that such a system would fail to cap-
ture infringers who choose to ignore a
claim of infringement and/or fail to re-
turn an affirmative written response
regarding agreement to participate in
the system, as is currently the case.
The opt-out system provided in the
CASE Act does not change the vol-
untary nature of the small claims proc-
ess it creates. In fact, it is simple, and
respondents would be made aware of
their right to opt out as well as the
consequences of opting out and not
opting out, which would be promi-
nently stated and explained in the no-
tice they receive.
Again, Mr. Speaker, I would say that
this is a bipartisan initiative. I would
just add several different Members on
both sides participated. I want to
thank all of them for their hard work.
I want to thank the staff for their hard
work, as well.
This will go a long way toward fur-
thering the protection of creative
works as our Founders intended in the
U.S. Constitution.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time to close.
Mr. Speaker, the CASE Act is the
product of more than 10 years of care-
ful study by this House and the United
States Copyright Office.
As Chairman NADLER indicated, I
want to thank the Copyright Office for
the work that they have done in laying
the foundation for the CASE Act.
Once again, I urge my colleagues to
support this legislation so that cre-
ators, authors, musicians, and users fi-
nally have a forum for small copyright
claims where they can meaningfully
assert their rights and defenses.
This bill has support through cospon-
sorship of more than 150 Members of
this House on both sides of the aisle,
and I thank each and every one of
them.
The bill is endorsed by dozens of
groups, including the American Bar As-
sociation, AFL–CIO, the NAACP, the
Copyright Alliance, the United States
Chamber of Commerce, the Association
of American Publishers, the Authors
Guild, CreativeFuture, Nashville Song-
writers, National Press Photographers,
the Recording Academy, the Latin
American Recording Academy, the
Songwriters Guild of America, the In-
stitute for Intellectual Property and
Social Justice, the Songwriters of
North America, as well as SAG-
AFTRA, and many, many more. I
would like to thank all of them for
their advocacy and for their effort.
Article I, Section 8, Clause 8 of the
United States Constitution gives Con-
gress the power to create a robust in-
tellectual property system in order to,
in the words of the Framers of the Con-
stitution, ‘‘promote the progress of
science and useful arts.’’
The Founders recognized that society
would benefit if we incentivize and pro-
tect creativity and innovation. In
doing so, the creative community will
continue to share their creative bril-
liance with the American people and
the world and experience some benefit
from the fruits of their labor.
Times have changed since the provi-
sions of Article I, Section 8, Clause 8
were first written into the Constitu-
tion in 1787, but the constitutional
principle remains the same, and that is
what the CASE Act is all about.
I would like to thank the many co-
sponsors of this legislation, including
my good friend, Judiciary Committee
Ranking Member DOUG COLLINS; the
Judiciary Committee chair for his tre-
mendous leadership, JERRY NADLER;
Courts, Intellectual Property, and the
Internet Subcommittee Chairman
Hank Johnson; Courts, Intellectual
Property, and the Internet Sub-
committee Ranking Member MARTHA
ROBY; TED LIEU; BEN CLINE; JUDY CHU;
BRIAN FITZPATRICK; and many, many
others.
On the Senate side, I am grateful for
the leadership of Senators JOHN KEN-
NEDY, DICK DURBIN, THOM TILLIS, and
MAZIE HIRONO, who are original cospon-
sors of the Senate companion to this
legislation, which is making its way
through that Chamber as well.
In the last Congress, we came to-
gether, Democrats and Republicans,
progressives and conservatives, the left
and the right, to pass the historic
Music Modernization Act that was
signed into law by President Donald
Trump, illustrating that we can come
together. In this instance, I am grate-
ful that the same coalition has come
back together in support of the work-
ing-class and middle-class creative
community.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to support this bill, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
CARSON of Indiana). The question is on
the motion offered by the gentleman
from New York (Mr. JEFFRIES) that the
House suspend the rules and pass the
bill, H.R. 2426, as amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. AMASH. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:34 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.072 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8354 October 22, 2019
NATIONAL POW/MIA FLAG ACT
Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill (S.
693) to amend title 36, United States
Code, to require that the POW/MIA flag
be displayed on all days that the flag of
the United States is displayed on cer-
tain Federal property.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
S. 693
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘National
POW/MIA Flag Act’’.
SEC. 2. DAYS ON WHICH THE POW/MIA FLAG IS
DISPLAYED ON CERTAIN FEDERAL
PROPERTY.
Section 902 of title 36, United States Code,
is amended by striking subsection (c) and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(c) DAYS FOR FLAG DISPLAY.—For the pur-
poses of this section, POW/MIA flag display
days are all days on which the flag of the
United States is displayed.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Tennessee (Mr. COHEN) and the gen-
tleman from Virginia (Mr. CLINE) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Tennessee.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days to revise and extend
their remarks and include extraneous
material on the bill under consider-
ation.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Tennessee?
There was no objection.
Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of S.
693, the National POW/MIA Flag Act.
This bill would effectively require that
the National League of Families POW/
MIA flag be flown every day at certain
specified locations.
Under current law, the flag must be
displayed on six designated days:
Armed Forces Day, Memorial Day,
Flag Day, Independence Day, National
POW/MIA Recognition Day, and Vet-
erans Day. In addition, the flag must
be flown at the World War II Memorial,
Korean War Veterans Memorial, Viet-
nam Veterans Memorial, Veterans Af-
fairs medical centers, and post offices
on every day the United States flag is
displayed.
Current law requires that the POW/
MIA flag be displayed on these des-
ignated days at the Capitol; the White
House; the World War II, Korean War
Veterans, and Vietnam Veterans Me-
morials; each national cemetery; the
buildings containing offices of the Sec-
retaries of State, Defense, and Vet-
erans Affairs, and the Director of the
Selective Service System; each major
military installation; each Veterans
Affairs medical center; and each post
office.
This bill simply strikes the provision
designating days for display of the
POW/MIA flag from current law and re-
places it with the mandate that the
POW/MIA flag be flown on all days on
which the United States flag is dis-
played.
Enacting this bill into law would be
an appropriate tribute to all those who
have served our Nation in uniform, and
especially those who made the sacrifice
of being held prisoner by our Nation’s
enemies in wartime and for those who
remain missing as a result of hostile
action.
The POW/MIA flag not only reminds
every American of these individuals’
sacrifices, but also acts as a symbol of
the Nation’s commitment to achieve,
as the statute says, ‘‘the fullest pos-
sible accounting of Americans who,
having been prisoners of war or missing
in action, still remain unaccounted
for.’’
I will look at this flag in future years
and think of Sam Johnson, a great
Member of this House, and John
McCain, a great American, an honest
American, and a great leader.
I applaud Senator ELIZABETH WARREN
for introducing this bill which passed
the Senate by unanimous consent.
I also congratulate Representative
CHRIS PAPPAS, who introduced an iden-
tical bill in the House and has worked
tirelessly to shepherd this legislation
through House passage. I thank him for
his hard work and leadership on this
meaningful measure that recognizes
these heroes.
Mr. Speaker, I urge the House to pass
this bill and the President to sign it
into law, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. CLINE. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman
from Tennessee for his leadership on
this issue. I also want to thank Con-
gressman PAPPAS for his introduction
of an identical bill in the House.
Many Americans may not be aware
that more than 82,000 Americans are
listed as prisoners of war, missing in
action, or otherwise unaccounted for as
a result of engagement in military con-
flicts. Displaying the POW/MIA flag
alongside the American flag invites ev-
eryone to reflect on that somber num-
ber and appreciate the sacrifices people
have made for the freest country on
the planet.
S. 693 would require the POW/MIA
flag to be displayed whenever the
American flag is displayed on Federal
properties, including the U.S. Capitol,
the White House, the World War II Me-
morial, the Korean War Veterans Me-
morial, the Vietnam Veterans Memo-
rial, every national cemetery and
major military installation as des-
ignated by the Secretary of Defense,
and every U.S. post office.
I look forward to passage of this bi-
partisan bill and to seeing the POW/
MIA flag fly along with the Stars and
Stripes to remind us that freedom
comes at a cost and we owe more than
we know to the brave men and women
who gave their lives and their liberty
for their fellow Americans.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from New
Hampshire (Mr. PAPPAS), who is the
author.
Mr. PAPPAS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding, and I thank
him for his words.
As well, I thank Mr. CLINE for his
words in support of this legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of S.
693, the National POW/MIA Flag Act.
In May, I had the privilege of visiting
America’s longest running POW/MIA
vigil, in my district, in Meredith, New
Hampshire. There, on the shores of
Lake Winnipesaukee, participants have
been gathering every Thursday evening
for more than 30 years to honor and re-
member servicemembers listed as pris-
oners of war, missing in action, or oth-
erwise unaccounted for.
It doesn’t matter if it is a night in
the depths of a frigid winter or a swel-
tering summer, every vigil brings out a
strong community of veterans, family
members, and supporters who call on
all of us to remember these heroes.
Vigils like these happen all across this
great country to ensure no service-
member’s sacrifice is forgotten.
Flying over these vigils with the
Stars and Stripes is the POW/MIA flag.
This flag was conceived in the early
1970s during the Vietnam war by family
members who awaited the return of
their loved ones. It was adopted by
Congress ‘‘as the symbol of our Na-
tion’s concern and commitment to re-
solving as fully as possible the fates of
Americans still prisoner, missing, and
unaccounted for in Southeast Asia,
thus ending the uncertainty for their
families and the Nation.’’
b 1630
It has become an enduring national
symbol of POW/MIAs from conflicts
throughout our history.
That is why I was proud to introduce
this bipartisan companion legislation
in the House, along with my colleague,
Representative BERGMAN, which would
display the POW/MIA flag alongside
the American flag at all Federal build-
ings, memorials, and all national ceme-
teries throughout the year.
Under current law, the POW/MIA flag
is required to be displayed by the Fed-
eral Government only 6 days per year.
This flag is representative of profound
courage and sacrifice, and it is only
right that those who served their coun-
try honorably but never returned
home, are remembered appropriately
at our Federal buildings, cemeteries,
and memorials.
This bipartisan legislation passed the
Senate unanimously, and it is endorsed
by Rolling Thunder; the National
League of POW/MIA Families; the Vet-
erans of Foreign Wars; the American
Legion; the National Alliance of Fami-
lies for the Return of America’s Miss-
ing Servicemen; and American Ex-Pris-
oners of War.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:34 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.074 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8355
October 22, 2019
It is fitting that this bill has gar-
nered such a strong show of support. I
urge my colleagues to pass this legisla-
tion, to continue working with a sense
of common purpose when it comes to
supporting our servicemembers, mili-
tary families, and veterans.
Members of Congress display this flag
in front of our Washington and district
offices because we believe we must
honor the more than 81,000 service-
members our government says are
missing or unaccounted for since World
War II.
Let’s ensure these displays happen
across Federal properties throughout
the year. Let’s ensure the words embla-
zoned on the POW/MIA flag continue to
communicate our support and commit-
ment for our Nation’s heroes and their
families. You are not forgotten.
Mr. CLINE. Mr. Speaker, again, I
commend those who have pursued the
introduction and passage of this impor-
tant legislation. And along with the
comments of my colleague from New
Hampshire, ‘‘they will never be forgot-
ten,’’ we will continue to fly the POW/
MIA flag alongside the American flag.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, as the gen-
tleman from Virginia (Mr. CLINE) said,
this is a straightforward bill that
rightly requires that the flag be flown
effectively every day at certain loca-
tions at great significance to our coun-
try and to our Armed Forces and vet-
erans.
It is an appropriate way to honor all
those who served, and particularly,
those who have been held prisoners and
who remain missing because of their
service to our Nation in wartime.
Therefore, I urge prompt passage of S.
693.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman
from New Hampshire (Mr. PAPPAS) for
his work on the bill, and Senator WAR-
REN. I yield back the balance of my
time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Tennessee (Mr.
COHEN) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, S. 693.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
PREVENTING ANIMAL CRUELTY
AND TORTURE ACT
Mr. DEUTCH. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 724) to revise section 48 of title
18, United States Code, and for other
purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 724
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Preventing
Animal Cruelty and Torture Act’’ or the
‘‘PACT Act’’.
SEC. 2. REVISION OF SECTION 48.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 48 of title 18,
United States Code, is amended to read as
follows:
‘‘§ 48. Animal crushing
‘‘(a) OFFENSES.—
‘‘(1) CRUSHING.—It shall be unlawful for
any person to purposely engage in animal
crushing in or affecting interstate or foreign
commerce or within the special maritime
and territorial jurisdiction of the United
States.
‘‘(2) CREATION OF ANIMAL CRUSH VIDEOS.—It
shall be unlawful for any person to know-
ingly create an animal crush video, if—
‘‘(A) the person intends or has reason to
know that the animal crush video will be dis-
tributed in, or using a means or facility of,
interstate or foreign commerce; or
‘‘(B) the animal crush video is distributed
in, or using a means or facility of, interstate
or foreign commerce.
‘‘(3) DISTRIBUTION OF ANIMAL CRUSH VID-
EOS.—It shall be unlawful for any person to
knowingly sell, market, advertise, exchange,
or distribute an animal crush video in, or
using a means or facility of, interstate or
foreign commerce.
‘‘(b) EXTRATERRITORIAL APPLICATION.—This
section applies to the knowing sale, mar-
keting, advertising, exchange, distribution,
or creation of an animal crush video outside
of the United States, if—
‘‘(1) the person engaging in such conduct
intends or has reason to know that the ani-
mal crush video will be transported into the
United States or its territories or posses-
sions; or
‘‘(2) the animal crush video is transported
into the United States or its territories or
possessions.
‘‘(c) PENALTIES.—Whoever violates this
section shall be fined under this title, im-
prisoned for not more than 7 years, or both.
‘‘(d) EXCEPTIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—This section does not
apply with regard to any conduct, or a visual
depiction of that conduct, that is—
‘‘(A) a customary and normal veterinary,
agricultural husbandry, or other animal
management practice;
‘‘(B) the slaughter of animals for food;
‘‘(C) hunting, trapping, fishing, a sporting
activity not otherwise prohibited by Federal
law, predator control, or pest control;
‘‘(D) medical or scientific research;
‘‘(E) necessary to protect the life or prop-
erty of a person; or
‘‘(F) performed as part of euthanizing an
animal.
‘‘(2) GOOD-FAITH DISTRIBUTION.—This sec-
tion does not apply to the good-faith dis-
tribution of an animal crush video to—
‘‘(A) a law enforcement agency; or
‘‘(B) a third party for the sole purpose of
analysis to determine if referral to a law en-
forcement agency is appropriate.
‘‘(3) UNINTENTIONAL CONDUCT.—This section
does not apply to unintentional conduct that
injures or kills an animal.
‘‘(4) CONSISTENCY WITH RFRA.—This section
shall be enforced in a manner that is con-
sistent with section 3 of the Religious Free-
dom Restoration Act of 1993 (42 U.S.C.
2000bb–1).
‘‘(e) NO PREEMPTION.—Nothing in this sec-
tion shall be construed to preempt the law of
any State or local subdivision thereof to pro-
tect animals.
‘‘(f) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
‘‘(1) the term ‘animal crushing’ means ac-
tual conduct in which one or more living
non-human mammals, birds, reptiles, or am-
phibians is purposely crushed, burned,
drowned, suffocated, impaled, or otherwise
subjected to serious bodily injury (as defined
in section 1365 and including conduct that, if
committed against a person and in the spe-
cial maritime and territorial jurisdiction of
the United States, would violate section 2241
or 2242);
‘‘(2) the term ‘animal crush video’ means
any photograph, motion-picture film, video
or digital recording, or electronic image
that—
‘‘(A) depicts animal crushing; and
‘‘(B) is obscene; and
‘‘(3) the term ‘euthanizing an animal’
means the humane destruction of an animal
accomplished by a method that—
‘‘(A) produces rapid unconsciousness and
subsequent death without evidence of pain or
distress; or
‘‘(B) uses anesthesia produced by an agent
that causes painless loss of consciousness
and subsequent death.’’.
(b) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMEND-
MENT.—The table of sections for chapter 3 of
title 18, United States Code, is amended by
striking the item relating to section 48 and
inserting the following:
‘‘48. Animal crushing.’’.
SEC. 3. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, and the
amendments made by this Act, for the pur-
pose of complying with the Statutory Pay-
As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined
by reference to the latest statement titled
‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legislation’’
for this Act, submitted for printing in the
Congressional Record by the Chairman of the
House Budget Committee, provided that such
statement has been submitted prior to the
vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Florida (Mr. DEUTCH) and the gen-
tleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
RESCHENTHALER) each will control 20
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Florida.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. DEUTCH. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and include extra-
neous material on the bill under con-
sideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Florida?
There was no objection.
Mr. DEUTCH. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 724, the Preventing Animal Cru-
elty and Torture Act, or the PACT Act.
I give special thanks to the gen-
tleman from Florida (Mr. BUCHANAN),
my colleague. He is a longstanding
friend of animals in Congress, and I am
thrilled that he agreed to introduce
this bill with me to create a Federal
law punishing those who abuse ani-
mals.
I also would like to acknowledge
Congressman HOLDING and the hard
work by groups like the Humane Soci-
ety and Humane Rescue Alliance, who
have helped collect 290 bipartisan co-
sponsors for this bill. There are so
many groups and people from across
the country who have supported this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:34 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.076 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8356 October 22, 2019
bill—people like Lisa Vanderpump,
who added her passion and commit-
ment to animals to our effort, and
groups who rescue animals, literally, in
every corner of our country every sin-
gle day.
I would also acknowledge and thank
one person in particular, Mr. Speaker—
a high school student, one who is so
committed to helping animals, caring
for animals, that when she learned
about the PACT Act, she started an on-
line petition hoping to collect a few
thousand signatures. That petition
urging Congress to pass this bill gath-
ered over 729,000 signers. And I am
thrilled that that young activist, Syd-
ney Helfand, is with us in the gallery
today.
Now, of all the divisive issues here in
Washington, the PACT Act is one on
which we can all agree, we must make
animal abuse a Federal crime. This bill
has received so much bipartisan sup-
port, because Americans care about
animal welfare. We form deep relation-
ships with our companion animals and
are rightfully outraged by cases of ani-
mal abuse. Animal rights activities
stand up for living things that do not
have a voice. That is what the PACT
Act does.
Americans expect their law enforce-
ment agencies to crack down on this
horrific violence against animals, and
law enforcement officers agree, which
is why the PACT Act has been endorsed
by the Fraternal Order of Police, the
National Sheriffs’ Association, the As-
sociation of Prosecuting Attorneys,
and local law enforcement agencies
across the country. They have asked
for this Federal law to bolster their ef-
forts to target animal abusers, because
they understand the direct link be-
tween animal abuse and violent crimes.
This link is why the FBI now collects
data on acts of cruelty against animals
for their criminal database, right
alongside felony crimes like assault
and homicide.
When I first came to Congress, one of
the first bills I voted on was the Ani-
mal Crush Video Prohibition Act, a bill
that passed nearly unanimously and
that it made it a crime to create or dis-
tribute animal crush videos, which de-
pict horrific acts against animals.
This bill today takes the next logical
step and criminalizes those acts under-
lying that crime as well.
The Senate passed the PACT Act by
unanimous consent in the last two
Congresses, and I am proud the House
is finally doing its part to pass this im-
portant legislation. Today, anyone who
inflicts serious bodily injury on ani-
mals will be committing an act for
which they should be condemned. When
the PACT Act passes, they will also be
violating Federal law.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support the PACT Act, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair would remind Members to avoid
referencing occupants of the gallery.
Mr. RESCHENTHALER. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
724, the bipartisan Preventing Animal
Cruelty and Torture Act, or the PACT
Act, introduced by Representative TED
DEUTCH and VERN BUCHANAN.
In 2017, Pennsylvania passed Libre’s
Law, which increased penalties for ani-
mal abuse. I was honored to help push
that legislation over the finish line in
the Pennsylvania State Senate. I am
proud to once again help pass legisla-
tion that will better protect our Na-
tion’s animals.
In 2010, Congress passed the Animal
Crush Video Prohibition Act to address
the trade in obscene videos of live ani-
mals being crushed, burned, or sub-
jected to other forms of heinous cru-
elty. While this was an important first
step, the law only bans the trade in
video depictions of cruelty, not the un-
derlying act of cruelty itself.
The PACT Act addresses this gap by
prohibiting the underlying acts of ani-
mal cruelty that occur on Federal
property or affect interstate com-
merce, regardless of whether a video is
produced.
As a former district judge, I served
on the frontlines of our judicial sys-
tem. I witnessed firsthand the connec-
tion between animal cruelty and vio-
lence toward people. In fact, the FBI
recently recognized that addressing
animal cruelty is critical to protecting
our communities.
The PACT Act would give Federal
law enforcement and prosecutors the
tools they need to combat extreme ani-
mal cruelty. This bill would give the
FBI the authority to act against ani-
mal cruelty that is discovered while in-
vestigating another interstate crime,
such as drug smuggling or human traf-
ficking.
The PACT Act would not interfere
with enforcement of State laws related
to felony animal cruelty provisions.
The legislation focuses solely on ex-
treme acts of animal cruelty and ex-
empts normal agriculture and hunting
practices.
The PACT Act is endorsed by the Na-
tional Sheriffs’ Association, the Fra-
ternal Order of Police, and the Associa-
tion of Prosecuting Attorneys, as well
as more than 100 law enforcement
agencies.
And in the Senate, the PACT Act is
sponsored by my good friend, Pennsyl-
vania Senator PAT TOOMEY, and it
passed in both the 114th and the 115th
Congresses by unanimous consent. In
the House, it currently has more than
300 bipartisan cosponsors.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support the PACT Act so we can better
protect our Nation’s animals from
abuse and torture. I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. DEUTCH. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from Iowa
(Mrs. AXNE).
Mrs. AXNE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Representatives DEUTCH and BUCHANAN
for this bill. I am very excited to be
able to vote for it today.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the
PACT Act, and am grateful for the sup-
port that it has. As a longtime animal
lover and advocate, and somebody who
worked to take care of the puppy mill
issues that we have in my own State of
Iowa, I know more than anybody that
there is nothing like bringing animals
to the forefront that brings people to-
gether.
This is absolutely a bipartisan issue.
And while the Animal Crush Video Pro-
hibition Act prohibits trade in obscene
video depictions of live animals being
tortured, as Representative DEUTCH
said, the bill did nothing to prohibit
the underlying conduct of the cruelty
itself. This is what the PACT Act does.
It strengthens the animal crush video
law by prohibiting animal cruelty, re-
gardless of whether a video is produced.
There is documented connection be-
tween animal cruelty and violence to
people. In fact, studies show animal
abusers are five times more likely to
commit violent crimes against people,
and it is linked to domestic violence,
as well as child and elder abuse.
The PACT Act gives Federal law en-
forcement and prosecutors the tools
they need to combat extreme animal
cruelty and to protect our commu-
nities at the same time. Whether it is
the veterinarian in my own State of
Iowa—ranked 49th when it comes to
animal welfare laws—who was recently
arrested for debarking dogs by shoving
rod-like objects into their vocal cham-
bers without anesthesia, or whether it
is in my neighboring State of Ne-
braska, where a man was recently ac-
cused of severely burning a cat by hold-
ing it under water, scalding hot water,
across this country, people are tor-
turing animals and it absolutely has to
stop.
So tomorrow, on Make a Dog’s Day,
which is in support of encouraging dog
adoption, let’s do these companion ani-
mal friends of ours one better by a
unanimous vote for the PACT Act
today and put an end to the horrible
acts of cruelty that should not be al-
lowed in this country.
Mr. RESCHENTHALER. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman
from Pennsylvania (Mr. FITZPATRICK),
my good friend.
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I join with my bipar-
tisan colleagues here to proclaim that
animal abuse is unacceptable and must
end, which is why we are all proud to
be supporters, and many of us, original
cosponsors of the PACT Act because it
strengthens Federal law regarding ani-
mal cruelty.
b 1645
As was previously mentioned, the
Animal Crush Video Act of 2010 banned
the creation and distribution of these
despicable videos. However, it did not
make the actual animal abuse itself a
crime.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:34 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.078 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8357
October 22, 2019
The bipartisan PACT Act goes a step
further and outlaws this malicious ani-
mal cruelty, regardless of the presence
of video evidence.
Mr. Speaker, as a former FBI agent,
my agency’s profiling studies dem-
onstrated how violence against animals
is a precursor to human violence. That
is why we are fighting aggressively
against egregious animal cruelty and
why it is so important.
Law enforcement, including the FOP,
strongly supports this legislation be-
cause it provides another tool for them
to use for animal abuse cases that
might otherwise go unprosecuted.
More than 100 law enforcement agen-
cies and organizations across our coun-
try have endorsed the PACT Act. We
must come together and stand up for
innocent, defenseless animals, which is
why there are over 300—in fact, 301, to
be exact—cosponsors, both Democrats
and Republicans, on this bill.
I commend Senator TOOMEY, our col-
league from Pennsylvania, for intro-
ducing the companion bill in the Sen-
ate. We must pass the PACT Act as
soon as possible so that it can be
signed into law, and we must make
sure that this type of animal abuse no
longer happens.
Together, we will end all types of
animal cruelty and will continue to be
a voice for the voiceless.
Mr. DEUTCH. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Oregon
(Mr. BLUMENAUER), the chairman of the
Congressional Animal Protection Cau-
cus, an original cosponsor of the PACT
Act, and a great voice for animals and
animal rights.
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, I
appreciate the gentleman’s courtesy
and his leadership on this issue.
Mr. Speaker, it is a breath of fresh
air for us in these sort of, shall we say,
troubled times in our Nation’s Capital,
when there is so much discord and dis-
agreement, and it seems we can’t real-
ly agree on fundamental facts: Is today
Tuesday or Wednesday?
Animal welfare is one of those issues
that brings people together on a bipar-
tisan basis.
I am pleased that the bipartisan Con-
gressional Animal Welfare Caucus has
been involved in advancing this. Ani-
mal cruelty has been an area in which
I have been involved since the begin-
ning of my tenure in Congress. We
fought, in farm bills, for years to try to
advance protections against animal
cruelty.
I am pleased that we are here today
dealing with something where Congress
has already acted to make these provi-
sions illegal. But what we haven’t done
is make it illegal to depict these hor-
rific crush videos.
It was horrifying, when we brought
that legislation to the floor, for people
to understand what some sick, sadistic
people do in portraying these horrific
acts of cruelty. What we find is that it
is linked to larger issues.
People who abuse animals are often
linked to horrific instances of violence
against their family and community. It
is dehumanizing to us all, as well as, of
course, the cruelty that is involved
there.
We need to enact this legislation to
make the actual creation of the depic-
tion of the animals being abused ille-
gal.
For example, the PACT Act would
allow for charges to be brought against
a puppy mill operator who is drowning
unwanted animals if he is engaged in
interstate activity. It would take
strides to protect our overall commu-
nities from violent crime.
I would hope that this would also sig-
nal more activity on the floor of this
House because we have a range of legis-
lation that is teed up and ready to go
that has broad, bipartisan support.
I appreciate the fact that we are get-
ting 290, or whatever the number is,
but life is short. We ought to be able to
move these items with broad, bipar-
tisan support to the floor.
We shouldn’t necessarily be here just
renaming post offices on a Monday. I
mean, these are substantive issues that
matter to people. We ought to be mov-
ing them through. I think this is an
important first step, and I am pleased
to add my support to it.
Mr. DEUTCH. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Ms. STEVENS).
Ms. STEVENS. Mr. Speaker, we are
standing here today in support of the
PACT Act, to make it a crime to com-
mit abuse that has already been de-
tected in videos or the videos that we
have made illegal.
We need to render the acts illegal.
We need to enforce detection. We need
to support enforcement writ large. We
need to stand up for the rights of ani-
mals and stand up against animal cru-
elty.
I come from the great State of Michi-
gan, and this is something that I have
heard from my residents from all cor-
ridors throughout my district.
We are home to great equine farms as
well as other establishments that care
for animals, and that is a message that
we want to put forward. We want to
stop animal abuse on the front end and
also stop other forms of domestic abuse
that may arise from it.
I led the Department of Justice ap-
propriations process that directs the
use of Department of Justice funds to
enforce our Nation’s animal cruelty
laws. Today, with the PACT Act, we
are realizing another important step in
protecting the rights of animals and in
stopping abuse before it starts.
Mr. RESCHENTHALER. Mr. Speak-
er, I urge my colleagues to vote ‘‘yes’’
on H.R. 724, the PACT Act, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. DEUTCH. Mr. Speaker, we should
do everything we can to prevent the
torture of animals and take steps to
hold accountable those who would en-
gage in such horrific acts.
The PACT Act is a significant Fed-
eral measure to help put an end to the
abuse of animals.
I am thankful to be on the House
floor at this incredibly gratifying bi-
partisan moment, and I urge my col-
leagues to join me in supporting this
bipartisan bill.
Finally, Mr. Speaker, I would like to
acknowledge every companion animal
that has brought love to my staff mem-
bers since the PACT Act was first in-
troduced. Those would be Thomas Jef-
ferson, Desi, Stella, Dock, Bubba,
Maple, Hazel, Cheech, Ollie, Frodo,
Theo, Johnson Tiki, Tankford,
Littleman, Natale, Enzo, Dino, Virgil,
Rooney, Maybeline, Prudence, Pepper-
mint, Nazca, Poseidon, Gus, Sansa,
Tony, Dwyane Wade, and my dearly de-
parted Jessie.
For all of them and for every animal
who brings joy to everyone in this
Chamber, let’s do our part to prevent
animal cruelty and torture, and let’s
pass the PACT Act.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Florida (Mr.
DEUTCH) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 724, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
DIVISIONAL REALIGNMENT FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF AR-
KANSAS ACT OF 2019
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I move to suspend the rules and
pass the bill (H.R. 1123) to amend title
28, United States Code, to modify the
composition of the eastern judicial dis-
trict of Arkansas, and for other pur-
poses.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1123
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Divisional
Realignment for the Eastern District of Ar-
kansas Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. REALIGNMENT OF THE EASTERN DIS-
TRICT OF ARKANSAS.
Section 83(a) of title 28, United States
Code, is amended to read as follows:
‘‘Eastern District
‘‘(a) The Eastern District comprises three
divisions.
‘‘(1) The Central Division comprises the
counties of Cleburne, Cleveland, Conway,
Dallas, Drew, Faulkner, Grant, Jefferson,
Lincoln, Lonoke, Perry, Pope, Prairie, Pu-
laski, Saline, Stone, Van Buren, White, and
Yell.
Court for the Central Division shall be held
at Little Rock.
‘‘(2) The Delta Division comprises the
counties of Arkansas, Chicot, Crittenden,
Desha, Lee, Monroe, Phillips, and St.
Francis.
Court for the Delta Division shall be held at
Helena.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:34 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.080 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8358 October 22, 2019
‘‘(3) The Northern Division comprises the
counties of Clay, Craighead, Cross, Fulton,
Greene, Independence, Izard, Jackson, Law-
rence, Mississippi, Poinsett, Randolph,
Sharp, and Woodruff.
Court for the Northern Division shall be held
at Jonesboro.’’.
SEC. 3. EFFECTIVE DATE.
This Act and the amendment made by this
Act shall take effect on the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. JOHNSON) and the gen-
tleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
RESCHENTHALER) each will control 20
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Georgia.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I ask unanimous consent that all
Members may have 5 legislative days
in which to revise and extend their re-
marks and include extraneous material
on the bill under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Georgia?
There was no objection.
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
I rise in support of H.R. 1123, which
would amend current law to reduce the
number of operating divisions in the
Eastern District of Arkansas from five
to three.
This legislation, introduced by Con-
gressman RICK CRAWFORD from Arkan-
sas, has the support of every member of
the Arkansas congressional delegation.
The bill was prompted by the closure
in 2017 of the only Federal courthouses
in two of the divisions. The three new
divisions created by H.R. 1123 would
align with the three remaining court-
houses in that district. The new divi-
sional lines are based on caseload his-
tory and travel times to the remaining
courthouses.
As chairman of the Judiciary Com-
mittee’s subcommittee with jurisdic-
tion over the courts, it is a priority of
mine to ensure that people across this
Nation have ready access to the Fed-
eral judiciary.
In the context of a bill such as that
under consideration here today, I mean
that in a very literal sense, ensuring
that jurisdictional lines are appro-
priately drawn so that those residing
in their bounds are not unduly bur-
dened by travel time to a courthouse.
But this must be balanced against clos-
ing courthouses where resources are
not being used efficiently.
I am satisfied that such a balance has
been achieved here, given the support
this bill has gotten from the Judicial
Conference, the Judicial Council of the
United States Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit, and the chief judge of
the Eastern District of Arkansas.
Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to support
this legislation and urge my colleagues
to support it as well, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. RESCHENTHALER. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1123, the Divisional Realignment for
the Eastern District of Arkansas Act of
2019, introduced by my Republican col-
league from Arkansas, Representative
RICK CRAWFORD.
H.R. 1123 reduces the existing divi-
sions in the Eastern District of Arkan-
sas from five to three, limiting the bur-
den caused by two courthouse closures.
It allows the Eastern District of Ar-
kansas to better balance its caseload,
account for geographical differences,
and align with the judicial work gen-
erated by correctional facilities.
H.R. 1123 is supported by the Judicial
Conference, the Judicial Council of the
United States Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit, the chief judge of the
Eastern District of Arkansas, and all
the members of the Arkansas delega-
tion.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this measure, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. RESCHENTHALER. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman
from Arkansas (Mr. CRAWFORD), my
good friend and the sponsor of this
measure.
b 1700
Mr. CRAWFORD. Mr. Speaker, I can
tell you it won’t take 2 minutes to say
what I have to say.
I certainly want to thank each side
of the aisle for supporting H.R. 1123,
the Divisional Realignment for Eastern
District of Arkansas Act of 2019.
I want to thank Chairman NADLER
and Ranking Member COLLINS for
marking up this important legislation.
Following the Federal Judiciary’s ef-
forts to reduce space, the Federal
courthouses in Batesville and Pine
Bluff, Arkansas, were closed. However,
the Eastern District of Arkansas has
been required to maintain the organi-
zational divisions mandated by the
statute.
This bill simply corrects that dis-
parity and reduces divisions in the
Eastern District from five to three,
aligning divisions with remaining
courthouses.
The new districts have been carefully
designed to maximize access to justice,
considering highway access, geography,
and case load history. I encourage my
colleagues to support this legislation.
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I reserve the balance of my time so
that I can close.
Mr. RESCHENTHALER. Mr. Speak-
er, I have no further speakers, and I am
prepared to close.
I would just like to say that, again, I
urge my colleagues to vote ‘‘yes’’ on
H.R. 1123, the Divisional Realignment
for the Eastern District of Arkansas
Act of 2019.
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, H.R. 1123 is a straightforward bill
that better aligns the divisions of the
Eastern District of Arkansas with the
current operations of that district, and
so I urge my colleagues to support the
bill.
I yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. JOHN-
SON) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, H.R. 1123.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.R. 4617, STOPPING HARMFUL
INTERFERENCE IN ELECTIONS
FOR A LASTING DEMOCRACY
ACT
Mr. HASTINGS, from the Committee
on Rules, submitted a privileged report
(Rept. No. 116–253) on the resolution (H.
Res. 650) providing for consideration of
the bill (H.R. 4617) to amend the Fed-
eral Election Campaign Act of 1971 to
clarify the obligation to report acts of
foreign election influence and require
implementation of compliance and re-
porting systems by Federal campaigns
to detect and report such acts, and for
other purposes, which was referred to
the House Calendar and ordered to be
printed.
f
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBER TO
BOARD OF VISITORS TO THE
UNITED STATES COAST GUARD
ACADEMY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair announces the Speaker’s ap-
pointment, pursuant to 14 U.S.C.
1903(b), and the order of the House of
January 3, 2019, of the following Mem-
ber on the part of the House to the
Board of Visitors to the United States
Coast Guard Academy:
Mr. CUNNINGHAM, South Carolina.
f
GEORGIA SUPPORT ACT
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 598) to support the independence,
sovereignty, and territorial integrity
of Georgia, and for other purposes, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 598
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE AND TABLE OF CON-
TENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Georgia Support Act’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this Act is as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:35 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.038 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8359
October 22, 2019
Sec. 1. Short title and table of contents.
Sec. 2. United States policy.
TITLE I—ASSISTANCE PROVISIONS
Sec. 101. United States-Georgia security
assistance.
Sec. 102. United States cybersecurity co-
operation with Georgia.
Sec. 103. Enhanced assistance to combat
Russian disinformation and propa-
ganda.
Sec. 104. Sense of Congress on free trade
agreement with Georgia.
TITLE II—SANCTIONS PROVISIONS
Sec. 201. Imposition of sanctions on per-
sons complicit in or responsible for se-
rious human rights abuses, including
right to life in Georgian regions of
Abkhazia and Tskhinvali Region/South
Ossetia occupied by Russia.
TITLE III—DETERMINATION OF
BUDGETARY EFFECTS
Sec. 301. Determination of budgetary ef-
fects.
SEC. 2. UNITED STATES POLICY.
It is the policy of the United States to—
(1) support continued development of
democratic values in Georgia, including free
and fair elections, public sector transparency
and accountability, the rule of law, and
anticorruption efforts;
(2) support Georgia’s sovereignty, inde-
pendence, and territorial integrity within its
internationally recognized borders;
(3) support the right of the people of Geor-
gia to freely determine their future and
make independent and sovereign choices on
foreign and security policy, including re-
garding their country’s relationship with
other nations and international organiza-
tions, without interference, intimidation, or
coercion by other countries;
(4) support Georgia’s Euro-Atlantic and
European integration;
(5) not recognize territorial changes ef-
fected by force, including the illegal inva-
sions and occupations of Georgian regions of
Abkhazia and Tskhinvali Region/South
Ossetia by the Russian Federation;
(6) condemn ongoing detentions,
kidnappings, and other human rights viola-
tions committed in the Georgian regions of
Abkhazia and Tskhinvali Region/South
Ossetia forcibly occupied by the Russian
Federation, including the recent killings of
Georgian citizens Archil Tatunashvili, Giga
Otkhozoria, and Davit Basharuli; and
(7) support peaceful conflict resolution in
Georgia, including by urging the Russian
Federation to fully implement the European
Union-mediated ceasefire agreement of Au-
gust 12, 2008, and supporting the establish-
ment of international security mechanisms
in the Georgian regions of Abkhazia and
Tskhinvali Region/South Ossetia and the
safe and dignified return of internally dis-
placed persons (IDPs) and refugees, all of
which are important for lasting peace and se-
curity on the ground.
TITLE I—ASSISTANCE PROVISIONS
SEC. 101. UNITED STATES-GEORGIA SECURITY AS-
SISTANCE.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds the fol-
lowing:
(1) In fiscal year 2018, the United States
provided Georgia with $2,200,000 in assistance
under chapter 5 of part II of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2347 et seq.; re-
lating to international military education
and training) and $35,000,000 in assistance
under section 23 of the Arms Export Control
Act (22 U.S.C. 2763; relating to the Foreign
Military Financing Program).
(2) Georgia has been a longstanding NATO-
aspirant country.
(3) Georgia has contributed substantially
to Euro-Atlantic peace and security through
participation in the International Security
Assistance Force (ISAF) and Resolute Sup-
port Missions in Afghanistan as one of the
largest troop contributors.
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that United States assistance to
Georgia under chapter 5 of part II of the For-
eign Assistance Act of 1961 and section 23 of
the Arms Export Control Act should be in-
creased.
(c) STATEMENT OF POLICY.—It shall be the
policy of the United States, in consultation
with Georgia, to enhance Georgia’s deter-
rence, resilience, and self-defense, including
through appropriate assistance to improve
the capabilities of Georgia’s armed forces.
(d) REVIEW OF SECURITY ASSISTANCE TO
GEORGIA.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of State, in consultation with
the heads of other appropriate United States
departments and agencies, shall submit to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Foreign Relations of the Senate a report
reviewing United States security assistance
to Georgia.
(2) COMPONENTS.—The report required
under paragraph (1) shall include the fol-
lowing:
(A) A detailed review of all United States
security assistance to Georgia from fiscal
year 2008 to the date of the submission of
such report.
(B) An assessment of threats to Georgian
independence, sovereignty, and territorial
integrity.
(C) An assessment of Georgia’s capabilities
to defend itself, including a five-year strat-
egy to enhance Georgia’s deterrence, resil-
ience, and self-defense capabilities.
(3) FORM.—The report required under para-
graph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified
form but may contain a classified annex.
SEC. 102. UNITED STATES CYBERSECURITY CO-
OPERATION WITH GEORGIA.
(a) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that the Secretary of State should
take the following actions, commensurate
with United States interests, to assist Geor-
gia to improve its cybersecurity:
(1) Provide Georgia such support as may be
necessary to secure government computer
networks from malicious cyber intrusions,
particularly such networks that defend the
critical infrastructure of Georgia.
(2) Provide Georgia support in reducing re-
liance on Russian information and commu-
nications technology.
(3) Assist Georgia to build its capacity, ex-
pand cybersecurity information sharing, and
cooperate on international cyberspace ef-
forts.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of State shall submit to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on For-
eign Relations of the Senate a report on
United States cybersecurity cooperation
with Georgia. Such report shall also include
information relating to the following:
(1) United States efforts to strengthen
Georgia’s ability to prevent, mitigate, and
respond to cyber incidents, including
through training, education, technical as-
sistance, capacity building, and cybersecu-
rity risk management strategies.
(2) The potential for new areas of collabo-
ration and mutual assistance between the
United States and Georgia to address shared
cyber challenges, including cybercrime, crit-
ical infrastructure protection, and resilience
against automated, distributed threats.
(3) NATO’s efforts to help Georgia develop
technical capabilities to counter cyber
threats.
SEC. 103. ENHANCED ASSISTANCE TO COMBAT
RUSSIAN DISINFORMATION AND
PROPAGANDA.
(a) STATEMENT OF POLICY.—It shall be the
policy of the United States to enhance the
capabilities of Georgia to combat Russian
disinformation and propaganda campaigns
intended to undermine the sovereignty and
democratic institutions of Georgia, while
promoting the freedom of the press.
(b) REQUIRED STRATEGY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of State, in consultation with
the heads of other appropriate United States
departments and agencies, shall submit to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Foreign Relations of the Senate a report
outlining a strategy to implement the policy
described in subsection (a).
(2) COMPONENTS.—The report required
under paragraph (1) shall include the fol-
lowing:
(A) A detailed assessment of Russian
disinformation and propaganda efforts across
all media platforms targeting Georgia.
(B) An assessment of Georgia’s capabilities
to deter and combat such Russian efforts and
to support the freedom of the press.
(C) A detailed strategy coordinated across
all relevant United States departments and
agencies to enhance Georgia’s capabilities to
deter and combat such Russian efforts.
(3) FORM.—The report required by para-
graph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified
form but may contain a classified annex.
SEC. 104. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON FREE TRADE
AGREEMENT WITH GEORGIA.
It is the sense of Congress that the United
States Trade Representative should make
progress toward negotiations with Georgia
to enter a bilateral free trade agreement
with Georgia.
TITLE II—SANCTIONS PROVISIONS
SEC. 201. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS ON PER-
SONS COMPLICIT IN OR RESPON-
SIBLE FOR SERIOUS HUMAN RIGHTS
ABUSES, INCLUDING RIGHT TO LIFE
IN GEORGIAN REGIONS OF
ABKHAZIA AND TSKHINVALI RE-
GION/SOUTH OSSETIA OCCUPIED BY
RUSSIA.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The President shall im-
pose the sanctions described in subsection (b)
with respect to a foreign person if the Presi-
dent determines, based on credible informa-
tion, that such foreign person, on or after
the date of the enactment of this Act—
(1) is responsible for, complicit in, or re-
sponsible for ordering, controlling, or other-
wise directing the commission of any serious
abuse of human rights in Georgian regions of
Abkhazia and Tskhinvali Region/South
Ossetia forcibly occupied by the Russian
Federation;
(2) is knowingly materially assisting, spon-
soring, or providing significant financial,
material, or technological support for, or
goods or services to, a foreign person de-
scribed in paragraph (1); or
(3) is owned or controlled by a foreign per-
son, or is acting on behalf of a foreign per-
son, described in paragraph (1).
(b) SANCTIONS DESCRIBED.—The sanctions
to be imposed with respect to a foreign per-
son described in subsection (a) are the fol-
lowing:
(1) ASSET BLOCKING.—The President shall
exercise all of the powers granted by the
International Emergency Economic Powers
Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) to the extent nec-
essary to block and prohibit all transactions
in all property and interests in property of
the person if such property and interests in
property are in the United States, come
within the United States, or are or come
within the possession or control of a United
States person.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.039 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8360 October 22, 2019
(2) EXCLUSION FROM THE UNITED STATES AND
REVOCATION OF VISA OR OTHER DOCUMENTA-
TION.—
(A) INADMISSIBILITY TO THE UNITED
STATES.—In the case of a person described in
subsection (a) who is an individual, such per-
son shall be—
(i) inadmissible to the United States;
(ii) ineligible to receive a visa or other doc-
umentation to enter the United States; and
(iii) otherwise ineligible to be admitted or
paroled into the United States or to receive
any other benefit under the Immigration and
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).
(B) CURRENT VISAS REVOKED.—A person de-
scribed in subsection (a) who is an individual
shall be subject to the revocation of any visa
or other entry documentation issued to such
person regardless of when the visa or other
entry documentation is or was issued. A rev-
ocation under this subparagraph shall take
effect immediately and shall automatically
cancel any other valid visa or entry docu-
mentation that is in the person’s possession.
(C) EXCEPTION TO COMPLY WITH UNITED NA-
TIONS HEADQUARTERS AGREEMENT AND LAW EN-
FORCEMENT OBJECTIVES.—Sanctions under
subparagraph (A) shall not apply to an indi-
vidual if admitting such individual into the
United States would further important law
enforcement objectives or is necessary to
permit the United States to comply with the
Agreement regarding the Headquarters of
the United Nations, signed at Lake Success
June 26, 1947, and entered into force Novem-
ber 21, 1947, between the United Nations and
the United States, or other applicable inter-
national obligations of the United States.
(c) WAIVER.—The President may waive the
application of sanctions under subsection (b)
with respect to a person if the President de-
termines that such a waiver is important to
the national interests of the United States.
(d) IMPLEMENTATION; PENALTIES.—
(1) IMPLEMENTATION.—The President may
exercise all authorities provided to the
President under sections 203 and 205 of the
International Emergency Economic Powers
Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 and 1704) to carry out sub-
section (b)(1).
(2) PENALTIES.—A person that violates, at-
tempts to violate, conspires to violate, or
causes a violation of subsection (b)(1) or any
regulation, license, or order issued to carry
out such subsection shall be subject to the
penalties specified in subsections (b) and (c)
of section 206 of the International Emer-
gency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705)
to the same extent as a person that commits
an unlawful act described in subsection (a) of
such section.
(e) EXCEPTION RELATING TO IMPORTATION OF
GOODS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The authorities and re-
quirements to impose sanctions authorized
under this Act shall not include the author-
ity or requirement to impose sanctions on
the importation of goods.
(2) GOOD DEFINED.—In this subsection, the
term ‘‘good’’ means any article, natural or
man-made substance, material, supply or
manufactured product, including inspection
and test equipment, and excluding technical
data.
(f) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 60
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act and at least once every 180 days there-
after for a period not to exceed two years,
the President, in consultation with the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, shall transmit to
Congress a detailed report with respect to
persons that have been determined to have
engaged in activities described in subsection
(a).
TITLE III—DETERMINATION OF
BUDGETARY EFFECTS
SEC. 301. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the Committee on the Budget of the House of
Representatives, provided that such state-
ment has been submitted prior to the vote on
passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL) and the gen-
tleman from Illinois (Mr. KINZINGER)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on H.R. 598.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to start by
thanking Mr. CONNOLLY and Mr.
KINZINGER for authoring this excellent
bill.
This measure comes before us at a
crucial time. As President Trump
takes a sledgehammer to our country’s
standing in the world, it falls to the
Congress to uphold our relationships
with our friends and partners. Strong
alliances and partnerships make a
stronger, safer America, and it is im-
portant for our national security to
make sure that our friends can defend
themselves against hostile adversaries.
That is especially true for a country
like Georgia, who is fighting President
Putin’s aggression every single day.
In 2008, Russia invaded and occupied
parts of Georgia, flagrantly breaking
international law and violating Geor-
gia’s sovereignty and territorial integ-
rity. And now, over a decade later,
Russia hasn’t let up the assault on
Georgia. Cyber attacks, disinformation
campaigns, human rights violations—
this is what the people of Georgia en-
dure from Putin’s regime all the time.
So we must support Georgia’s efforts to
protect itself.
The Georgia Support Act calls on the
U.S. to continue to support Georgia’s
democratic institutions, territorial in-
tegrity, and sovereignty. It also pro-
vides critical assistance for Georgia’s
struggle against Russian aggression,
supporting efforts to boost cybersecu-
rity and counter Russian
disinformation. And it slaps sanctions
on those responsible for human rights
violations in the Russian-occupied
Georgian regions of Abkhazia and
South Ossetia.
We should be strengthening our rela-
tionship with Georgia and bringing it
into the fold of the EU and NATO. This
is a good bill that moves us in the right
direction, showing that Congress
stands with Georgia. I strongly support
this measure, and I urge all Members
to join me in doing so.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, October 21, 2019.
Hon. RICHARD E. NEAL,
Committee on Ways and Means,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN NEAL: I am writing to you
concerning H.R. 598, the Georgia Support
Act. I appreciate your willingness to work
cooperatively on this legislation.
I acknowledge that provisions of the bill
fall within the jurisdiction of the Committee
on Ways and Means under House Rule X, and
that your Committee will forgo action on
H.R. 598 to expedite floor consideration. I
further acknowledge that the inaction of
your Committee with respect to the bill does
not waive any future jurisdictional claim
over the matters contained in the bill that
fall within your jurisdiction. I will also sup-
port the appointment of Committee on Ways
and Means conferees during any House-Sen-
ate conference convened on this legislation.
Lastly, I will ensure that our exchange of
letters is included in the Congressional
Record during floor consideration of the bill.
Thank you again for your cooperation re-
garding the legislation. I look forward to
continuing to work with you as the measure
moves through the legislative process.
Sincerely,
ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS,
Washington, DC, October 21, 2019.
Hon. ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN ENGEL: In recognition of
the desire to expedite consideration of H.R.
598, the Georgia Support Act, the Committee
on Ways and Means agrees to waive formal
consideration of the bill as to provisions that
fall within the rule X jurisdiction of the
Committee on Ways and Means.
The Committee on Ways and Means takes
this action with the mutual understanding
that we do not waive any jurisdiction over
the subject matter contained in this or simi-
lar legislation, and the Committee will be
appropriately consulted and involved as the
bill or similar legislation moves forward so
that we may address any remaining issues
within our jurisdiction. The Committee also
reserves the right to seek appointment of an
appropriate number of conferees to any
House-Senate conference involving this or
similar legislation.
Finally, I would appreciate your response
to this letter confirming this understanding
and would ask that a copy of our exchange of
letter on this matter be included in the Con-
gressional Record during floor consideration
of H.R. 598.
Sincerely,
RICHARD E. NEAL,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, October 21, 2019.
Hon. JERROLD NADLER,
Committee on the Judiciary, House of Rep-
resentatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN NADLER: I am writing to
you concerning H.R. 598, the Georgia Support
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.039 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8361
October 22, 2019
Act. I appreciate your willingness to work
cooperatively on this legislation.
I acknowledge that provisions of the bill
fall within the jurisdiction of the Committee
on the Judiciary under House Rule X, and
that your Committee will forgo action on
H.R. 598 to expedite floor consideration. I
further acknowledge that the inaction of
your Committee with respect to the bill does
not waive any future jurisdictional claim
over the matters contained in the bill that
fall within your jurisdiction. I will also sup-
port the appointment of Committee on the
Judiciary conferees during any House-Senate
conference convened on this legislation.
Lastly, I will ensure that our exchange of
letters is included in the Congressional
Record during floor consideration of the bill.
Thank you again for your cooperation re-
garding the legislation. I look forward to
continuing to work with you as the measure
moves through the legislative process.
Sincerely,
ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY,
Washington, DC, October 21, 2019.
Hon. ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN ENGEL: This is to advise
you that the Committee on the Judiciary
has now had an opportunity to review the
provisions in H.R. 598, the ‘‘Georgia Support
Act’’ that fall within our Rule X jurisdic-
tion. I appreciate your consulting with us on
those provisions. The Judiciary Committee
has no objection to your including them in
the bill for consideration on the House floor,
and to expedite that consideration is willing
to forgo action on H.R. 598, with the under-
standing that we do not thereby waive any
future jurisdictional claim over those provi-
sions or their subject matters.
In the event a House-Senate conference on
this or similar legislation is convened, the
Judiciary Committee reserves the right to
request an appropriate number of conferees
to address any concerns with these or simi-
lar provisions that may arise in conference.
Please place this letter into the Congres-
sional Record during consideration of the
measure on the House floor. Thank you for
the cooperative spirit in which you have
worked regarding this matter and others be-
tween our committees.
Sincerely,
JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman.
Mr. KINZINGER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 598, the Georgia Support Act. It
is legislation I introduced with my col-
league, Mr. CONNOLLY.
Georgia has been a strong ally to the
United States, and ensuring their terri-
torial sovereignty is essential to Euro-
pean security and American interests.
Since the Russian invasion in 2008,
Georgia has been embroiled in a battle
for its very right to exist due to
Putin’s flagrant aggression. For over a
decade, Russia has illegally occupied
the Georgian parts of Abkhazia and
South Ossetia, which constitutes 20
percent of Georgia’s territory.
Putin has constructed military bases,
erected border fences across civilian
farms, and restricted transit between
the occupied regions and Georgia. The
subsequent occupation has displaced
thousands of ethnic Georgians. Those
who refuse to leave their homes now
face extreme human rights abuses.
Furthermore, Russia continues to med-
dle in Georgia’s political processes and
seeks to sow discord and chaos among
the population.
Our legislation reaffirms U.S. sup-
port for Georgia’s independence, sov-
ereignty, and territorial integrity, as
well as the continued development of
democratic values in Georgia. It also
pushes for an increase in security as-
sistance to Georgia, greater cybersecu-
rity cooperation between our nations,
and an enhancement of Georgia’s abil-
ity to combat Russian disinformation
campaigns.
Most importantly, this bill author-
izes the President to impose sanctions
on those individuals responsible for
human rights abuses in those regions.
Passage of this legislation is an op-
portunity to show support for an ally
that has been one of the greatest con-
tributors to the U.S. mission in Af-
ghanistan and one that has endured
Putin’s belligerence for over a decade.
By deepening U.S.-Georgia security
cooperation, we send a strong message
to Putin to think twice before inter-
fering in Georgia again.
I urge my colleagues to support this
legislation, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 4
minutes to the gentleman from Vir-
ginia (Mr. CONNOLLY), the author of
this important bill.
Mr. CONNOLLY. Mr. Speaker, I want
to start by saluting our distinguished
chairman. Thank you so much to our
chairman for bringing this bill to the
floor and for managing it today.
He has just returned from an arduous
trip. I have been on that trip. I know
how tiring it can be and, frankly, even
the personal danger one puts oneself in
on that trip. I salute the chairman for
his stamina and his commitment to
American foreign policy, being here on
the floor today. So I thank him and sa-
lute him and his able staff.
I also, of course, want to thank my
co-chair of the Georgia Caucus and co-
author of H.R. 598, the Georgia Support
Act, Mr. KINZINGER, who has been a
wonderful partner and always willing
to look at an issue thoughtfully and
put himself sometimes at political risk
in showing intestinal fortitude. I salute
Mr. KINZINGER, too.
This legislation asserts the United
States’ continued support for the inde-
pendence and sovereignty of Georgia. It
supports Georgia’s continued demo-
cratic development, including free and
fair elections, and affirms U.S. opposi-
tion to Russian aggression in the re-
gion, which is not, as has been noted,
theoretical.
Russian troops occupy Abkhazia and
South Ossetia in Georgia. Russia has
fomented unrest, aided separatist
movements, and committed serious
human rights violations, including on-
going detentions and killings.
Russian forces continue to harass ci-
vilian communities along the adminis-
trative boundary line and impede the
right of the return of internally dis-
placed persons, even moving that ad-
ministrative boundary line arbitrarily.
Just a few weeks ago, tensions flared
over a reported buildup of military
equipment and personnel near the
ABL, the administrative boundary line,
in Russian-occupied South Ossetia.
H.R. 598 bolsters Georgia’s territorial
integrity by authorizing sanctions
against those responsible for or
complicit in human rights violations in
these occupied territories.
As chairman of the U.S. delegation to
the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I
am very pleased that the Georgia Sup-
port Act recognizes that Georgia has
been a longstanding NATO-aspirant
country and a contributor to NATO’s
troop levels.
I have traveled to Georgia three
times in the last 3 years, including for
the spring meeting of NATO’s Par-
liamentary Assembly, and I believe
that Georgia is a key partner for
NATO’s security. This act builds on
previous efforts that Congress has un-
dertaken to support Georgia’s terri-
torial integrity.
In the Countering America’s Adver-
saries Through Sanctions Act,
CAATSA, P.L. 115–44, we enshrined a
nonrecognition policy for Russia’s ille-
gal occupation of Georgian territory.
In the 114th Congress, the House
passed H.R. 660, which Judge Poe and I
introduced, to express support for
Georgia’s full territorial integrity. The
resolution was a clear and unequivocal
statement in support of the sovereign
territory of Georgia and reiterated the
longstanding policy of the United
States not to recognize territorial
changes affected by force, as dictated
by the Stimson Doctrine, going back to
1932, authored by then-Secretary of
State Henry Stimson.
Just as the House of Representatives
passed the Crimea Annexation Non-rec-
ognition Act, H.R. 596, earlier this
year, the Georgia Support Act is an-
other clear and unequivocal statement
by this Congress on the issue of terri-
torial sovereignty. This act expresses
Congress’ support for the vital U.S.-
Georgia partnership, which is a strate-
gically important relationship in a
very critical part of the world.
I urge my colleagues to adopt this
legislation.
Again, I thank the chairman for his
distinguished leadership on this issue,
and my partner, Mr. KINZINGER.
Mr. KINZINGER. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Massa-
chusetts (Mr. KEATING), the chairman
of the Subcommittee on Europe, Eur-
asia, Energy, and the Environment.
Mr. KEATING. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my colleague and chairman for yield-
ing.
Georgia has a long and rich history
as an important U.S. partner and a key
player in the region. Unfortunately,
Georgia most dramatically came onto
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.045 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8362 October 22, 2019
the world stage with news in 2008 that
Russia had invaded and occupied re-
gions within its territory. Since that
time, Russia has continued to illegally
occupy the regions of South Ossetia
and Abkhazia.
Today, Georgia stands on the front
lines of Russian aggression, along with
Ukraine, and it is imperative that the
United States assist Georgia in its ef-
fort to stand up against Russia—to ad-
dress the humanitarian concerns in
those areas, to fight against Russian
disinformation, and to keep moving
Georgia towards its goal of a strong
and sovereign democracy.
I am proud that we are here today to
continue to support the development of
democratic values as well as the sov-
ereignty, independence, and territorial
integrity of the Republic of Georgia.
b 1715
Georgia is a strong partner and
friend to the United States, and I am
proud that we are showing our support
by moving this legislation forward
today. I urge my colleagues to support
the Georgia Support Act.
Mr. KINZINGER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
In closing, again, I want to thank Mr.
CONNOLLY for his great work on this. I
want to thank the chairman for bring-
ing it to the floor and for his friendship
and for the committees in this Con-
gress that have steadfast support for
our Georgian allies.
This was mentioned earlier, and it is
worth re-noting, Georgia pound for
pound has the strongest commitment
to NATO and Afghanistan, and they are
not even full NATO members. So that
tells you the kind of people they are.
They are a key strategic and demo-
cratic partner in a tumultuous region,
and increased U.S. support is a signifi-
cant step toward countering the global
threat posed by Russia every day.
This bill passed in the 115th Congress
in a bipartisan margin overwhelm-
ingly, so I urge my colleagues to sup-
port this legislation yet again.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume for
the purpose of closing. This is a good,
strong, bipartisan bill to support Geor-
gia as it fends off Russian aggression. I
thank my Foreign Affairs Committee
colleagues, Mr. CONNOLLY and Mr.
KINZINGER, for their work on this meas-
ure.
If you look back at history when the
Soviet Union existed, Georgia was part
of the Soviet Union and really felt the
yoke of Russian aggression on their
necks. When the Soviet Union broke up
and Russia tried to influence all the
surrounding countries, Georgia resisted
with good cause, because Georgia does
not want to be part of a country that
makes them subservient.
So it really to me is so important for
the United States to support Georgia.
It is in a difficult neighborhood, right
near Russia. It faces constant threats
every day. As I and my colleagues have
said, Russia is now occupying a large
part of their territory, and it really
should not be left to stand.
Personally, I have said this many
times, I think that the West made a
mistake back in 2008 when Georgia
tried to become part of NATO and was
turned down. I believe that both Geor-
gia and Ukraine should be part of
NATO. I think that is very important.
And I think that is part of the reason
why we see such Russian aggression in
both Ukraine and Georgia.
So I hope all Members will join us in
supporting the passage of this bill. The
people of Georgia need to know that
the United States Congress stands with
them against Putin’s aggression.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 598, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
CALLING ON THE GOVERNMENT
OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
TO PROVIDE EVIDENCE OF
WRONGDOING OR TO RELEASE
UNITED STATES CITIZEN PAUL
WHELAN
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and agree to the reso-
lution (H. Res. 552) calling on the Gov-
ernment of the Russian Federation to
provide evidence of wrongdoing or to
release United States citizen Paul
Whelan.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The text of the resolution is as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 552
Whereas United States citizen Paul Whelan
is a resident of Novi, Michigan, and a United
States Marine Corps veteran;
Whereas Paul Whelan traveled to Moscow
for the wedding of a personal friend on De-
cember 22, 2018;
Whereas Russia’s Federal Security Service
arrested Paul Whelan at the Metropol Hotel
in Moscow on December 28, 2018, and charged
him with espionage;
Whereas Paul Whelan was imprisoned in
Lefortovo Prison and continues to be held
there more than eight months after his ar-
rest;
Whereas the Federal Security Service has
not provided any evidence of supposed
wrongdoing;
Whereas a Moscow court has extended Paul
Whelan’s pre-trial detention multiple times
without publicly presenting justification or
evidence of wrongdoing;
Whereas officials from the United States
Embassy in Moscow have routinely had their
topics of discussion with Paul Whelan se-
verely limited by the Federal Security Serv-
ice;
Whereas even Paul Whelan’s Federal Secu-
rity Service-appointed lawyer, Vladimir
Zherebenkov, said on May 24, 2019, ‘‘[The
Federal Security Service] always roll[s] out
what they have, but in this case, we’ve seen
nothing concrete against Whelan in five
months. That means there is nothing.’’;
Whereas the United States Ambassador to
Russia, Jon Huntsman, responded on April
12, 2019, to a question about the detention of
Paul Whelan, ‘‘If the Russians have evidence,
they should bring it forward. We have seen
nothing. If there was a case, I think the evi-
dence would have been brought forward by
now.’’; and
Whereas Secretary of State Mike Pompeo
met with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey
Lavrov on May 14, 2019, and urged him to en-
sure United States citizens are not unjustly
held abroad: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the House of Representa-
tives—
(1) urges the Government of the Russian
Federation to present credible evidence on
the allegations against Paul Whelan or im-
mediately release him from detention;
(2) urges the Government of the Russian
Federation to provide unrestricted consular
access to Paul Whelan while he remains in
detention;
(3) urges the Government of the Russian
Federation to ensure Paul Whelan is afforded
due process and universally recognized
human rights;
(4) encourages the President and the Sec-
retary of State to continue to press the Gov-
ernment of the Russian Federation at every
opportunity and urge the Russian Govern-
ment to guarantee a fair and transparent ju-
dicial process without undue delay in accord-
ance with its international legal obligation;
and
(5) expresses sympathy to the family of
Paul Whelan and expresses hope that their
ordeal can soon be brought to an end.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL) and the gen-
tleman from Illinois (Mr. KINZINGER)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on H. Res. 552.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, as we stand here on the
House floor, an American citizen is
being wrongfully held in a Russian
prison without trial, without any evi-
dence of his supposed crime, denied his
rights, suffering, deprived of the med-
ical attention he so desperately needs.
This is how Vladimir Putin is treat-
ing Paul Whelan, a U.S. citizen who
has been unjustly imprisoned in Russia
for almost a year. There has been no
evidence offered to show that Mr.
Whelan has done anything wrong or
anything to deserve this horrific im-
prisonment with no end in sight.
Paul’s family in Michigan wants to
see him returned home safely, and Con-
gress must stand with them and de-
mand justice.
H. Res. 552 sends a strong message
from Congress. It calls on Russia to ei-
ther offer up some legitimate evidence
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.088 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8363
October 22, 2019
that justifies why they have Mr.
Whelan in prison or immediately re-
lease him and let him come home to
his family in the United States.
We can’t accept this current situa-
tion to go on any longer with Mr.
Whelan languishing in his cell with no
understanding of why he is being sub-
jected to this horror.
Sadly, this injustice is what life is
like in Putin’s Russia. There is no
independent judicial process. There are
no rights for defendants. There is
abuse, mistreatment, corruption. It is
critical that we all keep this in mind.
That is why it is so important for the
United States to stand strong in con-
demning Putin and upholding our com-
mitment to the rule of law.
I want to thank Ms. STEVENS for her
hard work in offering this measure. As
Mr. Whelan’s congressional representa-
tive, she has been tirelessly pushing for
Paul’s release as has the entire Michi-
gan delegation.
This is a good bipartisan measure I
am pleased to support. I urge all Mem-
bers to do the same.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. KINZINGER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H. Res. 552, which calls on the gov-
ernment of the Russian Federation to
release Paul Whelan, an American cit-
izen, from their custody or provide
compelling evidence of his alleged
wrongdoing.
On December 28, 2018, Paul Whelan
traveled to Moscow to attend a friend’s
wedding when he was arrested on alle-
gations of spying. Over the past 10
months, Mr. Whelan has maintained
his innocence as he awaits trial, which
is expected to start in January of 2020.
Mr. Whelan suffers from a chron-
ically painful medical condition, which
requires surgery. Unfortunately, this
surgery was scheduled for shortly after
his return from Moscow in January of
2019. Over the past 10 months, Mr.
Whelan has been living in pain as he
has declined to have the surgery in
Russia.
This bipartisan, bicameral resolution
calls for the Russian Federation to im-
mediately release Paul Whelan from
his unwarranted detainment. Further,
it calls for due process and unrestricted
access to consular services for Mr.
Whelan.
I am proud to cosponsor this resolu-
tion, and I urge my colleagues to join
me in supporting it.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Ms. STEVENS), the author of
this important resolution
Ms. STEVENS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding. By bring-
ing up my resolution today, H. Res. 552,
we are making clear to the Russian
Government and President Putin that
Congress will not tolerate the indefi-
nite detention of a U.S. citizen without
evidence.
For nearly 10 months, my con-
stituent, Paul Whelan of Novi, Michi-
gan, has been held in a Moscow prison
without adequate due process. Paul
was detained last December and con-
tinues to be held in a horrifying prison.
We have repeatedly asked the Rus-
sian Government to provide Paul with
a fair and transparent judicial process,
to no avail. The State Department has
been unwavering in their work on
Paul’s behalf, especially Ambassador
Huntsman.
The Russian Government has not
provided timely updates about Paul’s
case. They have not let him select his
own attorney. And they have not pro-
vided unrestricted consular access.
Next week will be Paul’s fourth pre-
trial detention hearing. Enough is
enough.
After many months in prison, Paul’s
health is deteriorating. Paul’s family is
wondering. Everyone is in the dark,
but most especially Paul. It is long
past time that we bring Paul home to
his family and get him the medical
care he needs.
This bipartisan resolution calls on
the Russian Government to provide
evidence of his wrongdoing or else re-
lease Paul immediately. This is our
sense of Congress. It must be our sense
of Congress, for we stand up for Ameri-
cans abroad.
I thank my friend, Mr. WALBERG, for
joining me and for the Michigan dele-
gation. And I urge my colleagues on
both sides of the aisle to pass this
timely resolution.
Mr. KINZINGER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
3 minutes to the gentleman from
Michigan (Mr. WALBERG).
Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of H. Res. 552 and call
on the Russian Government to provide
evidence of wrongdoing or to release
United States citizen Paul Whelan.
I thank my colleague Congress-
woman HALEY STEVENS for her untiring
work on this important issue. Paul
Whelan is a veteran. He is a Michigan
resident, who has been held in Russian
captivity for nearly 10 months without
charges. And I repeat, he has been held
in Russian captivity for nearly 10
months without charges.
Throughout his entire time, Paul has
not been given due process. He has had
multiple pretrial hearings in which his
detainment has repeatedly been ex-
tended without the production of any
new or credible evidence. While in cap-
tivity he has been in need of serious
medical attention, and his health has
deteriorated. It is unacceptable for an
American citizen to be detained for any
length of time without charges and
without proper medical care.
Paul’s entire family, including his
parents who live in my district in Man-
chester, Michigan, are deeply con-
cerned about his health and safety, as
they should be. I met with members of
the Whelan family on many occasions,
and they have been pillars of strength,
but also have endured much agony.
We stand united today saying this is
not a partisan issue. It is an American
issue.
As Republicans and Democrats we
are committed to raising awareness
about Paul’s case and advocating for
his freedom. And we stand to send a
strong and powerful message today by
passing this resolution. I encourage my
colleagues to stand together and pass
this resolution and tell Russia it is
wrong as to what they are doing.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Massa-
chusetts (Mr. KEATING), the chairman
of the Subcommittee on Europe, Eur-
asia, Energy, and the Environment.
Mr. KEATING. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the chairman for yielding.
Nearly 10 months ago on December
28, 2018, the Government of the Russian
Federation arrested U.S. citizen Paul
Whelan. In those 10 months, the Rus-
sian Government has refused to provide
any evidence to substantiate the espio-
nage charges against Paul.
Instead, in those 10 months, the Rus-
sian Government has subjected Paul to
physical and psychological pressure. In
those 10 months, the Russian Govern-
ment has repeatedly prevented Paul
from speaking freely with the U.S. em-
bassy or with his family; rights that
are afforded to Russian prisoners here
in the U.S.
In those 10 months, the Russian Gov-
ernment has denied Paul’s request to
be examined or treated by a private
physician. And I say, Russian Govern-
ment. I say government, because I be-
lieve the Russian people, particularly
those that are speaking up and dem-
onstrating for an open and democratic
government there, they would be
standing with us today.
b 1730
For 10 months, the Russian Govern-
ment has refused to respond to the con-
cerns of the Governments of the United
States, U.K., Canada, and Ireland.
For 10 months, Paul’s continued de-
tention has caused indescribable pain
and torment not only for Paul but for
his parents, his two brothers, and his
sisters.
Ten months of injustice is 10 months
too long.
In our committee, the Committee on
Foreign Affairs, we look for areas of
common ground to work with Russia,
but actions like this, depriving a U.S.
citizen of the most basic rights, makes
that all the more difficult.
Mr. Speaker, on behalf of Paul, on be-
half of his family, I hope all Members
will join me in supporting H. Res. 552
and calling on the Government of Rus-
sia to allow a fair and transparent judi-
cial process without delay, facilitate
Paul’s medical care, and allow for un-
restricted visits with the U.S. Em-
bassy.
Mr. Speaker, above all, I hope Mem-
bers will all join with me in calling on
the Government of Russia to release
Paul and send him back home to his
family.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.091 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8364 October 22, 2019
Mr. KINZINGER. Mr. Speaker, if the
gentleman has no further speakers, I
am prepared to close.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I have no
further speakers.
Mr. KINZINGER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, I thank Mr.
Whelan’s family for continuing to fight
for his release and for bringing this
matter to our attention.
He is a pawn. Russia quite clearly
has a terrible track record of taking
care of people, whether it is bombing
hospitals in Syria intentionally or
whether it is just abusing people in
other parts of the world—Venezuela—
or imprisoning Americans. It is obvi-
ously their track record.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my Democratic
and Republican colleagues to support
this resolution. I thank the chairman
for bringing it up, the family for fight-
ing, and everybody who spoke.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self as much time as I may consume for
the purpose of closing.
Mr. Speaker, I again thank Rep-
resentative STEVENS for her hard work
on this measure.
Paul Whelan, an American citizen, as
my colleagues have mentioned, has en-
dured mistreatment in a Russian pris-
on without the Russian Government of-
fering up any evidence that he has done
anything wrong.
H. Res. 552 calls on the Russian Gov-
ernment to either provide some evi-
dence of wrongdoing to explain Mr.
Whelan’s imprisonment or release Mr.
Whelan immediately so he can come
home to the United States and receive
the proper medical treatment he so ur-
gently needs. He and his family have
suffered enough as part of Putin’s po-
litical games.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues
on both sides of the aisle for their
strong support for this resolution. It is
a good measure. I urge all Members to
support it.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and agree to the resolution, H.
Res. 552.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the resolu-
tion was agreed to.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF CON-
GRESS REGARDING THE EXECU-
TION-STYLE MURDERS OF
UNITED STATES CITIZENS YLLI,
AGRON, AND MEHMET BYTYQI IN
THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN
JULY 1999
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and agree to the con-
current resolution (H. Con. Res. 32) ex-
pressing the sense of Congress regard-
ing the execution-style murders of
United States citizens Ylli, Agron, and
Mehmet Bytyqi in the Republic of Ser-
bia in July 1999.
The Clerk read the title of the con-
current resolution.
The text of the concurrent resolution
is as follows:
H. CON. RES. 32
Whereas brothers Ylli, Agron, and Mehmet
Bytyqi were citizens of the United States,
born in Chicago, Illinois, to ethnic Albanian
parents from what is today the Republic of
Kosovo, and who subsequently lived in
Hampton Bays, New York;
Whereas the three Bytyqi brothers re-
sponded to the brutality of the conflict asso-
ciated with Kosovo’s separation from the Re-
public of Serbia and the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia of which Serbia was a con-
stituent republic by joining the so-called
‘‘Atlantic Brigade’’ of the Kosovo Liberation
Army in April 1999;
Whereas a Military-Technical Agreement
between the Government of Yugoslavia and
the North Atlantic Council came into effect
on June 10, 1999, leading to a cessation of
hostilities;
Whereas the Bytyqi brothers were arrested
on June 23, 1999, by Serbian police within the
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia when the
brothers accidently crossed what was then
an unmarked administrative border while es-
corting an ethnic Romani family who had
been neighbors to safety outside Kosovo;
Whereas the Bytyqi brothers were jailed
for 15 days for illegal entry into the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia in Prokuplje, Serbia,
until a judge ordered their release on July 8,
1999;
Whereas instead of being released, the
Bytyqi brothers were taken by a special op-
erations unit of the Serbian Ministry of In-
ternal Affairs to a training facility near
Petrovo Selo, Serbia, where all three were
executed;
Whereas at the time of their murders, Ylli
was 25, Agron was 23, and Mehmet was 21
years of age;
Whereas Yugoslav President Slobodan
Milosevic was removed from office on Octo-
ber 5, 2000, following massive demonstrations
protesting his refusal to acknowledge and ac-
cept election results the month before;
Whereas in the following years, the polit-
ical leadership of Serbia has worked to
strengthen democratic institutions, to de-
velop stronger adherence to the rule of law,
and to ensure respect for human rights and
fundamental freedoms, including as the Fed-
eral Republic of Yugoslavia evolved into a
State Union of Serbia and Montenegro in
February 2003, which itself dissolved when
both republics proclaimed their respective
independence in June 2006;
Whereas the United States Embassy in Bel-
grade, Serbia, was informed on July 17, 2001,
that the bodies of Ylli, Agron, and Mehmet
Bytyqi were found with their hands bound
and gunshot wounds to the back of their
heads, buried atop an earlier mass grave of
approximately 70 bodies of murdered civil-
ians from Kosovo;
Whereas Serbian authorities subsequently
investigated but never charged those individ-
uals who were part of the Ministry of Inter-
nal Affairs chain of command related to this
crime, including former Minister of Internal
Affairs Vlajko Stojilkovic, Assistant Min-
ister and Chief of the Public Security De-
partment Vlastimir Djordjevic, and special
operations training camp commander Goran
‘‘Guri’’ Radosavljevic;
Whereas Vlajko Stojilkovic died of a self-
inflicted gunshot wound in April 2002 prior to
being transferred to the custody of the Inter-
national Criminal Tribunal for the former
Yugoslavia where he had been charged with
crimes against humanity and violations of
the laws or customs of war during the
Kosovo conflict;
Whereas Vlastimir Djordjevic was arrested
and transferred to the custody of the Inter-
national Criminal Tribunal for the former
Yugoslavia in June 2007, and sentenced in
February 2011 to 27 years imprisonment
(later reduced to 18 years) for crimes against
humanity and violations of the laws or cus-
toms of war committed during the Kosovo
conflict;
Whereas Goran ‘‘Guri’’ Radosavljevic is re-
ported to reside in Serbia, working as direc-
tor of a security consulting firm in Belgrade,
and is a prominent member of the governing
political party;
Whereas the Secretary of State designated
Goran Radosavljevic of Serbia under section
7031(c) of the Department of State, Foreign
Operations, and Related Programs Appro-
priations Act, 2018 as ineligible for entry
into the United States due to his involve-
ment in gross violations of human rights;
Whereas two Serbian Ministry of Internal
Affairs officers, Sretan Popovic and Milos
Stojanovic, were charged in 2006 for crimes
associated with their involvement in the de-
tention and transport of the Bytyqi brothers
from Prokuplje to Petrovo Selo, but acquit-
ted in May 2012 with an appeals court con-
firming the verdict in March 2013;
Whereas the Serbian President Aleksandar
Vucic promised several high ranking United
States officials to deliver justice in the cases
of the deaths of Ylli, Agron, and Mehmet
Bytyqi;
Whereas no individual has ever been found
guilty for the murders of Ylli, Agron, and
Mehmet Bytyqi or of any other crimes asso-
ciated with their deaths; and
Whereas no individual is currently facing
criminal charges regarding the murder of the
Bytyqi brothers despite many promises by
Serbian officials to resolve the case: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved by the House of Representatives (the
Senate concurring), That it is the sense of
Congress that—
(1) those individuals responsible for the
murders in July 1999 of United States citi-
zens Ylli, Agron, and Mehmet Bytyqi in Ser-
bia should be brought to justice;
(2) it is reprehensible that no individual
has ever been found guilty for executing the
Bytyqi brothers, or of any other crimes asso-
ciated with their deaths, and that no indi-
vidual is even facing charges for these hor-
rible crimes;
(3) the Government of Serbia and its rel-
evant ministries and offices, including the
Serbian War Crimes Prosecutor’s Office,
should make it a priority to investigate and
prosecute as soon as possible those current
or former officials believed to be responsible
for their deaths, directly or indirectly;
(4) the United States should devote suffi-
cient resources fully to assist and properly
to monitor efforts by the Government of Ser-
bia and its relevant ministries and offices to
investigate and prosecute as soon as possible
those individuals believed to be responsible
for their deaths, directly or indirectly; and
(5) progress in resolving this case, or the
lack thereof, should remain a significant fac-
tor determining the further development of
relations between the United States and the
Republic of Serbia.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.093 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8365
October 22, 2019
New York (Mr. ENGEL) and the gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. ZELDIN)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York (Mr. ENGEL).
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on H. Con. Res. 32.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self as much time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I want to start by
thanking Mr. ZELDIN for authoring this
resolution.
This measure is one particularly
close to my heart. In my career in Con-
gress, I have had long dealings with the
Albanian community both in the Bal-
kans and in America, so this one really
hurts since I know the family of these
three brothers who were murdered.
Ylli, Agron, and Mehmet Bytyqi were
three brothers from New York State
who were killed execution-style by Ser-
bian officials after they mistakenly
crossed the unmarked Serbia-Kosovo
border. Their bodies were discovered
with their hands bound behind their
backs in a mass grave in 2001.
Serbian President Vucic promised me
3 years ago that his government would
bring the murderers to justice, but this
hasn’t happened. In fact, there isn’t
even a serious criminal investigation
underway. This is appalling.
Sadly, it is part of a pattern we see
with Serbian war criminals responsible
for crimes against the people of
Kosovo.
The Bytyqi brothers are only the tip
of the iceberg when it comes to post-
conflict justice in Serbia. We had a
hearing on the Foreign Affairs Com-
mittee several weeks ago about this
very topic.
Approaching 3 years ago, the Bel-
grade-based Humanitarian Law Center
released a dossier detailing the murder
of nearly 1,000 Kosovars, killed by
Serbs in Kosovo, then transported to
Serbia, and dumped in a mass grave.
The U.S. Government has raised this
atrocity with the Serbian war crimes
prosecutor. But once again, no one has
been held accountable, although I be-
lieve with all my heart that Serbian
authorities know who is responsible for
this.
Let’s be clear, if Serbia wants to join
the West and its institutions, they
must deal with their past and pros-
ecute those responsible for war crimes.
Mr. Speaker, I encourage our EU
friends to hold Serbia to this standard
when considering Serbia’s candidacy.
Today’s resolution makes it clear
that Serbia must fully investigate the
Bytyqi brothers’ case and bring justice
to the families of these murdered New
Yorkers. Their family currently lives
in New York in Mr. ZELDIN’s district.
It also calls on the U.S. Government
to encourage and assist a successful
prosecution of this case.
Mr. Speaker, I strongly support this
measure, and I again thank Mr. ZELDIN
for his excellent work and partnership
with me in trying to push the Serbian
Government to find justice for these
New Yorkers.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to
support this measure, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself as much time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.
Con. Res. 32. I wish to start off by
thanking the House Foreign Affairs
Committee Chairman ELIOT ENGEL for
his long-time passion and advocacy on
this very important issue for my dis-
trict, as well as GRACE MENG, who also
has been supportive.
This execution-style murder of Ylli,
25 years old, Agron, 23 years old, and
Mehmet Bytyqi, 21 years old, has
greatly impacted my own district.
These were three brothers born in the
United States who resided in Hampton
Bays, New York.
This year marks the 20th anniversary
of the Bytyqi brothers’ murder. In July
1999, these three brothers went over-
seas toward the end of the Kosovo war
and were arrested by Serbian authori-
ties for illegally entering the country
when they accidentally crossed into
Serbian-controlled territory.
The brothers were kidnapped, mur-
dered, and dumped into a mass grave in
Serbia by government officials still
serving today.
Since taking office, I have been com-
mitted to helping the Bytyqi family re-
ceive the justice they have long de-
served.
In February, Chairman ENGEL and I
traveled to Munich to meet with Ser-
bian President Vucic, where he once
again promised to resolve the case of
the Bytyqi brothers.
Despite many promises by Serbian
officials to resolve the case of this
state-sponsored murder, there has been
no justice served.
This resolution notes that progress
with this investigation should remain a
significant factor that determines the
further developments of U.S.-Serbian
relations.
The Bytyqi brothers gave their lives
to fight injustice. Now, we must return
this favor and deliver justice for their
family.
Mr. Speaker, I again thank Chairman
ENGEL and lead Republican MCCAUL for
their leadership and assistance on this
issue.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I have no
other speakers and am prepared to
close.
Mr. Speaker, once again, I encourage
all of my colleagues to support this im-
portant resolution.
For those in Serbia listening to to-
day’s floor debate, it is an important
lesson that, 20 years later, we have not
forgotten. We will not forget. We will
continue to strongly encourage them
to do the right thing. This issue is not
going away if they wish it away. On a
bipartisan basis, we will continue to
advocate to fight this injustice.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self as much time as I may consume for
the purpose of closing.
Mr. Speaker, this is a good measure
to seek justice for this senseless mur-
der of three innocent American citi-
zens, three innocent New Yorkers. We
cannot allow this horrific crime to con-
tinue to go unpunished.
As Mr. ZELDIN mentioned, and others
who we have worked with, we have
raised this repeatedly with the Govern-
ment of Serbia to no avail. They know
exactly who killed these American citi-
zens. They know what happened and
why their bodies were dumped in a
mass grave. They are withholding it.
It is unconscionable that these Amer-
ican citizens cannot get justice, that
their families cannot get justice.
We will not stop. I know Mr. ZELDIN
and I won’t, and other people won’t,
until we get justice and answers as to
who killed these American citizens, the
Bytyqi brothers, who were born in the
United States of America.
Mr. Speaker, I hope all Members will
join me in supporting this resolution,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and agree to the concurrent reso-
lution, H. Con. Res. 32.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the concur-
rent resolution was agreed to.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
CORPORATE TRANSPARENCY ACT
OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 646 and rule
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union for the further
consideration of the bill, H.R. 2513.
Will the gentleman from Illinois (Mr.
QUIGLEY) kindly take the chair.
b 1743
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
further consideration of the bill (H.R.
2513) to ensure that persons who form
corporations or limited liability com-
panies in the United States disclose the
beneficial owners of those corporations
or limited liability companies, in order
to prevent wrongdoers from exploiting
United States corporations and limited
liability companies for criminal gain,
to assist law enforcement in detecting,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.095 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8366 October 22, 2019
preventing, and punishing terrorism,
money laundering, and other mis-
conduct involving United States cor-
porations and limited liability compa-
nies, and for other purposes, with Mr.
QUIGLEY (Acting Chair) in the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The Acting CHAIR. When the Com-
mittee of the Whole rose earlier today,
a request for a recorded vote on amend-
ment No. 5, printed in part B of House
Report 116–247, offered by the gen-
tleman from Ohio (Mr. DAVIDSON) had
been postponed.
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, proceedings will
now resume on those amendments
printed in part B of House Report 116–
247 on which further proceedings were
postponed, in the following order:
Amendment No. 1 by Mr. BURGESS of
Texas.
Amendment No. 4 by Mrs. CAROLYN
B. MALONEY of New York.
Amendment No. 5 by Mr. DAVIDSON of
Ohio.
The Chair will reduce to 2 minutes
the minimum time for any electronic
vote after the first vote in this series.
AMENDMENT NO. 1 OFFERED BY MR. BURGESS
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Texas (Mr. BURGESS)
on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the ayes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 395, noes 23,
not voting 19, as follows:
[Roll No. 573]
AYES—395
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norton
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—23
Amash
Banks
Biggs
Brooks (AL)
Buck
Burchett
Cline
Cloud
Davidson (OH)
Duncan
Gaetz
Gohmert
Gooden
Gosar
Higgins (LA)
Massie
Mast
Mooney (WV)
Norman
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roy
Steube
NOT VOTING—19
Bishop (NC)
Collins (GA)
Foster
Gabbard
Gonzalez (TX)
Hunter
Jordan
McEachin
Moore
Moulton
Omar
Peters
Radewagen
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Takano
Timmons
Walorski
Wilson (FL)
b 1810
Messrs. RICE of South Carolina and
GAETZ changed their vote from ‘‘aye’’
to ‘‘no.’’
Ms. ESHOO, Mr. MURPHY of North
Carolina, Mses. FUDGE, WATERS,
Messrs. GARAMENDI, CRENSHAW,
Ms. MCCOLLUM, Messrs.
CUNNINGHAM, BUTTERFIELD, Ms.
SCANLON, Mr. SWALWELL of Cali-
fornia, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ,
Mr. NEAL, and Ms. BASS changed
their vote from ‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Stated for:
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Mr. Chair, I was
unavoidably detained. Had I been present, I
would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 573.
AMENDMENT NO. 4 OFFERED BY MRS. CAROLYN
B. MALONEY OF NEW YORK
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. ESPAILLAT).
The unfinished business is the demand
for a recorded vote on the amendment
offered by the gentlewoman from New
York (Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY) on
which further proceedings were post-
poned and on which the ayes prevailed
by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 235, noes 188,
not voting 14, as follows:
[Roll No. 574]
AYES—235
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.097 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8367
October 22, 2019
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Mitchell
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Perlmutter
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOES—188
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
NOT VOTING—14
Bishop (NC)
Collins (GA)
Davis, Rodney
Gabbard
Hunter
Jordan
McEachin
Payne
Peters
Radewagen
Smucker
Takano
Timmons
Zeldin
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1815
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 5 OFFERED BY MR. DAVIDSON
OF OHIO
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Ohio (Mr. DAVIDSON)
on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the noes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 166, noes 258,
not voting 13, as follows:
[Roll No. 575]
AYES—166
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Banks
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Cuellar
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Holding
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Steube
Stewart
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
NOES—258
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Balderson
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Graves (GA)
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCaul
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.056 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8368 October 22, 2019
Perlmutter
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rogers (AL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—13
Bishop (NC)
Carson (IN)
Collins (GA)
Gabbard
Hice (GA)
Jordan
McEachin
Peters
Plaskett
Radewagen
Takano
Timmons
Zeldin
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (Ms. BLUNT ROCH-
ESTER) (during the vote). There is 1
minute remaining.
b 1824
Messrs. VEASEY and LYNCH
changed their vote from ‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’
Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio changed his
vote from ‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The Acting CHAIR. There being no
further amendments under the rule,
the Committee rises.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr.
ESPAILLAT) having assumed the chair,
Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Acting Chair of
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union, reported that
that Committee, having had under con-
sideration the bill (H.R. 2513) to ensure
that persons who form corporations or
limited liability companies in the
United States disclose the beneficial
owners of those corporations or limited
liability companies, in order to prevent
wrongdoers from exploiting United
States corporations and limited liabil-
ity companies for criminal gain, to as-
sist law enforcement in detecting, pre-
venting, and punishing terrorism,
money laundering, and other mis-
conduct involving United States cor-
porations and limited liability compa-
nies, and for other purposes, and, pur-
suant to House Resolution 646, she re-
ported the bill, as amended by that res-
olution, back to the House with sundry
further amendments adopted in the
Committee of the Whole.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the rule, the previous question is or-
dered.
Is a separate vote demanded on any
amendment reported from the Com-
mittee of the Whole? If not, the Chair
will put them en gros.
The amendments were agreed to.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the engrossment and
third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
MOTION TO RECOMMIT
Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio. Mr. Speaker,
I have a motion to recommit at the
desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the
gentleman opposed to the bill?
Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio. I am in its
current form.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion to recom-
mit.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mr. Davidson of Ohio moves to recommit
the bill H.R. 2513 to the Committee on Fi-
nancial Services with instructions to report
the same back to the House forthwith with
the following amendment:
Page 14, line 24, insert before the semicolon
the following: ‘‘, but only if such request is
accompanied by a court-issued subpoena’’.
Page 15, line 6, insert before the semicolon
the following: ‘‘, but only if such request is
accompanied by a court-issued subpoena’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Ohio is recognized for 5 minutes in sup-
port of his motion.
Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio. Mr. Speaker,
this motion to recommit is about de-
fending freedom. Civil liberties have
historically united this great body.
Do any of my colleagues, regardless
of party affiliation, really want law en-
forcement to access the data of small
business owners and farmers without
cause and without a warrant or sub-
poena?
Surely, this bill’s sponsor would like
to see these provisions restored to the
current version of the bill so that due
process and privacy rights of everyday
Americans are protected.
Let’s reiterate what this bill, H.R.
2513, does. This bill subjects small busi-
ness owners, the smallest, 20 or fewer
employees, to criminal penalties up to
$10,000 in fines or 3 years in prison.
This bill creates yet another Federal
Government database containing per-
sonally identifiable information of pri-
vate U.S. citizens. This one collects the
addresses and driver’s license numbers
of owners of legal and legitimate busi-
ness operations.
A little-known Federal agency,
FinCen, and law enforcement will have
unbridled access to the database, which
has fewer protections than any other
existing Federal surveillance pro-
grams.
This motion to recommit is a com-
monsense proposal to require a sub-
poena so that Federal law enforcement
officials do not query the sensitive in-
formation of American citizens with-
out cause. The majority should not be
opposed to this motion. Treasury al-
ready requires similar reporting of ben-
eficial ownership information by banks
through the Customer Due Diligence
rule, and under the CDD rule, law en-
forcement must obtain a subpoena.
In fact, the version of the Corporate
Transparency Act introduced in the
115th Congress, sponsored by the gen-
tlewoman from New York (Mrs. CARO-
LYN B. MALONEY), only allowed disclo-
sure to federal law enforcement agen-
cies if it had a subpoena, but this lan-
guage has now been dropped from the
bill.
I question why this iteration of the
bill would remove the subpoena re-
quirement and why Democratic leader-
ship would reject this amendment
when I offered it at the Rules Com-
mittee.
On October 8, the Foreign Intel-
ligence Surveillance Court published
its previously classified opinion detail-
ing systemic abuses of the FISA pro-
gram. Federal law enforcement offi-
cials at the FBI have improperly
queried Section 702 FISA databases to
spy on innocent Americans.
This abhorrent behavior violates the
privacy rights of American citizens.
Collectively, we must ensure that this
database is safeguarded from any bad
actor, including unauthorized access by
Federal employees.
In light of these existing FISA
abuses, it is imperative that Congress
take steps to restore privacy protec-
tions for all Americans.
Starting with more robust safeguards
in this bill is a great first step. After
all, this bill will require the smallest
businesses to file beneficial ownership
information with FinCen, creating an
estimated 30 to 40 million new filings
each year. That is a really big database
full of valuable information.
This motion to recommit ensures due
process and gives farmers and small
business owners confidence that their
constitutionally protected right to pri-
vacy is not violated.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. MALINOWSKI. Mr. Speaker, I
rise in opposition to the amendment.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from New Jersey is recognized
for 5 minutes.
Mr. MALINOWSKI. Mr. Speaker, this
is a rare moment in this House. We
have a bipartisan bill, a bill that we
have worked together, Republicans and
Democrats in the House. We have
worked together in the Senate. There
is a companion piece of legislation; it
has been praised by the Trump admin-
istration. We have a chance to do
something tremendously good here,
and the bill says something very sim-
ple: No one should be able to establish
in the United States a shell company
with completely secret ownership, se-
cret even from law enforcement.
We are saying that we are not Pan-
ama. We are not the Cayman Islands.
We are not some little island nation
tax shelter that puts out a welcome
mat for drug dealers and arms dealers
and dictators hiding money from their
people. We are the United States of
America. We are a nation of laws that
does not tolerate corruption at home
and that fights corruption around the
world.
Mr. Speaker, when I was running the
Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.057 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8369
October 22, 2019
and Labor at the State Department, I
would often speak to dissidents fight-
ing for freedom in countries like Rus-
sia. And I would say to them, What can
we do to help you?
And they would say, You know what,
we don’t ask you to fight all of our bat-
tles for us, but just don’t be complicit
in what our dictatorship does to us.
And I would say, What do you mean
‘‘complicit?’’
And they would say, You know what,
because of the money that people like
Putin and their oligarchs steal from us
all goes into banks and real estate in
America and in Europe, and they do it
through shell companies.
And they were right. Under our cur-
rent laws, anyone can set up an anony-
mously owned company to hide the
proceeds of corruption or crime.
Fentanyl dealers do it, terrorists do it,
human traffickers do it, foreign dic-
tators do it.
The wildly corrupt son of Equatorial
Guinea’s former president, for example,
set up a shell company in the United
States to launder millions of dollars in
bribes from international logging com-
panies.
Corrupt officials in Nigeria use shell
companies to steal aid we sent them to
fight Boko Haram.
Next time you are in New York City,
check out 650 5th Avenue. You can go
shopping in the Nike store, on the
ground floor; get some shoes. You prob-
ably wouldn’t realize that the building
was owned for 20 years by the Govern-
ment of Iran, once again using a shell
company.
And let’s be clear: Shell companies
not only allow foreign bad actors to
hide dirty money in the United States,
they allow them to use that dirty
money to corrupt our system. Yeah, I
know it is illegal for foreigners to con-
tribute to our campaigns, but if you
launder your money through a front
company with anonymous ownership,
there is very little we can do to stop
you.
Now, I am thrilled to hear my Repub-
lican colleagues say they are concerned
about privacy and civil liberties. But
this bill already has extraordinarily
strong privacy protections. Law en-
forcement can only ask for access for
this data if there is already an ongoing
law enforcement investigation. The
whole process is overseen by civil lib-
erties and privacy officers at FinCen,
and the information is so simple.
My name: TOM MALINOWSKI.
My address: 86 Washington Street,
Rocky Hill, New Jersey, 08553.
My date of birth: 9/23/65.
My driver’s license number is too
long to read, but you know what, the
government already has it.
What the government does not have
is the names of the owners of compa-
nies that are set up here by foreign
kleptocrats, drug lords, and criminals.
Law enforcement should have access to
that information.
So let me just close by reminding
this House who is for this bill:
The National Association of Attor-
neys General.
The National District Attorneys As-
sociation.
The Fraternal Order of Police.
The Society of Former Special
Agents of the FBI.
The U.S. Marshals Service Associa-
tion.
The Small Business Majority.
The Main Street Alliance.
The American Sustainable Business
Council.
The bankers’ association of every
single State that we represent in this
body.
Virtually every major human rights
and anticorruption group in the United
States and around the world.
Please, join them. Join me. Join the
bipartisan champions of this blow we
are about to strike against corruption.
Reject this MTR; support the bill.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the previous question is or-
dered on the motion to recommit.
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to recommit.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the noes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio. Mr. Speaker,
I demand a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 5-
minute vote on the motion to recom-
mit will be followed by a 5-minute vote
on passage of H.R. 2513, if ordered, and
the motion to suspend the rules and
pass H.R. 2426.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 197, noes 224,
not voting 10, as follows:
[Roll No. 576]
AYES—197
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Cunningham
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
NOES—224
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:35 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00069 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.107 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8370 October 22, 2019
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—10
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Collins (GA)
Gabbard
McEachin
Peters
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Timmons
Zeldin
b 1844
So the motion to recommit was re-
jected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio. Mr. Speaker,
on that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 249, nays
173, not voting 9, as follows:
[Roll No. 577]
YEAS—249
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Huizenga
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCaul
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rogers (AL)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stefanik
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Upton
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—173
Abraham
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Cuellar
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
Kinzinger
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Lucas
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peterson
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Scalise
Schweikert
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Turner
Van Drew
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
NOT VOTING—9
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Collins (GA)
Gabbard
McEachin
Peters
Takano
Timmons
Zeldin
b 1850
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
COPYRIGHT ALTERNATIVE IN
SMALL-CLAIMS ENFORCEMENT
ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 2426) to amend title 17,
United States Code, to establish an al-
ternative dispute resolution program
for copyright small claims, and for
other purposes, as amended, on which
the yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
JEFFRIES) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, as amended.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 410, nays 6,
not voting 15, as follows:
[Roll No. 578]
YEAS—410
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00070 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.059 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8371
October 22, 2019
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—6
Amash
Davidson (OH)
Gianforte
Kelly (MS)
Massie
Norman
NOT VOTING—15
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Butterfield
Collins (GA)
Gabbard
Hastings
McEachin
Panetta
Peters
Price (NC)
Rooney (FL)
Sensenbrenner
Takano
Timmons
Turner
b 1859
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, please accept
the following vote recommendations in my ab-
sence as I represent the United States at the
formal ascension of the Emperor in Japan.
Had I been present, I would have voted: ‘‘yea’’
on rollcall No. 571, ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 572,
‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 573, ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No.
574, ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 575, ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall
No. 576, ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 577, and ‘‘nay’’
on rollcall No. 578.
f
HONORING THREE AMERICAN HE-
ROES KILLED AT FORT STEW-
ART, GEORGIA
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor three
American heroes who lost their lives
this weekend in a training accident at
Fort Stewart in the First Congres-
sional District of Georgia.
The incident happened at approxi-
mately 3:20 a.m. Sunday morning when
the Bradley Fighting Vehicle they were
riding in rolled off a bridge and was
submerged in a stream. Three soldiers
were killed and three others were in-
jured.
The heroes who lost their lives that
day were Sergeant First Class Bryan
Andrew Jenkins of Gainesville, Flor-
ida, Private First Class Antonio Gil-
bert Garcia of Peoria, Arizona, and
Corporal Thomas Cole Walker of Ohio.
Sergeant First Class Jenkins was
born on December 29, 1977, and had
served in the Army since 2001.
Corporal Walker was born on August
5, 1997, and had served in the Army
since 2016.
Private First Class Garcia was born
on August 1, 1998, and had served in the
Army since 2018.
This is a tragic and devastating loss
for our community and for our Nation.
These servicemembers gave everything
for their Nation, including their lives.
Please join me praying for their fam-
ily, friends, and the entire 3rd ID com-
munity.
The sacrifices of our military fami-
lies are greater than most of us will
ever know.
We also pray for healing for the sol-
dier injured in the incident. These men
represent the greatest among us.
It will take time to grapple with this
loss, but I know the Fort Stewart and
3rd ID communities are strong in their
resolve. We are with you in this most
difficult time.
I am glad to be joined tonight by my
fellow members of the Georgia delega-
tion and Representatives from the
hometowns of these heroes.
Please join me in honoring these he-
roes. I ask that all Members and guests
in the gallery rise for a moment of si-
lence.
HELPING SENIORS AFFORD
HEALTHCARE
(Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend her remarks.)
Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER. Madam
Speaker, I am proud to report that last
week the Energy and Commerce Com-
mittee advanced H.R. 3, the Lower
Drug Costs Now Act.
We also passed out of committee H.R.
4671, the Helping Seniors Afford
Healthcare Act, which I introduced
with my colleagues Representatives
ANDY KIM and DWIGHT EVANS.
Currently, Medicare beneficiaries re-
ceive financial assistance for their pre-
miums and out-of-pocket costs through
the Medicare Savings Programs, or
MSPs.
Medicare takes great strides to pro-
tect low-income beneficiaries through
these programs, but there are millions
of Americans who fall through the
cracks. My bill expands access to the
MSPs so more Medicare beneficiaries
will be protected from soaring
healthcare costs.
I urge my colleagues on both sides of
the aisle to join me in supporting the
passage of H.R. 3 and H.R. 4671.
f
WHAT DO THEY HAVE TO HIDE?
(Mr. SCALISE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, like
so many of my colleagues here today
on the floor, I rise in strong opposition
to the way that this impeachment in-
quiry is being conducted—in secret, be-
hind closed doors.
Madam Speaker, we had an election
in 2016 and the people of this country
spoke loudly. Not only that, Madam
Speaker, there is going to be another
election next year, and that is when
the people of this country should be
able to decide who the next President
is.
This shouldn’t be conducted behind
closed doors. Not only is it an impeach-
ment inquiry that has not had a vote of
the full House, which every other im-
peachment inquiry has had, but there
are actual voting Members of Congress
who are being denied access to these
hearings, denied the ability to see what
is happening behind closed doors.
What do they have to hide, Madam
Speaker? Why aren’t they willing to
have a vote on the House floor?
This is not the way it should be done.
Maybe in Russia this is how they con-
duct hearings. This is not how it should
be done in the United States of Amer-
ica, where Members of Congress are de-
nied access, the press is denied access,
and, ultimately, the American people
are denied access to what is going on
behind closed doors to overturn the re-
sults of the 2016 election.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00071 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.061 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8372 October 22, 2019
WORKING FOR THE PEOPLE
(Ms. PLASKETT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. PLASKETT. Madam Speaker,
during this difficult time, the House
will continue our strong legislative
agenda for the people: lowering
healthcare costs, creating bigger pay-
checks, building the physical and
human infrastructure of America.
My friends on the other side of the
aisle want to belittle our work here by
focusing solely on the impeachment
process. The American people want the
truth. The House will proceed with our
impeachment inquiry to find the facts
and expose the truth, guided by our
Constitution and the facts. This is
about patriotism, not politics or par-
tisanship.
I am pleased that, despite the Sen-
ate’s refusal to move on legislation
passed in the House, my office con-
tinues to work hard on behalf of the
people of America.
My office was successful in con-
vincing HUD to release CDBG funding
for mitigation activities. $774 million
in HUD CDBG mitigation funds have
been released to the Virgin Islands.
The House doubled the funding on
the Violence Against Women Act for
my people.
The House has averted the Medicaid
cliff, increasing the Federal Govern-
ment’s share of spending to the Terri-
tories.
We wait on the Senate to act.
f
CONGRESS HAS A DUTY TO THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE
(Mr. MCCARTHY asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. MCCARTHY. Madam Speaker,
Members of Congress have a solemn
duty to work to keep our Nation safe,
secure, and more prosperous than it
was yesterday. We are expected to ana-
lyze sensitive information to gain a
more in-depth understanding of the
needs of the American people and the
threats our country faces on a daily
basis.
That role is even more consequential
for the members of the Intelligence
Committee, who are entrusted with the
privileged information that other
Members cannot access. You would ex-
pect them to focus day and night on se-
curing our Nation and promoting our
national security priorities abroad, but
that has not been the case in this Con-
gress.
Under the Democratic majority, the
most basic responsibilities of the com-
mittee have been neglected. Instead,
the House Intelligence Committee is
using its time and resources to run a
sham impeachment inquiry in secret.
Members of this Chamber will be
asked to take one of the gravest votes
a Member could take before seeing a
single transcript from a witness deposi-
tion. The information Members and the
public hear is incomplete or inten-
tionally distorted by selective leaks.
Madam Speaker, at what cost does
this impeachment effort come?
As Democrats push forward with this
sham partisan process, our Nation is
losing its intelligence edge around the
world, particularly against China. Not
only are there significant intelligence
gaps in order to accurately assess the
Chinese threat, the Chinese are actu-
ally ahead of us when it comes to tech-
nological capabilities that are critical
to national security.
The Intelligence Committee’s mem-
bers are uniquely qualified to formu-
late our Nation’s response, but they
cannot address these challenges be-
cause of the committee’s continued
distraction over impeachment.
The larger issue goes beyond what
the Democrats are doing in one com-
mittee. It is what they have failed to
do as a majority. Their trend of inac-
tion strikes at home.
They have failed to swiftly pass the
United States-Mexico-Canada Agree-
ment. In fact, they voted to prioritize
impeachment over it earlier today.
They have failed to address surprise
medical billing.
They have failed to secure our border
or reform our crumbling infrastruc-
ture.
They have failed to lower prescrip-
tion drug prices in a bipartisan way.
The House Democrats are failing to
pass appropriations bills that would
end the continuing resolution and fund
the government. As a result, pay in-
creases for our troops, disaster recov-
ery funds, and NIH medical research
funding are all at a stalemate.
Each of these failures represent an
enormous opportunity cost for the
American people.
Democrats have chosen impeachment
over getting anything done, even
though they previously warned of that
exact problem.
In August, Congresswoman SLOTKIN
said: ‘‘People in my district are want-
ing us to pass bills, and they fear that
if we go down this path of impeach-
ment, we’re not going to be working on
the things that affect their lives, their
pocketbooks, and their kids.’’
In September, Congressman MAX
ROSE said: ‘‘Impeachment will not fix
our roads and bridges or lower the cost
of drugs. . . . The truth is impeach-
ment will only tear our country fur-
ther apart, and we will see no progress
on the enormous challenges we face as
a nation.’’
Democrats said their majority would
be different. They promised the Amer-
ican public, if they entrusted them
with the majority, they would act dif-
ferently, that they would put people
before politics.
Madam Speaker, in the polls we see
today, more people can tell you about
the investigations but can’t tell you
anything that has been accomplished.
They have broken their promise to
solve problems, work for all Ameri-
cans, and focus on passing legislation.
Madam Speaker, there are 22 legisla-
tive days left on the calendar—22. In
that brief time, we have a lot of work
to do, but we cannot fulfill our respon-
sibilities if Members in this Chamber
continue to turn their backs on the
promise they made when their con-
stituents sent them to Washington.
Madam Speaker, how much money
was spent? How many ads were made?
And how many promises were given
that this majority would be different,
how many things they said they would
accomplish?
And how much time have they wast-
ed? We are 13 months from an election,
but we have not accomplished a thing.
We are better than this.
Madam Speaker, if you only listened
to what Members on the other side of
the aisle said just in August and Sep-
tember, before the political pressure
forced them to change their mind.
Madam Speaker, if the Speaker had
only waited 48 hours, we would not put
America through another nightmare.
We would not break the fabric of de-
mocracy of this Nation.
Madam Speaker, this is the people’s
House. We have got 22 more days. We
ask that you keep the promise you
made to the American public and you
stop this sham of an impeachment you
call.
f
b 1915
LYNCHING WARRANTS AN EN-
HANCED SENTENCE UNDER HATE
CRIME STATUTES
(Mr. RUSH asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. RUSH. Madam Speaker, between
1882 and 1968, 3,446 African Americans
were lynched in this Nation. This fact
appears to be completely lost on the
President, who just this morning
conflated constitutionally mandated
oversight with the horrific act of
lynching.
The heinous nature of lynching is
why I have introduced H.R. 35, The
Emmitt Till Antilynching Act. Madam
Speaker, this bipartisan bill would
specify that lynching is a crime in and
of itself, and that its vile nature war-
rants an enhanced sentence under hate
crime statutes.
I would encourage all my colleagues
to support this bill and to reject this
President’s vile rhetoric.
f
THE PARTISAN IMPEACHMENT
INQUIRY IS DANGEROUS
(Ms. FOXX of North Carolina asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, an impeachment inquiry is
one of the most serious actions the
House can take. But the gravity of
such proceedings seem to be lost on the
Democratic Caucus.
As a reminder, I would like to quote
Federalist 65:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00072 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.116 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8373
October 22, 2019
The prosecution of impeachment will
seldom fail to agitate the passions of
the whole community, and to divide it
into parties more or less friendly or in-
imical to the accused. In many cases it
will connect itself with the preexisting
factions and will enlist all their ani-
mosities, partialities, influence and in-
terest on one side or the other; and in
such cases there will always be the
greatest danger that the decision will
be regulated more by the comparative
strength of parties than by the real
demonstrations of innocence or guilt.
Speaker PELOSI’s impeachment in-
quiry by fiat has realized this greatest
danger. I call on her to allow for an
open debate on this process imme-
diately.
f
HONORING THE 2019 NATIONAL
GOLD AWARD GIRL SCOUT
MEGAN LOH
(Mr. CISNEROS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. CISNEROS. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to recognize 39th Congres-
sional District resident Megan Loh and
her passion to ensure more young
women and girls are represented and
encouraged to participate in the field
of science, technology, engineering,
arts, and mathematics.
Megan, an avid Girl Scout and Troy
High School student from Fullerton,
formed her own nonprofit
GEARup4Youth to encourage girls in-
terested in STEAM and STEM career
paths.
GEARup4Youth has already bene-
fitted more than 9,500 girls to date.
Megan also initiated the first girls-
only robotics class at a local Boys &
Girls Clubs of America. And she
partnered with over 200 organizations
to host presentations, family STEM
events, and expos about her technology
curriculum.
Megan even authored her own book,
‘‘Easy STEM Activities You Can Do At
Home’’ in order to broaden more young
girls’ interests in STEAM.
For all her amazing and passionate
work on behalf of young girls, Megan
was named one of the 2019 National
Gold Award Girl Scouts. In Megan’s
own words, we must continue to show
young girls that they do belong in tech
fields that aren’t simply open to them,
but need them. And as an education ad-
vocate, I couldn’t agree more.
I ask my colleagues to join me in of-
fering my sincerest congratulations to
Megan and thank her for all her work
on behalf of young women like herself.
f
WHAT ARE THE DEMOCRATS
HIDING?
(Mr. JORDAN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. JORDAN. Madam Speaker, what
are the Democrats hiding? What are
they hiding? Trying to impeach the
President of the United States 13
months before an election based on an
anonymous whistleblower with no
first-hand knowledge, who has a bias
against the President, who worked
with Joe Biden, who wrote a memo the
day after the call. And he described the
call as ‘‘frightening, scary,’’ but then
he waits 18 days before he files the
complaint. And who does he run off and
see during that 18-day timeframe?
ADAM SCHIFF, the guy who is running
the secret process in a bunker in the
basement of the Capitol.
What are they hiding from the Amer-
ican people? Americans get fairness.
They understand it. And they instinc-
tively know that this secretive process
is not fair. 435 Members of the House
representing over 300 million people in
this country, and only one of them,
ADAM SCHIFF, knows who the guy is
who started this whole darn charade.
ADAM SCHIFF is the only one who
knows. Why don’t the rest of us? Why
don’t, more importantly, the 300 mil-
lion people who we all get the privilege
of representing, why don’t they know
who the people are who started this
whole darn process that the American
people see through?
Americans get fairness, and they
know this is instinctively unfair.
f
HONORING CONGRESSMAN ELIJAH
CUMMINGS
(Ms. TLAIB asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor our chairman, Elijah
Cummings.
He was my first chairman. Chairman
Cummings believed in the possibility of
better from this institution. He under-
stood that our squad was big and em-
braced the new era of social justice
movement in our country. Congress-
man Cummings’ presence was iconic,
and I am humbled and honored to have
served with him.
I pray that Congressman Cummings’
wife and family find peace during this
very difficult time in knowing that he
has left a powerful legacy that has
been centered on truth and justice.
I have a picture of my son with Con-
gressman Cummings. He always said
that children are the messages we send
in the future. And so I wanted to honor
Congressman Cummings by showing
and displaying just the beautiful smile
I remember that he provided for my 14-
year old boy.
f
A MATTER OF JURISDICTION
(Mr. CONAWAY asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. CONAWAY. Madam Speaker, I
have had the privilege and honor of
serving most of my career in Congress
on the Permanent Select Committee
on Intelligence. It is important work
that goes on in secret, typically, and it
is really important. Typically it in-
volves the oversight of 17 agencies
which we empower to protect this Na-
tion from enemies abroad.
That important work has been
highjacked by this investigation, which
is being led by the Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence. The Intel-
ligence Committee works with sources
and methods. Madam Speaker, there is
nothing classified about anything that
is going on downstairs in our SCIF.
There are no sources or methods at
risk here.
This is a jurisdictional issue. This in-
vestigation, should it be happening at
all, should be done by the Committee
on the Judiciary. That is where Arti-
cles of Impeachment will have to come
from, not the Intelligence Committee.
Our good work that is important to
this Nation is being highjacked by this
process that should not even, in my
view, be going on. But if it should be
going on, Chairman NADLER should be
the one leading this effort, not Chair-
man SCHIFF.
I ask the Speaker to go the normal
route, put the inquiry on the floor,
have us vote on that, allow all of us to
express our opinion, not just hers, but
all of our opinions on this issue.
f
OUR DEMOCRACY IS UNDER
ATTACK
(Ms. GARCIA of Texas asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. GARCIA of Texas. Madam Speak-
er, our democracy is under attack. In
2016, Russia engaged in misinformation
campaigns aimed at influencing our
election results. Earlier this month,
the Senate Intelligence Committee re-
leased a report that warns that these
campaigns could evolve, intensify, and
inspire other bad actors to make simi-
lar attempts in 2020.
Just yesterday, Facebook reported it
shut down new accounts linked to Iran
and Russia that are trying to influence
our elections next year. Each and every
one of us swore an oath to uphold and
defend our Constitution against all en-
emies foreign and domestic.
Now is the time to live up to that
oath. No foreign government can be al-
lowed to jeopardize the future of our
democracy. I, therefore, ask each and
every one of you today, what will you
do to defend our democracy?
f
IT IS TIME THAT WE PUT THE
FACTS ON THE TABLE
(Mr. MEADOWS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. MEADOWS. Madam Speaker, in a
SCIF in the basement of this very
building is a secret process, a process
that is designed to keep the truth from
the American people. Now, it is not
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00073 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.118 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8374 October 22, 2019
based on firsthand comments. It is
based on secondhand gossip.
And I can tell you, what I have heard
for over 60 hours needs to be heard by
the American people, because ulti-
mately this President did nothing
wrong. And we need to make sure that
we send a clear message to the rest of
America that we are a transparent
body, not one that is held with secrets.
And yet here we are with ADAM
SCHIFF providing leading questions,
trying to actually get to a foregone
conclusion in his mind. It is time that
we hold him accountable and the rest
of this body. Open it up. Let’s be trans-
parent. Let’s send a message to the
Senate, who ultimately is going to
have to be the judge and jury of this. It
is time that we put the facts on the
table. The facts will exonerate our
President.
f
HONORING SALEM COUNTY
HISTORICAL SOCIETY
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Madam Speaker, in
1884, residents of Salem County, south
Jersey gathered at the local library
with the intent of protecting the his-
tory of the region. This group estab-
lished the Salem County Historical So-
ciety and began regular meetings all
the way back in 1885. Now the museum
allows visitors to wander the exhibits
and admire the historical artifacts.
It was Albert Einstein who once said,
‘‘learn from yesterday, live for today,
hope for tomorrow.’’ It has also been
said that you cannot truly understand
who you are and what you are about as
a society if you don’t know who you
were and where you were in the past.
It is because of the crucial role of the
Salem County Historical Society that
we are better able to learn from our
past in south Jersey as we move to-
wards a better tomorrow.
Thank you for preserving the past of
south Jersey and providing educational
experiences for the members of our
community. You truly are stars.
f
DEMOCRATS ARE TRYING TO IM-
PEACH THE PRESIDENT FOR
FOLLOWING A LAW THAT THEY
VOTED FOR
(Mr. BARR asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BARR. Madam Speaker, in 2014
this House unanimously passed the
Ukraine Freedom Support Act. That
legislation authorized funds to
‘‘counter corruption, and improve
transparency and accountability of in-
stitutions that are part of the Govern-
ment of Ukraine.’’ Every Democrat
voted for that legislation.
In 2017, the House passed 375–34 with
145 Democrats supporting the National
Defense Authorization Act, which re-
quired the executive branch to certify
that Ukraine was making certain de-
fense reforms and countering corrup-
tion.
In 2018, Congress reauthorized that
language, and 127 Democrats supported
it.
And finally in 2019, they reauthorized
that again with 139 Democrats sup-
porting it.
The President not only had the au-
thority to do what he did in the call
with President Zelensky, he had a legal
obligation to do so.
Madam Speaker, this Democrat ma-
jority is trying to impeach the Presi-
dent for following a law that they
voted for.
f
DEMOCRATS ARE WORKING HARD
TO SAFEGUARD THE HEALTH OF
OUR NATION
(Ms. SCHAKOWSKY asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker,
the Republicans in the House are all
lined up to whine about an investiga-
tion that the majority of Americans
want to see happen.
While the President of the United
States has the gall to compare this
constitutional process to the horrific
history of lynching in this country,
House Democrats are busy working
hard to safeguard the healthcare of
Americans.
H.R. 3 is a transformative piece of
legislation, a historic step forward to
finally control the extraordinarily high
prices of the pharmaceutical compa-
nies. Negotiation is the most effective
way to protect consumers from Big
Pharma’s predatory pricing practices,
and the Congressional Budget Office
said that at least $345 billion will be re-
alized in savings when we pass this bill.
Madam Speaker, 90 percent of Demo-
crats, 87 percent of independents, and
80 percent of Republicans want this
legislation. Get busy and help the
American people.
f
b 1930
STOP THE IMPEACHMENT
THEATER
(Mr. WALBERG asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. WALBERG. Madam Speaker, our
duly elected President took office, and
even before that, House Democrats
have been calling for his impeachment.
The rationale may keep changing,
and it will, but their quest for im-
peachment has been never-ending. Yet
for some reason, this impeachment in-
quiry is being conducted behind closed
doors, leaving many Members of this
body and the American people, most
importantly, in the dark.
Is that fairness?
They are even refusing to take a for-
mal vote here on the House floor. A
fair and open process appears to be the
least of their concerns.
Instead of wasting valuable time
with this baseless inquiry, there is so
much more we could and should be
doing.
We could be ratifying the United
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement to
help manufacturers and farmers in my
district in Michigan and across the
country.
We could be working in a bipartisan
fashion to lower healthcare costs, to
continue growing a healthy economy,
and to rebuild our roads and bridges.
Let’s stop the impeachment theater
and get back to the pocketbook issues
that our constituents care about.
f
WE THE PEOPLE GROW WEARY
(Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Madam
Speaker, the Democrats’ entire case
against the President is built on hear-
say, unverified third-party accounts,
and opinion.
No cop in America could righteously
make any arrest with that degree of
evidence, not even a misdemeanor,
much less something as sobering as the
impeachment of our duly elected Presi-
dent.
They tread upon the very colors of
our flag. Contrary to our constitu-
tional oath, they are conducting a se-
cret investigation disguised as an im-
peachment inquiry, calling forth only
prosecutorial hearsay demonstration,
hearsay testimony deemed most likely
to condemn the President, witnesses
selected and screened by ADAM SCHIFF.
True investigators interview every-
one, not just those who lead to a pre-
determined conclusion. Democrats are
handpicking witnesses and selectively
releasing information to mislead the
American people.
This is dangerous, it is wrong, and we
the people grow weary.
f
OPPOSING IMPEACHMENT
(Mr. MOOLENAAR asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. MOOLENAAR. Madam Speaker,
the impeachment inquiry underway in
the House has been shrouded in secret
meetings and out of view from the
American people.
My constituents have told me that
they oppose this investigation and they
believe the House should be taking up
legislation that needs to be done to
help hardworking Michigan residents.
First and foremost, the House should
pass the United States-Mexico-Canada
Trade Agreement without delay. This
agreement will benefit hardworking
Michigan residents, especially in indus-
tries vital to our State, including man-
ufacturing and agriculture. They will
have new markets for their products,
and the profits they make will come
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00074 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.119 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8375
October 22, 2019
back to our communities in mid and
northern Michigan.
I have also been a strong advocate for
the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative
and for funding the construction of a
new lock at the Soo Locks.
Yet these priorities are now funded
under a temporary stopgap, and after
weeks of delays caused by Senate
Democrats who want to renegotiate,
we now face the prospect of an im-
peachment trial that will bog down ac-
tivity in the Senate even further in the
future.
f
POLITICALLY MOTIVATED
CHARADE
(Mr. BERGMAN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BERGMAN. Madam Speaker,
since November 9, 2016, Democrats have
been calling for the removal of Presi-
dent Trump.
Even before he took office, they have
been protesting the results of the elec-
tion and have sought to delegitimize
his historic win in battleground States
like Michigan.
Breaking with historical precedent,
House Democrat leadership will not
hold a vote on this extremely con-
sequential matter. House Democrats
have created a toxic work environ-
ment, resulting in nothing getting
done, no good policy or law created, no
regular order.
This is a politically motivated cha-
rade attempting to undermine and di-
minish the effectiveness of a duly
elected President and his administra-
tion based on bias, prejudice, and dis-
graceful politics.
The people of the First District of
Michigan sent me here to work with
others to get things done and represent
the people with honor and integrity. I
am sure my 434 colleagues were sent
here with the same mission.
It is high time to get back to real
work.
f
SHAM IMPEACHMENT PROCESS
(Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute and to revise
and extend his remarks.)
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to bring attention
to the sham impeachment process
being run out of this esteemed House.
As House Democrats continue to pur-
sue politically motivated attacks on
President Trump, it is alarming that
their leaders are withholding evidence
and facts from elected Members of our
Congress.
Last week, I sent letters to the
chairs of the House Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence, the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform, and
the Committee on Foreign Affairs to
inform them of my intent as an elected
Member of the 116th Congress to review
documents and records in possession of
their committees. We must be allowed
to do our jobs.
The fair choice is clear. We cannot
allow House Democrats to continue
issuing political attacks behind the
safety of clandestine, closed doors.
Madam Speaker, I stand for trans-
parency and I stand for accountability.
I stand for fairness. It is time for this
body to restore its integrity.
f
CLOAK-AND-DAGGER
IMPEACHMENT
(Mr. WESTERMAN asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. WESTERMAN. Madam Speaker,
this cloak-and-dagger impeachment
process is unprecedented, uncalled for,
and unfair to the American people.
When I, a Member of Congress, am
turned away from reading testimony
from Chairman SCHIFF’s closed-door
hearings, how can I keep informed on a
narrative that is constantly changing?
How are we supposed to know all the
facts when the Intelligence Committee
is selectively leaking information to
the press, creating a biased narrative
while shrouding the truth in darkness?
Will we ever get information before
there is a vote on impeachment, or will
the Speaker continue allowing secret
hearings and inquiries to drag on?
These are questions every American
should be asking.
Impeachment undoes an election and
is the most serious tool Congress can
use. We should treat it as such. In-
stead, we have seen Democrats calling
for it since before President Trump was
even inaugurated.
One of my Democrat colleagues re-
cently said: If President Trump isn’t
guilty, he needs to prove it.
That is not how America works. It is
the Speaker’s responsibility to lay out
the evidence in an open, transparent
way so we can debate it and vote on it.
f
IMPEACHING WITH A VENGEANCE
(Mr. BYRNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. BYRNE. Madam Speaker, today
the Democratic majority is not judging
the President with fairness, but im-
peaching him with a vengeance.
In the investigation of the President,
fundamental principles which Ameri-
cans hold dear, privacy, fairness,
checks and balances, have been seri-
ously violated, and why? Because we
are here today because the Democrats
in the House are paralyzed with hatred
of President Trump, and until the
Democrats free themselves of this ha-
tred, our country will suffer.
Now, if that sounds familiar, you
have got a longer memory than the
Democrats. Those same comments, but
addressing Republicans’ actions to-
wards President Clinton, were made by
NANCY PELOSI in 1998.
Could there be a clearer indication of
the hypocrisy that fuels the Demo-
cratic sham impeachment process cur-
rently taking place behind closed
doors?
If Speaker PELOSI and the Democrats
truly care about, in PELOSI’s own
words, ‘‘the fundamental principles
which Americans hold dear, privacy,
fairness, checks and balances,’’ they
will restore transparency and integrity
to this process.
f
IMPEACHMENT SAD ACT OF
POLITICAL THEATER
(Mr. CLINE asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. CLINE. Madam Speaker, time
and again my colleagues on the other
side of the aisle have made it clear that
this impeachment process is nothing
but a sad act of political theater.
The impeachment of a President, the
attempt to insert the U.S. Congress be-
tween the American people and the
President they elected 3 years ago, the
attempts by this House leadership to
prevent the American people from
making their choice in the election
next November, this is a serious matter
and must not be abused as a tool for
partisan gain or advantage in the next
election.
I have witnessed Democrats on the
Judiciary Committee, as a proud mem-
ber of that committee, repeatedly fail
to find evidence to support a case for
impeaching this President.
Now, in the realization of this fact
and at the expense of fundamental fair-
ness and due process, the Speaker has
removed any further investigation
from the Judiciary Committee so that
impeachment can be conducted in se-
cret and out of public view—no vote to
proceed, no public hearings, no access
to testimony, no ability to call wit-
nesses.
This is a sham, and the American
people won’t have it any longer.
f
IMPEACHMENT IN THE SHADOWS
(Mr. ADERHOLT asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. ADERHOLT. Madam Speaker,
unfortunately, the Democrats continue
to investigate the President in secret
back rooms of the Capitol in the Intel-
ligence Committee.
If the Speaker believes that the
Members of Congress can ultimately
vote and impeach the President based
on bogus evidence that has never seen
the light of day, then she is badly mis-
taken.
In the past 50 years, this body has
held impeachment proceedings for only
two Presidents: One was a Democrat;
one was a Republican. Those were seri-
ous times when both parties came to-
gether to conduct solemn business re-
quired under the Constitution, a docu-
ment that we as Members of Congress
are sworn to uphold.
Conducting this impeachment proc-
ess in the shadows is a mockery of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:07 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00075 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.121 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8376 October 22, 2019
democratic process. It actually belit-
tles our duty, and it belittles the votes
of people who duly elected this Presi-
dent.
Madam Speaker, in closing, I call on
Speaker PELOSI to sit down with the
Republican leadership to establish an
open and transparent process based on
precedent.
f
IMPEACHMENT SHAM
(Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute.)
Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma.
Madam Speaker, Republican or Demo-
crat, we can all agree on this: When
you have been accused of something,
you have the right to publicly defend
yourself.
My colleagues across the aisle are
making heinous accusations about
President Trump but are refusing to
give him a voice in the process to de-
fend himself.
Any impeachment proceeding in the
history of our country has operated
with full transparency and with a bi-
partisan effort, but that is not what is
happening here.
Subpoenas are flying right and left
without any consultation of the minor-
ity. Interrogations and hearings are
happening in secret.
Why isn’t the media demanding to be
in the room instead of waiting for indi-
viduals to come out and get cherry-
picked information?
The American people deserve better.
If they had solid evidence or even a
factual basis for impeachment, they
would be shouting it from the rooftops
and broadcasting it on every screen in
America.
This is a sham process. It makes a
mockery of our government.
We must end this illegitimate in-
quiry and return to the rules and tradi-
tions that have governed this body for
the last 232 years.
f
SO-CALLED IMPEACHMENT
INQUIRY
(Mr. NORMAN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. NORMAN. Madam Speaker, I
came to Congress to vote on legislation
and basically go to work. What have we
done for the last couple of weeks?
Nothing.
Instead of concentrating on things
that matter to this country, their in-
tent is to reverse the election in 2016 of
President Donald Trump.
In America, when you commit a
crime, you get the evidence and then
you have a verdict. What the Demo-
crats, NANCY PELOSI and ADAM SCHIFF,
are doing now, they have got the ver-
dict. They are trying to get evidence,
and then they are going to try to fish
for a crime.
Madam Speaker, the public deserves
better than this. We are better than
this. And this sham process, as has
been done in the Soviet Union, should
not be done in the Halls of Congress.
f
b 1945
PUTTING PARTISAN POLITICS
OVER THE GOOD OF OUR NATION
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to support Presi-
dent Donald J. Trump.
The Democrats’ entire impeachment
process has been a sham since day one.
The chairman of the House Intelligence
Committee, who was in charge of lead-
ing the inquiry, has lied to the Amer-
ican people.
Chairman SCHIFF made up his own
version of the President’s call with
Ukraine. He lied about his dealings
with the whistleblower and has misled
the country about the Trump campaign
and Russia for years.
Unfortunately, House Democrats
again put partisan politics over the
good of our Nation last night by block-
ing a vote to censure and condemn
ADAM SCHIFF. The chairman in charge
of this ridiculous impeachment inquiry
must be held accountable for blatantly
misleading the American people.
We have all seen the transcript of the
call between President Trump and the
President of Ukraine. There was noth-
ing there. So my Democratic col-
leagues are left with making up their
own stories and seeing what people will
believe.
Democrats won’t even allow noncom-
mittee members to attend depositions
and interviews, nor will they specify
their authority to do so.
Madam Speaker, our country de-
serves better.
f
WHAT IN THE WORLD IS GOING ON
IN THE PEOPLE’S HOUSE?
(Mr. DUNCAN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. DUNCAN. Madam Speaker, the
American people are asking: What in
the world is going on in the people’s
House? But it is easy to see when you
hear the words from Mr. GREEN from
Texas, who said: ‘‘If we don’t impeach
this President, he will get reelected.’’
That has led to closed-door hearings,
secret depositions, and a parity by a
committee chairman. Nothing good
happens in the dark behind closed
doors. In fact, the German people knew
this after reunification at the end of
World War II.
At the end of years of being behind
the Iron Curtain, they rebuilt their
Parliament with a glass dome and a
mirrored spire, directing sunlight into
the chamber, a chamber made of glass
walls for sunlight and transparency.
This people’s House operates the
same way, or at least it should, until
these hearings, behind closed doors,
these secret depositions happen.
Madam Speaker, I support President
Trump.
f
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE DESERVE
MORE
(Mr. NEWHOUSE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Madam Speaker, I
stand with my Republican colleagues
tonight as the people’s House faces an
unprecedented and illegitimate im-
peachment process.
House Democrats’ secret impeach-
ment proceedings behind closed doors
are keeping the American people in the
dark. Members in the minority are
being shut out of the process, which
threatens to erode the most basic
standards of transparency in our Na-
tion’s government.
The Mueller investigation didn’t give
them what they wanted, so now they
conduct secret proceedings behind
these closed doors. This simply is unac-
ceptable.
As I have continued to state on be-
half of my constituents, Congress
should be legislating on behalf of the
American people, not wasting valuable
legislative time and millions of tax-
payer dollars.
We should be passing the USMCA and
meaningful reforms for our farmers and
ranchers. We should be passing bipar-
tisan infrastructure legislation, and we
should be addressing the devastating
crisis of missing and murdered indige-
nous women.
Instead, House Democrats choose to
continue endless partisan investiga-
tions and reckless impeachment in-
quiries. Madam Speaker, the American
people deserve more.
f
LET’S GET BACK TO WORK
(Mrs. HARTZLER asked and was
given permission to address the House
for one minute.)
Mrs. HARTZLER. Madam Speaker, I
rise today in defense of my constitu-
ents who deserve action on issues that
will improve their lives and strengthen
our Nation. However, instead of focus-
ing on bipartisan solutions, House lead-
ership is focusing on partisan antics to
impeach the President.
On November 8, 2016, nearly 138 mil-
lion Americans cast their votes to de-
cide the occupant of the White House.
Now these voters are being disenfran-
chised by Washington Democrats who
seek to nullify the election results.
They are using any means necessary to
remove the President because they
cannot beat him at the ballot box.
Now, the latest attack is the deploy-
ment of a costly and partisan impeach-
ment process.
Madam Speaker, I was elected to rep-
resent the great people of Missouri’s
Fourth Congressional District, and
they have spoken. They want Congress
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00076 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.123 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8377
October 22, 2019
to work on everyday issues, such as the
rising cost of healthcare, crumbling
roads and bridges, and an opportunity
to increase trade by passing USMCA.
Madam Speaker, let’s get back to
work.
f
CONSPIRACY OF COUP ATTEMPT
(Mr. PALMER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PALMER. Madam Speaker, call-
ing this a constitutional impeachment
process is a farce and a gross misrepre-
sentation of what is taking place. The
entire process has flown in the face of
precedent, procedure, and decency,
with no regard whatsoever for the good
of the country. It is politics at perhaps
the worst we have seen in our Nation’s
history.
The Democrats started their effort to
depose President Trump even before he
took office, starting with the Russia
collusion hoax.
Witness interviews are being con-
ducted behind closed doors while Mem-
bers of Congress, who have the respon-
sibility to vote on the testimony of
these witnesses, are shut out.
The chairman of the Intelligence
Committee is having secret phone
calls, talking with alleged whistle-
blowers, and withholding information
from Members of Congress and the pub-
lic that is vital to this inquiry.
This is shameful. This is really a con-
spiracy to remove a duly elected Presi-
dent.
The Democrat majority is engaged in
an effort to conduct a trial with a pre-
determined outcome to remove Presi-
dent Trump from office using tactics
unbecoming and unfitting the Republic
we serve and this House.
This is not a legitimate inquiry; it is
a coup attempt. It is time to stop this
charade.
f
LET’S GET ON WITH WORKING FOR
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
(Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio. Madam
Speaker, once again, Members returned
to Washington this week. And, once
again, important bipartisan work on
issues like lowering prescription drug
prices, encouraging rural broadband
build-out, passing the USMCA trade
bill, and improving America’s aging in-
frastructure has stalled because of the
very partisan efforts to impeach Presi-
dent Trump.
This week, the Democratic majority
will hold more secret meetings in the
Capitol basement, release more selec-
tive, cherry-picked leaks designed to
confuse the American people, and con-
tinue their guilty-until-proven-inno-
cent sham to impeach the President.
They have been plotting this since he
was walking down Pennsylvania Ave-
nue on January 20, 2017, and probably
even before that. But, the Russian col-
lusion hoax failed miserably, and the
Robert Mueller testimony gave them
nothing. So, now, they are on to plan
B.
They say they have the evidence to
impeach, but we have already heard
that song. Democratic leaders have
claimed to have evidence before. Let’s
see if they can actually produce their
evidence this time.
Let’s get on with working for the
American people.
f
IMPEACHMENT TRANSPARENCY
(Mr. WILLIAMS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. WILLIAMS. Madam Speaker, my
colleagues on the other side of the aisle
have been trying to impeach President
Trump since he took office, and we all
know this.
They have made it very clear they
deem the President’s every action to be
impeachable, and, since the beginning
of this joke inquiry, they have shown
no interest in fair, fact-based pro-
ceedings.
Impeachment is a monumental step
that must be conducted with full trans-
parency, but what we are witnessing
here is a violation of due process that
should concern every single American.
Democrats have held meetings in se-
cret where convenient, one-sided infor-
mation can be leaked to the public, de-
nying American citizens the right to
have their elected Members of Congress
present.
The dedication to using any and all
resources in an attempt to remove a
duly elected President is unthinkable
and, frankly, a waste of time. The Con-
stitution provides the House with the
power of impeachment for high crimes
and misdemeanors, not for political
theater to push an agenda.
Madam Speaker, the Democrats have
made a mockery of Congress and our
democracy throughout this process.
The American people deserve better,
and this President deserves better.
As my colleague from Texas, AL
GREEN, said: President Trump will win
again in 2020.
In God we trust.
f
HOLD A VOTE TO AUTHORIZE AN
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY
(Mr. WITTMAN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I
rise today in opposition to the partisan
impeachment inquiry currently under
way by House Democrats. They have
elected to make this a closed-door, par-
tisan process with no fairness, trans-
parency, due process, or accountability
to the American people.
It is absolutely necessary for the
Speaker to hold a vote in the full
House to formally authorize an im-
peachment inquiry. Regardless of
which party held the majority in the
past, there has been an authorization
vote because it allows the House to
adopt procedures that will provide for
the minority to be an equal part of this
process.
We cannot even get access to testi-
mony from the secret hearings. Consid-
ering impeaching a duly elected Presi-
dent should be significant enough to
demand transparency, due process, and
an open and fair proceeding.
In wake of this partisan exercise, we
have abandoned the work of the people.
We should be passing legislation that is
bipartisan to lower the price of pre-
scription drugs and approving the
USMCA that will create millions of
jobs for hardworking Americans.
We cannot afford to put these prior-
ities on the back burner, and I know
the folks in my district agree.
f
CALLING OUT UNPRECEDENTED
AND ILLEGITIMATE IMPEACH-
MENT PROCESS
(Mr. BISHOP of Utah asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Madam Speak-
er, this place is based predominantly
on precedent and procedure. To bypass
this proven pathway is predictably
painful. So I pause to put a plea to the
powers that be:
Our people deserve better.
The propaganda pushed upon the peo-
ple is a political ploy as perpetrators
usurp the proven precedents of the
past.
It is painful to be placed in a position
to protest the pranks pushed by PELOSI
and her posse of players, but people
have been pushed out and put on the
sidelines as Democrats plow ahead with
this so-called impeachment inquiry.
The impact of this pandering is the
peeling away of the people’s trust
placed upon us. As the past has played
out, I have been perplexed by the pon-
tifications of people in positions of
power who puff themselves up in pre-
tentious prominence when it is really
petty partisanship.
So I plead, as we push and pull for
power, that we do so grounded in pru-
dence that protects the proven proce-
dures of the past.
f
DEMOCRATS’ UNPRECEDENTED
AND DANGEROUS IMPEACHMENT
EXERCISE
(Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute and to revise
and extend his remarks.)
Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana. Madam
Speaker, we are here tonight to draw
attention to the Democrats’ unprece-
dented and dangerous impeachment ex-
ercise. It is unprecedented because this
has simply never happened before.
In our nearly two-and-a-half cen-
turies as a nation, there have only been
three instances of impeachment pro-
ceedings against a President. In all
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:07 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00077 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.126 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8378 October 22, 2019
three cases, the impeachment inquiry
was first properly authorized by a full
vote of this House.
Of course, today’s sham was initiated
unilaterally via a press conference. We
haven’t had a vote. They won’t give us
one.
There is no due process for the ac-
cused, but, instead, there is a secret,
partisan process somewhere behind
closed doors.
There is no respect or recognition for
the rights of the duly elected Members
of this House, even those of us on the
committees of jurisdiction, like my
House Judiciary Committee.
It is unprecedented and it is also dan-
gerous. And this is the biggest point:
Corrupting and weaponizing impeach-
ment to generate a predetermined po-
litical outcome is simply not right or
fair, and it jeopardizes this entire insti-
tution.
Do you know why? Because, if the
American people are not able to trust
the final results of the impeachment
process on a matter this serious and
this important, millions of citizens
lose faith in the institution and lose
faith in our Republic.
This is a sham, and it needs to stop.
f
DEMOCRATS ARE FOCUSING ON
POLITICAL GAMES
(Mr. LATTA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LATTA. Madam Speaker, I rise
today on behalf of the people of the
Fifth District who are tired of the
Democrats focusing on political games.
This past weekend, at an American
Legion dinner, I was handed this note:
Pass USMCA.
Folks at home want Congress to act
on jobs, the economy, and lower
healthcare costs; but what they are
hearing from the Democrats in the
House: secret proceedings that deny ac-
cess to House Members who do not
serve on the respective committees; no
press access; no ability to defend one-
self by bringing witnesses, taking depo-
sitions, or having one’s attorney
present; and being accused by an un-
known witness who claims secondhand
knowledge.
Where is the pride that we have in
our sense of justice? Where is due proc-
ess? Where are the rules? Where are the
American values of fair play? Where is
the evidence? Where is the House vote?
Read the unclassified transcript. The
Democrats created a Star Chamber.
This is a bold attempt to overturn the
2016 election. It is time to shine a
bright light on what is going on.
f
b 2000
KANSANS HAVE IMPEACHMENT
FATIGUE
(Mr. MARSHALL asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. MARSHALL. Madam Speaker,
Kansans have impeachment fatigue. We
are exhausted. We are weary. We are
sick and tired of 3 years of Democrats
trying to change the results of the 2016
election.
Kansans want to know why Congress
can’t pass USMCA, modernize
healthcare, or secure our border.
Regardless, if the Democrats want to
go down into the bowels of this Capitol,
into the soundproof Star Chamber, it is
my job to be the eyes and ears of Kan-
sans and to ensure a fair and due proc-
ess will occur. My efforts to do this
thus far have been denied by the Demo-
crats.
This entire process is anything but
fair and defies democracy. But what is
worse, it is all done in secret.
This Ukrainian hoax has turned into
a Soviet-styled silencing of the press,
with the Democrats leaking out only
portions of the transcript that might
help keep them from allowing Donald
Trump to be reelected again.
Why isn’t the press screaming bloody
murder? I will never understand.
Madam Speaker, it is the President’s
job to investigate corruption. Let’s
turn this process back to the people,
and let the President make his case to
America.
f
FOLLOW IMPEACHMENT
PRECEDENT
(Mr. HILL of Arkansas asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam
Speaker, Article I, Section 2 of the
Constitution reads the House of Rep-
resentatives ‘‘shall have the sole power
of impeachment.’’
This Speaker does not have that sole
power. The full House of Representa-
tives does.
Modern precedent clearly sets out a
process for fair consideration of im-
peachment. It was followed by Demo-
crats in the case of President Nixon
and followed by Republicans in the
case of President Clinton.
The Speaker has turned a blind eye
and a deaf ear to fairness and prece-
dent. Authoritarianism is now the rule
of the people’s House. A Star Chamber
hidden away in the Capitol basement is
the domain of authoritarianism.
Where is the due process? Where is
the transparency? Abandoned.
Where is the ability to confront ac-
cusers? Where is the separation of pros-
ecution and grand jury? Abandoned.
Abandoned by our Speaker.
I call on the majority to put aside
partisanship and pointless attacks and
get back to work.
f
END IMPEACHMENT CHARADE
(Mr. ABRAHAM asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. ABRAHAM. Madam Speaker, the
Democrats would have you believe that
their impeachment crusade is a moral
imperative. It is not. It is an act of
pure cowardice.
Their failure to bring a formal im-
peachment vote to the House floor
shows that this witch hunt has no le-
gitimacy whatsoever, and they know
it. They are using it as a punch line.
This informal inquiry is being con-
ducted in secret behind closed doors
and betrays the true intention of what
they are trying to do to our good Presi-
dent, to conduct an endless, shallow
campaign of half-truths and manipu-
lated facts against President Trump.
I have called on my fellow Members
of this House to denounce the unconsti-
tutional farce that they are doing and
support my resolution to expel the
Speaker and vacate the chair.
It is time to end this charade and get
back to doing the people’s business. We
can certainly start by passing the
USMCA.
f
STOP IMPEACHMENT SHAM
(Mr. ROUZER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. ROUZER. Madam Speaker, this
impeachment sham needs to stop. We
all know what this is really about:
overturning the results of the 2016 elec-
tion.
From the outset, Speaker PELOSI and
Chairman SCHIFF have conducted this
inquiry behind closed doors, out of
sight of the American people and us,
without a vote to authorize it.
They have ignored due process, com-
pletely disregarded precedent, and
made it clear that politics and par-
tisanship are more important than
fairness and transparency.
They denied our side of the aisle the
right to subpoena evidence. They have
excluded the President’s legal team
from participating in hearings, cross-
examining witnesses, or presenting evi-
dence. This body, quite simply, has
been turned into a kangaroo court fix-
ated on unseating the President at any
cost.
Our Constitution, our basic, funda-
mental principles of fairness, and the
millions of Americans who made their
voices heard in the 2016 election are
being snubbed.
Madam Speaker, it is time to stop
this sham.
f
DEMOCRATS CHOOSE PARTISAN
HATRED OF PRESIDENT TRUMP
(Mr. DUNN asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. DUNN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to demand fairness and trans-
parency from this outrageous impeach-
ment inquiry.
Democrats have been grasping at
straws and looking for any excuse to
impeach President Trump. We haven’t
even held a vote to open an impeach-
ment inquiry, but Speaker PELOSI and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00078 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.128 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8379
October 22, 2019
ADAM SCHIFF are charging ahead with a
secretive kangaroo court behind closed
doors. This is an illegitimate, unfair
hearing with no due process and no
charges made.
ADAM SCHIFF has refused to release
to the public any of the transcripts and
even refuses to let Members of Con-
gress into the hearings to hear them.
Their goal has been impeachment
since the 2016 election, and they will
use any means to get there. This is the
only thing the House is doing, instead
of focusing on the issues that are im-
portant to hardworking Americans
across this Nation.
I hope the American people will see
this evil abuse of power for what it is—
the Democrats’ decision to choose par-
tisan hatred of President Trump over
the welfare of this great Nation.
f
MEMBERS ALIENATED FROM
IMPEACHMENT PROCESS
(Mr. LOUDERMILK asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. LOUDERMILK. Madam Speaker,
I am in my fifth year in this esteemed
body, but I have never in my 5 years
been subjected to being alienated from
one of the most important duties that
people in this House are given the re-
sponsibility for.
There is no issue greater than im-
peachment, other than just declaring
war. But, yet, I have been alienated
from the process.
Now, when Speaker PELOSI decided
that she was going to start somewhat
of an inquiry, I was told, being on the
Financial Services Committee, I will
be one of the committees involved in
it.
But then, apparently, the rules
changed, and we shifted it to two other
committees. And those committees,
when they were having their hearings
in front of the American people, appar-
ently, that didn’t go to their pleasing
because the testimonies didn’t meet
their narrative, so they moved it into a
secret area.
Since then, I have been trying to get
ahold of the transcripts of the hearings
that I have been alienated from.
I actually got one today. After a
week of looking for Volker’s testimony
and asking for others, I finally got one
today of Ambassador Taylor, from The
Washington Post. It appears that we
are leaking what we want to leak.
f
MAKE IMPEACHMENT PROCESS
TRANSPARENT
(Mr. ALLEN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. ALLEN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to strongly oppose the lack of
transparency by Speaker PELOSI and
the Democrats’ impeachment inquiry
into President Donald Trump, our duly
elected President.
Instead of following precedent and
putting the Judiciary Committee in
charge of this process, Speaker PELOSI
has empowered the House Permanent
Select Committee on Intelligence
chairman, ADAM SCHIFF, to run this ef-
fort behind closed doors in secret, with
no accountability, and he is
handpicking what information to leak.
What happened to Chairman NADLER
over in the Judiciary Committee? If
Democrats truly believe that this is
the right thing to do, why don’t they
hold a vote? The Democrats’ complete
disregard for following a fair process is
alarming, and quite frankly, it is un-
American.
They are misleading the American
people while ignoring action on the
pressing issues at hand. The truth is,
they have only one goal, and that is to
undermine President Trump and ensure
he cannot do what he was elected to do,
like passing the USMCA, immigration
reform, modernizing healthcare, and
securing our border.
Let’s end this nonsense and get to
work on issues that matter to the
American people.
f
COUNTRY SHOULD SEE
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY
(Mr. WATKINS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. WATKINS. Madam Speaker,
today, I was in these official closed-
door impeachment investigations. I use
the word ‘‘official’’ loosely since the
grounds upon which the Democrats are
acting are shaky, at best.
Access is being limited. I am a mem-
ber of one of these committees that is
allowed to be in there, but as I look
around and see no more than perhaps a
dozen or so Republicans, I think to my-
self that the entire country should see
what the Democrats are up to, the en-
tire world should.
Soon that will happen because al-
though I don’t know what I am even al-
lowed to share, because I don’t under-
stand these official formalities, I do
know that I will tell the world every-
thing that I can, and the truth will
come out with time.
It is not what is best for our con-
stituency. We ought to be passing the
USMCA. We ought to be ensuring our
borders are safe. We ought to be fight-
ing against surprise billing and exorbi-
tant healthcare costs.
f
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY SHAMES
HOUSE
(Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee.
Madam Speaker, I am speaking tonight
on behalf of the people I represent in
the Sixth Congressional District of
Tennessee.
In Tennessee, I hear excitement
about the leaps forward our country
has made under the leadership of our
President, Donald Trump. We are en-
joying the lowest unemployment rate
of my lifetime, and more Americans
are employed than at any point in this
Nation’s history.
In the short time that I have in this,
my first elected office, I have seen the
great race in Washington that goes on
daily. It is a race to take credit for
anything positive, to run away from
anything negative, and an all-out
sprint away from the real problems fac-
ing our Nation.
Well, in the race to the ridiculous,
my colleagues on the other side of the
aisle have clearly won. A closed-door,
secretive, biased, so-called inquiry is
shaming this House and not doing the
first positive thing for the people back
home.
Drop the political charades, Madam
Speaker, and let this House go forward.
f
STOP SHAM ATTACK ON OUR
DEMOCRACY
(Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia.
Madam Speaker, House Democrats and
the chairman of the House Intelligence
Committee seem to think that im-
peachment is nothing but a game. If
you can’t beat him, cheat him.
On September 26, the chairman of the
House Intelligence Committee fab-
ricated and read on the record during a
committee hearing a fake call tran-
script between the President of the
United States and a foreign leader,
while keeping the actual transcript of
the call in a vault.
Now, he continues to conduct an im-
peachment inquiry against the Presi-
dent in complete secrecy with no vote
of the House of Representatives, leav-
ing the American people and most
Members of this body in complete
darkness.
What we have here is that good old
case of a game created by illusion. If
you can’t beat him, cheat him, and
game show host Chairman ADAM
SCHIFF is at the lead.
Behind door number one, we had the
Mueller investigation, which found
there was no collusion between the
President’s campaign and Russia.
Behind door number two was the call
between President Trump and Ukrain-
ian President Zelensky. Again, the
transcript released by the White House
shows no quid pro quo, which stemmed
from a whistleblower complaint Chair-
man SCHIFF orchestrated with in ad-
vance and advised the whistleblower
how to proceed.
What is behind door number three?
Nobody knows. But this sham attack
on our democracy must be stopped.
f
DUE PROCESS CRITICAL TO
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00079 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.130 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8380 October 22, 2019
Mr. SPANO. Madam Speaker, due
process is a right so important that we
have not one but two constitutional
amendments to ensure it.
Past impeachment inquiries began
with a resolution to define scope, to es-
tablish rules and procedures, and to
give equal subpoena power to the mi-
nority. These due process protections
are critical because removing a Presi-
dent is one of the most serious deci-
sions Congress can make.
But last week, the Democratic Cau-
cus chair dismissed our pleas for a res-
olution to formalize the impeachment
inquiry as a ‘‘cosmetic procedural mat-
ter.’’ Cosmetic. Since when did fairness
in this country become cosmetic?
Democrats point to the Constitution
in undertaking this inquiry, but look
at how it is being handled. There is no
due process. The accused is presumed
guilty. There is no right to confront
your accuser. All proceedings are tak-
ing place in secret.
The only reason for secret hearings is
to control what people see and what
they hear. This sham process dis-
regards the fundamental rights our
country is founded on, and the Amer-
ican people deserve more.
f
b 2015
PIED PIPER IMPEACHMENT
(Mr. BACON asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr BACON. Madam Speaker, since
President Trump was elected, Demo-
crats have been pushing impeachment.
For 2 years, the current chairman of
the House Permanent Select Com-
mittee on Intelligence told us he had
the smoking gun on collusion. The
Mueller report showed the opposite,
and then the chairman was not forth-
coming regarding his staff’s commu-
nications with the whistleblower.
There is no credibility here.
The partisan impeachment effort has
led to secret hearings, the minority
Congress is not allowed to bring in wit-
nesses, and the President is denied rep-
resentation—violating all previous
precedence in this House.
Americans demand fairness.
There have been no high crimes or
misdemeanors, and hatred for the
President is not grounds for impeach-
ment. Voters decided the winner in 2016
and will do so again in 2020.
America’s business is not getting
done while the Democratic leadership
is playing the pied piper and marching
America off the impeachment cliff.
f
SECRET IMPEACHMENT
(Mr. DESJARLAIS asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. DESJARLAIS. Madam Speaker,
today I rise in protest of the secrecy
with which the House majority is con-
ducting its impeachment inquiry. It is
unlike anything we have seen in Con-
gress. That is probably because, lack-
ing any evidence for their claims, the
so-called resistance has already deter-
mined the outcome. The same people
who perpetrated the Russia hoax are
rushing forward with plan Z to remove
the President from office.
Partisan congressional staff helped
to craft the specious complaint at the
heart of this impeachment inquiry. The
inquiry itself will take place in secret
to avoid public scrutiny.
Some Democrats have admitted that
the only way a far left socialist can-
didate could replace Donald Trump is
to remove him from office.
The American people want jobs, af-
fordable healthcare, and security, not
far left socialist agendas. But with
nothing else to offer, a radical group in
Congress has become obsessed with re-
moving this President from office. It is
an attack on our democracy and our
Constitution.
Madam Speaker, my constituents
care about real issues. I appeal to more
sensible Members to stop this abuse of
power and concentrate on what we can
accomplish together.
f
SOVIET-STYLE IMPEACHMENT
(Mr. PERRY asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PERRY. Madam Speaker, this
isn’t Russia; this is America. Yet right
in this building, a Soviet-style Star
Chamber to remove the duly elected
President is occurring.
The person who leads it lied to the
American people for 21⁄2 years about
evidence he didn’t have. The person
who leads it is literally guilty of what
he accuses the President of doing when
he is caught on tape negotiating with
foreign people about getting dirt on the
President.
The person who leads it lied to the
world in his reading of a mock tran-
script about the conversation that the
President had with the President of
Ukraine, and the person who leads it
misled the world about his relationship
with the whistleblower, or the so-called
whistleblower.
Madam Speaker, we need to end this
Stalinist, guilty-until-proven-innocent
Star Chamber now.
f
SHAM IMPEACHMENT
(Mr. BABIN asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. BABIN. Madam Speaker, for
years America has been force-fed inves-
tigation after investigation of our duly
elected President, and we have seen
each of these sham investigations meet
the same dead end because there is no
evidence of any wrongdoing by Donald
Trump.
I have lost hope that these pointless
probes will end. House Democrats are
bent on wasting time and taxpayer dol-
lars. If we are all forced to endure this
charade, the least they could do is con-
duct a fair investigation.
They say they have evidence to im-
peach the President yet refuse to share
what that evidence is. They say this is
an official impeachment inquiry, and
yet we haven’t voted to make it so.
Where is the transparency?
The only evidence that is crystal
clear is that the Democrats despise the
President so much that they will do
anything to take him down. They hate
that Donald Trump is blocking their
agenda of a green, socialist, nanny
state with open borders, so they are
willing to mislead the public to get
their way.
There is no due process, just hatred.
It is a dangerous precedent to our great
Republic.
f
DISTRACTION IMPEACHMENT
(Mrs. MILLER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mrs. MILLER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to denounce the partisan motiva-
tions and lack of transparency behind
Speaker PELOSI and Chairman SCHIFF’s
impeachment proceedings.
For the past 10 months, my col-
leagues across the aisle have operated
with one sole motivation: undoing the
results of the 2016 election. As such,
Congress has failed to advance the pri-
orities of the American people.
We have not funded crucial legisla-
tion to fix our outdated and crumbling
infrastructure. We have not addressed
the crisis on the southern border.
Meanwhile, the opioid epidemic con-
tinues to rage on.
All we have to show for the past 10
months is a handful of liberal mes-
saging bills that have no chance of
being made into law.
While the priorities of the American
people have been pushed to the side, all
of Congress’ energy and resources have
been diverted to behind-closed-door im-
peachment proceedings far from be-
yond the sight of my fellow colleagues
and completely hidden from the tax-
payers.
This is not why I came to Congress.
This is not what we were sent here to
do. The American people deserve bet-
ter.
f
CHARADE IMPEACHMENT
(Mr. WRIGHT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. WRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I rise
to express my outrage over the ongoing
parliamentary inquiry against our
President.
Impeachment is the House’s most
solemn and serious responsibility. It
should not be undertaken haphazardly.
Although I strongly believe in Con-
gress’ oversight duties and agree that
no public official, including the Presi-
dent, is above the law, I have serious
concerns about the partisan nature and
procedure of this inquiry.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00080 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.132 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8381
October 22, 2019
Beyond the fact that this inquiry was
launched before the transcript of the
call to Ukraine was released, the
Speaker’s decision to launch an inquiry
without a full vote of the House and at-
tempts to restrict the involvement of
Republicans and the American public
in the impeachment proceedings defy
precedence.
From the beginning, this effort has
been mired by the Democrats’ partisan-
ship and a complete lack of trans-
parency. The American public deserves
the truth. Instead, all they are getting
are cherry-picked leaks in classic
Washington fashion.
Madam Speaker, in its current form,
this process is an outrage and counter
to our interests and the values of our
Republic. I urge my colleagues to aban-
don this political charade and adhere
to the Constitution and congressional
precedent.
f
PARTISAN IMPEACHMENT
(Mrs. WALORSKI asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Mrs. WALORSKI. Madam Speaker, I
rise today because what we are wit-
nessing is unprecedented in the history
of this country. House Democratic
leaders are conducting an impeach-
ment inquiry behind closed doors with
selective leaks instead of transparency,
with no due process and without a vote
on the House floor.
Why do they want to keep this proc-
ess hidden from view? Because they
know the American people will see
right through this partisan scheme.
Democrats decided to impeach this
President the day he took office. Now
they are just trying to come up with a
reason, no matter what the facts are.
The American people know that
Washington is broken, and they sent us
here to fix it. Instead, House Demo-
crats are shaking the people’s trust in
this institution.
We should be passing USMCA to give
our farmers and workers a better deal.
We should be voting on bipartisan
legislation to lower prescription drug
costs.
We should be working to fix our im-
migration system and secure the bor-
der.
Madam Speaker, it is time to end
this charade and get back to work.
f
UNPRECEDENTED IMPEACHMENT
(Mr. FULCHER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. FULCHER. Madam Speaker, you
authorized holding an impeachment
hearing, but I don’t think that is what
you are really doing.
If so, you wouldn’t have disregarded
precedent from the Nixon and Clinton
eras, or we would have all voted before
this was to proceed.
If so, you wouldn’t have denied the
minority the ability to call witnesses
or me and other Members the ability to
attend hearings or even view the tran-
scripts.
Madam Speaker, approximately 90
percent of your party members wanted
to impeach before this so-called in-
quiry ever began. That is why I say you
are really not trying to hold an im-
peachment inquiry. You simply want
to remove a President. And we are
within 1 year of an election. You want
to deny Americans the right to decide
for themselves.
At the heart of the matter and the
real reason you are doing this is be-
cause your party does not have a win-
ning Presidential candidate and no sig-
nificant accomplishments this session.
Madam Speaker, can we please go
back to work?
f
SHOW TRIAL IMPEACHMENT
(Mr. SMUCKER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. SMUCKER. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to give voice to my constitu-
ents on the destructive partisan and se-
cret impeachment inquiry, which real-
ly is a slap in the face to the over-
whelming majority of Pennsylvania’s
11th District who voted for and con-
tinue to support President Trump.
Judith from Ephrata writes:
Congressman, my husband and I are furi-
ous about this constant push to impeach
President Trump. We don’t care how many
Members of Congress don’t like him. It is not
their choice; it is ours.
Rebecca from Lititz writes:
I am alarmed at the political climate and
attempts to impeach our President. The
House has done nothing to solve the issues
facing our country and continues to spend
their time trying to stop the progress that
our President has made.
Jody from Windsor writes:
Can you please tell Speaker PELOSI and the
Democrats that the overwhelming majority
of people I interact with in my daily life
want them to stop these unfounded impeach-
ment proceedings into President Trump and
get back to work fixing the issues we elected
Congress to fix?
Madam Speaker, I share my constitu-
ents’ anger and frustration toward the
show trial. This process isn’t honest or
fair.
f
HALLOWEEN IMPEACHMENT
(Mr. OLSON asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, Hal-
loween is 9 days away. It is a holiday
that happens in the dark. It is about
fear, deceit, and witch hunts—anything
to hide who you truly are.
Back home, Texans are stunned. How
can the majority party of the House
use a kids’ holiday, Halloween, as a
model for the most dramatic action
Congress can take: impeaching a sit-
ting President? The ghouls and goblins
of the House majority are now the Hal-
loween party and make up this process
as they go along.
Impeachment demands an inquiry
vote by the full House, a full vote by
the full House. The Democrat majority
did that with Richard Nixon in the
1970s, and the Republican majority did
that with Bill Clinton in the 1990s.
The House Halloween party allowed
41 Members of this body of 435 to go
forward with impeachment. This party
is following the Wizard of Oz. If they
pursue this witch hunt, the House will
fall down on November 2020. The witch
hunt will be over.
f
SO-CALLED IMPEACHMENT
(Mr. GRIFFITH asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. GRIFFITH. Madam Speaker, I
have learned from Democrat press con-
ferences and Washington Post leaks
that this body has an ongoing so-called
impeachment inquiry.
But can I, as a Member of Congress,
watch the testimony? No.
Can you watch the testimony at
home so you can decide for yourself?
No.
Why are the hearings taking place in
the basement behind guarded doors?
What do they want to keep from me?
What do they want to keep from you,
Madam Speaker, either hearing or see-
ing?
I don’t know, but Speaker NANCY
PELOSI knows, and you can call her and
ask her why at 202–225–4965. Ask her
what she has to hide, at 202–225–4965.
Ask her why you can’t watch the hear-
ing, at 202–225–4965.
The American people deserve the an-
swers.
Call 202–225–4965.
f
b 2030
UNPRECEDENTED IMPEACHMENT
(Mr. GOHMERT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. GOHMERT. Madam Speaker, this
is an unbelievable time in our history.
There is nothing more important
than elected office. It is something
that was discussed in the Declaration
of Independence, and yet, we have an
attempted coup taking place. It vio-
lates the principles on which this Na-
tion was founded of due process—the
right to confront the witnesses against
you.
And I would submit, humbly, that
there is no cause for concern for the so-
called whistleblower’s safety from
President Trump. All the witnesses
against him are alive and well.
So who is it he is afraid might come
after him if he discloses what he knows
and who conspiring to bring down this
President?
Ah, there is the rub. Let’s get to the
bottom of it. And at the bottom will
not be President Trump. It will be the
coconspirators trying to bring this gov-
ernment down.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00081 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.134 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8382 October 22, 2019
SHAM IMPEACHMENT
(Mr. WALKER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. WALKER. Before they identified
the crime, Madam Speaker, the Demo-
crats organized the firing squad. Before
anyone was talking about Ukraine,
over half of the Democratic majority
was in favor of impeachment.
In fact, this process didn’t begin with
Ukraine or a whistleblower, this sham
impeachment process started year one
of President Trump’s administration
when a Democrat colleague stated,
‘‘. . . if we don’t impeach this Presi-
dent he will get reelected.’’
Hatred for President Trump has be-
come the new religion of the radical
left, creating an irrational behavior,
not rooted in good judgment, but rath-
er in emotion.
The Democrats are protecting ADAM
SCHIFF, as seen by yesterday’s censure
vote. This was not, and is not, about
the facts. Facing your accusers and
‘‘innocent until proven guilty’’ used to
be the American way.
It is the basic standard that every
American should expect, including the
President. Being targeted by an angry
mob, a willing media machine, and a
twisted version of democracy.
The President calls this a witch
hunt. Unfortunately, it looks like that
is exactly what it is.
f
STILL I RISE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
HAALAND). Under the Speaker’s an-
nounced policy of January 3, 2019, the
gentleman from Texas (Mr. GREEN) is
recognized for 60 minutes as the des-
ignee of the majority leader.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Madam Speak-
er, and still I rise. And since my name
has been called several times, I rise to
respond. I rise to explain why the im-
peachment inquiry should be expanded.
Some things bear repeating: I rise to
explain why the impeachment inquiry
should be enlarged, to include the
President’s weaponization of hate.
I know what weaponized hate is like.
I am a son of the segregated South,
Madam Speaker. My rights that were
accorded me and recognized under the
Constitution of the United States of
America were denied me by my neigh-
bors.
I am a son of the segregated South. I
know what weaponized hate is like. I
was forced to not only live with, but to
also honor weaponized hate.
Madam Speaker, I know what it was
like to have to stand in the colored
line. And while standing in the colored
line, others could always come who
were of a different hue and stand in
front of me. And it could happen until
every person of a different hue had
been served. I know what weaponized
hate is like.
And I recall once—actually, on more
than one occasion, but this one stands
out in my mind—when the young man
who was bagging the purchased items,
he took my purchased items and he put
them in the bag—he was of a different
hue—and he crushed the bag. And he
stared me down as he crushed the
goods that I had purchased.
I know what weaponized hate is like.
I saw the anger not only in his face,
but I could see it exude from his body.
He was probably a little bit older than
I was. He didn’t know me, but he had
the hate that had been weaponized, and
it was within him.
I can remember having to go to the
back door. I had to go to the back door
to receive goods that I paid for, paid
taxes on, the same as others did. But I
couldn’t go to the front and receive my
goods, only the back door was available
to me. And then when I would go to the
back door, people would still say ugly
things to me, notwithstanding the fact
that I was a paying customer.
Weaponized hate causes people to be-
have this way, to stand against their
own interest. I was a customer, a pay-
ing customer, but weaponized hate
would cause them to stand against
their own interest. It was in their in-
terest to have me come back, but they
knew that I had no place else to go for
the most part, so they could be ugly to
me and treat me any way that they
chose.
I know what weaponized hate is like.
I can remember being required to sit
only in the balcony of the movie. When
we came in, we had to make a turn and
go up to the balcony. This is what
weaponized hate is like. It segregates
people. It didn’t allow me to enjoy the
movie in the presence of persons of a
different hue who might be seated next
to me. This is what the neighbors that
I had denied me under the Constitu-
tion. It was accorded me, but they
forced me to go into a segregated area.
And, of course, I remember the col-
ored water fountains. And the incident
that really stands out in my mind the
most was when my mother saw me
drinking out of a White water foun-
tain—that is what it was called. And
when she saw me drinking out of the
White water fountain, my mother
pulled me away quickly. She pulled me
away because she knew that her young
son was at risk of being harmed be-
cause he was drinking from a White
water fountain. And I remembered
what the colored water fountain was
like. The colored water fountain was
filthy. You could see the crud, but it
was all that was available to me. I
know what hate is like when it is
weaponized, how it can hurt.
I remember traveling across country
with my father and my mother, and we
stopped at a service station. We pur-
chased gasoline, and we wanted water.
And the person who was there rep-
resenting the management of that sta-
tion said that we could have water, but
we would have to drink it out of an oil
can.
I know what it is like. I know what it
is like to live under hate and to have to
honor hate. I remember my mother
speaking to me in rather stern terms
about how I was to behave around
White women. How I had to always
make sure that I never said anything
that a White woman might conclude
was offensive, because White women
had a license to accuse. And once you
were accused, only God knows what
would happen to you. We know what
happened to Emmett Till. Weaponized
hate killed Emmett Till.
I know what it is like. I am a son of
the segregated South. I know how per-
sons of a different hue had but only to
accuse you, and for all practical pur-
poses, you were guilty. You had to
prove that you were innocent.
I mention these things because the
President of the United States of
America, who has been referenced by
my colleagues tonight, same one, the
same President, compared impeach-
ment to lynching. He compared im-
peachment to mob violence, because
that is what lynchings were all about.
Mob violence, no due process, no trial.
If it was said that you had spoken in
an unkind way to a White woman, you
could be collected, taken off some-
where in the back woods, castrated,
lynched, beaten, brutalized. Mob vio-
lence, unlawful hate to terrorize and
intimidate.
I know what it is like. I lived in the
segregated South. I am a son of the
segregated South. And for the Presi-
dent to compare this level of violence
and hate to Article II Section 4 of the
Constitution, which deals with im-
peachment, is unacceptable. Totally
unacceptable. This is nothing more
than a continuation of his weaponizing
of hate.
I am a son of the segregated South. I
know what hate looks like. I know
what it smells like. I know what it
sounds like, and I know what it feels
like. I have experienced all of the
above.
So when the President did this, when
he said it, it sparked this flame in me
to come and stand here in the well of
the House, alone, to explain why the
impeachment inquiry should be ex-
panded to include the weaponization of
hate by this President.
Yes, I stand alone, but I believe in
my heart that it is better for me to
stand alone than not stand at all, be-
cause I see what’s happening to my
country, and I love my country.
This is not a game for me. This will
follow me the rest of my life. I didn’t
come to Congress to impeach a Presi-
dent. It is not something that was on
my agenda, I had not a scintilla of a
notion. I do it because I love my coun-
try. I do it because I know what
weaponized hate is like.
Yes, I called for the impeachment of
the President some 2 years ago for his
obstruction, but I also have called for
his impeachment for his infusion of
hate into policy.
Earlier this evening, someone men-
tioned Federalist No. 65. I have read it
many times. Yes, the words of Ham-
ilton. The words of Hamilton addressed
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00082 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.137 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8383
October 22, 2019
what it is like to impeach a President.
The Framers of the Constitution knew
that it would not be pleasant. It is not
easy, but it is something you do when
you want to preserve democracy and
protect the Republic.
They understood, and they gave us
Federalist No. 65 to remind us how pro-
phetic they were, that there would be a
time such as this and a President such
as Trump.
How prophetic they were. If you read
Federalist No. 65, you will find that the
Framers of the Constitution defined
impeachment as the acts of public
men, that would be people who hold
public trust, and they went on to ex-
plain that it was about the harm that
they would cause society.
They didn’t use terms like ‘‘abuse of
power’’ in the sense that there had to
be a statutory crime committed. When
they mentioned high crimes and mis-
demeanors at that time in Article II
Section 4 of the Constitution, crime
also meant a wrong that was being per-
petrated, a great wrong. You don’t
have to have a statutory offense com-
mitted, something that is defined with
a penalty associated with it.
And when they mention mis-
demeanors—then and to this day—a
misdemeanor is a misdeed, as well as a
minor offense.
b 2045
Don’t be misled. Don’t be deceived by
those who would have you believe that
the President has to commit a statu-
tory offense, something that is defined
and codified with a penalty associated
with it, before a President can be im-
peached.
If this were true, Andrew Johnson
would not have been impeached in 1868
for his comments that were rooted in
bigotry and hate. He weaponized hate.
Because he weaponized hate, because
he didn’t want the freed persons to
have the same rights that other per-
sons had, because he didn’t want the
Freedmen’s Bureau to function as it
should have, he weaponized hate.
In Article X, he was impeached for
the high misdemeanor of saying ugly
things about the Congress as he was
weaponizing his hate. It was a high
misdemeanor, and that law has not
changed.
This notion of some modern law,
modern constitutional requirement,
those persons who were closer to the
Framers of the Constitution probably
knew better what the Framers in-
tended than we do today. They im-
peached Andrew Johnson for a high
misdemeanor.
I beg that people would at least read
Article X.
By the way, since we started this en-
gagement to explain to the public, a
good many people have had to walk
back their comments. A good many
people who wanted to know, ‘‘What
crime did he commit? What rule did he
break?’’ a good many people have had
to walk back those comments because
they are now of the belief that im-
peachment should prevail. A lot of
comments have been walked back.
By the way, I welcome the walk-
back. I want people to do the right
thing, as it were, so walking back does
not offend me.
Comments that were made about me
don’t offend me. Many of my colleagues
have made comments about me, but
they don’t offend me. I welcome them
coming on board now.
This is not about me. It has never
been about me. It has been about my
country. It has been about democracy,
not about Democrats. It has always
been about the Republic, not about Re-
publicans.
Say what you may, I do what I must.
And I must explain why we should ex-
pand the impeachment inquiry so as to
cause it to include the President’s
weaponization of bigotry.
The President needs to be impeached
for the high crime and misdemeanor
that he has perpetrated, and I will par-
aphrase Peter Irons, a historian who
deals with the Supreme Court. Para-
phrasing, he reminds us that the Presi-
dent—he didn’t say ‘‘weaponization’’;
these are my words. The President’s
weaponization of hate presents a clear
and present danger—these are his
words—to the constitutional equal pro-
tection of the laws guaranteed to all of
us.
My dear friends, he is eminently cor-
rect, and I have paraphrased because I
changed the language slightly.
So, Mr. Irons, if I have in any way
abused what you have said—I read your
comments posted on NBC.com, I be-
lieve it was—I was moved by what you
said.
Yes, the President should be im-
peached for his weaponizing hate. Yes,
it does present a clear and present dan-
ger to equal protection under the laws
for all of us because, when the Presi-
dent does this, there are people who
will hear what he has said, and they
don’t always respond in a positive way.
I will never forget that a man in
Texas drove hundreds of miles so that
he could get to a place where he could
murder, assassinate, people of color
who happened to be of Mexican ances-
try. He went out of his way to do this
and said that they were invaders, the
kind of comment that we heard from
the President as he weaponized hate.
I won’t forget that the President de-
cided he would ban a certain religion,
did it in a tweet, went on to develop a
policy pursuant to the tweet, infused
the bigotry into policy, weaponized it.
If you are not Muslim and you are
not around Muslims, you probably
don’t know the level of consternation
that has been created within them, the
level of concern that they have for
their families, the level of concern that
they have when they go to their prayer
hours. I am around people who happen
to be Muslim. I know how they are con-
cerned for their families.
Then the President went on to talk
about the s-hole countries. Note that
the s-hole countries were countries
where there were people of color. He
didn’t say it about a European country.
He didn’t say it about countries where
people of a hue different from me hap-
pen to predominate. He didn’t say it
because he knows that he has to be
careful, that it is all right in some
quarters to say it about people who
look like me.
But you have to be careful, Mr. Presi-
dent. Don’t say it about some European
country. Don’t say it about some of
these other countries in what we call
the Middle East. You will have more
trouble on your hands than you can
contend with and likely would be im-
peached already.
There seems to be a willingness to
tolerate the bigotry and hate when it is
directed toward people of African an-
cestry, when it is directed toward peo-
ple who happen to be Muslims, when it
is directed toward people who happen
to be of the LGBTQ-plus community.
I will say this. I have plenty of
friends who are of European ancestry,
who are Catholics and Christians and
Jews, who are absolutely opposed to
what you have said about people of dif-
ferent hues who happen to be of reli-
gions different from those that I have
mentioned, who happen to be of the
LGBTQ-plus community. Yes, there are
people across this country who don’t
believe that this President should re-
main in office.
As a matter of fact, there is a poll
out now that says that about 50 per-
cent of the people in this country—I
think 50 percent is the number that is
used—are saying that the President
ought to be impeached and removed
from office.
A Quinnipiac poll back in July of this
year indicated that more than 50 per-
cent of the American people believe
that the President is a racist.
Yes, he must be held accountable.
Yes, no one is above the law.
What is the law? The law is Article
II, Section 4 of the Constitution. What
does it say? It says that the President
can be impeached for high crimes and
misdemeanors, and it does not say that
a misdemeanor or a high crime has to
be a statutory offense.
I would also add this. Article II, Sec-
tion 4 of the Constitution was drafted
with the notion in mind that not only
should a President not be above the
law, that which is codified, but also
with judicious and prudent thoughts of
the President not being beyond justice.
The Framers of the Constitution
talked about how the President should
not be beyond justice. Above the law is
here; beyond justice is far above this
level of above the law. Beyond justice
means that the President should not be
able to destroy a country, destroy the
norms, and not be removed from office.
We have a general who has said that
the President is harming the country,
that this person who represents the
majesty of the United States of Amer-
ica—he didn’t use that term, but the
person who holds the highest office, the
Chief Executive of the country, the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00083 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.138 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8384 October 22, 2019
chief magistrate of the country, is
harming the country.
Constitutional scholars are saying it.
Over a thousand lawyers have said
that, pursuant to the Mueller report,
the President should be impeached.
Anyone else would be locked up, would
be charged. They said he would be
charged if he were anyone else. That is
what they said.
I want you to know that, wherever I
go, I encounter people who are saying:
Please, don’t give up. Please, don’t
stop. Please, do something about what
is happening to our country.
I get expressions of gratitude from
people across the length and breadth of
the country. And I don’t do it to get ex-
pressions of gratitude. I do it because I
love my country.
The weaponization of hate ought to
be a part of this impeachment inquiry.
I have already prognosticated that
the President will be impeached. And
when the President is impeached, I
hope that we will have expanded the
articles such that the weaponization of
hate will be included.
If Andrew Johnson could be im-
peached for his bigoted and hateful
commentary, surely, we can do this
again. Those were radical Republicans,
by the way, who impeached Andrew
Johnson—radical Republicans. If rad-
ical Republicans could impeach him on
evidence rooted in his bigotry and
hate, we can impeach this President for
similar reasons.
I do believe that, if you read the Ar-
ticles of Impeachment with reference
to Andrew Johnson, you will gain a
greater appreciation for what I say.
There have been only two Presidents
impeached, Andrew Johnson in 1868 and
William Clinton in 1998. Only two.
Nixon was not impeached.
We need not try to debate this issue
of whether the President has to com-
mit a statutory offense. Constitutional
scholars know better.
Unfortunately, you have had to cope
with a person who is not said to be a
constitutional scholar, didn’t finish
number one in his class, didn’t finish
from an Ivy League school. But he did
bring you truth, and that truth is being
recognized.
I stand here in the well of the House
of Representatives tonight. I believe
that comments comparable to what the
President has said with reference to
lynching, comparing lynching to im-
peachment, is but a continuation of his
weaponization of hate, bigotry, racism,
xenophobia, homophobia,
Islamophobia, all the invidious pho-
bias. That is all it is.
It will not cease. He is only going to
continue.
If the House of Representatives does
not impeach, we will have a President
who will have no guardrails because we
are the bar of justice. We are where it
is initiated, right here. It is not initi-
ated anyplace else.
The Justice Department is not going
to do it. There is no place else. This is
where it is initiated, right here, the
House of Representatives.
If we do not impeach, no guardrails.
If we do not impeach, we will have a de
facto monarch, a person who does pret-
ty much what he chooses, who believes
that he is beyond the reach of any per-
son or persons on this planet.
If we do impeach and the Senate does
not convict, that will send another
message. The President will perceive
himself to be a de facto monarch. We
will have a de facto monarchy.
We have a duty to do this. Our coun-
try—our country—is what this is all
about.
b 2100
The Constitution is the last word. We
are the first line of defense against a
reckless, ruthless President who would
weaponize hate. We are the first line of
defense, the Members of this august
body. We have a duty to take up the
cause of justice for the country that we
love.
I respect anyone who differs with me.
Do what you may. But I do believe
that, in time, I will be vindicated. I be-
lieve that, in time, the 58 who voted
initially to impeach will be, again, vin-
dicated. We have already been vindi-
cated to a certain extent, but they will
be further vindicated.
The 66 who voted the second time,
they are going to be vindicated, too.
The 95 who voted the third time, they
will get additional vindication. They
are already vindicated because we are
moving toward impeachment. They
were just a part of the avant-garde, al-
ready vindicated.
And the question remains, where do
we go from here? Do we limit the im-
peachment to Ukraine and issues re-
lated to Ukraine only?
It is my opinion that we should ex-
pand it, and I have explained why—be-
cause of hatred and bigotry.
Finally, this: We are talking about
the original sin of this country; and
there are those who would make the
argument that, well, the Ukraine cir-
cumstance deals with national secu-
rity; it is a threat to national security.
Well, it is a threat to national secu-
rity when you have white nationalists
who are murdering people in the
streets of this country, in the schools,
to a certain extent, in various places
where you would assume that you are
safe. That is a threat to national secu-
rity as well.
It is time for us to deal with the
original sin. We have the opportunity.
It is impeachable.
I don’t want him impeached because
of some election. I want him im-
peached because he has committed im-
peachable offenses. I want him im-
peached because we need to deal with
our original sin.
I believe that those who look through
the vista of time upon this time are
going to realize how right we were,
those of us who have moved to impeach
for the bigotry, the racism, all of the
invidious phobias that we have had to
endure from our President.
Madam Speaker, I am grateful to
have this opportunity to speak. I love
this facility. I love my country. This
country means something to me. I
stand for the Pledge of Allegiance. I sa-
lute the flag.
But I also respect those who choose
not to and will respect their rights and
defend their right if they choose not to.
But I do. This is my country. I love
it. I love it. I stand alone, but it is bet-
ter to stand alone than not stand at
all.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Madam Speak-
er, I move that the House do now ad-
journ.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 9 o’clock and 4 minutes p.m.),
under its previous order, the House ad-
journed until tomorrow, Wednesday,
October 23, 2019, at 10 a.m. for morning-
hour debate.
f
BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF PAYGO
LEGISLATION
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote
on passage, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 598, the
Georgia Support Act, as amended,
would have no significant effect on the
deficit, and therefore, the budgetary ef-
fects of such bill are estimated as zero.
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote
on passage, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 724, the
PACT Act, as amended, would have no
significant effect on the deficit, and
therefore, the budgetary effects of such
bill are estimated as zero.
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote
on passage, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 835, the
Rodchenkov Anti-Doping Act of 2019,
as amended, would have no significant
effect on the deficit, and therefore, the
budgetary effects of such bill are esti-
mated as zero.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
2704. A letter from the Regulatory Spe-
cialist, Bank Advisory, Office of the Comp-
troller of the Currency, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Amendments to the Stress Test-
ing Rule for National Banks and Federal
Savings Associations [Docket ID: OCC-2018-
0035] (RIN: 1557-AE55) received October 18,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00084 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K22OC7.140 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8385
October 22, 2019
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Financial Services.
2705. A letter from the Regulatory Spe-
cialist, Chief Counsel’s Office, Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of
the Treasury, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Thresholds Increase for the
Major Assets Prohibition of the Depository
Institution Management Interlocks Act
Rules [Docket ID: OCC-2018-0011] (RIN: 1557-
AE22) received October 18, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Fi-
nancial Services.
2706. A letter from the Program Specialist,
Chief Counsel’s Office, Office of the Comp-
troller of the Currency, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Real Estate Appraisals [Docket
No.: OCC-2019-0038] (RIN: 1557-AE57) received
October 18, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Financial
Services.
2707. A letter from the Director, Office of
Legislative Affairs, Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Corporation, transmitting the Corpora-
tion’s final rule — Real Estate Appraisals
(RIN: 3064-AE87) received October 21, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services.
2708. A letter from the Acting Assistant
Secretary for Legislation, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting
the FY 2018 Report on the Preventive Medi-
cine and Public Health Training Grant Pro-
gram, pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 295c(d); July 1,
1944, ch. 373, title VII, Sec. 768(d) (as amend-
ed by Public Law 111-148, Sec. 10501(m)); (124
Stat. 1002); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
2709. A letter from the Acting Assistant
Secretary for Legislation, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting
the NURSE Corps Loan Repayment and
Scholarship Programs Report to Congress for
FY 2018, pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 297n(h); July 1,
1944, ch. 373, title VIII, Sec. 846(h) (as amend-
ed by Public Law 107-205, Sec. 103(d)); (116
Stat. 814); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
2710. A letter from the Acting Assistant
Secretary for Legislation, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting
the Report to Congress on Newborn Screen-
ing Activities, FY 2017 and 2018, pursuant to
Sec. 11(b) of Public Law 113-240, which added
42 U.S.C. 300b-17; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
2711. A letter from the Assistant General
Counsel, Department of the Treasury, trans-
mitting a notification of a nomination, an
action on nomination, and a discontinuation
of service in acting role, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
3349(a); Public Law 105-277, 151(b); (112 Stat.
2681-614); to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
2712. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by Pot
Catcher/Processors in the Bering Sea and
Aleutian Islands Management Area [Docket
No.: 180713633-9174-02] (RIN: 0648-XY029) re-
ceived October 21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
2713. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Northeastern
United States; Summer Flounder Fishery;
Quota Transfers From NC to VA and ME to
CT [Docket No.: 190312234-9412-01] (RIN: 0648-
XX012) received October 21, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
2714. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Caribbean,
Gulf of Mexico, and South Atlantic; Coastal
Migratory Pelagic Resources of the Gulf of
Mexico and Atlantic Region: Commercial
Closure for Spanish Mackerel [Docket No.:
140722613-4908-02] (RIN: 0648-XG588) received
October 21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
2715. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Snapper-Grouper Fishery of
the South Atlantic; 2019 Recreational Ac-
countability Measure and Closure for the
South Atlantic Other Jacks Complex [Dock-
et No.: 120815345-3525-02] (RIN: 0648-XS013) re-
ceived October 21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
2716. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Snapper-Grouper Fishery of
the South Atlantic; 2019 Recreational Ac-
countability Measure and Closure for South
Atlantic Red Grouper [Docket No.: 100812345-
2142-03] (RIN: 0648-XS012) received October 21,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
2717. A letter from the Acting Deputy As-
sistant Administrator for Regulatory Pro-
grams, NMFS, National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration, transmitting the Ad-
ministration’s final rule — Fisheries of the
Northeastern United States; Northeast
Multispecies Fishery; Fishing Year 2019 Rec-
reational Management Measures [Docket
No.: 190214116-9516-02] (RIN: 0648-BI69) re-
ceived October 21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
2718. A letter from the Deputy Assistant
Administrator for Regulatory Programs,
NMFS, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, transmitting the Adminis-
tration’s final rule — Magnuson-Stevens Act
Provisions; Fisheries off West Coast States;
Pacific Coast Groundfish Fishery; Annual
Specifications and Management Measures for
the 2019 Tribal and Non-Tribal Fisheries for
Pacific Whiting, and Requirement To Con-
sider Chinook Salmon Bycatch Before Re-
apportioning Tribal Whiting [Docket No.:
181218999-9402-2] (RIN: 0648-BI67) received Oc-
tober 21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
2719. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — International Fisheries; West-
ern and Central Pacific Fisheries for Highly
Migratory Species; Closure of Purse Seine
Fishery in the ELAPS in 2019 [Docket No.:
190220141-9141-01] (RIN: 0648-PIR-A001) re-
ceived October 21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
2720. A letter from the Deputy Assistant
Administrator for Regulatory Programs,
NMFS, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, transmitting the Adminis-
tration’s final rule — Fisheries of the Exclu-
sive Economic Zone Off Alaska; Gulf of Alas-
ka; Final 2019 and 2020 Harvest Specifica-
tions for Groundfish [Docket No.: 180831813-
9170-02] (RIN: 0648-XG471) received October
21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Natural Resources.
2721. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2019-0194; Product Identifier 2019-NM-
009-AD; Amendment 39-19750; AD 2019-19-14]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received October 18, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
2722. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Various Transport Airplanes [Docket
No.: FAA-2019-0444; Product Identifier 2019-
NM-028-AD; Amendment 39-19756; AD 2019-20-
03] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received October 18, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
2723. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Rolls-Royce Deutschland Ltd & Co KG
(Type Certificate Previously Held by Rolls-
Royce plc) Turbofan Engines [Docket No.:
FAA-2019-0693; Product Identifier 2017-NE-43-
AD; Amendment 39-19758; AD 2019-20-05] (RIN:
2120-AA64) received October 18, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
2724. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; The Boeing Company Airplanes [Dock-
et No.: FAA-2019-0715; Product Identifier
2019-NM-151-AD; Amendment 39-19760; AD
2019-20-07] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received October
18, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
2725. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; The Boeing Company Airplanes [Dock-
et No.: FAA-2018-0495; Product Identifier
2017-NM-089-AD; Amendment 39-19716; AD
2019-16-13] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received October
18, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
2726. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2019-0497; Product Identifier 2019-NM-
052-AD; Amendment 39-19751; AD 2019-19-15]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received October 18, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
2727. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00085 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L22OC7.000 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8386 October 22, 2019
FAA-2019-0441; Product Identifier 2019-NM-
036-AD; Amendment 39-19753; AD 2019-19-17]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received October 18, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
2728. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s final reg-
ulation and removal of temporary regulation
— Election to Take Disaster Loss Deduction
for Preceding Year [TD 9878] (RIN: 1545-BP44)
received October 18, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
2729. A letter from the Acting Assistant
Administrator, Diversion Control Division,
Drug Enforcement Administration, Depart-
ment of Justice, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Listing of
Noroxymorphone in the Code of Federal Reg-
ulations and Assignment of a Controlled
Substances Code Number [Docket No.: DEA-
332] received October 21, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); jointly to the Committees
on the Judiciary and Energy and Commerce.
2730. A letter from the Acting Assistant
Administrator, Diversion Control Division,
Drug Enforcement Administration, Depart-
ment of Justice, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — New Single-Sheet For-
mat for U.S. Official Order Form for Sched-
ule I and II Controlled Substances (DEA
Form 222) [Docket No.: DEA-453] (RIN: 1117-
AB44) received October 21, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); jointly to the Committees
on the Judiciary and Energy and Commerce.
2731. A letter from the Acting Assistant
Administrator, Diversion Control Division,
Drug Enforcement Administration, Depart-
ment of Justice, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s temporary amendment — Schedules
of Controlled Substances: Temporary Place-
ment of N-Ethylhexedrone, a-PHP, 4--MEAP,
MPHP, PV8, and 4-Chloro-a-PVP in Schedule
I [Docket No.: DEA-945] received October 21,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); jointly
to the Committees on the Judiciary and En-
ergy and Commerce.
2732. A letter from the Acting Assistant
Administrator, Diversion Control Division,
Drug Enforcement Administration, Depart-
ment of Justice, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s interim final rule — Schedules of
Controlled Substances: Placement of
Solriamfetol in Schedule IV [Docket No.:
DEA-504] received October 21, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); jointly to the Com-
mittees on the Judiciary and Energy and
Commerce.
2733. A letter from the Acting Assistant
Administrator, Diversion Control Division,
DEA, Department of Justice, transmitting
the Department’s final rule — Schedules of
Controlled Substances: Placement of
Brexanolone in Schedule IV [Docket No.:
DEA-503] received October 21, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); jointly to the Com-
mittees on the Judiciary and Energy and
Commerce.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. NADLER: Committee on the Judici-
ary. H.R. 1123. A bill to amend title 28,
United States Code, to modify the composi-
tion of the eastern judicial district of Arkan-
sas, and for other purposes (Rept. 116–248).
Referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
Mr. GRIJALVA: Committee on Natural Re-
sources. H.R. 1305. A bill to implement the
Agreement on the Conservation of
Albatrosses and Petrels, and for other pur-
poses (Rept. 116–249, Pt. 1). Referred to the
Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union.
Mr. GRIJALVA: Committee on Natural Re-
sources. H.R. 1225. A bill to establish, fund,
and provide for the use of amounts in a Na-
tional Park Service and Public Lands Leg-
acy Restoration Fund to address the mainte-
nance backlog of the National Park Service,
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Bu-
reau of Land Management, and Bureau of In-
dian Education, and for other purposes; with
an amendment (Rept. 116–250, Pt. 1). Referred
to the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union.
Mr. NADLER: Committee on the Judici-
ary. H.R. 835. A bill to impose criminal sanc-
tions on certain persons involved in inter-
national doping fraud conspiracies, to pro-
vide restitution for victims of such conspir-
acies, and to require sharing of information
with the United States Anti-Doping Agency
to assist its fight against doping, and for
other purposes; with amendments (Rept. 116–
251, Pt. 1). Referred to the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union.
Mr. NADLER: Committee on the Judici-
ary. H.R. 2426. A bill to amend title 17,
United States Code, to establish an alter-
native dispute resolution program for copy-
right small claims, and for other purposes;
with an amendment (Rept. 116–252). Referred
to the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union.
Mr. HASTINGS: Committee on Rules. H.
Res. 650. A resolution providing for consider-
ation of the bill (H.R. 4617) to amend the
Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 to
clarify the obligation to report acts of for-
eign election influence and require imple-
mentation of compliance and reporting sys-
tems by Federal campaigns to detect and re-
port such acts, and for other purposes (Rept.
116–253). Referred to the House Calendar.
DISCHARGE OF COMMITTEE
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committee on Energy and Commerce
discharged from further consideration.
H.R. 835 referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the
Union.
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committee on Education and Labor
discharged from further consideration.
H.R. 1225 referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the
Union.
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committee on Foreign Affairs dis-
charged from further consideration.
H.R. 1305 referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the
Union.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. HUFFMAN (for himself and Mr.
LAMALFA):
H.R. 4778. A bill to amend the Department
of the Interior, Environment, and Related
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2008, to extend
the authority to collect Shasta-Trinity Ma-
rina fees through fiscal year 2027; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mrs. RODGERS of Washington (for
herself, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, and Mr.
BUCSHON):
H.R. 4779. A bill to extend the Undertaking
Spam, Spyware, And Fraud Enforcement
With Enforcers beyond Borders Act of 2006,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. CARBAJAL:
H.R. 4780. A bill to establish a Government
corporation to provide loans and loan guar-
antees for infrastructure projects, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Trans-
portation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. HUFFMAN (for himself, Ms.
LEE of California, Mr. VARGAS, Ms.
ESHOO, Mr. SWALWELL of California,
Mr. LOWENTHAL, and Ms. PORTER):
H.R. 4781. A bill to designate the United
States courthouse located at 3140 Boeing Av-
enue in McKinleyville, California, as the
‘‘Judge Louis E. Goodman Courthouse’’; to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
By Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi (for
himself, Mr. ROSE of New York, Ms.
BARRAGÁN, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN,
Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr. RICH-
MOND, Mr. PAYNE, Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr.
CORREA, and Mr. CLEAVER):
H.R. 4782. A bill to establish a national
commission on online platforms and home-
land security, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Homeland Security, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. GREEN of Texas (for himself,
Ms. JUDY CHU of California, Ms. GAR-
CIA of Texas, and Mr. CLAY):
H.R. 4783. A bill to require the Director of
the Federal Housing Finance Agency to re-
quire each enterprise to include a preferred
language question on the form known as the
Uniform Residential Loan Application, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Fi-
nancial Services.
By Mr. RUSH:
H.R. 4784. A bill to require the National In-
stitute of Justice to update its research re-
port, entitled ‘‘A Review of Gun Safety Tech-
nologies’’; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mr. HURD of Texas (for himself,
Mr. GOHMERT, Mr. CRENSHAW, Mr.
TAYLOR, Mr. RATCLIFFE, Mr. GOODEN,
Mr. WRIGHT, Mrs. FLETCHER, Mr.
BRADY, Mr. GREEN of Texas, Mr.
MCCAUL, Mr. CONAWAY, Ms. GRANGER,
Mr. THORNBERRY, Mr. WEBER of
Texas, Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Ms.
ESCOBAR, Mr. FLORES, Ms. JACKSON
LEE, Mr. ARRINGTON, Mr. CASTRO of
Texas, Mr. ROY, Mr. OLSON, Mr.
MARCHANT, Mr. WILLIAMS, Mr. BUR-
GESS, Mr. CLOUD, Mr. CUELLAR, Ms.
GARCIA of Texas, Ms. JOHNSON of
Texas, Mr. CARTER of Texas, Mr.
ALLRED, Mr. VEASEY, Mr. VELA, Mr.
DOGGETT, and Mr. BABIN):
H.R. 4785. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
1305 U.S. Highway 90 West in Castroville,
Texas, as the ‘‘Lance Corporal Rhonald Dain
Rairdan Post Office’’; to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. BARR:
H.R. 4786. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow a 3-year recovery
period for all race horses; to the Committee
on Ways and Means.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00086 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L22OC7.000 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8387
October 22, 2019
By Mr. BERA:
H.R. 4787. A bill to amend title IV of the
Higher Education Act of 1965 in order to in-
crease the amount of financial support avail-
able for working students; to the Committee
on Education and Labor.
By Mrs. BUSTOS:
H.R. 4788. A bill to address the needs of
workers in industries likely to be impacted
by rapidly evolving technologies; to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mrs. DEMINGS (for herself, Mr.
STEUBE, Mr. SOTO, Mr. BACON, and
Mr. RUTHERFORD):
H.R. 4789. A bill to allow Federal law en-
forcement officers to purchase retired serv-
ice weapons, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. KAPTUR (for herself, Mr. GON-
ZALEZ of Ohio, Mr. RYAN, Mr. CHABOT,
Ms. FUDGE, Mr. BALDERSON, Mrs.
BEATTY, Mr. LATTA, Mr. GIBBS, Mr.
TURNER, Mr. JOYCE of Ohio, Mr. JOR-
DAN, Mr. WENSTRUP, Mr. JOHNSON of
Ohio, Mr. STIVERS, Mr. DAVIDSON of
Ohio, and Mr. POSEY):
H.R. 4790. A bill to redesignate the NASA
John H. Glenn Research Center at Plum
Brook Station, Ohio, as the NASA John H.
Glenn Research Center at the Neil A. Arm-
strong Test Facility; to the Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology.
By Mr. LEWIS:
H.R. 4791. A bill to amend the National
Highway System Designation Act of 1995 to
permit the construction of certain noise bar-
riers with funds from the Highway Trust
Fund, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
By Mr. TED LIEU of California:
H.R. 4792. A bill to establish a voluntary
program to identify and promote internet-
connected products that meet industry-lead-
ing cybersecurity and data security stand-
ards, guidelines, best practices, methodolo-
gies, procedures, and processes, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Mr. NORCROSS (for himself and
Mr. LARSON of Connecticut):
H.R. 4793. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to establish a stewardship
fee on the production and importation of
opioid pain relievers, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
and in addition to the Committee on Ways
and Means, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. ROSE of New York (for himself,
Mr. KING of New York, Mr. MORELLE,
Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. SEAN
PATRICK MALONEY of New York, and
Mr. NADLER):
H.R. 4794. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
8320 13th Avenue in Brooklyn, New York, as
the ‘‘Mother Frances Xavier Cabrini Post Of-
fice Building’’; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
By Ms. SLOTKIN (for herself and Mr.
KELLY of Pennsylvania):
H.R. 4795. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide for employer
contributions to ABLE accounts, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Ways
and Means.
By Mr. STEUBE:
H.R. 4796. A bill to limit the authority of
States to tax certain income of employees
for employment duties performed in other
States; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. TAKANO (for himself and Mr.
EVANS):
H.R. 4797. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to require that Bureau of Pris-
ons help Federal prisoners who are being re-
leased to obtain appropriate ID to facilitate
their reentry into society at no cost to the
prisoner, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. VEASEY:
H.R. 4798. A bill to require the submission
of reports when an individual is injured or
killed by a law enforcement officer in the
course of the officer’s employment, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. VEASEY:
H.R. 4799. A bill to require State and local
law enforcement agencies to submit informa-
tion about law enforcement investigations to
the Attorney General, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. WATKINS:
H.R. 4800. A bill to amend title IV of the
Public Health Service Act to prohibit sale or
transactions relating to human fetal tissue;
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. EMMER (for himself, Mr.
HIMES, and Mr. CRENSHAW):
H. Res. 651. A resolution supporting the
designation of October 2019 as ‘‘National Bul-
lying Prevention Month’’ and October 23,
2019, as ‘‘Unity Day’’; to the Committee on
Education and Labor.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. HUFFMAN:
H.R. 4778.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, clause 2
By Mrs. RODGERS of Washington:
H.R. 4779.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Sec. 8, Clause 3: Congress shall
have the Power . . . To regulate Commerce
with foreign Nations, and among the several
States, and with the Indian Tribes;
By Mr. CARBAJAL:
H.R. 4780.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. HUFFMAN:
H.R. 4781.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, clause 2 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi:
H.R. 4782.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. GREEN of Texas:
H.R. 4783.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Necessary and Proper Clause (Art. 1, Sec. 8,
Cl. 18)
By Mr. RUSH:
H.R. 4784.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. HURD of Texas:
H.R. 4785.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 14
By Mr. BARR:
H.R. 4786.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1. Section 8. Clause 1. The Congress
shall have Power To lay and collect Taxes,
Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay the
Debts and provide for the common Defence
and general Welfare of the United States; but
all Duties, Imposts and Excises shall be uni-
form throughout the United States;
By Mr. BERA:
H.R. 4787.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mrs. BUSTOS:
H.R. 4788.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clause 18 of the United States Constitu-
tion.
By Mrs. DEMINGS:
H.R. 4789.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the United
States Constitution.
By Ms. KAPTUR:
H.R. 4790.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 18 (Necessary
and Proper Clause)
By Mr. LEWIS:
H.R. 4791.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. TED LIEU of California:
H.R. 4792.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section VIII
By Mr. NORCROSS:
H.R. 4793.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. ROSE of New York:
H.R. 4794.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18
‘‘To make all Laws which shall be nec-
essary and proper for carrying into Execu-
tion the foregoing Powers, and all other
Powers vested by this Constitution in the
Government of the United States, or in any
Department or Officer thereof.’’
By Ms. SLOTKIN:
H.R. 4795.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Under Article I, Section 8 of the Constitu-
tion, Congress has the power ‘‘to make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or any Department or Officer there-
of’’.
By Mr. STEUBE:
H.R. 4796.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
The Congress shall have Power To lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00087 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L22OC7.100 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8388 October 22, 2019
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises
shall be uniform throughout the United
States;
To borrow money on the credit of the
United States;
To regulate Commerce with foreign Na-
tions, and among the several States, and
with the Indian Tribes;
To establish an uniform Rule of Natu-
ralization, and uniform Laws on the subject
of Bankruptcies throughout the United
States;
To coin Money, regulate the Value thereof,
and of foreign Coin, and fix the Standard of
Weights and Measures;
To provide for the Punishment of counter-
feiting the Securities and current Coin of the
United States;
To establish Post Offices and Post Roads;
To promote the Progress of Science and
useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to
Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to
their respective Writings and Discoveries;
To constitute Tribunals inferior to the su-
preme Court;
and Offenses against the Law of Nations;
To declare War, grant Letters of Marque
and Reprisal, and make Rules concerning
Captures on Land and Water;
To raise and support Armies, but no Appro-
priation of Money to that Use shall be for a
longer Term than two Years;
To provide and maintain a Navy;
To make Rules for the Government and
Regulation of the land and naval Forces;
To provide for calling forth the Militia to
execute the Laws of the Union, suppress In-
surrections and repel Invasions;
To provide for organizing, arming, and dis-
ciplining, the Militia, and for governing such
Part of them as may be employed in the
Service of the United States, reserving to
the States respectively, the Appointment of
the Officers, and the Authority of training
the Militia according to the discipline pre-
scribed by Congress;
To exercise exclusive Legislation in all
Cases whatsoever, over such District (not ex-
ceeding ten Miles square) as may, by Cession
of particular States, and the acceptance of
Congress, become the Seat of the Govern-
ment of the United States, and to exercise
like Authority over all Places purchased by
the Consent of the Legislature of the State
in which the Same shall be, for the Erection
of Forts, Magazines, Arsenals, dock-Yards,
and other needful Buildings; And
To make all Laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into Execution the
foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vest-
ed by this Constitution in the Government of
the United States, or in any Department or
Officer thereof.
By Mr. TAKANO:
H.R. 4797.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Mr. VEASEY:
H.R. 4798.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. VEASEY:
H.R. 4799.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. WATKINS:
H.R. 4800.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 3: Ms. WEXTON, Mr. CLEAVER, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, and Mr. SARBANES.
H.R. 93: Mrs. KIRKPATRICK.
H.R. 96: Mr. SERRANO and Mr. VELA.
H.R. 120: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 155: Mr. RICE of South Carolina.
H.R. 188: Ms. SCHRIER.
H.R. 303: Mr. PETERSON.
H.R. 369: Mr. RICE of South Carolina.
H.R. 392: Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 393: Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 444: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 446: Mr. BYRNE.
H.R. 451: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 510: Mr. SMITH of New Jersey, Ms.
FUDGE, and Mr. AGUILAR.
H.R. 565: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 566: Mr. STAUBER.
H.R. 587: Mr. SMITH of Washington and Mr.
DEFAZIO.
H.R. 589: Mr. RIGGLEMAN and Mr. TIPTON.
H.R. 647: Mr. SPANO.
H.R. 656: Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 662: Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 712: Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. NEGUSE, and
Mr. DELGADO.
H.R. 737: Mr. KELLER, Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr.
CUELLAR, Ms. FUDGE, Mr. STANTON, and Mr.
PHILLIPS.
H.R. 777: Mr. TED LIEU of California, Mr.
JOYCE of Ohio, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. GRAVES of
Louisiana, Mr. GAETZ, and Mr. KING of Iowa.
H.R. 838: Ms. SLOTKIN and Mr. HURD of
Texas.
H.R. 895: Mr. JOYCE of Ohio.
H.R. 935: Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio.
H.R. 961: Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts and
Mrs. MURPHY of Florida.
H.R. 1001: Ms. SPANBERGER and Mr.
CISNEROS.
H.R. 1002: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina, Mr.
YARMUTH, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mrs. MURPHY of
Florida, and Mrs. LOWEY.
H.R. 1005: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 1030: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 1034: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 1042: Ms. SPANBERGER and Mr. CART-
WRIGHT.
H.R. 1139: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 1154: Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 1166: Mr. GALLAGHER.
H.R. 1201: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 1225: Ms. JOHNSON of Texas.
H.R. 1243: Ms. MOORE.
H.R. 1337: Mr. NADLER.
H.R. 1367: Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. TRONE, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Ms. LEE
of California, and Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 1375: Mr. BRINDISI and Mr. GIBBS.
H.R. 1380: Ms. SCHRIER, Ms. MATSUI, Ms.
GARCIA of Texas, Mr. RUSH, Mr. BISHOP of
Georgia, Ms. BARRAGÁN, and Mr. WOMACK.
H.R. 1398: Mr. ALLEN.
H.R. 1434: Mr. EMMER, Mr. JOYCE of Penn-
sylvania, Mr. ADERHOLT, and Mr. ROUZER.
H.R. 1530: Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 1550: Mr. KILDEE.
H.R. 1560: Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 1705: Mr. LARSEN of Washington.
H.R. 1709: Mr. BAIRD, Mr. ROSE of New
York, and Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 1747: Mr. KIND.
H.R. 1766: Mr. O’HALLERAN, Mr. RUTHER-
FORD, and Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 1776: Ms. MENG, Ms. ESHOO, and Ms.
DEGETTE.
H.R. 1805: Mr. CRENSHAW.
H.R. 1816: Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 1823: Mr. JOYCE of Ohio.
H.R. 1865: Ms. JAYAPAL, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY,
and Mr. MULLIN.
H.R. 1882: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mr.
POCAN, Mr. SOTO, and Mr. LUJÁN.
H.R. 1897: Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 1903: Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. LARSEN of
Washington, Mr. EVANS, and Ms. GARCIA of
Texas.
H.R. 1923: Mr. COSTA, Mr. RUSH, and Ms.
PINGREE.
H.R. 1948: Mr. RIGGLEMAN, Mr. BUCSHON,
and Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 1975: Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 1978: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 1981: Mr. MORELLE.
H.R. 2013: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 2051: Mr. BYRNE and Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 2061: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 2089: Mr. COX of California.
H.R. 2137: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 2150: Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 2164: Mr. TED LIEU of California and
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 2168: Mr. CURTIS.
H.R. 2210: Mr. KING of New York.
H.R. 2213: Mr. KIM.
H.R. 2245: Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 2258: Mr. WATKINS.
H.R. 2268: Mr. CICILLINE and Ms. BROWNLEY
of California.
H.R. 2291: Mr. WATKINS.
H.R. 2315: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 2317: Mr. PASCRELL.
H.R. 2328: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 2329: Mr. KIM.
H.R. 2350: Ms. SLOTKIN and Mr. TONKO.
H.R. 2382: Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. CONNOLLY, and
Mrs. LAWRENCE.
H.R. 2420: Mr. CLAY, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr.
CONNOLLY, Mrs. MCBATH, Mr. MOULTON, Ms.
SEWELL of Alabama, Mr. BERA, Mr. KIND, and
Ms. PLASKETT.
H.R. 2423: Mr. KIND, Ms. PINGREE, Mr.
KEATING, and Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 2426: Mr. CROW.
H.R. 2457: Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 2464: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 2481: Ms. CASTOR of Florida.
H.R. 2517: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 2550: Mr. KEATING and Mr. CRENSHAW.
H.R. 2579: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 2581: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 2594: Mr. GARAMENDI.
H.R. 2599: Mr. RYAN.
H.R. 2645: Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 2648: Mr. LUJÁN and Ms. MENG.
H.R. 2665: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 2694: Ms. CRAIG and Mrs. LAWRENCE.
H.R. 2708: Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 2749: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mrs. NAPOLITANO,
and Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 2796: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 2818: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 2848: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 2867: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Ms.
SHALALA, and Mr. LARSEN of Washington.
H.R. 2913: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 2965: Mr. STAUBER.
H.R. 2986: Mr. KATKO and Ms. KUSTER of
New Hampshire.
H.R. 3001: Ms. BASS.
H.R. 3036: Ms. ESCOBAR and Ms.
SPANBERGER.
H.R. 3077: Mrs. TRAHAN.
H.R. 3116: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 3136: Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 3138: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 3145: Mr. SMITH of Nebraska.
H.R. 3157: Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 3166: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.R. 3192: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 3235: Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mr.
JOYCE of Ohio, and Ms. SEWELL of Alabama.
H.R. 3249: Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 3267: Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 3275: Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio.
H.R. 3306: Ms. SPANBERGER and Mrs.
BUSTOS.
H.R. 3323: Mr. SUOZZI.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00088 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.043 H22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8389
October 22, 2019
H.R. 3369: Mr. SABLAN and Ms. CASTOR of
Florida.
H.R. 3373: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 3398: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN and Ms.
BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.R. 3400: Mr. RICE of South Carolina.
H.R. 3463: Ms. GABBARD and Mr. NEAL.
H.R. 3473: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.R. 3522: Mr. BYRNE.
H.R. 3570: Mr. VELA.
H.R. 3571: Mr. HILL of Arkansas.
H.R. 3584: Mr. EVANS, Mr. SOTO, Ms. DEAN,
Mr. YARMUTH, Mr. PANETTA, and Mr. CREN-
SHAW.
H.R. 3593: Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Mrs.
KIRKPATRICK, Mr. LEVIN of California, Mr.
CICILLINE, and Mrs. DEMINGS.
H.R. 3612: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 3663: Mrs. BEATTY.
H.R. 3665: Ms. CASTOR of Florida.
H.R. 3702: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 3762: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire,
Mr. RASKIN, and Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 3772: Mr. BURCHETT.
H.R. 3779: Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana.
H.R. 3789: Ms. ESHOO.
H.R. 3795: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 3801: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 3813: Mr. CALVERT.
H.R. 3815: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama and Mr.
HIGGINS of New York.
H.R. 3851: Ms. MATSUI, Ms. SEWELL of Ala-
bama, Mr. LUJÁN, Mr. RICE of South Caro-
lina, Mr. HURD of Texas, Mr. PASCRELL, Mr.
MCEACHIN, Mrs. WAGNER, Mr. TIMMONS, Mr.
O’HALLERAN, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Ms. DEGETTE,
and Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 3861: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama.
H.R. 3880: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 3896: Mr. SMITH of New Jersey and Mr.
VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 3957: Mr. LUJÁN and Mr. TONKO.
H.R. 3961: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.R. 3964: Mr. GOSAR.
H.R. 3968: Mr. LUETKEMEYER.
H.R. 3969: Mr. CLEAVER and Mr. TED LIEU of
California.
H.R. 3975: Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 4002: Mr. LOUDERMILK.
H.R. 4030: Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 4044: Mr. PALLONE.
H.R. 4069: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 4085: Mr. BANKS.
H.R. 4086: Mr. BANKS.
H.R. 4108: Ms. JOHNSON of Texas and Ms.
CASTOR of Florida.
H.R. 4138: Mr. DUNCAN.
H.R. 4155: Ms. DEGETTE.
H.R. 4160: Mr. SABLAN.
H.R. 4165: Ms. SPANBERGER and Ms.
SLOTKIN.
H.R. 4172: Mr. PASCRELL.
H.R. 4183: Mr. CISNEROS and Mr. SPANO.
H.R. 4189: Mr. EVANS.
H.R. 4211: Ms. ESHOO.
H.R. 4216: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois and Mr.
MORELLE.
H.R. 4228: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 4230: Mr. CUELLAR.
H.R. 4232: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 4248: Mr. FITZPATRICK and Mr.
HUFFMAN.
H.R. 4304: Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 4307: Mrs. WAGNER.
H.R. 4321: Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 4334: Mr. MORELLE.
H.R. 4364: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 4368: Mr. EVANS.
H.R. 4379: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 4436: Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 4457: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 4519: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.R. 4554: Ms. NORTON and Mr. CASE.
H.R. 4618: Ms. NORTON and Mr. HIGGINS of
New York.
H.R. 4623: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 4624: Mr. COHEN, Ms. WILD, Mr.
DESAULNIER, and Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 4639: Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 4640: Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 4650: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 4671: Ms. MATSUI.
H.R. 4672: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr. BERA,
and Mr. MCCLINTOCK.
H.R. 4691: Mr. SUOZZI and Mr. NADLER.
H.R. 4695: Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. LYNCH, Mrs.
MURPHY of Florida, Mr. HASTINGS, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Mr. PHILLIPS, Mr. MITCHELL,
Ms. SPEIER, Ms. NORTON, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr.
COHEN, Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico,
and Ms. MENG.
H.R. 4697: Mr. BRINDISI, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ,
Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mrs. DINGELL, Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire, Mr. NORCROSS, Mr. CONNOLLY,
Mr. NADLER, and Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY
of New York.
H.R. 4708: Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. HIGGINS of
New York, Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr.
NORCROSS, Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire,
Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. BRINDISI,
and Mr. NADLER.
H.R. 4709: Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. HIGGINS of
New York, Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr.
NORCROSS, Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire,
Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. BRINDISI,
and Mr. NADLER.
H.R. 4730: Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 4736: Mr. RIGGLEMAN, Mr. BILIRAKIS,
Mr. BOST, Mr. BUCSHON, Mrs. BROOKS of Indi-
ana, Mr. FORTENBERRY, Mr. MCKINLEY, Mr.
GUTHRIE, and Mrs. MILLER.
H.R. 4761: Mr. WALKER.
H.R. 4763: Mr. TURNER.
H.R. 4764: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 4772: Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 4776: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 4777: Mr. MARSHALL.
H.J. Res. 2: Mr. PERLMUTTER and Mr.
PAYNE.
H. Con. Res. 20: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of
Oklahoma.
H. Con. Res. 27: Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illi-
nois.
H. Con. Res. 28: Mr. HILL of Arkansas.
H. Con. Res. 52: Ms. BASS and Ms. SÁNCHEZ.
H. Con. Res. 68: Mr. GOODEN, Mr. MEUSER,
Ms. SHERRILL, and Mr. KIM.
H. Res. 23: Mr. GUTHRIE.
H. Res. 33: Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico.
H. Res. 49: Mr. BUCK.
H. Res. 114: Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas and Mr.
KIM.
H. Res. 146: Ms. UNDERWOOD and Mr. KEN-
NEDY.
H. Res. 219: Ms. CLARKE of New York.
H. Res. 255: Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH and Mr.
MALINOWSKI.
H. Res. 301: Mr. CISNEROS.
H. Res. 374: Ms. LOFGREN.
H. Res. 384: Mr. GRIFFITH.
H. Res. 515: Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. HURD of
Texas, Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania, and Mr.
WRIGHT.
H. Res. 517: Mr. STEIL, Mr. CLAY, and Ms.
SCANLON.
H. Res. 551: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H. Res. 552: Mr. HURD of Texas.
H. Res. 585: Mr. CICILLINE.
H. Res. 631: Mr. GOSAR, Mr. HUNTER, Mr.
PERRY, Mrs. HARTZLER, and Mr. WALKER.
H. Res. 633: Mr. LUETKEMEYER and Mr.
MCKINLEY.
H. Res. 634: Mr. GROTHMAN.
H. Res. 636: Mr. SOTO.
H. Res. 638: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H. Res. 639: Mr. MULLIN, Mr. WATKINS, and
Mr. GUEST.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00089 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC7.052 H22OCPT1
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S5931
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2019 No. 167
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Come, mighty King, robed in maj-
esty. Your throne stands firm, even in
the midst of chaos. You speak, and it is
done.
Lord, You are our strength and
shield. Our protection comes from You.
Today, guide our Senators as a shep-
herd would lead the lambs. May our
lawmakers find in You green pastures
and still waters.
Lord, support us with Your powerful
hands until the shadows flee away.
Forgive all our sins and rebellion, em-
powering us to glorify Your Name in
our thoughts, words, and deeds.
We pray in Your great Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH). The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent to speak for 1
minute as in morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
REMEMBERING HAROLD KELLER
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President,
recent research by historians has iden-
tified a person participating in the
raising of the flag at Iwo Jima.
That iconic photograph of marines
raising the American flag at Iwo Jima
is a testament to American strength
and sacrifice.
The Marine Corps has identified an-
other one of the marines pictured in
this photograph as Cpl Harold Keller of
Brooklyn, IA.
Keller never sought recognition or
fame. He never mentioned to his chil-
dren that he had helped raise that flag.
He died in 1979, so he doesn’t know we
now know it is he in the photograph.
Seventy-four years later, I am proud
that this Iowan is finally recognized
for his role in making history.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
f
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
later today, the Senate will vote on fi-
nally getting the appropriations proc-
ess moving. We will vote on consid-
ering a package of domestic funding
bills, and if we take up the legislation,
I intend to stay on it until we complete
it.
On both sides of the Capitol, our
Democratic colleagues have spent re-
cent weeks insisting over and over that
their 3-year-old quest to impeach the
President will not prevent them from
the substantive work American fami-
lies need us to tackle. So far, the early
returns haven’t been too encouraging.
A few weeks ago, we saw the unusual
spectacle of Senate Democrats voting
to filibuster defense funding due to po-
litical fights with the White House.
Democrats blocked a pay raise for our
servicemembers because they would
rather fight with the President.
We know that across the Capitol, for
months now, Speaker PELOSI has been
blocking the USMCA and blocking the
176,000 new American jobs it would cre-
ate.
This week offers another test. Soon
we will be voting on appropriations,
and we will see whether our Demo-
cratic friends really can put aside their
impeachment obsession long enough to
get some real work done on the side.
Actions speak louder than words.
First, I hope we will tackle a package
of domestic funding bills. After that,
we will turn to a defense vehicle. I urge
our Democratic colleagues to drop the
stall tactics that have left funding for
our Armed Forces in limbo and join
with Republicans to deliver the funding
our military commanders need to keep
us safe.
f
TURKEY AND SYRIA
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
on another matter, I opposed President
Trump’s decision to withdraw U.S.
troops from Syria so I am encouraged
by press reports that his administra-
tion is considering retaining a military
presence in that country to keep the
pressure on ISIS.
Since September 11, our Nation has
learned several key lessons about the
fight against radical Islamic terrorism.
The terrorist threat cannot be wished
away. The terrorists mean us harm,
and we cannot allow them to establish
safe havens and solidify their net-
works. When they do, the bloodshed
ends up right here on our shores.
American leadership is essential. We
have seen our partners and allies step
up and take on important roles. In
fact, as we speak, France is playing a
leading role in the African Sahel, but
just about every place President
Obama tried to ‘‘lead from behind’’ pro-
vides tragic reminders that there are
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:55 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.000 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5932 October 22, 2019
certain kinds of leadership only Amer-
ica can contribute.
Fortunately, we are not in this alone.
The huge progress we have won in re-
cent years against ISIS and the
Taliban has come by partnering with
local forces, with support from a broad
international coalition. America has
only provided limited specialized capa-
bilities to reinforce the local partners
that do the heaviest lifting. This ap-
proach is sustainable.
Unfortunately, we know exactly
what happens when America forgets
these lessons and simply decides we are
tired of sustaining the fight. Aban-
doning Afghanistan in the 1990s helped
create the conditions for al-Qaida’s
ability to grow and plan the September
11 attacks from a safe haven far from
our shores. President Obama’s retreat
from Iraq allowed ISIS to rise from the
still-warm ashes of al-Qaida in Iraq.
If not arrested, withdrawing from
Syria will invite more of the chaos
that breeds terrorism and creates a
vacuum our adversaries will certainly
fill.
It will invite the brutal Assad regime
to reassert its oppressive control over
northeastern Syria, repressing Sunni
Arab communities and creating the
same conditions that led to ISIS’s
growth in the first place.
Russia will gain more leverage to
amass power and influence throughout
the Middle East, project power into the
Mediterranean, and even promote its
interests in Africa.
Iran-backed forces could have access
to a strategic corridor that runs all the
way from Tehran to the very doorstep
of Israel.
So where do we go from here? Many
of us in the Senate were ahead of the
game on the need to reaffirm American
global leadership in the ongoing fight
against radical terror. At the begin-
ning of this year, a bipartisan super-
majority of Senators warned about ex-
actly this course of events. The McCon-
nell amendment to S. 1 earned 70 votes
back in February. We specifically
warned against a precipitous with-
drawal from either Afghanistan or
Syria and noted the need for an Amer-
ican presence. Congress should affirm—
actually, reaffirm—the same truths
today, and we should do so strongly.
Unfortunately, the resolution crafted
by House Democrats is simply not suf-
ficient. It is not so much wrong as it is
badly insufficient. It focuses solely on
the Kurds, ignoring the critical Sunni-
Arab community that suffered under
both Assad’s regime and ISIS and vul-
nerable minority communities like the
Christian Arabs of Syria. The House
was silent on the key matter of main-
taining an actual physical U.S. mili-
tary presence in Syria.
Perhaps the goal was to paper over
disagreements within the Democratic
Party. After all, our colleague, the sen-
ior Senator from Massachusetts, re-
cently told a national television audi-
ence—this is the senior Senator from
Massachusetts—‘‘I think that we ought
to get out of the Middle East.’’ ‘‘I
think we ought to get out of the Middle
East,’’ said the senior Senator from
Massachusetts, and almost all of our
Democratic colleagues currently run-
ning for President refused to sign on to
the McConnell amendment that earned
70 votes earlier this year.
We can’t afford to dance around the
critical question of a U.S. presence in
Syria and the Middle East for the sake
of Democratic Presidential primary
politics. The Senate needs to speak up.
We cannot effectively support our part-
ners on the ground without a military
presence. Senators who thought we
should withdraw from Syria and Af-
ghanistan in February do not get to
criticize President Trump for with-
drawing from Syria today unless they
go on the record, admit they changed
their minds, and say it is too dan-
gerous to quit.
So, today, along with Chairman
INHOFE, Chairman RISCH, Chairman
BURR, and Senator GRAHAM, I am intro-
ducing a stronger resolution that ac-
knowledges hard truths and focuses on
our strategic interests in the Middle
East.
Our resolution acknowledges the
vital role our Kurdish and Arab Syrian
partners have played in rooting out
and destroying the ISIS caliphate. It
condemns Turkey’s decision to esca-
late hostilities in Syria, warns against
the abandonment of our allies and
partners in Syria, and urges President
Trump to rethink his invitation for
President Erdogan to visit the White
House.
It also acknowledges Turkey’s legiti-
mate national security concerns ema-
nating from the conflict in Syria and
the significant risks to the United
States if such a strategically con-
sequential ally were to fall further into
Moscow’s orbit. It recognizes the grave
consequences of U.S. withdrawal: the
rising influence of Russia, Iran, and the
Assad regime and the escape of more
than 100 ISIS-affiliated fighters de-
tained in the region.
We specifically urge the President to
end—end the drawdown, something
that, fortunately, appears to be under-
way. We urge a reengagement with our
partners in this region. We highlight
the need for international diplomatic
efforts to end the underlying civil wars
in Syria and Afghanistan on terms that
address the conditions that have al-
lowed al-Qaida and ISIS to thrive. We
cannot repeat this mistake in Afghani-
stan.
I am aware there is some appetite on
both sides of the aisle to quickly reach
for the toolbox of sanctions. I myself
played a critical role in creating sanc-
tion regimes in the past, but I caution
us against developing a reflex to use
sanctions as our tool of first, last, and
only resort in implementing our for-
eign policy. Sanctions may play an im-
portant role in this process, and I am
open to the Senate considering them,
but we need to think extremely care-
fully before we employ the same tools
against a democratic NATO ally that
we would against the worst rogue
state.
Do we know what political impacts
such sanctions will have inside Tur-
key? Will they weaken President
Erdogan or rally the country to his
cause? Do we know the impact sanc-
tions will have on U.S. companies or on
the economies of our closest allies that
have deeply integrated their economies
with Turkey?
If we are going to use sanctions
against a democratic ally, we are going
to have to be careful. We are going to
have to be smart. We are going to have
to be thoughtful and deliberate. We
don’t want to further drive a NATO
ally into the arms of the Russians.
Serious conversations about the use
of sanctions must involve our col-
leagues on the Foreign Relations,
Banking, and Finance Committees to
ensure that this tool is used correctly.
The most important thing the Senate
can do right now is speak clearly and
reaffirm the core principles that unite
most of us, Republicans and Demo-
crats, about the proper role for Amer-
ican leadership in Syria, in the Middle
East, and, for that matter, in the
world.
We hope the damage in Syria can be
undone, but perhaps, even more impor-
tantly, we absolutely must take steps
so the same mistakes—the same mis-
takes are not repeated in Iraq or Af-
ghanistan.
I feel confident that my resolution is
a strong and sorely needed step. I feel
confident my colleagues will agree, and
I urge them to join me.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
PROTOCOL TO THE NORTH ATLAN-
TIC TREATY OF 1949 ON THE AC-
CESSION OF THE REPUBLIC OF
NORTH MACEDONIA
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to resume
consideration of the following treaty,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
Calendar No. 5, Treaty document No. 116–1,
Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty of 1949
on the Accession of the Republic of North
Macedonia.
Pending:
McConnell amendment No. 946, to change
the enactment date.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:55 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22OC6.001 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5933
October 22, 2019
McConnell amendment No. 947 (to amend-
ment No. 946), of a perfecting nature.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the time until 12
noon will be equally divided between
the two leaders or their designees.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
APPROPRIATIONS
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President,
the Republican leader in recent days
has charged that because the House of
Representatives is now engaged in its
constitutional duty to examine Presi-
dential wrongdoing, that somehow
Democrats are not interested in legis-
lating.
It is a curious criticism coming from
Leader MCCONNELL, Democrats not in-
terested in legislating, from the man
who proudly calls himself the ‘‘grim
reaper.’’ Since the midterms, the
Democratic House majority has passed
hundreds of bills with bipartisan sup-
port while Leader MCCONNELL has de-
liberately focused the Senate on any-
thing but legislation. He has turned
this Chamber into a legislative grave-
yard.
Democrats want to vote on things.
Gun safety, how about it? Healthcare,
how about it? Infrastructure, how
about it? Improving our democracy. On
none of these things will Leader
MCCONNELL even dare put a bill on the
floor, let alone the House bills, which
would have a chance of getting some-
thing done.
This very week, we have an example
of how Democrats plan to work with
our Republican colleagues to advance
legislation. The Republican leader has
indicated, finally, alas, that he may
bring several appropriations bills to
the floor this week. Democrats want to
move forward and debate those bills in
an open and vigorous fashion.
There are several appropriations bills
that don’t have any bipartisan support.
The Republican leader knows why. We
need to have bipartisan support on the
302(b)s, the allocations to the various
agencies, to move forward on bills like
Homeland Security and Health and
Human Services, Military Construc-
tion, and Defense. That negotiation, to
succeed, must be bipartisan. That is
what the history of this Chamber
shows. That is what commonsense and
logic shows. House leaders have sug-
gested a conference—Democrats and
Republicans, House and Senate—on
these 302(b)s. That is a good idea. If Re-
publicans are willing to engage with us
on 302(b)s, we get negotiations back on
track to fund the government.
In the meantime, Democrats want to
move forward on the noncontroversial
appropriation bills—the bills that have
had bipartisan agreement—and we hope
Leader MCCONNELL will allow a fair
and robust amendment process. It
would be nice to consider something on
the floor besides an endless parade of
rightwing judges—who side with a spe-
cial powerful interest, time and time
again, not working Americans—and
Executive appointments.
TURKEY AND SYRIA
Madam President, on Syria, today
the 5-day pause on hostilities in north-
ern Syria is set to come to an end.
What happens next is completely un-
known. Will Erdogan continue his mili-
tary incursion into Syria? Will the
Kurds—facing another Turkish offen-
sive—leave their posts guarding ISIS
prisoners to once again defend them-
selves, allowing ISIS prisoners, dan-
gerous to America, to escape? Will
Presidents Erdogan and Putin cut a
new deal that is bad for America and
our allies? Nobody knows the answer to
any of these.
What we do know is that the situa-
tion has rapidly deteriorated compared
to just a few weeks ago.
What caused this deterioration? One
thing: the President’s abrupt decision
to withdraw U.S. troops from the re-
gion after a phone call with President
Erdogan. When ISIS had been degraded
and more than 10,000 detainees—many
of them hardened ISIS fighters—were
under lock and key, to undo that is
putting America’s security at risk.
That is what President Trump has
done. This so-called tough warrior
backed off in a call with a much lesser
power, President Erdogan. He has done
this before. We don’t know how many
of these 10,000 detainees and their fami-
lies have escaped. We don’t know where
they have gone, nor is there any plan
to get them back into detention facili-
ties. These are dangerous people—dan-
gerous to our homeland, dangerous to
New York and Chicago and Miami and
Dallas and Denver and Los Angeles—
and we don’t know where they are or
what they are doing all because of
President Trump’s precipitous action. I
get excited about this—angrily excited,
negatively excited—because my city
has suffered from terrorists 7,000 miles
away, a small group, who did such
damage.
As the New York Times reported
after ISIS had been on the run, ‘‘Now,
analysts say that Mr. Trump’s pullout
[of U.S. troops from northern Syria]
has handed the Islamic State its big-
gest win in four years.’’
President Trump has handed ISIS its
biggest victory in 4 years. How can any
American support that? How can so
many of our Republican colleagues and
Republican supporters of President
Trump shrug their shoulders?
Let me repeat: President Trump’s
‘‘pullout has handed the Islamic State
its biggest win in more than four years
and greatly improved its prospects.’’
The President’s incompetence with
Erdogan and Syria has handed ISIS a
‘‘get out of jail free’’ card and has sim-
ply put American lives in danger. For
the sake of our national security,
President Trump and his administra-
tion need to get a handle on this situa-
tion.
I believe Senators from both parties
have been trying to get the administra-
tion’s top officials, including Secretary
of State Pompeo, Secretary of Defense
Esper, and General Milley, to give the
Senate a briefing on its Syria policy
and a plan to contain and further de-
grade ISIS. They canceled the sched-
uled briefing last week, pulled the plug
on a briefing that was supposed to be
this afternoon, and have so far refused
to commit to a new date. We need that
briefing to happen.
Secretary Pompeo, Secretary Esper,
General Milley, and CIA Director
Haspel have the responsibility to re-
port to Congress on what is happening
in this dangerous situation, and, once
again, this administration is with-
holding vital information. It is a dis-
grace. It is probably because they don’t
have a plan, so they don’t know what
to do. But bringing them here may help
formulate that plan or push them to
get a plan.
In the meantime, Democrats are set
to meet with Brett McGurk, the Presi-
dential envoy in charge of countering
ISIS, at a special meeting Wednesday
so that we can try to come up with
some answers, even though it should be
the administration doing that.
The American people should be very
concerned that the Trump administra-
tion does not seem to have any plan to
secure the enduring defeat of ISIS in
Syria. Senate Democrats will try to
learn as much as possible from the ex-
perts available to us—folks like Mr.
McGurk—but, ultimately, the Presi-
dent alone has the authority to correct
our Nation’s course.
So it is still very important for the
Senate to pass the House resolution
condemning the President’s decision to
precipitously withdraw from northern
Syria. The President tends to listen
when the Republicans here in Congress
express their disapproval. That is what
happened in the House, where over 120
Republicans voted with Democrats on a
bipartisan resolution, including Lead-
ers MCCARTHY, SCALISE, and CHENEY,
hard-war Republicans, but at least
they knew how bad this was for Amer-
ica. I wish our Senate Republican col-
leagues would have shown the same bit
of courage that MCCARTHY, SCALISE,
and CHENEY showed.
If the House resolution is tough
enough for House Republican leader-
ship, surely it is good enough for the
majority of Senate Republicans. So we
will keep trying to pass the House reso-
lution here in the Senate because it
means we could send a bill to the Presi-
dent’s desk that shows him a bipar-
tisan majority of Congress is against
his reckless decision to consider it in
Syria. This is extremely, extremely
troubling, and I am very angry—very
angry.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:55 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22OC6.003 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5934 October 22, 2019
CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW ACT
Madam President, later this week,
Senate Democrats are going to use
their authority under the Congres-
sional Review Act to force a vote to re-
peal the IRS’s harmful rule that effec-
tively eliminates State charitable tax
credits all across the country.
I know my Republican colleagues
want to frame this CRA vote as a vote
on the State and local tax credit cap
they put in place in tax reform. I dis-
agree. I vehemently disagree with that
policy and will look to change it as
soon as possible.
It has hurt so many people who are
middle class and not wealthy in New
York and also in suburbs throughout
the country. By the way, it is probably
one of the major reasons the House
flipped from Republican to Democrats.
So many of those districts in New Jer-
sey, California, New York, and Penn-
sylvania were affected by the SALT
cap, and people throughout rebelled
against their Republican Congress, and
they put new people in.
But it affects other things as well.
The regulation we will be voting on im-
pacts State charitable credits virtually
across every State, ranging in areas
from education to conservation, to
child care, and more.
Do not take my word for it. In Ken-
tucky, the Community Foundation of
Louisville, a major philanthropic orga-
nization, has warned that IRS’s rule
will effectively extinguish the endowed
Kentucky program, which has gen-
erated more than $31 million in chari-
table donations.
Look at South Carolina, where my
friend Senator GRAHAM has made clear
that this rule will have devastating
consequences for the South Carolina
Research Authority, which helps start-
up companies in his State create new
jobs.
Let’s go to Colorado, where the Boys
and Girls Club of Chafee County
warned that ‘‘these proposed regula-
tions will severely limit the effective-
ness of our Colorado Chile Care Con-
tribution Tax Credit,’’ which they say
will ‘‘limit our ability to address an
issue which is fundamental to the eco-
nomic health of the community.’’ The
list goes on and on.
I ask my Republican colleagues, be-
fore we vote on the CRA tomorrow, to
look at how it affects their State, not
just in terms of State and local taxes
but charitable contributions, edu-
cation, homeschool, and many other
areas.
The vote is about getting rid of an
IRS rule that hinders State programs,
like the ones I have mentioned. My Re-
publican colleagues have always pro-
claimed that they are defenders of
States’ rights and the 10th Amend-
ment. Here is an opportunity for them
to walk the walk and to stop the IRS
from making life harder on both tax-
payers and local economies. I urge
them to vote with us to repeal this
rule.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority whip.
PRESCRIPTION DRUG COSTS
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, over
in the House today, the Ways and
Means Committee is marking up
Speaker PELOSI’s drug bill, the latest
installment in Democrats’ campaign
for government-run healthcare.
Like Democrats’ other plan for gov-
ernment takeover of healthcare, the
so-called Medicare for All vote, the
Pelosi drug bill will ultimately leave
Americans worse off when it comes to
access to care.
There is no question that the Amer-
ican healthcare system isn’t perfect.
High drug costs are a problem, and one
in four seniors reports difficulty afford-
ing medications. Stories of patients
being forced to ration pills or abandon
their prescriptions at the pharmacy
counter are unacceptable, but upending
the entire American healthcare system
is not the answer.
A strong majority of Americans are
happy with their health insurance cov-
erage and the quality of the healthcare
they receive. Americans have access to
treatments that individuals in other
countries simply don’t have access to.
Take cancer drugs, for example. Be-
tween 2011 and 2018, 82 new cancer
drugs became available. U.S. patients
have access to 96 percent of those new
drugs. In Germany, by contrast, pa-
tients have access to just 73 percent of
those new cancer drugs. In France, it is
just 66 percent, and in Japan, patients
have access to only 54 percent of these
new cancer drugs. In other words, Jap-
anese patients are missing out on ac-
cess to roughly half of the new cancer
drugs that emerged between 2011 and
2018.
So why do Americans have such tre-
mendous access to new drugs while
other countries trail behind? Because
the U.S. Government doesn’t dictate
drug prices or drug coverage. That is
also the reason American companies
lead the world in medical innovation.
Back in 1986, investment in drug re-
search by European drug companies ex-
ceeded U.S. investment by approxi-
mately 24 percent, but all of that
changed—all of that changed—when
European governments stepped in and
started imposing price controls.
Today, European investment in drug
research and development is almost 40
percent lower than U.S. investment. It
was 24 percent higher in 1968, and,
today, it is 40 percent lower.
Speaker PELOSI’s bill would start the
process of destroying the system that
has produced so much access and inno-
vation for American patients. Her leg-
islation would impose government
price controls on as many as 250 medi-
cations.
If progressives in her caucus have
their way, the bill would impose gov-
ernment price controls on all medica-
tions. Either way, the result is likely
to look much the same as we have seen
before—reduced access to lifesaving
treatments and substantially reduced
investment for the prescription drug
breakthroughs of the future.
Under the Pelosi bill, Americans
could look forward to a future where
we might be the ones losing out on a
quarter or more of the new cancer
drugs that are coming to market.
There is no question that we need to
find solutions to drive down drug costs,
but the answer to the problem of high
drug costs is not to destroy the system
that has given American patients ac-
cess to so many new cures and treat-
ments.
Republicans want to develop bipar-
tisan legislation focused on lowering
prescription drug costs without—with-
out—destroying the American system
of access and innovation.
The Senate Finance Committee, the
Senate Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions Committee, and the Senate
Judiciary Committee have spent a lot
of time this year working on this issue,
and work on truly bipartisan solutions
remains ongoing.
Earlier this year, House committees
advanced drug pricing legislation on a
bipartisan basis, but, unfortunately,
House Democrats have made it clear
that they are more interested in play-
ing politics than in cooperating on leg-
islation to address the challenges that
are facing American families.
Democrats know that the Pelosi drug
bill has no chance of passing the Sen-
ate, but they have chosen to pursue
this socialist fantasy instead of work-
ing with Republicans to develop a bi-
partisan prescription drug bill that
isn’t just price controls and that might
actually go somewhere.
Like the Democrats’ larger socialist
fantasy, Medicare for All, the Pelosi
drug bill will ultimately hurt the very
people it is supposed to help, in this
case, by restricting their access to life-
saving drugs and future prescription
drug innovations. The Pelosi drug bill
is a bad prescription for the American
people.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
DRUG CAUCUS HEARING
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, this
Congress, I have the great honor of
cochairing the Senate Caucus on Inter-
national Narcotics with my friend and
colleague from California, Senator
FEINSTEIN.
As our country continues to battle
the scourge of the opioid epidemic,
fight drug trafficking at our borders,
and attack illicit drug sources abroad,
the work of this caucus could not be
more timely or more important. We
must do more, I believe, to treat addic-
tion, and we need to do more to stop
Americans from using illegal drugs in
the first instance.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:55 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22OC6.004 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5935
October 22, 2019
Earlier this year, we had a hearing to
examine the global narcotics epi-
demic—and it is a global one—and dis-
cuss our country’s counternarcotics
strategy. At this first hearing, we were
lucky to have the Secretary of State,
Mike Pompeo, as a witness. He spoke
in depth about the scope of this prob-
lem and how the State Department is
working with our friends and allies
abroad to curb the supply of these il-
licit drugs. We learned a lot from Sec-
retary Pompeo and our other expert
witnesses about the complexity of this
problem and a need for a whole-of-gov-
ernment approach. It was a strong way
to kick off our agenda.
I am looking forward to our second
hearing tomorrow, which I will talk
about briefly, where we will have ex-
perts testifying on the public health ef-
fects of the most commonly used illicit
drug—marijuana.
A 2018 report found that an estimated
43.5 million Americans used marijuana
in the last year. That is the highest
percentage since 2002. While marijuana
is still a prohibited drug under Federal
law, we know that more than half of
the States have legalized it in some
form, making the rise in usage not all
that surprising.
Now, there is no shortage of people
who claim that marijuana has endless
health benefits and can help patients
struggling with everything from epi-
lepsy to anxiety to cancer treatments.
This reminds me of some of the adver-
tising we saw from the tobacco indus-
try years ago where they actually
claimed public health benefits from
smoking tobacco, which we know, as a
matter of fact, were false and that to-
bacco contains nicotine, an addictive
drug, and is implicated with cancers of
different kinds.
We are hearing a lot of the same
happy talk with regard to marijuana
and none of the facts that we need to
understand about the public health im-
pact of marijuana use. We have heard
from folks here in Congress, as well as
a number of our Democratic colleagues
who are running for President, about
their desire to legalize marijuana at
the Federal level. But for the number
of voices in support of legalization,
there are even more unanswered ques-
tions about both the short-term and
long-term public health effects.
Between 1995 and 2014, THC con-
centration—that is the active ingre-
dient in marijuana—has increased
threefold, making today’s version of
the drug far stronger and more addict-
ive than ever before. It is true that for
some people marijuana can indeed be
addictive.
There has been an effort throughout
the medical and scientific communities
to learn more about the public health
effects of marijuana use, but the re-
sults of these studies haven’t provided
any definitive evidence. I must say
that among all the discussion at the
State and Federal level about mari-
juana use and its benefits and its haz-
ards, Congress really hasn’t had an op-
portunity to soberly and deliberately
consider this question, which, hope-
fully, we will be enlightened about to-
morrow, about what the public health
benefits are of this trend in our coun-
try.
A few years ago, the National Acad-
emy of Sciences convened an expert
committee to review the health effects
of cannabis and cannabis-derived prod-
ucts. The committee members were ex-
perts in the fields of marijuana and ad-
diction, as well as pediatric and adoles-
cent health, neurodevelopment, public
health, and a range of other areas.
Their findings were released in Janu-
ary of 2017, and while I will not read
you the entire 468-page document, I
will tell you that it raised more ques-
tions than it provided answers.
For many of the claimed medicinal
uses of marijuana, the committee
found that there was insufficient evi-
dence to conclude its effectiveness,
which is a pretty basic question. The
benefits aren’t the only thing clouded
in mystery—so are the risks. There is
simply a lack of scientific evidence to
determine the link between marijuana
and various health risks. That is some-
thing, I would think, Congress and the
American people would want to know
before we proceed further down this
path.
This is especially concerning when it
comes to marijuana’s youngest users
and the impact, for example, on the ad-
olescent brain as it develops. We don’t
know enough about how this could im-
pair cognitive function or capacity or
increase the risk of mental illness or
perhaps serve as a gateway for other
drugs that are even more damaging to
the health of a young person.
With increasing use and a growing
number of States giving the green light
for marijuana use, we need better an-
swers. At our hearing tomorrow, I am
eager to dive into this subject and
learn more from our witnesses to help
us fill the knowledge gaps that exist
when it comes to this subject.
We are honored to have Surgeon Gen-
eral Jerome Adams among our distin-
guished witnesses. Surgeon General
Adams has raised concerns in the past
about the increasing use of rec-
reational marijuana among adolescents
and its impact on the development of
cognitive functions in a growing and
developing brain.
We will also hear from Nora Volkow,
who is the director of the National In-
stitute on Drug Abuse.
Our second panel includes experts in
the fields of psychiatry, psychology,
pathology, and epidemiology. So we
will get a holistic look at the potential
health implications. There is simply
too much we don’t know about the
risks and the claimed benefits of mari-
juana use, and I am looking forward to
hearing from our witnesses tomorrow
to get a better sense of the facts as
Congress contemplates future legisla-
tion.
I appreciate the bipartisan commit-
ment of my colleagues on the com-
mittee, particularly the cochair of the
Caucus on International Narcotics Con-
trol, Senator FEINSTEIN, so that we can
get to the bottom of the risks and ben-
efits associated with marijuana use,
and I believe tomorrow it will get us
moving in the right direction.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SCOTT of Florida). Without objection,
it is so ordered.
ELECTION SECURITY
Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I
come to the floor today to urge the
Senate to take action on election secu-
rity legislation immediately.
It has been 1,005 days since Russia at-
tacked our elections in 2016, and we
have yet to pass any kind of com-
prehensive election security reform.
The next major elections are just 378
days away, so the clock is ticking. We
must take action now to secure our
elections from foreign threats.
Let’s review what happened.
In 2016, Russia invaded our democ-
racy. They didn’t use bombs, jets, or
tanks. Instead, they spent years plan-
ning a cyber mission to undermine the
foundation of our democratic system.
This mission has been called ‘‘sweep-
ing’’ and ‘‘systematic’’ by many, in-
cluding Special Counsel Mueller. Our
military and intelligence officials from
both Democratic and Republican ad-
ministrations, as well as Special Coun-
sel Mueller, made clear and confirmed
over and over again that Russia
launched sophisticated and targeted
cyber attacks that were authorized by
President Putin. This includes former
Director Coats, President Trump’s
former intelligence head; Director
Wray, the head of the FBI; and the
head of Homeland Security. One by
one, officials in the Trump administra-
tion have confirmed that this hap-
pened.
What exactly did Russia do? They
conducted research and reconnaissance
against election networks in every sin-
gle State. We used to think it was just
21 States, but this year, the FBI and
the Department of Homeland Security
under the Trump administration issued
a report that confirmed that all 50
States were targeted.
Russia was successful in hacking into
databases in Illinois. The Chicago
board of elections reported that names,
addresses, birth dates, and other sen-
sitive information on thousands of reg-
istered voters were exposed. Russia
launched cyber attacks against U.S.
companies that made the software we
use to vote, and they tried to hack into
the email of local officials who have
elections in their purview.
Investigations are ongoing, but we
know Russia hacked into election sys-
tems in the Presiding Officer’s home
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:55 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22OC6.006 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5936 October 22, 2019
State of Florida. Senator RUBIO has
publicly confirmed that Russian hack-
ers not only accessed voting systems in
Florida but were in a position to
change voter rolls.
These are just the attacks on our
election infrastructure.
So we should look at it this way: No.
1, they tried to get into the infrastruc-
ture. No. 2, we know they spread propa-
ganda about things. One of the main
ways they did that was through social
media. This month, the Senate Intel-
ligence Committee released a bipar-
tisan report detailing Russia’s wide-
spread social media campaign to spread
disinformation and divide our country.
Remember, you have hacking into
things at the local level and at the
State levels, and then you have this
disinformation campaign. These are
two things with the same intent—to
interfere in our democracy.
Think about what I just described. A
foreign country attacked our democ-
racy in multiple ways. Our military
leaders and law enforcement officials
all say that Russia hasn’t paid a suffi-
cient price for the attack, so they are
now ‘‘emboldened,’’ in the words of
former Director Dan Coats—a former
Republican Senator—in continuing ef-
forts to undermine our political sys-
tem.
Congress hasn’t passed a law—aside
from providing election equipment
funding with no strings attached—to
address the problem. This isn’t just
wrong; this is legislative malpractice.
We have a common set of facts about
what happened. Now we need common-
sense solutions to make sure it doesn’t
happen again.
This week, a number of us are com-
ing to the floor to urge the Republican
leader to bring election security legis-
lation to a vote. That must happen, but
much more must happen as well.
Today, I am going to focus on the
need to improve transparency and ac-
countability for online platforms like
Facebook and Twitter, but before I
turn to that, I would like to take a mo-
ment to describe why it is imperative
that we update our election infrastruc-
ture.
Right now, the majority of States
rely on electronic voting systems that
are at least 10 years old. In 2020, voters
in eight States will cast their ballots
on machines with no paper trail, so
there will be no reliable record to go
back and audit the election results. So
if something goes wrong, if they hack
in, there will be no paper ballots to
back up what actually happened. Prob-
lems for that State or that county?
Yes. Well, how about problems for our
national Presidential election?
By the way, am I telling any secrets?
No. Russia knows exactly which States
and counties don’t have backup paper
ballots.
Sixteen States have no statewide
audit requirement to confirm the re-
sults of the election. These statistics
are alarming because experts agree
that paper ballots and audits are the
baseline of what we need to secure our
election system.
FBI Director Wray recently testified
in the Senate. I asked him whether he
thinks having things like paper ballots
makes sense in the event that Russia—
or any other foreign country, for that
matter—decides to go at us again. He
said, yes, that would be a good thing.
Maybe we should think of listening to
the head of the FBI and figure out
what we can do to make this better.
Even the President has expressed his
support for paper ballots. But I think
we need more than words; I think we
need action. We need this body to say
to those States: It is time to get your
act together now and get those backup
paper ballots.
I have introduced multiple pieces of
legislation—some of them bipartisan—
that would secure our election by re-
quiring paper ballots, mandating post-
election audits, and modernizing our
election infrastructure. One of those
bills, the Secure Election Act, is co-
sponsored by my colleague Senator
LANKFORD and also by the head of the
Intelligence Committee, Senator BURR,
and Senator WARNER, the ranking
member, as well as Senator GRAHAM,
the chair of the Judiciary Committee,
and Senator HARRIS is also a cosponsor.
In spite of all of these leaders being on
this bill, it was blocked last year by
Senator MCCONNELL, who made calls,
along with the White House general
counsel, to Republican Senators asking
them not to support the bill. This is
wrong.
I am glad that my colleagues Sen-
ators WYDEN and DURBIN will be com-
ing to the floor this week urging the
Senate to take up the bills, such as the
bills I introduced, the SAFE Act and
the Election Security Act, that would
modernize our election infrastructure.
Remember, Russia didn’t just try to
hack into our elections system; they
also launched an extended and sophisti-
cated information war designed to di-
vide our country and destroy America’s
confidence in our political system.
Russia also knew that our social media
platforms would be easily exploited for
that purpose.
I am going to ask unanimous consent
to pass this bill, which is a bipartisan
bill that I lead along with Senator
GRAHAM, the Republican chair of the
Judiciary Committee, and that is also
cosponsored by Senator WARNER, the
ranking leader on the Intelligence
Committee.
Why are we doing this bill about the
social media platforms? Well, the place
where Russia was most successful in
undermining our democracy was right
there in front of you on your Facebook
page. We know that some of the bright-
est minds in our country built remark-
able platforms where people can share
information, like Twitter, Google, and
Facebook. Unfortunately, these plat-
forms failed to build adequate protec-
tions against the bad guys, kind of like
building a bank but not putting any
locks on the doors, and our democracy
is worse because of it.
Our social media platforms are not
well regulated. In fact, they are hardly
regulated at all and are ripe for exploi-
tation. Countries like Russia, Iran,
North Korea, and China are taking ad-
vantage of that as we speak.
The Senate Intelligence Committee,
led by Chairman BURR and Vice Chair-
man WARNER, recently released its sec-
ond report on Russian interference in
the 2016 election. This wasn’t a par-
tisan report. No one could call it that
at all.
The first report details attacks and
threats to election infrastructure. This
second report details the sophisticated
disinformation campaign Russia used
to pit Americans against each other,
and the committee found that Russia’s
targeting of the 2016 U.S. Presidential
election was ‘‘part of a broader, sophis-
ticated, and ongoing information war-
fare campaign designed to sow discord
in American politics and society.’’ The
report notes that Russia conducted ‘‘a
vastly more complex and strategic as-
sault on the United States than was
initially understood.’’
What did they do? They hired trolls.
They hired buildings full of people to
go online and pretend to be Americans
and then submit things and buy things
and buy ads that ended up on your
Facebook pages and your Twitter feed.
Russia specifically focused on hot-but-
ton issues and used falsified stories and
memes to foster distrust of our demo-
cratic institutions. So maybe they
would target a conservative person and
put up a bunch of things that would
make that person mad, but they were
fake or maybe they would target a lib-
eral person, and they would put up a
bunch of ads about rallies and about
things like that which were actually
fake.
They targeted African-Americans
more than any other group through in-
dividual posts, location targeting,
Facebook pages, Instagram accounts,
and Twitter. Their internet research
agency focused on stoking divisions
around race.
One of my best examples is an ad
that they bought in rubles. Facebook
let them buy it in rubles. It was an ad
that we didn’t even see until months
after the election. It had an innocent
woman’s face on it. I know because she
called our office later when it came out
in Judiciary. She was just a woman.
They found her face—an African-Amer-
ican woman—and put it on the ad. The
ad reads: Why wait in line on election
day? You can text your vote for Hillary
Clinton. They gave the text number.
That is a lie. It is more than a lie. It is
a crime. They are trying to suppress
people’s votes and make them not go
vote, and instead, text to a fake num-
ber. That is a crime. People have gone
to jail for simply jamming the lines on
election day. That is what this is. It is
a high-tech version of a crime. No one
was prosecuted because we didn’t even
know the ad existed that was targeting
African-American Facebook pages in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:55 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22OC6.007 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5937
October 22, 2019
swing States until way after the elec-
tion. They could do the same thing on
the conservative side of the aisle.
That is why I am simply asking for
some solution, because one time it is
going to be one side, and the next time
it will be the other. Why would the
people in this Chamber let this go on?
Why would we do that? We have sworn
and taken an oath—an obligation—to
stand up for our country. That is what
this is about.
It continues. Intelligence officials
are once again sounding the alarm that
adversaries are using social media to
undermine the upcoming elections.
Just yesterday, Facebook announced
that it removed a network of Russian-
backed accounts posing as locals
weighing in on political issues in swing
States. It never ends. Russia has a
playbook, and they are using it to at-
tack us. We have to stop them. How do
we do that? Well, I have a very good so-
lution. It is not the only solution.
There are a lot of other bills we can do
too.
But this is called the Honest Ads Act,
which I am leading with Senator GRA-
HAM. I want to thank Senator WARNER
for all the work he did on this bill as
well. The goal is simple: Bring our laws
into the 21st century to ensure that
voters know who is paying to influence
our political system. Right now, the
political ads that are sold on TV, radio,
and newspapers are disclosed so that
the public knows what they are. They
are actually kept in an archive so cam-
paigns and reporters can go over and
see what they are. They can actually
figure out what this ad is and why
somebody was putting this ad against
me. I believe in the competitiveness of
our election system, and if you disclose
things, then, you are going to get more
information about what is wrong with
those things.
The ads also have to say who paid for
them. That is why you see those little
disclaimers at the bottom or you see
elected officials or their challengers
saying who paid for this ad: My name
is this; I paid for this ad. That is what
that is.
Guess what. If those things go on
radio, TV, or newspaper, you have to
follow all those rules. If they end up on
Facebook or Twitter or another large
social media platform, there are no
rules in play. Sure, a few of those com-
panies right now are voluntarily dis-
closing it, but there are no actual rules
in place about how it should be done.
When I asked them why they
wouldn’t favor the bill, some of them
have since changed their minds and do
favor it, but when I asked at the begin-
ning, they said they couldn’t figure out
what an issue of Federal legislative im-
portance is. That is what the standard
is. It is about candidate ads and the
issue ads that you see on TV that bug
you all the time. When asked about ads
and why they couldn’t do it, they said
they couldn’t figure out what that was.
I said: Really? My radio station in
Deep River Falls, MN, can figure it out.
These are some of the biggest compa-
nies in the world. Please tell me you
don’t have the expertise to figure that
out.
That is why it is important that we
pass this bill. It is about issue ads, and
it is also about candidate ads. All it
does is this. As we look at where the
money is going to go in advertising, in
the last 2016 Presidential election, $1.4
billion was spent online on these kinds
of ads. It is supposed to go to $3 billion
or $4 billion in 2020, and there are no
rules of the road. It is not only unfair,
but it is criminal if this continues.
It is so easy to do. This is something
we could fix right away. This is why
John McCain led this bill with me.
When we introduced it, he said:
I have long fought to increase trans-
parency and end the corrupting influence of
special interests in political campaigns, and
I am confident the Honest Ads Act will mod-
ernize existing law to safeguard the integrity
of our election system.
This Congress, as I mentioned, Sen-
ator GRAHAM took his place. It is time
to get this done. There are many other
bills that I will come back and discuss
in the next few weeks that would help
on foreign influence in our elections,
but, today, I want to focus on this one
because election security is national
security, and it is well past time that
we take action. The American people
should expect nothing less from us. We
should be able to get this done.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—S. 1356
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the Committee on Rules and
Administration be discharged from fur-
ther consideration of S. 1356 and the
Senate proceed to its immediate con-
sideration; further, that the bill be
considered read a third time and passed
and the motion to reconsider be consid-
ered made and laid upon the table with
no intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
The Senate majority whip.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, there are
Members who object to this. They can’t
be here to object on their own behalf. I
object on their behalf.
I say to the Senator from Minnesota
that, like her, I also want to do every-
thing we can to ensure that our elec-
tions are fair and transparent in this
country. I think there are a number of
solutions, as she pointed out, that are
out there. I think there is a lot of good
work that is being done and can be
done, hopefully, on a bipartisan basis.
As a former chairman of the Senate
Commerce Committee, I have worked
with the Senator from Minnesota on a
number of issues where we have been
able to fashion solutions that are bi-
partisan in nature. I suspect work on
this will continue.
As I mentioned, we have a couple of
Members on our side who do have ob-
jections to the bill in its current form
or the process of trying to do it this
way. I do think there is a way in which
we can come together and work toward
solutions that will help do what I think
all of us have as an objective, and that
is to keep our election process in this
country fair and transparent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The Senator from Minnesota.
Ms. KLOBUCHAR. I appreciate the
words from my colleague from South
Dakota. I point out that the act is a bi-
partisan bill, with the other cosponsor
being the Republican chair of the Judi-
ciary Committee, and I think we
should be focused on election security
instead of protecting these social
media companies. I think we should be
protecting the American people.
We need to be a united front. I appre-
ciate his words, and I look forward to
working with him to get this bill to the
floor.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
ELECTION SECURITY ACT
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, the
Mueller report made crystal clear that
the Russian Government interfered in
the Presidential election of the United
States of America in the year 2016.
They called it a ‘‘sweeping and system-
atic fashion’’ of interference.
I know this better than some be-
cause, in my home State of Illinois, the
Russian intelligence service literally
hacked into our State Board of Elec-
tions’ voter file and gained access to a
database containing information on
millions of voters in my State. Then
the Russians extracted the data on
thousands of those voters. They also
targeted other State election authori-
ties, county governments, and election
equipment and technology vendors.
Federal law enforcement and intel-
ligence officers have repeatedly warned
us that these interference efforts will
continue into the election of 2020. In
fact, former KGB Agent Vladimir
Putin recently mocked us and openly
joked that Russia would definitely
interfere again in the U.S. elections.
Congress cannot sit back and ignore
this threat. We must take action to
help State and local election officials
prepare for the 2020 elections and those
beyond.
I am pleased that the leader, MITCH
MCCONNELL, of Kentucky, finally re-
lented on his opposition to any further
funding to assist State and local elec-
tion officials with election security ef-
forts. Yet the $250 million included in
the fiscal year 2020 Financial Services
and General Government appropria-
tions bill is clearly inadequate. We
need to boldly invest in our election se-
curity. It is literally the cornerstone of
our democracy, and we need to provide
sustained funding to State and local
election officials so they may respond
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:55 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22OC6.008 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5938 October 22, 2019
to these threats that are far beyond
any State’s capacity to deal with.
There are 40 of us who cosponsored
the Election Security Act that Senator
AMY KLOBUCHAR, of Minnesota, intro-
duced in May. I was proud to join her
as one of the original cosponsors.
The legislation would provide critical
resources to election officials through
an initial $1 billion investment in our
election infrastructure, followed by
$175 million every 2 years for infra-
structure maintenance. It would also
require the use of voter-verified paper
ballots, strengthen the Federal re-
sponse to election interference, and es-
tablish accountability measures for
election technology vendors.
Let me bring this down to Earth in
simple words. If we cannot trust the
outcome of an election to accurately
reflect the feelings of those in Amer-
ica, we have lost the cornerstone of our
democracy. There are nations, includ-
ing Russia, that have proven they are
doing everything in their power to stop
us from having safe, accurate election
counts.
The question for this Senate and for
this Congress is, Do we care? Do we
care enough to spend the resources so
our States can protect the integrity of
voters? I am not just talking about
blue States from the Democratic side
of the aisle. Every State, red and blue
alike, would benefit from this legisla-
tion. If the Republicans want to dem-
onstrate that they are joining us in
putting country over party, they
should join us today and protect our
democracy by passing this legislation.
I have been asked to make a unani-
mous consent request at this point be-
fore I finish my remarks, and I thank
the Senator from Louisiana for being
on the floor.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—S. 1540
Mr. President, as in legislative ses-
sion, I ask unanimous consent that the
Committee on Rules and Administra-
tion be discharged from further consid-
eration of S. 1540, the Election Secu-
rity Act; that the Senate proceed to its
immediate consideration; that the bill
be read a third time and passed; and
that the motion to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table
with no intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
The Senator from Louisiana.
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, in re-
serving the right to object and with all
of the respect I can muster, this bill
has more red flags than the Chinese
Embassy. Despite my great admiration
for the senior Senator from Illinois, I
am objecting for three reasons.
The first reason I can best explain by
telling you a story.
An oilman was talking to his banker
one day, and the banker said: Mr.
Oilman, you know, the bank loaned
you $1 million to rework all of your old
oil wells, and they went dry.
The oilman said: It could have been
worse.
The banker said to the oilman: Mr.
Oilman, we loaned you a second $1 mil-
lion to drill brandnew wells, and they
all went dry. What do you say about
that?
The oilman said: It could have been
worse.
Then the banker said to the oilman:
Our bank loaned you a third $1 million
to buy new drilling equipment, and it
all broke down. What do you say about
that?
The oilman said: It could have been
worse.
The banker was now very upset. He
said: What do you mean it could have
been worse? We loaned you $3 million,
and you lost all of it. What do you
mean it could have been worse?
The oilman said: It could have been
my money.
The cost of this bill is $1 billion—
nine zeros. If I started counting to a
billion right now by one numeral a sec-
ond, I wouldn’t finish until 2051. I
would be dead as a doornail. I wouldn’t
make it. A billion is a lot. We toss
around ‘‘a billion’’ these days like it
was a nickel. A billion seconds ago, it
was 1986. Ronald Reagan was President.
That is how much a billion is. A billion
minutes ago, the Romans were con-
quering Mesopotamia. As I made the
point the other day on the Senate
floor, a billion hours ago, the
Neanderthals were roaming the Earth.
A billion is a lot.
We have a $22 trillion deficit—12
zeros. We have to pay this money back.
I am running out of space, and we are
probably going to run out of digits if
we keep borrowing.
My first concern is the money. Now,
if we had not given any money to our
colleagues at the State level, that
would have been one thing. Yet, as my
good friend knows, 2 years ago, we gave
the States $380 million to combat elec-
tion fraud. They haven’t even spent it
all yet. So, yes, I have concerns about
the money.
Point No. 2, we did have problems in
2016, and I join the senior Senator in
wanting to do everything we possibly
can to keep it from happening again,
which we did in 2018. We all had a clas-
sified briefing down in our room. I
don’t know the particular name of it,
but it is in the Capitol Visitor Center.
It is classified. You have to leave your
phone and your iPad outside. We had
the Director of National Intelligence
there and the FBI Director, and I think
we had every general there from the
Western Hemisphere. We went over the
2018 elections. They went off without a
hitch.
Have you read any articles about our
having problems in 2018 like we had in
2016? No. Do you think if we had prob-
lems in 2018 that the members of our
press would have pounced on it like a
ninja? Yes. Yet you haven’t seen those
articles because 2018 went off without a
hitch. This was, in part, because we
gave the States $380 million to solve
the problem, and they have not spent it
all. So a reasonable person would won-
der why we would want to give them
another $1 billion of American tax-
payer money at this juncture.
We also asked the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence, the FBI, and every
general who was there: Are you ready
for 2020? Every single one of them said,
categorically, unequivocally, uncondi-
tionally, yes. Every single Senator,
both my Republican friends and my
Democratic friends, walked out of that
classified hearing impressed.
The third reason I, regretfully, have
to object to this bill—and I am not as-
cribing this intention to the Senator
from Illinois. I am not—is that some of
my friends on Capitol Hill would like
nothing better than to take over elec-
tions in America, to have our election
system federalized. Right now, we
don’t have one election system; we
have 50 election systems. Every State
runs its elections its own way, usually
by the Secretary of State. Now, I be-
lieve that is a matter of federalism. I
don’t see anywhere in the U.S. Con-
stitution or in the Federalist Papers
where it reads the U.S. Government
ought to be running elections for
States.
No. 2, our States do a great job. Yes,
we had a lot of activity on Facebook
and Google and within other aspects of
social media, but we haven’t heard one
allegation—or at least any proof of an
allegation—that any votes were stolen
in 2016, much less in 2018. That is be-
cause our Secretaries of State did a
good job. It is also safer to have every
Secretary of State and every State in
charge of its own election system be-
cause, if a foreign government wants to
hack your system, it has to go to 50 dif-
ferent States. It has to do it 50 times.
If we nationalize elections—yet again,
give the Federal Government more
power—all a foreign national has to do
is to hack one system.
Again, I am not ascribing this motive
or this intent to my good friend from
Illinois. I am not. Yet there are some
who would like nothing better than to
nationalize State elections and have
them run by the Federal Government.
Then the Federal Government could
tell the States what to do—what kinds
of machines to use, whether they need
paper ballots, how to order the ballots.
If they have electric machines and one
has to walk into a booth, the Federal
Government could tell the States what
kinds of and what color of curtains
they would have to have. Then they
would have a Federal agency get in-
volved, and it would start promul-
gating regulations. Before you would
know it, casting a vote would be like
building a bridge.
It is a matter of federalism. Those
who disagree with me will say: Oh,
KENNEDY. You are exaggerating. This
bill doesn’t do that. It doesn’t fed-
eralize elections.
Yes, it does.
Do you know how we federalize
things around here? We get the object
of the federalization hooked on the
money. Those who want the Federal
Government to run everything never
go right at it. They sneak up on them.
We say we are going to give them $380
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:55 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22OC6.010 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5939
October 22, 2019
million, and they get a little addicted.
Then we are going to give them $1 bil-
lion, and they get a little more ad-
dicted. Sooner or later, they are ad-
dicted to the money, and then the Fed-
eral Government has got them.
And that is what worries me about
this bill.
I am going to offer another bill after
we are done today that I hope my good
friend from Illinois will at least con-
sider supporting. This bill is not going
to cost $1 billion, I can assure you.
This bill is going to require the chief
election official of every State—usu-
ally, that is the Secretary of State, as
the senior Senator knows better than
me—to disclose to the Election Assist-
ance Commission the identity of any
known foreign national who has phys-
ically handled ballots, machines, or has
had unmonitored access to storage fa-
cilities or tabulation centers used to
support elections or unmonitored ac-
cess to election-related information or
communication technology.
What does that really mean? That
means that if a foreign national at any
stage of the chain of custody has access
to the machine or has access to the
ballot, that has to be disclosed.
Now, if you want to do something to
stop foreign nationals from interfering
with our elections, we don’t need to
spend $1 billion. We need to pass this
bill.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, is there
an objection?
Mr. KENNEDY. Yes, sir. I am getting
to that.
For the reasons I described and with
great respect for the senior Senator
from Illinois, I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak for 5 min-
utes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. DURBIN. First, let me say this. I
do respect the Senator from Louisiana.
We have been cosponsors on important
legislation. I hope we will be again. We
see eye-to-eye on many things but not
on this bill.
A billion dollars? The Federal Gov-
ernment spends $1,500 billion every
year. Is the integrity of our voting sys-
tem worth $1 billion?
Do you know what it has cost us to
reach this point in our history where
our democracy is reliable and respected
around the world? It has cost more
than money. It has cost the lives of
men and women who went to war to
fight for that, to make sure that we
had the last word when it came to the
future of our democracy.
A billion dollars is an overwhelming
number; right? Divide it by 50, and un-
derstand what is at stake here. What is
at stake here is whether we care
enough to invest money in our election
process—not with Federal mandates.
We say to the States: You decide how
to spend it. You have the authority
over the State election procedure and
the color of the curtain on your booth.
If you want to mandate that by State
law, be my guest.
But what it comes down to—and I
have to disagree with my friend from
Louisiana—is that the money we have
sent to the States already has all been
obligated, and it is going through the
purchasing and procurement policies of
each of the States. It isn’t as if they
can’t figure out what to do with it.
Upgrading our voting machines to
make sure that they reflect technology
today makes a difference. Have you
bought a new cell phone recently? Have
you watched any ads on television
talking about the security of your cell
phone? Have you listened to anyone
talk about the privacy of you as an in-
dividual? It is because every single day,
every single minute, and every second
someone is trying to figure out how to
get into your mind and into your life,
and we are trying to keep technology
up with this reality.
Now, what is the reality of the tech-
nology we use for voting? In my State,
we have paper ballots to verify what is
actually cast, but our technology is 20
years old. The Russians know that; the
Iranians know that; and the Chinese
know that, and they are mocking us.
They are laughing.
If you were amused by the story of
the Senator from Louisiana—and he is
the best storyteller in the Senate—
think about how amused Vladimir
Putin is to listen to this debate.
We can’t afford to spend the money
to ward off Vladimir Putin’s next at-
tack in 2020. That is what I hear from
the other side of the aisle. I disagree. I
think what is at stake here is so basic
and so fundamental that shame on us if
we will not invest the money to make
sure we keep up with the attackers.
Now, people say: Well, 2018 went off
without a hitch. It was not only the
good work of State election officials. It
was the hard work here in Washington
of our intelligence agencies, and the
Senator knows that. We didn’t sit back
and say: Well, I sure hope they don’t
hit us again. We went after them. I
can’t be more specific because we are
told not to be more detailed in our re-
sponse.
We invested a heck of a lot of money
in stopping them from ruining the 2018
election, and we are bound to do it
again, and I hope we do. But to say we
can’t afford to protect the integrity of
our vote—then, what is a democracy
worth? What is it worth?
It is worth human lives, and it is
worth our investment in this genera-
tion to make sure that those votes
count, whether you live in a red State
or a blue State. I am not talking about
just sending this to Democratic State
officials. I am talking about across the
country. I want an election to truly re-
flect the way the American people feel
about candidates and issues that are
before them, and that is why I am so
disappointed by the Senator’s objec-
tion.
Yes, I will carefully consider his bill.
Maybe there is some room here. But
when we say $1 billion disqualifies you
from being considered seriously, when
it comes down to the integrity of our
voting system—$1 billion is too much—
it turns out the Republican leader has
suggested one-fourth of that amount,
and nobody blinked.
I happen to think $1 billion is more
realistic in terms of helping our voting
systems across this country. Shame on
us if the result of the Presidential elec-
tion is later found to have been tam-
pered with by our enemies overseas.
Shame on us if we didn’t do everything
we were supposed to do in the Senate,
in the House, and in this government
to protect that God-given right for a
democracy that we cherish so much.
The Mueller report made crystal
clear that the Russian Government
interfered in the 2016 presidential elec-
tion in a ‘‘sweeping and systematic
fashion.’’
In Illinois, the Russian intelligence
service hacked into our State Board of
Elections, gained access to a database
containing information on millions of
Illinois voters, and then extracted data
on thousands of those voters.
They also targeted other State elec-
tion authorities, county governments,
and election equipment and technology
vendors.
And Federal law enforcement and in-
telligence officials have repeatedly
warned that these interference efforts
will continue in 2020.
In fact, former KGB Agent Putin re-
cently mocked us, openly joking that
Russia would definitely interfere again
in the U.S. election.
Congress cannot sit back and ignore
this ongoing threat—we must take ac-
tion to help State and local election of-
ficials prepare for future elections.
I am pleased that Leader MCCONNELL
finally relented on his opposition to
any further funding to assist State and
local election officials with election se-
curity efforts.
But the $250 million included in the
FY 2020 Financial Services and General
Government (FSGG) appropriations
bill is not nearly enough.
We need to boldly invest in our elec-
tion security—and we need to provide
sustained funding to State and local
election officials to respond to these
evolving threats.
That is why 40 of us have cosponsored
the Election Security Act, which Sen-
ator KLOBUCHAR introduced in May. I
was proud to join as a lead cosponsor.
The legislation would provide critical
resources to election officials through
an initial $1 billion investment in our
election infrastructure, followed by
$175 million every 2 years for infra-
structure maintenance.
It would also require the use of voter-
verified paper ballots, strengthen the
Federal response to election inter-
ference, and establish accountability
measures for election technology ven-
dors.
If Republicans want to demonstrate
that they are capable of putting coun-
try over party, they should join us
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:55 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22OC6.011 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5940 October 22, 2019
today and protect our democracy by
passing this legislation.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Louisiana.
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I
agree so much with what the Senator
from Illinois has said, but we are on
top of this.
Let me say it again. We gave the
States $380 million to address the prob-
lems in 2018. They haven’t spent all of
it. It is 3 gallons of crazy to give them
another billion dollars.
We have been assured by all of the
relevant Federal officials that we are
ready for 2020. I am going to repeat
once again: We had no problems in 2018.
If I thought for a second that our vot-
ing system was in jeopardy, I would be
joining with my good friend the Sen-
ator, but I am not much for just spend-
ing taxpayer money, with a $22 trillion
deficit, just to be spending it.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Kentucky.
Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, I ask unan-
imous consent that I be allowed to
speak for up to 15 minutes, followed by
Senators JOHNSON, RISCH, and MENEN-
DEZ, for 5 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
PROTOCOL TO THE NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY OF
1949 ON THE ACCESSION OF THE REPUBLIC OF
NORTH MACEDONIA
Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, today, we
will vote on whether or not to admit
North Macedonia into NATO. I, for one,
think we already have enough dead
weight in NATO and that adding North
Macedonia to NATO adds absolutely
nothing to our collective security.
In his farewell address, George Wash-
ington stated: ‘‘It is our true policy to
steer clear of permanent alliance with
any portion of the foreign world.’’ This
was echoed by Thomas Jefferson in his
inaugural address, who wished for
‘‘peace, commerce, and honest friend-
ship with all nations . . . entangling
alliances with none.’’ As we watch the
most recent developments in Syria un-
fold, it is a good moment to remember
the guidance that Washington and Jef-
ferson attempted to pass along.
Turkey, a nation that we have been
locked in a permanent alliance with
since the Cold War, has launched an of-
fensive, a war of choice, by further in-
vading Syria.
While they are clearly acting in their
own self-interest, their actions place
our Nation one mistake or one small
incident away from a hot war with at
least one major global power. Does it
make sense for American men and
women to potentially have to defend
Turkey over their war of choice?
I believe that when Jefferson spoke
of entangling alliances, one could not
pick a better example than how we
have expanded NATO. Since 2004, we
have expanded NATO ever closer to the
border of Russia. In the process, we
have added the so-called military
might of countries such as Slovenia,
Latvia, Albania, Montenegro, and now,
today, North Macedonia.
What benefit is it to the United
States to add countries that barely
have enough military might to defend
themselves? I say that adding North
Macedonia to NATO adds absolutely
nothing to our national security.
The best-case scenario we can hope
for with these countries is that an inci-
dent that triggers a major land war
never occurs. If you think this is far-
fetched, remember that World War I
began when a Serbian nationalist as-
sassinated the heir to the Austro-Hun-
garian Empire. Within months, the
very system of entangling alliances
that our forefathers warned about
turned Europe into a killing field,
which ultimately killed upward of 19
million people. Adding yet another
small country to NATO does nothing to
dissipate the chances of catastrophic
war and, in fact, encourages that possi-
bility.
What military capabilities does
North Macedonia bring to the table?
Some 8,200 active-duty soldiers. Addi-
tionally, in 2018, they spent a whopping
$120 million a year on their military.
By comparison, the Chicago Cubs spent
$221 million on their payroll. Addition-
ally, 15 other Major League Baseball
teams spent more on their rosters than
North Macedonia spends on defense.
Even if North Macedonia brought their
military spending in line with NATO
guidelines, it would still only be $227
million.
But if the goal of NATO is to have
these countries spend 2 percent, why
don’t we wait until they are spending 2
percent to admit them instead of ad-
mitting them and saying: Please, in-
crease your defense spending.
If they come up to 2 percent, they
would only be spending $227 million,
which is $103 million less than Bryce
Harper’s contract with the Philadel-
phia Phillies.
NATO is supposed to be about mutual
defense, not just blanket security guar-
antees to smaller states.
How much would North Macedonia
give in monetary terms to NATO? Less
than $1 million. We foot the bill. We
pay for everything. We are going to get
less than $1 million of direct contribu-
tions from North Macedonia. It doesn’t
seem hardly fair; does it?
It is clear that North Macedonia adds
little, if any, value to the NATO alli-
ance in terms of manpower or military
capabilities, which means that the only
reason they are being added is to be a
tripwire that would only ensnare us in
a rapidly escalating wider war in which
they would not be able to carry their
own weight. So I don’t think North
Macedonia adds anything to our na-
tional security, but they are out there
on the edge of Europe as a tripwire to
ensnare us in a wider war.
If the recent events involving Turkey
were not enough to validate the guid-
ance laid down by our Founding Fa-
thers, then adding North Macedonia to
a tangled network of permanent alli-
ances certainly is. We would be wise to
revisit and heed our Founding Fathers,
who said getting involved in entangling
alliances in Europe does not add to our
security; it threatens our security.
I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote. I don’t think we
need to expand NATO. We certainly
don’t need more people that the Amer-
ican taxpayer will be asked to pay for.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Wisconsin.
Mr. JOHNSON. Mr. President, I rise
to speak in support of North Macedo-
nia’s accession to the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization.
North Macedonia’s path to NATO ac-
cession has been a long one. Despite
being regarded early on as a leading
candidate for NATO membership, Mac-
edonia’s name dispute with Greece be-
came a huge roadblock. A disagree-
ment over a country’s name may not
seem like a big deal to those looking in
from the outside, but getting over this
hurdle required significant political
courage.
In 2017, Greece’s Prime Minister
Tsipras and Macedonia’s Prime Min-
ister Zaev displayed that level of polit-
ical courage when they committed to
settle the nearly three decades-long
dispute. Because of their leadership,
these two nations signed the Prespa
agreement last year. Greece agreed to
remove its objection and approve Mac-
edonia’s accession to NATO in ex-
change for Macedonia agreeing to
change its name to North Macedonia.
This dispute resolution between
Greece and North Macedonia dem-
onstrates that NATO is not only an ef-
fective defensive alliance, but it has
been a tremendous force for stability in
Europe. North Macedonia is poised to
soon become NATO’s 30th member be-
cause it worked to resolve a long-
standing bilateral disagreement.
I support NATO’s longstanding open-
door policy, and I hope that the goal of
NATO membership will continue to
guide other aspirants to solve long-
standing disputes, fight corruption,
and make difficult necessary domestic
reforms.
Beyond North Macedonia’s accession,
I would like to speak more broadly on
how important the NATO alliance is to
the United States. NATO is based on
the principle of collective defense. Ar-
ticle 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty
states that an attack against one mem-
ber is an attack against us all.
NATO Secretary General Stoltenberg
detailed NATO’s value when he ad-
dressed a joint meeting of Congress
earlier this year and both started and
ended his speech by saying: ‘‘It is good
to have friends.’’ I couldn’t agree more.
In the wake of the attacks of 9/11, our
friends, our NATO allies, invoked arti-
cle 5 for the first and only time in the
alliance’s history. Our NATO allies and
many of the aspirants stood shoulder
to shoulder with us in Afghanistan.
They lost 1,000 of their sons and daugh-
ters in honoring their commitment by
fighting alongside us. The United
States should never forget our NATO
allies’ contribution and sacrifice.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:59 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.001 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5941
October 22, 2019
A strong NATO alliance is just as im-
portant and relevant today as it was at
its founding in 1949. I am pleased that
the full Senate is taking up this meas-
ure to approve North Macedonia’s ac-
cession to NATO, and I urge my col-
leagues to vote in favor with a resound-
ing yes.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Jersey.
NOMINATION OF ANDREW P. BREMBERG
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I
come to the floor to express my opposi-
tion to the nomination of Andrew
Bremberg to be Representative of the
United States to the Office of the
United Nations in Geneva. He is not
qualified for this position, and his
views on women’s rights and access to
reproductive healthcare conflict with
longstanding positions of the U.S. Gov-
ernment and more than three-quarters
of the American public.
I take my position as ranking mem-
ber for the Foreign Relations Com-
mittee seriously. I have a duty to thor-
oughly vet all nominees who come be-
fore the committee whether they be po-
litical nominees like Mr. Bremberg or
career civil servants.
The criteria I use to determine their
fitness to represent our country abroad
include their foreign policy experience,
their core values, and whether they
will be responsive and honest with Con-
gress as we conduct our oversight. I am
disappointed to say that Mr. Bremberg
fails even these basic criteria. He has
no relevant foreign policy experience.
I repeat, the nominee to represent
the United States at Geneva has no for-
eign policy experience. Mr. Bremberg
has served as Assistant to the Presi-
dent and Senior Advisor for Domestic
Policy at the White House and as a po-
litical appointee to the Department of
Health and Human Services in the
Bush administration.
When it comes to Mr. Bremberg’s
core values, his nomination hearing
left me deeply troubled. Our voice at
Geneva must stand up for the core
principle that reproductive rights are
human rights; yet Mr. Bremberg made
clear that he opposes access to repro-
ductive health services for women and
girls who are victims of sexual violence
in conflict in the world. This radical
view of women’s rights and access to
reproductive healthcare is totally out-
side the mainstream, not just for the
Democratic Party but the Republican
Party and the American people at
large. That is why 40 reproductive
health groups wrote a joint letter op-
posing Mr. Bremberg’s nomination.
Moreover, in his positions at the
White House, Mr. Bremberg led and ad-
vanced divisive and incendiary policy
proposals, such as the infamous Mus-
lim ban Executive order and the addi-
tion of a citizenship question on the
census.
When questioned on these subjects,
Mr. Bremberg frequently cited con-
fidentiality interests and declined to
elaborate further. When pressed by
Senators on whether he was exerting
any form of privilege or executive
privilege, he insisted he was not; yet he
continued to refuse to answer ques-
tions. Clearly, we cannot rely on this
nominee to be honest and forthright
with this body.
Beyond Mr. Bremberg’s lack of expe-
rience, his extreme far-right views, and
his lack of respect for Congress, there
is the issue of his erroneous declara-
tions on government documents. In-
deed, his nomination was significantly
delayed because my staff discovered
Mr. Bremberg’s claim that he had ter-
minated from his political consulting
company—of which Trump for America
was a client—when the truth is he did
not. In fact, Mr. Bremberg did not ter-
minate his political consulting firm
until forced to as part of the Foreign
Relations Committee’s vetting process.
Once again, the Trump administra-
tion has displayed a basic inability to
conduct even the most cursory vetting
to ensure that a nominee is qualified
and fit to hold office, free from poten-
tial financial or ethical conflicts of in-
terest.
We have nominees with restraining
orders, nominees who have failed to
mention sexual harassment lawsuits,
and nominees whose virulent, troll-like
approach to social media should dis-
qualify them from holding any office,
much less a Senate-confirmed rep-
resentative of the American people.
Unfortunately, the Trump adminis-
tration has decided to advance unquali-
fied and unfit nominees even as it with-
draws a number of qualified civil serv-
ant nominees from consideration.
The failure of the political leadership
at the State Department to stand up
and defend qualified, veteran Ambas-
sadors when they come under fire from
the White House is nothing short of
cowardice.
It was reported last week that Fiona
Hill, the former White House foreign
policy adviser, concluded that one
Trump administration Ambassador was
so unprepared for his job that he actu-
ally posed a national security risk. Mr.
Bremberg is cut from the same mold.
If his performance before the Foreign
Relations Committee demonstrated
anything, it is that his views are com-
pletely outside those of mainstream
America. He is unprepared to represent
our Nation on the world stage, and he
has little to no respect for the Senate
and the role of Congress as a coequal
branch of government. Surely, we can
do better than this. The American peo-
ple certainly deserve better than this.
I urge my colleagues to oppose his
nomination and to demand that this
administration nominate an ambas-
sador to the United Nations organiza-
tion in Geneva who is worthy of rep-
resenting our country on the world
stage.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRUZ). The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that amendment
Nos. 946 and 947 be withdrawn.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendments (No. 946 and No. 947)
were withdrawn.
PROTOCOL TO THE NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY OF
1949 ON THE ACCESSION OF THE REPUBLIC OF
NORTH MACEDONIA
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, I rise
today to support the accession of the
Republic of North Macedonia to the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization
and to encourage my Senate colleagues
to vote in favor of this protocol.
As we know, this past April marked
the 70th anniversary of the NATO alli-
ance, the world’s strongest and most
successful political military alliance in
the history of the world.
In honor of this, the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee held a hearing to
reflect on the alliance’s successful past
and to consider its future. The Senate
also passed and recognized NATO’s
many accomplishments, and the reso-
lution I authored, S. Res. 123, did so. I
am grateful to have another oppor-
tunity to demonstrate strong Senate
support for NATO by welcoming North
Macedonia as a new member. As we all
know, this matter has been in the
works for a long time.
NATO was founded by the United
States and 11 other countries after the
shock of the Soviet blockade of Berlin.
The Berlin airlift in 1948 made us real-
ize the significant and real threat that
the Soviet Union posed to peace and
prosperity. That conflict is far behind
us, but NATO has remained a critical
piece of the framework that supports
our collective security.
NATO worked to help the United
States in Afghanistan after the attacks
of September 11 and has ended geno-
cides and maintained peace in the Bal-
kans. It has trained troops of the new
Iraqi Government; it has run air polic-
ing missions on Europe’s eastern flank;
it has helped end the genocide in
Darfur; and it provided assistance to
the United States after Hurricane
Katrina. Most importantly, it has
maintained a period of unprecedented
peace among the major European pow-
ers.
NATO has proven to be not only a
military success but also a political
and economic one. NATO’s security
umbrella has provided the kind of sta-
ble environment necessary for eco-
nomic growth and investment. Former
Soviet bloc countries clamored for—
and continue to clamor for—NATO
membership, not only for the protec-
tion against Russia that they sought
and seek but for the economic strength
that membership could foster.
U.S. trade with fellow NATO mem-
bers remains vital to the U.S. econ-
omy. NATO allies remain the largest
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:59 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22OC6.014 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5942 October 22, 2019
source of foreign, direct investment to
the United States.
NATO is not perfect. It faces several
challenges from within. First is the
need to invest more in defense. Those
of us who serve on the Foreign Rela-
tions Committee have for many, many
years urged our friends and col-
leagues—the majority of whom are not
in compliance—about the need to in-
vest more in defense. But the number
of allies spending 2 percent of their
GDP on defense and 20 percent of their
defense budget on equipment has in-
creased, adding more than $100 billion
in European defense spending. Eight al-
lies currently meet this pledge, but it
is critical that all allies meet their
Wales Summit commitment by 2024.
Second, NATO faces different secu-
rity threats in different parts of the al-
liance. Southern Europe is understand-
ably worried about migrant flows,
while Eastern Europe faces the chal-
lenge of Russian military buildup along
its borders and domestic
disinformation campaigns sowing dis-
order by the Russians, just as we know
Russia has attempted to do here in the
USA.
NATO has recently begun to think
about security risks that China poses
to individual allies and the alliance as
a whole.
Tackling all of these security risks
will be challenging. But if NATO allies
commit to the alliance and needed re-
forms, NATO will be up to the task.
Bringing a new member into the alli-
ance also prompts us to reassess the
status of current members, and I feel
compelled to address the growing dis-
cussion regarding NATO allies that do
not uphold the democratic principles
enshrined in the treaty’s preamble.
I agree that there are NATO allies
whose democracies are weakening in-
stead of strengthening and whose re-
cent behavior does not demonstrate a
commitment to the alliance. To fix
these issues, the alliance must work
from within.
There is no other alliance in the
world like NATO. China and Russia do
not have allies. They have short-term,
transactional-only partners they have
bullied into cooperation. NATO’s
strength and success come from its
commitment to the allies and to work-
ing through problems when they arise.
On the expansion of NATO itself,
which is what we are here to deal with
today, since 1949, NATO has expanded 7
times and now includes 29 countries.
The entrance of North Macedonia will
make 30. Adding a 30th member during
the alliance’s 70th year sends a strong
signal to our fellow allies and enemies
alike of the continued strength of this
alliance.
The U.S. Senate’s consideration of
North Macedonia as a member of NATO
is a piece of long-delayed and unfin-
ished business. North Macedonia was
originally eligible for NATO entry in
2008 and was to have joined the alliance
alongside Croatia and Albania. As we
know, an ongoing dispute about North
Macedonia’s name prevented that from
happening. But the leaders of both
North Macedonia and Greece dem-
onstrated great political courage in
concluding the Prespa agreement ear-
lier this year, which has made today’s
decision possible.
The courage of Prime Minister Zaev
and former Prime Minister Tsipras to
move the situation in the Balkans for-
ward should be applauded. I met with
both leaders this year to thank and
congratulate them.
Not only does Prespa pave the way
forward for North Macedonia into both
NATO and the European Union, but it
is an excellent example of how other
conflicts in the region could be re-
solved.
When the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee held its hearing earlier this
year to consider North Macedonia’s eli-
gibility for alliance, the committee
heard strong and unequivocal testi-
mony from top officials at the Depart-
ments of State and Defense that North
Macedonia would be a strong partner
to the allies and is ready for the re-
quirements of NATO membership.
After reviewing all relevant facts and
holding hearings and meetings with
NATO, U.S., and North Macedonian of-
ficials for the better part of this year,
I am confident that North Macedonia is
ready to fulfill its NATO obligations
and will benefit the alliance. It was
ready in 2008 and is ready now. North
Macedonia has a credible plan to meet
the 2-percent spending requirement by
2024 and is already on track to spend 20
percent on equipment. It hosts the
Krivolak training area, a top-notch
Army training facility that has already
been utilized by many U.S. soldiers.
Strategically, North Macedonia’s mem-
bership would provide NATO a direct
land path from the Aegean to the Adri-
atic Sea, facilitating military move-
ments should they ever be needed. It
will continue to contribute soldiers to
NATO’s international mission as it has
done in Afghanistan and Iraq since
2002.
North Macedonia isn’t perfect. As a
small country with a young democ-
racy, it will certainly require further
government reforms and military mod-
ernization as have most new NATO al-
lies. For example, it will need to con-
tinue its transition from legacy Soviet
equipment, further reform its intel-
ligence services, and above all, resist
Russian interference and continue to
strengthen its anti-corruption efforts. I
urge North Macedonia to make these
reforms and to continue on its positive
path inside the alliance with the help
of its other democratic NATO allies.
Expanding NATO to include North
Macedonia is about what the country
will bring to the alliance and what the
alliance brings to North Macedonia,
but it is not just about North Mac-
edonia and its qualifications for mem-
bership. Through its open-door policy,
NATO has promised membership to any
European country that fulfills the re-
quirements of the alliance. Accepting
North Macedonia as a new member is a
strong symbol and a message for Euro-
pean countries with NATO aspirations
that with hard work and perseverance,
along with the willingness to make
tough reform decisions, they can pro-
vide a better future for their people. As
long as countries honor this commit-
ment, NATO’s door should and will re-
main open.
It is important to note that this is a
strong anti-Russian vote. Standing
here today, I can tell you the Russians
are very much opposed to this, not the
least of which is exemplified by the
way they resisted this and pushed back
against this as North Macedonia at-
tempted to get this done for their peo-
ple.
I say to the Presiding Officer and col-
leagues, this day is a long time in the
making, and I am pleased it is finally
here.
I urge all of my colleagues to support
North Macedonia’s bid to become our
newest NATO ally, No. 30, by voting in
favor of this protocol.
Thank you.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will state the resolution of ratifi-
cation.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
Resolved, (two-thirds of the Senators present
concurring therein),
SECTION 1. SENATE ADVICE AND CONSENT SUB-
JECT TO DECLARATIONS, AN UNDER-
STANDING, AND CONDITIONS.
The Senate advises and consents to the
ratification of the Protocol to the North At-
lantic Treaty of 1949 on the Accession of the
Republic of North Macedonia, which was
opened for signature at Brussels on February
6, 2019, and signed that day on behalf of the
United States of America (the ‘‘Protocol’’)
(Treaty Doc. 116–1), subject to the declara-
tions of section 2 and the conditions of sec-
tion 3.
SEC. 2. DECLARATIONS.
The advice and consent of the Senate
under section 1 is subject to the following
declarations:
(1) REAFFIRMATION THAT UNITED STATES
MEMBERSHIP IN NATO REMAINS A VITAL NA-
TIONAL SECURITY INTEREST OF THE UNITED
STATES.—The Senate declares that—
(A) for 70 years the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization (NATO) has served as the pre-
eminent organization to defend the countries
in the North Atlantic area against all exter-
nal threats;
(B) through common action, the estab-
lished democracies of North America and Eu-
rope that were joined in NATO persevered
and prevailed in the task of ensuring the sur-
vival of democratic government in Europe
and North America throughout the Cold
War;
(C) NATO enhances the security of the
United States by embedding European states
in a process of cooperative security planning
and by ensuring an ongoing and direct lead-
ership role for the United States in European
security affairs;
(D) the responsibility and financial burden
of defending the democracies of Europe and
North America can be more equitably shared
through an alliance in which specific obliga-
tions and force goals are met by its mem-
bers;
(E) the security and prosperity of the
United States is enhanced by NATO’s collec-
tive defense against aggression that may
threaten the security of NATO members; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:59 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22OC6.016 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5943
October 22, 2019
(F) United States membership in NATO re-
mains a vital national security interest of
the United States.
(2) STRATEGIC RATIONALE FOR NATO EN-
LARGEMENT.—The Senate declares that—
(A) the United States and its NATO allies
face continued threats to their stability and
territorial integrity;
(B) an attack against North Macedonia, or
its destabilization arising from external sub-
version, would threaten the stability of Eu-
rope and jeopardize United States national
security interests;
(C) North Macedonia, having established a
democratic government and having dem-
onstrated a willingness to meet the require-
ments of membership, including those nec-
essary to contribute to the defense of all
NATO members, is in a position to further
the principles of the North Atlantic Treaty
and to contribute to the security of the
North Atlantic area; and
(D) extending NATO membership to North
Macedonia will strengthen NATO, enhance
stability in Southeast Europe, and advance
the interests of the United States and its
NATO allies.
(3) SUPPORT FOR NATO’S OPEN DOOR POL-
ICY.—The policy of the United States is to
support NATO’s Open Door Policy that al-
lows any European country to express its de-
sire to join NATO and demonstrate its abil-
ity to meet the obligations of NATO mem-
bership.
(4) FUTURE CONSIDERATION OF CANDIDATES
FOR MEMBERSHIP IN NATO.—
(A) SENATE FINDING.—The Senate finds
that the United States will not support the
accession to the North Atlantic Treaty of, or
the invitation to begin accession talks with,
any European state (other than North Mac-
edonia), unless—
(i) the President consults with the Senate
consistent with Article II, section 2, clause 2
of the Constitution of the United States (re-
lating to the advice and consent of the Sen-
ate to the making of treaties); and
(ii) the prospective NATO member can ful-
fill all of the obligations and responsibilities
of membership, and the inclusion of such
state in NATO would serve the overall polit-
ical and strategic interests of NATO and the
United States.
(B) REQUIREMENT FOR CONSENSUS AND RATI-
FICATION.—The Senate declares that no ac-
tion or agreement other than a consensus de-
cision by the full membership of NATO, ap-
proved by the national procedures of each
NATO member, including, in the case of the
United States, the requirements of Article
II, section 2, clause 2 of the Constitution of
the United States (relating to the advice and
consent of the Senate to the making of trea-
ties), will constitute a commitment to col-
lective defense and consultations pursuant
to Articles 4 and 5 of the North Atlantic
Treaty.
(5) INFLUENCE OF NON-NATO MEMBERS ON
NATO DECISIONS.—The Senate declares that
any country that is not a member of NATO
shall have no impact on decisions related to
NATO enlargement.
(6) SUPPORT FOR 2014 WALES SUMMIT DEFENSE
SPENDING BENCHMARK.—The Senate declares
that all NATO members should continue to
move towards the guideline outlined in the
2014 Wales Summit Declaration to spend a
minimum of 2 percent of their Gross Domes-
tic Product (GDP) on defense and 20 percent
of their defense budgets on major equipment,
including research and development, by 2024.
(7) SUPPORT FOR NORTH MACEDONIA’S RE-
FORM PROCESS.—The Senate declares that—
(A) North Macedonia has made difficult re-
forms and taken steps to address corruption,
but the United States and other NATO mem-
ber states should not consider this important
process complete and should continue to
urge additional reforms; and
(B) North Macedonia and Greece’s conclu-
sion of the Prespa Agreement, which re-
solved a long-standing bilateral dispute, has
made possible the former’s invitation to
NATO, and the United States and other
NATO members should continue to press
both nations to persevere in their continued
implementation of the Agreement and en-
courage a strategic partnership between the
two nations.
SEC. 3. CONDITIONS.
The advice and consent of the Senate
under section 1 is subject to the following
condition: Prior to the deposit of the instru-
ment of ratification, the President shall cer-
tify to the Senate as follows:
(1) The inclusion of North Macedonia in
NATO will not have the effect of increasing
the overall percentage share of the United
States in the common budgets of NATO.
(2) The inclusion of North Macedonia in
NATO does not detract from the ability of
the United States to meet or to fund its mili-
tary requirements outside the North Atlan-
tic area.
SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS.
In this resolution:
(1) NATO MEMBERS.—The term ‘‘NATO
members’’ means all countries that are par-
ties to the North Atlantic Treaty.
(2) NON-NATO MEMBERS.—The term ‘‘non-
NATO members’’ means all countries that
are not parties to the North Atlantic Treaty.
(3) NORTH ATLANTIC AREA.—The term
‘‘North Atlantic area’’ means the area cov-
ered by Article 6 of the North Atlantic Trea-
ty, as applied by the North Atlantic Council.
(4) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY.—The term
‘‘North Atlantic Treaty’’ means the North
Atlantic Treaty, signed at Washington April
4, 1949 (63 Stat. 2241; TIAS 1964), as amended.
(5) UNITED STATES INSTRUMENT OF RATIFICA-
TION.—The term ‘‘United States instrument
of ratification’’ means the instrument of
ratification of the United States of the Pro-
tocol to the North Atlantic Treaty of 1949 on
the Accession of North Macedonia.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the adoption
of the resolution of ratification of
Treaty Document No. 116–1.
Mr. RISCH. I ask for the yeas and
nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), the Senator
from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN), and
the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr.
WHITEHOUSE) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
JOHNSON). Are there any other Sen-
ators in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 91,
nays 2, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 327 Ex.]
YEAS—91
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Klobuchar
Lankford
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—2
Lee Paul
NOT VOTING—7
Bennet
Booker
Harris
Isakson
Sanders
Warren
Whitehouse
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 91, the nays are 2.
Two-thirds of Senators present, a
quorum being present, have voted in
the affirmative. The resolution of the
ratification to the protocol of the
North Atlantic Treaty of the Republic
of North Macedonia is agreed to.
The Senator from Indiana.
ORDER OF BUSINESS
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate re-
cess following the cloture vote on the
Bremberg nomination until 2:15 p.m.
and that if cloture is invoked, the
postcloture time expire at 2:45 p.m. and
the Senate vote on confirmation of the
nomination; finally, that if confirmed,
the motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table and the
President be immediately notified of
the Senate’s action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Andrew P. Bremberg, of Virginia,
to be Representative of the United States of
America to the Office of the United Nations
and Other International Organizations in Ge-
neva, with the rank of Ambassador.
Mitch McConnell, Rick Scott, Roger F.
Wicker, Tim Scott, John Hoeven, Deb
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:33 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.003 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5944 October 22, 2019
Fischer, Thom Tillis, Cindy Hyde-
Smith, Steve Daines, James M. Inhofe,
Lindsey Graham, John Boozman, Mike
Crapo, James E. Risch, Richard Burr,
Shelley Moore Capito, Jerry Moran.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Andrew P. Bremberg, of Virginia, to
be Representative of the United States
of America to the Office of the United
Nations and Other International Orga-
nizations in Geneva, with the rank of
Ambassador, shall be brought to a
close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk called
the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), the Senator
from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN), and
the Senator from Rhode Island (Mr.
WHITEHOUSE) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. KEN-
NEDY). Are there any other Senators in
the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 50,
nays 43, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 328 Ex.]
YEAS—50
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—43
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Wyden
NOT VOTING—7
Bennet
Booker
Harris
Isakson
Sanders
Warren
Whitehouse
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 50, the nays are 43.
The motion is agreed to.
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Andrew P.
Bremberg, of Virginia, to be Represent-
ative of the United States of America
to the Office of the United Nations and
Other International Organizations in
Geneva, with the rank of Ambassador.
f
RECESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
in recess until 2:15 p.m.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 1:19 p.m.,
recessed until 2:15 p.m. and reassem-
bled when called to order by the Pre-
siding Officer (Mrs. CAPITO).
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR—Continued
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alabama.
APPROPRIATIONS
Mr. SHELBY. Madam President, this
afternoon, I rise to urge my colleagues
here in the U.S. Senate to support the
pending cloture motion on H.R. 3055 so
we can get the appropriations process
moving. It is already day 22 of the cur-
rent fiscal year. The entire Federal
Government, as you know, is now oper-
ating under a continuing resolution,
and in less than a month, that con-
tinuing resolution will expire.
By this time last year, Congress had
already funded 75 percent of the gov-
ernment, including America’s military.
It was the first time in 10 years that
Congress had funded the military on
time. That success paid huge dividends
for our country and for our men and
women in uniform. Now, they face an
uncertain future. The prospect of serial
continuing resolutions or, worse, an-
other government shutdown casts a
dark shadow over our previous success.
Such uncertainty also wreaks havoc on
every Federal agency’s abilities to
plan, and it is acute when it comes to
the military.
As our military leaders seek to en-
sure that planning and operations keep
pace with activities and challenges
around the globe, they are faced with
the hard reality that Congress is not
keeping pace with our own duties here.
Congress’ failure to do its own job
makes that of the military all the
more difficult in this troubled world. I
believe that is unacceptable.
Nonetheless, we have hit a stalemate
in the appropriations process lately.
The clock is ticking on the continuing
resolution, as I said, and we have to
break through the logjam. I hope we
can do it today. The only way to do
that is through bipartisan cooperation,
as the Presiding Officer knows, as a
member of the Appropriations Com-
mittee and chair of a very important
subcommittee.
The vice chairman of the Appropria-
tions Subcommittee, my good friend,
Senator LEAHY, a Democrat from
Vermont, suggested that the Senate
proceed first to a package of domestic
spending bills to try to break the stale-
mate. This is what we are trying to do
today. In an effort to demonstrate good
faith and get off the dime, that is what
we are hopefully going to do later
today.
I want to take a minute to thank
Senator LEAHY for proposing a path
forward out of our stall. I would also
just like to emphasize to all my col-
leagues that this path leads to success
if it ends with Congress funding the en-
tire government, not just part of it. We
have a lot of work to do, but we can do
it. We have also before us the oppor-
tunity to get it done, so this is where
we pick up today.
Last month, the Appropriations Com-
mittee, as the Chair knows, reported 10
bills to the full Senate. If we are able
to proceed to H.R. 3055, it is my inten-
tion here on the floor to offer a sub-
stitute amendment that includes four
of these bills that we passed out of the
committee, each of which passed
unanimously in a bipartisan way. What
are those bills, and what do they fund?
The Commerce Department, the Jus-
tice Department, Science bill—we call
it Commerce, Justice, and Science—the
Agriculture bill, the Interior bill, and
the Transportation, Housing, and
Urban Development bill.
I want to take a minute to thank the
chairs of these subcommittees for their
diligence in producing balanced bills:
Senator MORAN, Senator HOEVEN, Sen-
ator MURKOWSKI, and Senator COLLINS.
I also want to thank their respective
ranking members, the Democrats, for
their bipartisan cooperation here: Sen-
ator SHAHEEN, Senator MERKLEY, Sen-
ator UDALL, and Senator REED.
Together, these four measures before
us today account for nearly one-third—
one-third—of all nondefense discre-
tionary spending. Consistent with the
bipartisan budget agreement, they con-
tain no new poison pills, and I would
caution my colleagues on both sides of
the aisle against pursuing poison pill
amendments if we are able to proceed
today. If we are to make any progress
on the 2020 appropriations bills, I think
we must be true to our commitment,
enshrined in terms of the budget agree-
ment, to refrain from such provisions
to move the process.
I would also like to move this pack-
age through regular order so we can re-
turn quickly to a second package that
the majority leader spoke to us at
lunch today about that funds the mili-
tary and many more other agencies.
There is simply no excuse for further
delay.
With all that we ask for our military,
with all the challenges it already faces,
with all the additional uncertainties
that stopgap funding creates, and with
all that has been said recently about
the need to support our allies and
counter our adversaries around the
world, I hope that our colleagues will
not say to our men and women in uni-
form: We will get to you later.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:59 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22OC6.019 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5945
October 22, 2019
We should instead capitalize on the
good will that we are trying to gen-
erate in this first package on appro-
priations by immediately moving to
the next one that funds the military
and so many other agencies.
This process only works if we work
together in a bipartisan way, as
Madam President knows. Let’s work
together this afternoon, and let’s do
our job so we can move forward for the
American people. I think we should not
leave our military and others to think
that the government is in limbo any
longer.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Vermont.
Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, as
the distinguished senior Senator from
Alabama has said, we are going to be
voting soon on our ‘‘domestic mini-
bus.’’ We will vote on a cloture motion
to proceed to H.R. 3055.
I understand that once we are on the
bill, Chairman SHELBY is going to offer
a substitute amendment that will in-
clude four bills that were reported from
the Appropriations Committee with
every Republican and every Democrat
voting for them—the Agriculture bill,
the Interior bill, the Commerce-Jus-
tice-Science bill, and the Transpor-
tation, Housing and Urban Develop-
ment bill.
I know that some feel that some-
times the Congress gets so polarized
that we could not have a unanimous
vote that the Sun rises in the east, but
this was a case where we did in our
committee, which has representatives
of all wings of the Republican Party
and all wings of the Democratic Party.
We all voted aye, and I would urge
Members to vote aye.
I am pleased that the substitute
package will not include the Military
Construction and the Veterans Affairs
bill, and let me explain why.
The underlying House vehicle we are
moving to contains the House version
of the Military Construction and Vet-
erans Affairs bill, but the Senate Ap-
propriations Committee has not yet
considered this bill. We have not had
debate in the committee. We have not
had a vote on it in committee. It would
be premature to bring it to the Senate
floor.
It is an important bill. It is an impor-
tant bill that I have always supported
because it funds critical programs, par-
ticularly for our veterans. But Presi-
dent Trump wants to insist on using
the bill to take funding from our
troops and their families to fund his in-
effective wall—a wall that he gave his
word Mexico would pay for—and that is
unacceptable.
Look at the people who are affected
by the Military Construction and Vet-
erans Affairs bill. Let’s not get them
tied up in a Presidential campaign
promise. Let’s look at the military
families who are now living in sub-
standard housing. Let’s look at the
veterans who are not getting the care
they need. Let’s have a clean bill.
Had the bill with the President’s wall
been in this—the American people
would be paying for it and not Mexico,
as the President promised—I would
have been unable to support the clo-
ture motion.
I am going to have more to say about
each of the four bipartisan bills in-
cluded in Chairman SHELBY’s sub-
stitute when we turn to them. Hope-
fully we can by tomorrow. Each one
funds programs that are important to
the American people and our economy.
They make critical investments in af-
fordable housing, infrastructure, rural
development, our farming commu-
nities, our small businesses, and our
environment. They are good bills. I was
glad to work with Senator SHELBY so
we could have these bills before the
Senate. They speak to real needs of the
American people.
Now we have only 4 short weeks be-
fore the continuing resolution we are
operating under expires. Four weeks
can go by very quickly around here. We
need to do our work. We need to do it
quickly. We should be able to enact all
12 appropriations bills into law. I was
going to say the Senate deserves no
less, but it is the American people who
deserve no less. So I will continue to
work with Senator SHELBY and others,
both Republicans and Democrats alike,
to get these bills done.
We have a vote coming up soon.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
VOTE ON BREMBERG NOMINATION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Bremberg nomination?
Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, I ask
for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Vermont (Mr.
SANDERS), the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN), and the Senator
from Rhode Island (Mr. WHITEHOUSE)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). Are there any other Sen-
ators in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 50,
nays 44, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 329 Ex.]
YEAS—50
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—44
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Wyden
NOT VOTING—6
Booker
Harris
Isakson
Sanders
Warren
Whitehouse
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motion to re-
consider is considered made and laid
upon the table, and the President will
be immediately notified of the Senate’s
action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—H.J. RES. 77
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
am rising once again to ask the Sen-
ate’s consent to move to the H.J. Res.
77 condemning the President’s abrupt
decision to withdraw U.S. troops from
northern Syria.
Despite the Pandora’s box of prob-
lems the President’s decision has
opened, the slaughter of our partners,
the Kurds—and I think many of us on
both sides of the aisle ache for the
Kurds who risked their lives. Many of
them lost their lives so our soldiers
would not be in harm’s way.
With the strategic gains of our adver-
saries in Tehran, Moscow, and Damas-
cus and, most troubling, the potential
resurgence of ISIS, the President has
failed to articulate any strategy at all.
We have asked to have Secretary
Pompeo, Secretary Esper, and Director
Haspel come before us. They have can-
celed again today because they don’t
have a plan.
Now, this is America at risk. We in
New York know better than anybody
else how a small group of people thou-
sands of miles away—evil people—can
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22OC6.022 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5946 October 22, 2019
cause terrorism and hurt us. There is
no strategy about what to do with the
tens of thousands of ISIS prisoners and
their fellow travelers who had been
locked up and guarded by the Kurds.
No one believes—and I have talked to
the top military intelligence people—
that either Syria or Turkey has the in-
terest in preventing ISIS from escaping
that we do. Erdogan, in fact, hates the
Kurds far more than he hates ISIS.
So every day this lack of policy and
this lack of common sense from the
President and this White House puts
American lives in danger. What is the
best way to get the President to act?
Well, my friends, you know it. It is
you. When Republican Senators protest
what the President has done, he some-
times acts. Witness Doral. I guarantee
you my speeches had very little effect
on him, but yours did. Well, this is far
more important than Doral. This is
America, and lives are at stake. Our
battle against terrorism, to be fought
jointly most of the time, is now being
jeopardized. Frankly, when Leader
MCCARTHY and Representative SCALISE
and Representative CHENEY can vote
for this kind of resolution, why should
we not be doing the same? It will send
a better message to the President than
anything else we can do.
My friend, the Republican leader,
said we need a stronger resolution.
Quibbling over words at a time when
America is in danger doesn’t make
sense to me—particularly a resolution
that he knows will not pass the House
and not go to the President’s desk.
So I would plead with my colleagues,
let’s move forward. I plead with my
friend from Kentucky—they are both
my friends from Kentucky—but I plead
with the junior Senator from Ken-
tucky, do not stand in the way.
He has a different world view than al-
most all of us. We talked earlier this
morning. I asked him if he was against
going after the Taliban and bin Laden
when they hit us in America, in New
York, and he said no. Well, this is the
same kind of thing. We are happy to
vote on his resolution. Let’s vote on
both. This is momentous.
These terrorist acts from escaped
ISIS prisoners might not occur tomor-
row, they might not occur 6 months
from now, and they might not occur a
year from now, but they may. They
certainly—almost certainly will at
some point in the future, and we will
risk lives: the American lives of our in-
telligence officials, of our Special
Forces, and we will risk the security of
America and spend millions of dollars.
The sooner we can put this back—and
the only person who can is President
Trump, and the only people who can
really pressure him are sitting right
here. I would plead with my colleague
from Kentucky and with all of us be-
cause even if he objects, we could pass
this joint resolution within a few days
to do it. Our security, the security of
this wonderful country and its beau-
tiful 320-some-odd million people de-
serve no less.
Madam President, as in legislative
session, I ask unanimous consent that
the Senate proceed to the immediate
consideration of Calendar No. 246, H.J.
Res. 77; that the joint resolution be
read a third time, and the Senate vote
on passage with no intervening action
or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
The Senator from Kentucky.
Mr. PAUL. Madam President, reserv-
ing the right to object. If Democrats
want to send our young men and
women to fight in the Syrian civil war,
let’s have that debate. By all means,
let’s have a constitutional debate
today on the Senate floor, right here,
right now. If Democrats are so hungry
for war, let’s have that debate.
Our Founding Fathers gave us a con-
stitutional method to go to war. If
there be a national security interest in
Syria, let’s hear it. The other side does
not want that debate. They want to lob
invectives at the President, but they
aren’t prepared to debate about whom
we are to go to war against.
Do they wish to declare war on our
NATO ally, Turkey? Do they wish to
declare war on our former ally, the
Free Syrian Army? Do they wish to de-
clare war on Syria’s Assad? They don’t
know.
No, Democrats just want to heap
abuse on the President. They don’t
want to debate war because they have
no clue on whom to declare war.
In reality, the President made the
wise decision to move 50 soldiers out of
the way of tens of thousands of Turkish
troops. Ironically, the President’s deci-
sion may finally allow the Kurds to ne-
gotiate with Assad for a semi-
autonomous region in northern Syria.
Perhaps, if the Kurds pledge their bat-
tle-proven fighters to Assad, they
might receive in exchange some auton-
omy and a share of the oil receipts,
much as the Kurds did in Iraq. Already
we are seeing promising cooperation
between the Kurds and Assad.
This week, Turkey’s Erdogan met
with Putin. Putin already is allied with
Assad. There is a possibility diplomacy
may actually break through here.
There is a real chance that the Syrian
civil war could come to an end if Assad,
with the Kurds’ help, would agree to
secure the border and not allow Kurd-
ish raids into Turkey.
The permanent war caucus on both
sides of the aisle claims that repo-
sitioning 50 troops is the end of the
world. Perhaps, just maybe, less of our
presence in Syria will actually lead to
diplomacy and, ultimately, peace. Only
time will tell.
I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The Democratic leader.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
don’t want to prolong this. I will make
two quick points. No. 1, my friend from
Kentucky thinks he knows what is bet-
ter for the Kurds than the Kurds know.
The Kurds hate going into the arms of
Syria—hate it.
Second, if our friend from Kentucky
believes that any time we have a small
number of Special Forces in different
places—and we have them all over—we
need a declaration of war, then his
view is different from 99.9 percent of
America and every other single person
in this Chamber.
We do not need a declaration of war
for a small number of Special Forces to
be there to protect us against ter-
rorism, and my friend from Kentucky
knows that.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Kentucky.
Mr. PAUL. Madam President, if our
goal is to create a Kurdish homeland
and to defend it for them, hell yes, we
need a debate and a vote and an au-
thorization of force.
You can’t just say that we are going
to stay there forever. It would take
tens of thousands of troops if you want
to pacify Syria. It has not been pacified
for 8 years. It is an utter and complete
mess, and it is time we get the hell out.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the mo-
tion to proceed to Calendar No. 141, H.R.
3055, a bill making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2020, and for other
purposes.
Mitch McConnell, David Perdue, John
Cornyn, John Thune, John Hoeven,
John Boozman, Thom Tillis, Steve
Daines, Roger F. Wicker, Pat Roberts,
John Barrasso, Richard Burr, Shelley
Moore Capito, Roy Blunt, Mike
Rounds, Mike Crapo, James E. Risch.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the motion to
proceed to H.R. 3055, a bill making ap-
propriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes, shall be brought to a
close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Vermont (Mr.
SANDERS), the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN), and the Senator
from Rhode Island (Mr. WHITEHOUSE)
are necessarily absent.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22OC6.025 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5947
October 22, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 92,
nays 2, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 330 Leg.]
YEAS—92
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Klobuchar
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—2
Blackburn Paul
NOT VOTING—6
Booker
Harris
Isakson
Sanders
Warren
Whitehouse
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 92, the nays are 2.
Three-fifths of the Senators duly cho-
sen and sworn having voted in the af-
firmative, the motion is agreed to.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE,
AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOP-
MENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMIN-
ISTRATION, INTERIOR, ENVIRON-
MENT, MILITARY CONSTRUC-
TION, VETERANS AFFAIRS,
TRANSPORTATION, AND HOUSING
AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT AP-
PROPRIATIONS ACT, 2020—Motion
to Proceed
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Cloture
having been invoked, the Senate will
resume legislative session to consider
the motion to proceed to H.R. 3055,
which the clerk will report.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
Motion to proceed to Calendar No. 141,
H.R. 3055, a bill making appropriations for
the Departments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2020, and for other
purposes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Arkansas.
HONORING CORPORAL JERRY GARRISON
Mr. COTTON. Madam President,
Army CPL Jerry Garrison was reported
missing in action on December 2, 1950.
After all these years, Corporal Garri-
son is on his way home to be laid to
rest with full honor due to a member of
the U.S. Armed Forces.
Corporal Garrison was one of ‘‘The
Chosin Few’’ who fought on that frozen
ground to protect his fellow soldiers
and the independence of the Korean
people against the Communist hordes.
God, in His mysterious providence,
chose to call Corporal Garrison home
during that epic battle, but only re-
cently were his remains discovered in
Vietnam.
Corporal Garrison’s funeral today is
a long-overdue moment of honor for a
brave soldier and a long-anticipated
moment of mourning and remembrance
for his loved ones.
Let’s also remember in our prayers
the many families whose loved ones
haven’t yet come home. Corporal Gar-
rison’s recovery is a moment of hope
for these families, a reminder that our
Nation will not rest until every one of
our missing heroes is brought home,
and it is a reminder to our troops who
are in harm’s way today that we will
always bring them home should they
fall in the line of duty or go missing in
action. We have now fulfilled that sol-
emn pledge to Corporal Garrison. Near-
ly 70 years after he went missing, we
have once again affirmed that the
United States leaves no man behind.
Rest in peace, Corporal Garrison.
ANNIVERSARY OF THE BEIRUT MARINE
BARRACKS BOMBING
Madam President, 36 years ago this
week, an Iranian suicide bomber deto-
nated thousands of pounds of explo-
sives inside a Marine compound in Bei-
rut, Lebanon. So terrible was the blast
that 15 miles out at sea, the marines
aboard the USS Iwo Jima could see
black smoke building over Beirut like
an ominous storm cloud. The dev-
astating attack claimed the lives of 241
Americans who were bravely keeping
the peace in a country that was
wracked by violence. A separate blast
claimed the lives of 58 of our French al-
lies.
This anniversary is a sobering re-
minder that freedom comes at a price—
a price too often paid by brave Ameri-
cans in uniform. In Beirut, it was paid
by 220 marines, 18 sailors, and 3 sol-
diers.
As a memorial to their valor, I ask
unanimous consent to have their
names printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
NAMES OF THE FALLEN IN THE BEIRUT MARINE
BARRACKS BOMBING
Cpl Terry W Abbott, USMC; Cpl Clemon S
Alexander, USMC; LCpl John R Allman,
USMC; Cpl Moses J Arnold Jr, USMC; LCpl
Charles K Bailey, USMC; LCpl Nicholas
Baker, USMC; LCpl Johansen Banks, USMC;
Cpl Richard E Barrett, USMC; HM1 Ronny K
Bates, USN; 1stSgt David L Battle, USMC;
Cpl James R Baynard, USMC; HN Jesse W
Beamon, USN; GySgt Alvin Belmer, USMC;
LCpl Stephen Bland, USMC; Sgt Richard L
Blankenship, USMC; LCpl John W Blocker,
USMC; Capt Joseph J Boccia Jr, USMC; Sgt
Leon Bohannon Jr, USMC; SSgt John R
Bohnet Jr, USMC; Sgt John J Bonk Jr,
USMC.
Cpl Jeffrey L Boulos, USMC; LCpl David R
Bousum, USMC; 1stLt John N Boyett, USMC;
Sgt Anthony Brown, USMC; Cpl David W
Brown, USMC; Cpl Bobby S Buchanan Jr,
USMC; Cpl John B Buckmaster, USMC; LCpl
William F Burley, USMC; HN Jimmy R Cain,
USN; Cpl Paul L Callahan, USMC; Sgt Mecot
E Camara, USMC; PFC Bradley J Campus,
USMC; Cpl Johnnie D Ceasar, USMC; PFC
Marc L Cole, USMC; SP4 Marcus A Coleman,
USA; PFC Juan M Comas, USMC; Sgt Robert
A Conley, USMC; Sgt Charles D Cook,
USMC; Cpl Curtis J Cooper, USMC.
LCpl Johnny L Copeland, USMC; Cpl Bert
D Corcoran, USMC; Cpl David L Cosner,
USMC; SSgt Kevin P Coulman, USMC; Cpl
Brett A Croft, USMC; Cpl Rick R Crudale,
USMC; Cpl Kevin P Custard, USMC; Cpl Rus-
sell E Cyzick, USMC; Maj Andrew L Davis,
USMC; PFC Sidney James Decker, USMC;
LCpl Michael J Devlin, USMC; Cpl Thomas A
Dibenedetto, USMC; Pvt Nathaniel G Dor-
sey, USMC; Sgt Maj Frederick B Douglass,
USMC; LCpl Timothy J Dunnigan, USMC;
HN Bryan L Earle, USN; MSgt Roy L
Edwards, USMC; HM3 William D Elliot Jr,
USN; LCpl Jesse Ellison, USMC; LCpl Danny
R Estes, USMC; LCpl Sean F Estler, USMC.
HM3 James E Faulk, USN; LCpl Richard A
Fluegel, USMC; Cpl Steven M Forrester,
USMC; HM3 William B Foster Jr, USN; Cpl
Michael D Fulcher, USMC; LCpl Benjamin E
Fuller, USMC; Cpl Michael S Fulton, USMC;
Cpl William Gaines Jr, USMC; Cpl Sean R
Gallagher, USMC; Cpl David B Gander,
USMC; Cpl George M Gangur, USMC; SSgt
Leland E Gann, USMC; LCpl Randall J Gar-
cia, USMC; SSgt Ronald J Garcia, USMC;
Cpl David D Gay, USMC; SSgt Harold D
Ghumm, USMC; Cpl Warner Gibbs Jr, USMC;
Sgt Timothy R Giblin, USMC; ETC Michael
W Gorchinski, USN; Cpl Richard J Gordon,
USMC.
LCpl Harold F Gratton, USMC; Sgt Robert
B Greaser, USMC; Cpl Davin M Green,
USMC; Cpl Thomas A Hairston, USMC; Sgt
Freddie Haltiwanger Jr, USMC; Cpl Virgil D
Hamilton, USMC; Sgt Gilbert Hanton,
USMC; LCpl William Hart, USMC; Capt Mi-
chael S Haskell, USMC; LCpl Michael A Has-
tings, USMC; Maj Paul A Hein, USMC; LCpl
Douglas E Held, USMC; Cpl Mark A Helms,
USMC; Cpl Ferrandy D Henderson, USMC;
MSgt Matilde Hernandez Jr, USMC; Sgt
Stanley G Hester, USMC; GySgt Donald W
Hildreth, USMC; SSgt Richard H Holberton,
USMC; HM3 Robert S Holland, USN; LCpl
Bruce A Hollingshead, USMC.
LCpl Melvin D Holmes, USMC; Cpl Bruce L
Howard, USMC; LT John R Hudson, USN; Cpl
Terry L Hudson, USMC; Cpl Lyndon J Hue,
USMC; 2ndLt Maurice E Hukill, USMC; Cpl
Edward F Iacovino Jr, USMC; LCpl John J
Ingalls, USMC; CWO2 Paul G Innocenzi III,
USMC; Cpl James J Jackowski, USMC; Cpl
Jeffrey W James, USMC; LCpl Nathaniel W
Jenkins, USMC; HM2 Michael H Johnson,
USN; Cpl Edward A Johnston, USMC; Cpl
Steven Jones, USMC; PFC Thomas A Julian,
USMC; HM2 Marion E Kees, USN; Sgt Thom-
as C Keown, USMC; GySgt Edward E Kimm,
USMC; PFC Walter V Kingsley, USMC.
SP5 Daniel S Kluck, USA; Cpl James C
Knipple, USMC; Cpl Freas H Kreischer III,
USMC; LCpl Keith J Laise, USMC; Cpl
Thomas G Lamb, USMC; Cpl James J
Langon IV, USMC; Sgt Michael S Lariviere,
USMC; Sgt Steven B Lariviere, USMC; MSgt
Richard L Lemnah, USMC; Cpl David A
Lewis, USMC; Sgt Val S Lewis, USMC; Cpl
Joseph R Livingston, USMC; Cpl Paul D
Lyon Jr, USMC; Maj John W Macroglou,
USMC; Cpl Samuel Maitland, USMC.
SSgt Charlie R Martin, USMC; PFC Jack L
Martin, USMC; Cpl David S Massa, USMC;
Sgt Michael R Massman, USMC; Pvt Joseph
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:33 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.007 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5948 October 22, 2019
J Mattacchione, USMC; Cpl John Mccall,
USMC; Sgt James E McDonough, USMC;
LCpl Timothy R McMahon, USMC; LCpl
Timothy D McNeely, USMC; HM2 George N
McVicker II, USN; LCpl Louis Melendez,
USMC; Sgt Menkins, Richard H II, USMC;
Sgt Michael D Mercer, USMC; Cpl Ronald W
Meurer, USMC; HM3 Joseph P Milano, USN;
Sgt Joseph P Moore, USMC; LCpl Richard A
Morrow, USMC; Cpl John F Muffler, USMC.
LCpl Alex Munoz, USMC; Sgt Harry D
Myers, USMC; 1stLt David J Nairn, USMC;
LCpl Luis A Nava, USMC; Sgt John A Olson,
USMC; LCpl Robert P Olson, USMC; CWO3
Richard C Ortiz, USMC; LCpl Jeffrey B
Owen, USMC; Sgt Joseph A Owens, USMC;
Cpl Connie Ray Page, USMC; LCpl Ulysses
Parker, USMC; LCpl Mark W Payne, USMC;
MSgt John L Pearson, USMC; LCpl Thomas
S Perron, USMC; Sgt John A Phillips Jr,
USMC; HMC George W Piercy, USN; 1stLt
Clyde W Plymel, USMC; Sgt William H Pol-
lard, USMC; Sgt Rafael I Pomalestorres,
USMC; Cpl Victor M Prevatt, USMC.
PFC James C Price, USMC; SSgt Patrick K
Prindeville, USMC; LCpl Eric A Pulliam,
USMC; HM3 Diomedes J Quirante, USN; Cpl
David M Randolph, USMC; GySgt Charles R
Ray, USMC; Pvt Rui A Relvas, USMC; LCpl
Terrence L Rich, USMC; Cpl Warren Rich-
ardson, USMC; Sgt Juan C Rodriguez, USMC;
LCpl Louis J Rotondo, USMC; Cpl Guillermo
Sanpedro Jr, USMC; Cpl Michael C Sauls,
USMC; 2ndLt Charles J Schnorf, USMC; LCpl
Scott L Schultz, USMC; Capt Peter J
Scialabba, USMC; Sgt Gary R Scott, USMC;
Sgt Ronald L Shallo, USMC; Cpl Thomas A
Shipp, USMC; LCpl Jerryl D Shropshire,
USMC; Cpl James F Silvia, USMC.
LCpl Stanley J Sliwinski, USMC; Cpl Kirk
H Smith, USMC; SSgt Thomas G Smith,
USMC; Capt Vincent L Smith, USMC; Cpl
Edward Soares, USMC; 1stLt William S
Sommerhof, USMC; Cpl Michael C
Spaulding, USMC; LCpl John W Spearing,
USMC; Cpl Stephen E Spencer, USMC; LCpl
Bill J Stelpflug, USMC; PFC Horace R Ste-
phens, USMC; LCpl Craig S Stockton, USMC;
Cpl Jeffrey G Stokes, USMC; Cpl Thomas D
Stowe, USMC; Cpl Eric D Sturghill, USMC;
Cpl Devon L Sundar, USMC; LT James F
Surch Jr, USN; LCpl Dennis A Thompson,
USMC; SSgt Thomas P Thorstad, USMC.
PFC Stephen D Tingley, USMC; LCpl John
J Tishmack, USMC; LCpl H. Townsend,
USMC; PFC Lex D Trahan, USMC; LCpl Don-
ald H Vallone Jr, USMC; LCpl Eric R Walk-
er, USMC; LCpl Leonard W Walker, USMC;
Sgt Eric G Washington, USMC; Cpl Obrian
Weekes, USMC; 1stSgt Tandy W Wells,
USMC; LCpl Steven B Wentworth, USMC;
Sgt Allen D Wesley, USMC; GySgt Lloyd D
West, USMC; SSgt John R Weyl, USMC; Sgt
Burton D Wherland Jr, USMC.
LCpl Dwayne W Wigglesworth, USMC; Cpl
Rodney J Williams, USMC; MSgt Scipio Wil-
liams Jr, USMC; Cpl Johnny A Williamson,
USMC; Capt Walter E Wint Jr, USMC; Maj
William E Winter, USMC; Cpl John E Wolfe,
USMC; 1stLt Donald E Woollett, USMC; HM3
David E Worley, USN; LCpl Craig L Wyche,
USMC; SFC James G Yarber, USA; Sgt Jef-
frey D Young, USMC; 1stLt William A Zim-
merman, USMC.
Mr. COTTON. I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Wyoming.
HEALTHCARE
Mr. BARRASSO. Madam President, I
come to the floor to discuss last Tues-
day’s 2020 Democratic Presidential de-
bate and specifically to discuss the
topic of healthcare.
Despite all of the political posturing,
here are the key takeaways: No. 1, the
Democrats still want to take work-
earned health insurance away from 180
million Americans. No. 2, the Demo-
crats want to raise taxes on the middle
class and on all Americans to pay for
it.
Under the Democrats’ plan, people
will lose forever the health coverage
they have earned at work. That means
union workers’ hard-fought health ben-
efits will disappear. It means that Ne-
vada’s food service workers and Michi-
gan’s autoworkers will all lose their
earned healthcare.
ELIZABETH WARREN and BERNIE SAND-
ERS want to replace work-based insur-
ance with a one-size-fits-all, govern-
ment-run scheme. At the same time,
the 2020 Democrats want to give free,
taxpayer-funded health insurance to il-
legal immigrants. It is hard to believe,
but that is a matter of fact. That is the
Democrats’ so-called Medicare for All
plan. Really, it is one-size-fits-all, gov-
ernment-controlled healthcare, and it
is extremely expensive, even more ex-
pensive than I mentioned before on the
floor, which is according to a new
study that has come out by something
called the Urban Institute. This liberal
group has just reported that the cost of
Medicare for All would be $34 trillion—
that is 34 with a ‘‘t.’’ Let’s put that
into perspective. How much money is
that? Over the next 10 years, that will
be more money than we will spend on
Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Secu-
rity combined. It will be an astronomi-
cally large number.
The Washington Post recently pub-
lished a story with the headline ‘‘Will
Medicare for-all hurt the middle
class?’’ The subheadline reads ‘‘ELIZA-
BETH WARREN and BERNIE SANDERS
struggle with questions about its im-
pact.’’ We have seen them struggle
with the impact of this very expensive,
one-size-fits-all plan. The story notes
that Senators WARREN and SANDERS
are scrambling to ease concerns over
middle-class costs, because that is
what people are concerned about in
this country—the cost of healthcare.
Working families back home in Wyo-
ming—and I talked with many this
past weekend at our University of Wyo-
ming’s homecoming football game—
and people from all around the State
are not fooled by what is being offered
by the Democrats in their debates.
They know they will have to pay dear-
ly if the Democrats’ scheme is adopted
and ever signed into law.
The Washington Post’s story quotes
and cites Ken Thorpe, who is Emory
University’s health policy chair. He
says: ‘‘The plan is, by design, incred-
ibly disruptive.’’ He goes on to say:
‘‘You create enormous winners and los-
ers,’’ and he adds: ‘‘There is no ques-
tion it hits the middle class.’’
For the middle class, it is a double
punch in the gut, and here is why. Not
only will those in the middle class lose
their insurance, but their taxes will
also go up.
Senator WARREN will not answer the
middle-class tax increase question. She
will not talk about it. She dodged the
question again and again. As the Post
reports, the Senator writes she will re-
lease a plan to pay for her proposal in
the next few weeks, but at the same
time, she continues to duck the tax
question. Last Tuesday, she repeatedly
tap-danced around the issue on the de-
bate stage. In fact, Senator WARREN’s
debate performance reminded me of the
Artful Dodger in the Dickens novel
‘‘Oliver Twist.’’ She said out-of-pocket
healthcare costs will go down, but she
failed to mention that much, much
more will be taken out of middle-class
pockets in huge tax hikes.
It is interesting when you see how
this is covered around the world. The
British publication The Economist
knows a lot about socialized medicine,
as they have been living with the Brit-
ish healthcare system for many, many
years. It points out that ELIZABETH
WARREN repeatedly refused to say how
she would pay for the plan. They write
that she ducked the question six times.
During the debate, it was Senator
SANDERS who jumped in to set the
record straight. BERNIE SANDERS said:
‘‘I do think it is appropriate to ac-
knowledge that taxes will go up.’’ He
has even promised to raise taxes for
lower income Americans. He said: ‘‘If
you’re making more than $29,000 a
year’’—and he is not talking about an
individual; he is talking about a family
here—‘‘you will be paying more in
taxes’’ under the plan that is promoted
by BERNIE SANDERS and ELIZABETH
WARREN.
Then there is this warning from Uni-
versity of Chicago’s economist Kath-
erine Baicker, who says:
These are going to be big tax increases.
The tax brackets may have to shift.
In last week’s Wall Street Journal
editorial, headlined ‘‘Warren’s Middle-
Class Tax Dodge,’’ it explains: ‘‘The
only way to pay for this [plan] is to
raise taxes on the middle class, which
is where the real money is.’’
To sum up, while Senator WARREN
continues to dodge the tax issue, Sen-
ator SANDERS admits that Medicare for
All will raise taxes on just about every-
one.
Under the Warren-Sanders plan, mid-
dle-class taxes will rise. Taxes even
rise for lower income families. We are
talking about those with a family in-
come of $29,000.
Here is the bottom line. Americans
will not tolerate having insurance go
away and will not tolerate having
taxes go up. They want to keep their
healthcare plans, and they want them
at lower costs. So we have a choice to
make. We can work together to lower
costs without lowering standards, or
we can follow the 2020 Democrats who
are pushing for their $34 trillion, one-
size-fits-all plan.
Don’t let this Artful Dodger act fool
you. Senator WARREN and Senator
SANDERS support the same plan. They
will not lower healthcare costs, but
they will raise everybody’s taxes. They
will not improve care, but they will
take coverage away from 180 million
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.010 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5949
October 22, 2019
Americans who now get it through
work.
As a doctor, I want to improve pa-
tient care. I want to make healthcare
more affordable. The Republicans are
100 percent committed to protecting
patients who have preexisting condi-
tions. We continue to work on bipar-
tisan solutions and real reforms to
lower the costs of everyone’s care.
Meanwhile, the solution we heard
last week on the debate stage, the 2020
Democrats’ solution, will force all of us
to pay more and wait longer for worse
care. That is what they have seen in
Canada, what they have seen in Eng-
land, and what we will see in the
United States if this one-size-fits-all
plan ever goes into effect.
Let’s give patients what they want,
which is the care they need from the
doctors they choose and at lower costs.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Wyoming.
MULTIEMPLOYER PENSION PLANS
Mr. ENZI. Madam President, I come
to the floor to discuss legislation ap-
proved by the House of Representatives
that would leave taxpayers holding the
fiscal bag for a specific category of un-
derfunded private pension plans.
Throughout most of my professional
life, from my days as an accountant, to
my service as the mayor of Gillette,
WY, and in the Wyoming Legislature,
to my membership on the Senate’s
Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions and then on the
Committee on Finance, I have worked
on pension policy. This experience has
taught me many things about retire-
ment security and the need for sound
planning.
My concern with the House-passed
bill is not just with its immediate cost
to the taxpayers but also with what it
would mean down the road. The bill
would send the signal to private pen-
sion plans that regardless of how un-
derfunded they are or how risky their
investments, the taxpayers will be
there to bail them out.
Pensions are an important source of
retirement income for millions of
Americans, but many of the private
sector’s multiemployer pension plans
are seriously underfunded. These are
plans that are sponsored by a group of
private employers as part of collective
bargaining agreements with their em-
ployees and are separate from the sin-
gle employers’ plans, which are gen-
erally better funded.
According to the Pension Benefit
Guaranty Corporation, multi-
employers’ pension plans are under-
funded by more than $637 billion. That
is $637 billion that is underfunded. Out
of the 1,247 multiemployer pension
plans that we have information on,
1,235 are underfunded. That would
mean that 12 are not underfunded.
In July of this year, the House of
Representatives passed the Rehabilita-
tion for Multiemployer Pensions Act of
2019, which would bail out some of the
worst-funded multiemployer plans at
the taxpayers’ expense. The bill would
provide a combination of low-interest
loans and direct cash payments to the
private sector’s multiemployer plans
that are currently insolvent or are des-
ignated as ‘‘critical and declining.’’
The official Congressional Budget Of-
fice’s cost estimate of the bill states it
would increase deficits by $49 billion
over the next 10 years, but, as a sepa-
rate analysis points out, which I re-
quested from the budget office, the
true cost and risk to taxpayers is actu-
ally much higher.
First, the bill includes a handful of
revenue provisions to help offset its
cost, but the House included these
same provisions in a separate bill it
passed earlier this year. Without this
$16 billion in double-counted revenues,
the bailout bill’s price tag jumps to $65
billion over the next decade.
Second, the analysis projects that
most pension plans would not fully
repay their loans without the grant as-
sistance provided in this bill. What
that means is that these plan providers
are going to use taxpayer dollars to
help repay loans made to them by tax-
payers. That is quite a deal.
Further, the budget office’s analysis
shows that even with these taxpayer-
provided grants, one-quarter of the
plans receiving loans under the House
bill would become insolvent within the
30-year loan period. CBO projects that
most of the other plans would become
insolvent in the decade after they
repay their loans. All of this begs the
question, then what?
Now, third, as I alluded to a moment
ago, much of the bill’s cost doesn’t
show up in the first 10 years. When you
consider the total amount of new
spending the bill authorizes over the
next several decades, along with the
added interest costs we will have to
pay, the total cost would be more than
$100 billion.
To add insult to injury, the House
bill would not resolve the larger multi-
employer pension crisis. The bill would
apply only to those that are currently
insolvent or critical and declining. It
would not address the many other
plans that are treading water now but
will face insolvency in the future. You
can bet that if this bill goes through,
those plans would be expecting their
bailout when the time comes. What a
precedent.
All of this is setting up for additional
bailouts in the future, potentially put-
ting taxpayers on the hook for hun-
dreds of billions of dollars.
Now, only about 12 percent of private
sector workers participate in a pension
plan, and an even smaller number par-
ticipate in these multiemployer plans.
This bill would put the vast majority
of workers who don’t have their own
pension plans on the hook for bailing
out the small percentage who do. That
hardly seems fair.
Hard-working Americans overwhelm-
ingly agree that we can’t afford a pen-
sion bailout. A recent poll shows that a
majority of voters oppose a taxpayer-
funded bailout of unfunded union pen-
sion plans. This is because voters know
a bad deal when they see it.
Before I close, I am going to remind
my colleagues that the Federal Gov-
ernment already has its own unfunded
promises that need addressing, and
these are programs that will affect the
vast majority of Americans. Trustees
for Social Security estimate that So-
cial Security’s long-term benefit prom-
ises exceed its dedicated tax revenues
by almost $17 trillion, and Medicare’s
long-term spending is projected to ex-
ceed its dedicated taxes and premiums
by more than $40 trillion.
We need to work to find solutions to
address the Federal Government’s own
funding shortfalls for the vast majority
of Americans and not bail out under-
funded private sector pension plans for
the few.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Ms. COLLINS. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
APPROPRIATIONS
Ms. COLLINS. Madam President, I
am pleased that the Senate is begin-
ning debate on the fiscal year 2020 ap-
propriations bill for the Departments
of Transportation, Housing and Urban
Development, and related agencies.
This bill has been included in the ap-
propriations package that has just now
been brought before this Chamber.
Let me begin my remarks by thank-
ing Chairman SHELBY and Vice Chair-
man LEAHY for their bipartisan leader-
ship in advancing these appropriations
bills to the Senate floor. Given that we
have reached a 2-year, bicameral, bi-
partisan budget agreement in August
and the new fiscal year began on Octo-
ber 1, it is imperative for the Senate to
move these bills quickly and to go to
conference with the House in order to
avoid further continuing resolutions
or, even worse, a government shut-
down.
I also want to acknowledge the hard
work and strong commitment of my
friend and colleague, Senator JACK
REED of Rhode Island, the ranking
member of the T-HUD Subcommittee.
We have worked so closely together in
drafting this bill, which includes more
than 950 requests from 75 Senators.
Let me repeat that. We received 950
requests from three-quarters of our col-
leagues for ideas for this bill, for fund-
ing levels, and in support of certain
programs. We evaluated all of them
very carefully and accommodated as
many as we could.
The T-HUD bill passed the full Ap-
propriations Committee by a unani-
mous vote of 31 to 0. It reflects a truly
bipartisan product.
The allocation for the fiscal year 2020
transportation-housing appropriations
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22OC6.034 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5950 October 22, 2019
bill is $74.3 billion. That is $3.2 billion
above the current funding levels. This
additional funding is necessary because
of rising rental costs across the coun-
try and a reduction in the receipts
from the Federal Housing Administra-
tion that are used to offset some of the
spending in this bill.
In spite of these considerable funding
challenges, our bill not only fully funds
the renewal of housing assistance for
low-income seniors and other vulner-
able populations, but it also continues
to provide robust investments in our
infrastructure. For example, the bill
provides $1 billion for the highly effec-
tive and popular BUILD grant pro-
gram. The BUILD program helps fund
critical infrastructure projects that
promote economic development and
the creation of jobs.
I am proud to say that Maine has
won a BUILD grant every year of this
program, including a critical $25 mil-
lion grant to replace the Sarah Mildred
Long Bridge that is critical to the op-
erations of the Portsmouth Naval Ship-
yard in Kittery, ME.
Particularly important to States like
Maine, the bill also provides much
needed highway resources. While only
19 percent of the U.S. population lives
in rural areas, 46 percent of traffic fa-
talities occur in rural America. That is
because the roads and the bridges in
the rural parts of our country are fre-
quently in much poorer condition than
those in urban areas. Building on the
success of the rural bridge rehabilita-
tion program over the last 2 years, our
bill provides $1.25 billion in dedicated
funding for bridges that are deterio-
rating and nearing the end or have
reached the end of their useful life.
The bill fully funds the INFRA grant
program, which provides resources for
large-scale freight projects through a
competitive grant process.
In fiscal year 2019, I was pleased to
advocate for the Maine Department of
Transportation’s successful application
to replace the Madawaska inter-
national bridge in Northern Maine.
This project will help to replace a crit-
ical corridor and connector between
Madawaska and New Brunswick on the
Canadian side of the border. This is so
important to the economy of Northern
Maine and supports more than 5,800 di-
rect and indirect jobs. Right now, that
bridge has been posted. That means
that heavy trucks are unable to cross
in the most effective and shortest
route between Edmonton, New Bruns-
wick, and Madawaska, ME.
These critical programs support not
only much needed infrastructure
projects but also jobs and economic
growth in each and every one of our
home States.
The American Society of Civil Engi-
neers conducts a comprehensive assess-
ment of our Nation’s infrastructure
every 4 years. Its most recent report
card from 2017 shows that America’s in-
frastructure remains in poor condition,
with a grade of D-plus. That should be
a call to action to all of us. It is simply
unacceptable. It not only creates safe-
ty problems, it also impedes economic
development.
One in eleven of our Nation’s bridges
is rated as structurally deficient, and
the average age of our country’s more
than 600,000 bridges is 43 years old. Our
National Highway System contains in-
frastructure that is now well past its
useful life. Some bridges are more than
100 years old, and many have had to be
posted and are unable to accommodate
today’s traffic volumes. Without the
critical funding in the T-HUD bill dedi-
cated to bridges, as well as the BUILD
grant program, we simply will not be
able to make progress to improve our
Nation’s infrastructure.
Let me now turn to aviation. The bill
provides $17.7 billion in resources for
the Federal Aviation Administration—
the FAA—which allows us to fully fund
air traffic control personnel, including
more than 14,000 air traffic controllers,
and more than 25,000 engineers, main-
tenance technicians, safety inspectors,
and operational support staff. Given
the significant challenges the FAA
faces in aviation safety, particularly as
has become evident with the certifi-
cation of the Boeing 737–MAX aircraft,
the bill increases funding for aviation
safety and aircraft certification activi-
ties and requires the FAA to respond to
each and every one of the recommenda-
tions made by the inspector general
and the National Transportation Safe-
ty Board once their audits and reviews
are completed. In addition, it requires
the FAA to move forward with a rule-
making on safety management systems
for aircraft manufacturers and to as-
sess its own internal workforce.
The bill also provides $1.2 billion for
FAA’s Next Generation Air Transpor-
tation System’s programs—also known
as NextGen—to improve the efficiency
and safety of the national airspace.
This funding is critical for reducing
delays and addressing congestion at
some of our Nation’s busiest airports.
Of particular importance to rural
communities, the bill fully funds the
Contract Tower Program and the Es-
sential Air Service Program.
In addition, the bill provides $450 mil-
lion for the Airport Improvement Pro-
gram in keeping with the authorized
level. This supplemental AIP funding
has been extremely helpful for small
airports in Maine that otherwise would
not be able to complete runway exten-
sion projects that are vital for air am-
bulances.
Turning to maritime programs, our
legislation provides full funding for our
Nation’s State maritime academies, as
well as the U.S. Merchant Marine
Academy, all of which play critical
roles in training the next generation of
U.S. mariners.
The bill provides $300 million for the
third special purpose vessel to be used
as a training school ship for the State
maritime academies. In accordance
with the guidance provided 3 years ago
by MARAD, new training ships will re-
place existing aging training ships in
the order in which those ships are ex-
pected to reach the end of their useful
lives. Over the past 2 years, we have
funded replacement ships for the New
York State Maritime Academy and the
Massachusetts Maritime Academy.
Funding in this bill will replace the
aging vessel at the Maine Maritime
Academy, which was next on the list.
These new ships provide training ca-
pacity for all six State maritime acad-
emies and ensure that cadets receive
the training hours they need to grad-
uate and join the workforce in the Mer-
chant Marine, the Navy, and the Coast
Guard.
In the area of housing, our priority is
to ensure that our Nation’s most vul-
nerable do not lose their housing as-
sistance and become homeless; there-
fore, the bill provides necessary fund-
ing increases to cover the higher costs
of rental assistance for the most vul-
nerable among us, including disabled
citizens and our low-income seniors.
Senator REED and I share a strong
commitment to reducing and ending
homelessness and have included $2.8
billion for homeless assistance grants.
To help our homeless youth and under-
served population, we provide $80 mil-
lion for grants.
Many Members share my concern
that young people are aging out of the
foster care system and have nowhere
safe to go. Far too frequently, they end
up couch-surfing or living on the
streets, vulnerable to those who would
abuse them. To better support our
youth who are exiting the foster care
system who are at risk of becoming ex-
ploited or homeless, the bill also in-
cludes $20 million for family unifica-
tion vouchers.
For our Nation’s homeless veterans,
the bill provides $40 million for the suc-
cessful HUD-VASH Program. In the
land of the brave, there should always
be a home for our veterans. Despite the
administration once again proposing to
eliminate this highly successful pro-
gram, the committee continues to pro-
vide funding. This program has been so
successful that it has helped to reduce
veteran homelessness by nearly 50 per-
cent since it was first started in 2010.
Another important issue, particu-
larly to Senator REED and to me, is
lead paint in homes. That is a par-
ticular concern to families with chil-
dren under age 6. The bill provides $290
million to combat lead hazards—a his-
toric level of funding. Lead paint haz-
ards are a significant concern for
Maine families, as 57 percent of our
housing stock was constructed prior to
1978, the year lead-based paint was
banned. These grants will help commu-
nities protect children from the harm-
ful effects—what can be lifelong ef-
fects—of lead poisoning.
The bill also supports local develop-
ment efforts by providing $3.3 billion
for the Community Development Block
Grant Program—another program that
the administration proposed to elimi-
nate but for which we had over-
whelming support expressed in letters
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22OC6.037 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5951
October 22, 2019
from our colleagues. The reason the
Community Development Block Grant
Program is so popular is its flexibility.
It can be tailored to meet local needs.
We have also included $1.4 billion for
the HOME Program. These two pro-
grams support the development of af-
fordable housing and other infrastruc-
ture projects and revitalize downtowns,
which in turn promote economic devel-
opment and lead to the creation of
more jobs.
I appreciate the opportunity to
present this important legislation to
the Chamber as we begin debate on the
Transportation-HUD funding bill. I
urge my colleagues to support the in-
vestments in this bill that benefit our
communities all across this Nation and
the families, veterans, children, and
our seniors who rely on these vital pro-
grams.
Let me end my remarks by again
thanking my colleague, friend, and
ranking member, Senator REED, for his
close collaboration and hard work. I
am very proud of the fact that once
again this year we have produced a bi-
partisan bill that was unanimously ap-
proved by our committee.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. CAS-
SIDY). The Senator majority leader is
recognized.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT AGREEMENT—H.R. 2740
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the clo-
ture motion with respect to the motion
to proceed to H.R. 2740 ripen at a time
to be determined by the majority lead-
er, in concurrence with the Democratic
leader.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
VOTE ON MOTION TO PROCEED
Mr. MCCONNELL. I know of no fur-
ther debate on the motion to proceed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE,
AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOP-
MENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMIN-
ISTRATION, INTERIOR, ENVIRON-
MENT, MILITARY CONSTRUC-
TION, VETERANS AFFAIRS,
TRANSPORTATION, AND HOUSING
AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT AP-
PROPRIATIONS ACT, 2020
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 3055) making appropriations
for the Departments of Commerce and Jus-
tice, Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the bill.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alabama.
AMENDMENT NO. 948
(Purpose: In the nature of a sub-
stitute.)
Mr. SHELBY. Mr. President, I call up
the substitute amendment No. 948.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
The Senator from Alabama [Mr. SHELBY]
proposes an amendment numbered 948.
Mr. SHELBY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the reading of
the amendment be dispensed with.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
(The amendment is printed in today’s
record under ‘‘Text of Amendments.’’)
AMENDMENT NO. 950 TO AMENDMENT NO. 948
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
call up amendment No. 950.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
The Senator from Kentucky [Mr. MCCON-
NELL], for Mr. SHELBY, proposes an amend-
ment numbered 950 to amendment No. 948.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the read-
ing of the amendment be dispensed
with.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment is as follows:
(Purpose: To make a technical correction)
On page 321, line 14, strike ‘‘$5,000,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$5,250,000’’.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 457.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Justin Reed
Walker, of Kentucky, to be United
States District Judge for the Western
District of Kentucky.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Justin Reed Walker, of Kentucky,
to be United States District Judge for the
Western District of Kentucky.
Mitch McConnell, Martha McSally, Rick
Scott, John Thune, Lindsey Graham,
Rand Paul, John Kennedy, John Cor-
nyn, Kevin Cramer, Pat Roberts, Mike
Rounds, Thom Tillis, Patrick J.
Toomey, Roger F. Wicker, John
Hoeven, John Boozman, Richard C.
Shelby.
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I under-
stand we are waiting for another Sen-
ator, and when he arrives, of course, I
will yield.
H.R. 3055
Mr. President, I was just talking
with the distinguished senior Senator
from Alabama a couple of minutes ago.
I know he has spoken, and we have
begun consideration of a bill con-
taining the fiscal year 2020 Commerce,
Justice, Science, Agriculture, Interior,
Transportation, Housing and Urban De-
velopment.
I mention this because all four of
these bills are the product of hard work
and bipartisan cooperation by each of
the subcommittees. They were reported
from the Appropriations Committee
unanimously. Every single Republican,
every single Democrat voted for it. It
makes critical investments in afford-
able housing and infrastructure, rural
development, our farming commu-
nities, small businesses, science, and
our environment. They are good bills,
and I am glad to have them before the
Senate.
I want to thank the chairs and rank-
ing members of the subcommittees and
their staff for the good work: Senators
HOEVEN and MERKLEY, Senators MUR-
KOWSKI and UDALL, Senators COLLINS
and REED, and Senators MORAN and
SHAHEEN. They all worked so closely
together. They show, despite the dif-
ficult atmosphere we often operate in,
the Appropriations Committee can still
put partisan disputes aside and make
strong investments in the priorities of
our American people.
The Agriculture bill continues the
significant progress made by this com-
mittee and in the 2018 farm bill to de-
liver real wins for farmers, families,
and rural communities throughout
Vermont and across the country. The
bill rejects the disastrous cuts the
Trump administration proposed for on-
farm conservation, rural development,
and rural energy programs and, in-
stead, makes important investments in
farming communities.
It is disappointing that this bill sup-
ports the administration’s ill-advised
relocation of USDA research agencies.
I have spoken out about this relocation
effort and remain concerned about the
loss of expertise and focus such a move
precipitates at USDA.
I am pleased this bill further invests
in the viability of our cornerstone
Vermont industries, including dairy,
maple, and organics.
It significantly increases funding for
innovation in the dairy sector, funding
that will directly benefit dairy pro-
ducers in Vermont and across the coun-
try as they meet the challenges of a
changing marketplace. The bill also
takes important steps to preserve the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22OC6.050 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5952 October 22, 2019
integrity of the organic dairy market,
increasing funding for key organic pro-
grams and directing USDA to finally
implement rules that will level the
playing field for small-scale producers.
The Agriculture bill also once again
includes funding to support the farm to
school program. This nationwide pro-
gram has given children and schools
across the country the tools to craft
farm-fresh, healthy, and delicious
meals that students enjoy, while teach-
ing children about healthy eating hab-
its.
The Interior bill makes significant
necessary investments in clean water,
clean air, stewardship of our public
lands. I am particularly pleased it has
critical funding through the Environ-
mental Protection Agency that will
support work on water quality, habitat
and fishery restoration, and invasive
species in Lake Champlain. The bill
also increases funding for the Land and
Water Conservation Fund that will
support efforts in Vermont and across
the country.
For States like mine that have seen
communities impacted by PFAS con-
tamination, the bill includes additional
funding for remediation.
The Transportation, Housing and
Urban Development bill continues crit-
ical support for infrastructure pro-
grams like BUILD. Vermont and States
across the country rely heavily on
these Federal programs.
It also invests in our Nation’s rail
systems that I hope will help extend
and maintain rail service within my
State of Vermont.
I am also pleased that this bill con-
tinues support for a development part-
nership between the University of
Vermont and the University of Mis-
sissippi to research unmanned aircraft
systems. The bill also protects impor-
tant investments in affordable housing
and community development.
The bill again rejects the administra-
tion’s request to eliminate programs
that support our communities, includ-
ing HOME, Community Development
Block Grant Program, NeighborWorks,
and the Rural Capacity Building Pro-
gram.
The Commerce, Justice, Science bill
makes critical investments in eco-
nomic development programs. It also
invests $7.6 billion for the 2020 census,
the results of which determine how we
distribute $900 billion in Federal spend-
ing every year. It also ensures appro-
priate representation in Congress. This
once-a-decade investment is critical.
I am grateful that this bill has in-
creased support for the lifesaving Bul-
letproof Vest Partnership Grant Pro-
gram, which earlier this year was given
a permanent authorization by a unani-
mous vote in the Senate. It also sup-
ports important programs to provide
support to crime victims, help to exon-
erate the wrongfully convicted, and to
reduce recidivism.
So there are four good, bipartisan
measures. I urge all Senators to sup-
port it. We have only 4 short weeks be-
fore the continuing resolution we are
operating under expires. We need to do
our work, and we need to do it quickly,
so we can enact all 12 appropriations
bills into law. These four bills are a
good start.
Mr. President, I see our distinguished
leader, a man we always rely on, on the
floor, so I yield to Senator DURBIN.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Illinois.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONGRESSIONAL
DISAPPROVAL UNDER CHAPTER
8 OF TITLE 5, UNITED STATES
CODE, OF THE RULE SUBMITTED
BY THE INTERNAL REVENUE
SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE
TREASURY, RELATING TO ‘‘CON-
TRIBUTIONS IN EXCHANGE FOR
STATE OR LOCAL TAX CREDITS’’
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I move
to proceed to Calendar No. 258, S.J.
Res. 50.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
Motion to proceed to Calendar No. 258, S.J.
Res. 50, providing for Congressional Dis-
approval Under Chapter 8 of Title 5, United
States Code, of the Rule Submitted by the
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, Relating to ‘‘Contributions in Ex-
change for State Or Local Tax Credits’’.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
Mr. DURBIN. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the joint resolution.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A joint resolution (S.J. Res. 50) providing
for Congressional Disapproval Under Chapter
8 of Title 5, United States Code, of the Rule
Submitted by the Internal Revenue Service,
Department of the Treasury, Relating to
‘‘Contributions in Exchange for State Or
Local Tax Credits’’.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the joint resolution.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to the provisions of the Congressional
Review Act, 5 U.S.C. 802, there will now
be up to 10 hours of debate, equally di-
vided between those favoring and those
opposing the joint resolution.
The Senator from Rhode Island.
Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise
today in support of H.R. 3055, which in-
cludes the fiscal year 2020 Transpor-
tation, Housing and Urban Develop-
ment, and Related Agencies, or the T-
HUD, Appropriations bill. I have
worked closely with Chairman COL-
LINS, and I want to salute her for her
excellent work and her leadership. This
is a bipartisan bill, which includes key
investments in transportation and
housing infrastructure.
It has not been an easy job, but Sen-
ator COLLINS’ leadership and her
thoughtful approach and our collabora-
tion, I think, have helped us present a
bill to the U.S. Senate which is more
than worthy of support.
While the budget agreement provided
a 4 percent increase to our allocation,
we actually have $1 billion less in
spending power compared to 2019 due to
declines in offsetting collections and
increased costs for renewals in HUD’s
rental assistance program.
Working together and with the input
of most Senators, we were able to put
together a solid bill that earned unani-
mous support in the committee. While
we were challenged in developing this
bipartisan bill, other subcommittees
have faced an impossible task as the
majority caters to the President’s de-
mands for a border wall and places no
guardrails to prevent the diversion of
defense funds to pay for it.
This is the same issue that resulted
in the President’s 35-day shutdown of
the Federal Government between De-
cember and January. I hope the Presi-
dent will heed the majority leader’s
axiom that ‘‘there is no education in
the second kick of a mule’’ and avoid a
rerun of this brinkmanship.
The minibus package before us is a
good start to a process that will hope-
fully deliver final bills to the Presi-
dent’s desk before Thanksgiving. The
T-HUD bill included in this package
provides critical funding to repair our
bridges, roads, and transit systems in
order to improve the safety, reliability,
and efficiency of our transportation
networks. These investments will sup-
port economic growth, create jobs, and
help to address our deferred mainte-
nance backlog across all transpor-
tation sectors.
It rejects the President’s proposal to
cut Amtrak funding in half and phase
out long-distance passenger service. In-
stead, we provide $2 billion for Amtrak,
which will allow it to initiate the
Northeast corridor fleet replacement,
deploy additional safety technology,
and invest in bridge and tunnel re-
placement projects.
The T-HUD bill also prioritizes fund-
ing for aviation safety in order to
strengthen the safety inspector work-
force and enable the Department of
Transportation and the FAA to address
identified weaknesses in aircraft cer-
tification process. Chairman COLLINS
and I have consistently worked to sup-
port FAA’s safety mission, often ex-
ceeding the budget request each year
to accomplish that.
We have been disturbed by many of
the official findings and unofficial re-
ports concerning the 737 MAX certifi-
cation and the culture at the FAA. As
the FAA reassesses its aviation safety
performance and priorities in response
to the findings of the inspector general,
the National Transportation Safety
Board, and other inquiries, we will
work to adjust funding to assist the
agency in fully executing all official
recommendations in a timely manner.
I cannot emphasize enough the im-
portance of enacting a full-year T-HUD
bill to help address the FAA’s safety
and operational demands. If we end up
with a yearlong continuing resolution,
we will have missed the opportunity to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22OC6.055 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5953
October 22, 2019
respond based on what we have learned
in the aftermath of the devastating 737
MAX crashes.
It is also important to pass this bill
because it upholds our longstanding
commitment to make housing afford-
able for 5 million low-income families
and provides funding for innovative so-
lutions to address homelessness among
the more than half a million Ameri-
cans who are without stable housing.
We rejected the President’s ill-ad-
vised proposals to cut $12 billion in af-
fordable housing and community and
economic development programs like
HOME, CDBG, and Public Housing.
These bipartisan programs are critical
components to bridging the gap be-
tween stable housing and homelessness
for so many working families.
The bill also continues to invest in
programs that prevent veterans’ home-
lessness by rejecting the administra-
tion’s proposal to eliminate the HUD-
VASH Program. Instead, we provide $40
million for 1,500 new housing vouchers
to help veterans gain access to safe and
stable housing.
This year, we were able to continue
providing record funding to remediate
lead-based paint and other environ-
mental hazards in low-income housing
and expand these initiatives to our Na-
tion’s public housing.
I am proud of the bill before us, and
I want to work with my colleagues to
consider amendments to make it even
better. I encourage Senators to file
amendments as soon as possible so we
can continue to move this process for-
ward.
Before I conclude, let me compliment
my colleagues who are managing the
other bills that are included in this
minibus package—Commerce, Justice,
Science, Agriculture, and Interior.
They have done excellent work in
crafting their bills, supported, as al-
ways, by Chairman SHELBY and Vice
Chairman LEAHY. I hope we can follow
their example and move quickly to
complete our work on all 12 appropria-
tions bills before November 21.
Finally, our efforts were immensely
aided and assisted by a strong and dedi-
cated staff at the T-HUD Committee. I
recognize Clare Doherty for the major-
ity counsel and Dabney Hegg for the
minority counsel for their extraor-
dinary work, which motivated their en-
tire staff to go above and beyond. That
is one of the major reasons today Sen-
ator COLLINS and I can stand with a
very good bill to present to the U.S.
Senate.
With that, Mr. President, I would ask
unanimous consent to make a presen-
tation that was previously scheduled
on another topic.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RUSSIA
Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise to
highlight my concerns about ongoing
Russian information warfare oper-
ations against the American people, in-
cluding the upcoming 2020 Presidential
elections, the lack of a unified strategy
from the administration to counter and
deter these attacks, and steps that
must be taken in the near term to be
better prepared in the future.
I will explain how statements by the
President soliciting foreign govern-
ments to investigate political rivals for
his personal benefit are part of a dis-
turbing pattern of behavior that rein-
forces Russian disinformation nar-
ratives and has implications for our na-
tional security and the integrity of our
democracy.
It has been almost 3 years since Rus-
sia interfered in our democracy during
the 2016 Presidential election with hy-
brid warfare and malign influence oper-
ations. These hybrid warfare tactics,
including information warfare, which I
will focus on today, are not simply op-
portunistic meddling by Russia. Rus-
sia’s purpose is to further its strategic
interests. Russian President Vladimir
Putin knows that, for now, Russia can-
not effectively compete with the
United States through conventional
military means and win.
Instead, Putin seeks to use tools
from his hybrid warfare arsenal to di-
vide the United States from our allies
and partners in the West and weaken
our institutions and open societies
from within. By weakening our democ-
racy, Putin can strengthen Russia’s
perceived standing globally and bolster
his autocratic grip on power at home.
Similar to the other tools in its hy-
brid arsenal, Russia has been devel-
oping its information warfare playbook
over time, enhancing both the tech-
nical and psychological aspects of
these information operations in capa-
bility, sophistication, and boldness.
Lessons learned from previous informa-
tion warfare campaigns culminated in
the attacks the Kremlin unleashed
against the United States during the
2016 Presidential election.
The 2016 information warfare cam-
paign, according to our intelligence
community—in their words—‘‘dem-
onstrated a significant escalation in di-
rectness, level of activity, and scope of
effort compared to previous oper-
ations.’’ Special Counsel Mueller’s re-
port on Russian interference in the 2016
Presidential election confirmed these
assessments and detailed how the
Kremlin used information warfare op-
erations, among other hybrid warfare
tactics in—in the words of the Mueller
report—‘‘sweeping and systematic fash-
ion.’’
The recently released Volume 2 of
the bipartisan investigation by the
Senate Intelligence Committee on Rus-
sian active measures campaigns and in-
terference in the 2016 U.S. election af-
firms both the intelligence commu-
nity’s assessment from January 2017
and the special counsel’s investigation.
The committee—again, on a bipar-
tisan basis—concluded that, in their
words, ‘‘Russia’s targeting of the 2016
U.S. presidential election was part of a
broader, sophisticated, and ongoing in-
formation warfare campaign. . . .’’
From these assessments and reports,
we have been able to reveal aspects of
the Kremlin’s playbook. In the 2018
midterm elections, the government
took steps, in coordination with the so-
cial media companies, to disrupt Krem-
lin and Kremlin-linked information
warfare operations. As a nation, we
have never undertaken a collective ex-
amination, as we did after the terrorist
attacks on September 11, 2001, to un-
derstand what happened and how we
should reorganize ourselves, our gov-
ernment, and our society to prevent it
from ever happening again.
To make matters worse, the findings
of the special counsel’s report, a de-
tailed accounting of how Kremlin and
Kremlin-linked actors attacked our de-
mocracy, have been obfuscated with a
partisan spin by President Trump and
his allies. This absence of a comprehen-
sive nonpartisan assessment and the
President’s lack of seriousness has im-
plications for our national security as
we prepare for the 2020 elections.
Equally troubling, the President has
consciously or unconsciously embraced
themes peddled as part of Russia’s in-
formation warfare operations on the
campaign trail, while serving as Presi-
dent, including comments over the
summer that our elections are rigged
and that there were illegal votes cast
in so-called ‘‘blue’’ States.
Not only does the President give the
impression that he is unbothered by
this interference of 2016, he appears to
be openly asking for help in 2020 and
willing to leverage the power of his of-
fice to get that assistance. You only
have to look as far as his phone con-
versation with the Ukrainian President
where he asked for a favor in return for
the delivery of defensive weapons to
counter Russian aggression or the
President publicly inviting China to
start an investigation into the Biden
family moments after he discussed
trade talks with Beijing and threat-
ened that ‘‘if they don’t do what we
want, we have tremendous power.’’ He
told the world as much in a June inter-
view with ABC News when he said that
he doesn’t see anything wrong with
taking help for his political campaign,
including from a foreign adversary. He
is broadcasting to the world that he is
willing to throw the interests of the
United States overboard if it means
helping with his reelection prospects.
These statements also have the in-
tended or unintended effect of fur-
thering Russian disinformation cam-
paigns, including that our democracy
is corrupt or fraudulent. These inci-
dents and others I will discuss today
are part of a troubling pattern of be-
havior and must be called out for what
they are. They are wrong.
The President’s troubling behavior,
coupled with his inability or unwilling-
ness to lead an effective policy to
counter and deter this type of malign
foreign influence, is to the peril of our
national security and the integrity of
our democracy. We cannot allow this
course to continue uncorrected.
In order to further understand these
dynamics and what to do to counter
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22OC6.038 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5954 October 22, 2019
them, I will highlight three aspects of
the Russian information warfare play-
book that we can anticipate will be de-
ployed in 2020. The first aspect is sup-
porting candidates likely to advance
Kremlin strategic interests; the second
aspect is undermining the credibility
of the elections; and the third aspect is
the recruiting of local surrogates to
wittingly or unwittingly advance the
Kremlin’s agenda.
For each aspect, I will also explain
how the Trump campaign, wittingly or
not, embraced that tactic. I will then
offer four recommendations for near-
term steps to defend ourselves from
foreign adversaries who seek to inter-
fere with our fundamental institutions.
A central objective of Russian elec-
tion interference efforts is supporting
candidates that advance Kremlin stra-
tegic interests. For the 2016 Presi-
dential election, Russia assessed that a
Trump Presidency would advance their
interests, and Kremlin and Kremlin-
linked actors deployed information
warfare and malign influence cam-
paigns to aid then-Candidate Trump.
The intelligence community unani-
mously assessed in January 2017—again
in their words—‘‘Putin ordered an in-
fluence campaign in 2016 aimed at the
U.S. Presidential election to denigrate
Secretary Clinton and harm her
electability and potential Presidency.
Putin and the Russian government de-
veloped a clear preference for Presi-
dent-elect Trump.’’
The recent report by the Senate In-
telligence Committee—again, on a bi-
partisan basis—arrived at the even
stronger conclusion that the Kremlin-
linked troll organization’s ‘‘social
media activity was overtly and almost
invariably supportive of then candidate
Trump, and to the detriment of Sec-
retary Clinton’s campaign.’’
Similarly, the special counsel’s re-
port confirmed that Russian operations
aimed to bolster their favored can-
didate, concluding that ‘‘[t]he Russian
government perceived it would benefit
from a Trump Presidency and worked
to secure that outcome.’’ The report
described in detail how Russia’s two
main information warfare operations—
the manipulation of social media and
the hacking and dissemination of sto-
len information—‘‘favored Presidential
candidate Donald J. Trump and dispar-
aged Presidential candidate Hillary
Clinton.’’
With regard to the manipulation of
social media, the February 2018 indict-
ment by the special counsel of the
Kremlin-linked troll organization,
commonly known as the Internet Re-
search Agency, provided additional evi-
dence of how operations aimed to bol-
ster specific candidates. The indict-
ment showed Kremlin-linked trolls
were instructed to ‘‘use any oppor-
tunity to criticize Hillary and the rest
(except Sanders and Trump—we sup-
port them).’’
The other main Russian information
warfare effort was carried out by the
Russian military intelligence units, or
GRU, which stole private information
and disseminated it, including on so-
cial media, to damage Secretary Clin-
ton.
The Senate Intelligence Committee’s
recent report confirmed this tactic, as-
sessing that ‘‘information acquired by
the committee from intelligence over-
sight, social media companies, the spe-
cial counsel’s investigative findings,
and research by the commercial cyber
security companies all reflect the Rus-
sian government’s use of GRU to carry
out another vector of attack on the
2016 election: the dissemination of
hacked materials.’’
One of the ways that the GRU was
able to amplify its ability to dissemi-
nate the hacked material was by col-
laborating with WikiLeaks. The special
counsel’s report found that ‘‘in order to
expand its interference in the 2016 pres-
idential election, the GRU units trans-
ferred many of the documents they
stole from the [Democratic National
Committee, or the] DNC, and the chair-
man of the Clinton campaign to
WikiLeaks.’’
It must be noted that the special
counsel, as well as our intelligence
community, have established that the
organization WikiLeaks was not just
acting as an unwitting stooge for the
Russians. WikiLeaks had a role in the
amplification of these information
warfare operations. The special coun-
sel’s indictment from July of 2018 stat-
ed that GRU officers, posing as the
fake persona Guccifer 2.0 ‘‘discussed
the release of the stolen documents and
the timing of those releases’’ with
WikiLeaks ‘‘to heighten their impact
on the 2016 Presidential election.’’ The
special counsel’s report further de-
scribed how ‘‘as reports attributing the
DNC and DCCC hacks to the Russian
Government emerged, WikiLeaks and
[WikiLeaks founder Julian] Assange
made several public statements de-
signed to obscure the source of the ma-
terials that WikiLeaks was releasing.’’
The weaponization of this information
stolen by the GRU units through
WikiLeaks was an important aspect of
the Kremlin’s support to then-Can-
didate Trump and heightened the im-
pact of these operations against our
elections.
The special counsel’s report detailed
a third line of effort to advance Rus-
sia’s preferred candidate. The informa-
tion warfare campaigns were conducted
in coordination with outreach to the
Trump campaign from Kremlin and
Kremlin-linked individuals. These
overtures included ‘‘offers of assistance
to the [Trump] campaign.’’ That is a
quote from the special counsel’s report.
In contrast, the special counsel’s of-
fice found no parallel efforts of assist-
ance directed toward Secretary Clin-
ton’s Presidential campaign and, in
fact, found the opposite. With regard to
the manipulation of social media by
Kremlin-linked trolls, the special coun-
sel’s report stated that ‘‘by February
2016 internal [Internet Research Agen-
cy] documents referred to support for
the Trump Campaign and opposition to
candidate Clinton,’’ and further states
that ‘‘throughout 2016 the [Internet Re-
search Agency] accounts published an
increasing number of materials sup-
porting the Trump Campaign and op-
posing the Clinton Campaign.’’ The
special counsel’s February 2018 indict-
ment of the Internet Research Agency
described additional efforts to oppose
the Clinton campaign, including infor-
mation warfare campaigns across so-
cial media platforms designed to peel
off certain groups that are tradition-
ally identified as reliable Democratic
Party voters. The indictment stated:
‘‘In or around the latter half of 2016,
the [Internet Research Agency] began
to encourage U.S. minority groups not
to vote in the 2016 U.S. presidential
election or to vote for a third party
presidential candidate.’’ The recent
Senate Intelligence Committee report
also affirmed this finding, concluding
that no single group was targeted more
than African Americans.
Let me emphasize again that this
Senate report was a bipartisan effort.
President Putin all but confirmed
support for the Trump campaign while
standing next to the President in July
of 2018 at the Helsinki Summit. When
asked by the press if he wanted Trump
to win the election and whether he di-
rected any Kremlin officials to help
with these efforts, Putin replied: ‘‘Yes,
I did, because he talked about bringing
the U.S. Russia relationship back to
normal.’’ I think in this instance—and
I think it is rare—we should take
Putin’s word for it.
Equally disturbing, the special coun-
sel provided significant evidence that
President Trump and his associates
embraced, encouraged, and applauded
Russian support. The special counsel’s
report definitively concludes that Rus-
sia saw its interests as aligned with
and served by a Trump Presidency,
that the central purpose of the Russian
interference operations was helping the
Trump campaign, and that the Trump
campaign anticipated benefiting from
the fruits of that foreign election inter-
ference.
The special counsel’s report detailed
evidence showing how Trump embraced
Russian information warfare cam-
paigns that sought to help him and
damage his opponent. The evidence is
overwhelming that the Trump cam-
paign encouraged this interference in
the Presidential campaign, even as it
became increasingly apparent that
Russia was behind these attacks on our
democracy.
One example of embracing Kremlin
and Kremlin-linked help is Trump cam-
paign associates, including the Presi-
dent’s son-in-law and then-campaign
chairman, meeting with Russian
agents in the hopes of getting dirt on
Secretary Clinton. The email to set up
the meeting to Donald Trump, Jr., held
the Kremlin’s intentions plain as day.
The offer was, and I quote, ‘‘to provide
the Trump campaign with some official
documents and information that would
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22OC6.040 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5955
October 22, 2019
incriminate Hillary and her dealings
with Russia and would be useful to
your father’’ as ‘‘part of Russia and its
government’s support for Mr. Trump.’’
Trump Junior embraced this offer and
responded that, quote, ‘‘if it’s what you
say, I love it.’’ I think that response
from the President’s son speaks for
itself.
Yet another example of this behavior
was the Trump campaign’s promotion
of WikiLeaks releases of information
stolen by GRU. The special counsel’s
investigation showed that ‘‘the Presi-
dential campaign showed interest in
the WikiLeaks releases of documents
and welcomed their potential damage
to candidate Clinton.’’
On June 14, 2016, the Washington
Post reported that ‘‘Russian govern-
ment hackers’’ were behind the hack-
ing of the DNC and DCCC. So it was
likely that as of mid-June of 2016 the
Trump campaign had a good idea that
the stolen information distributed by
WikiLeaks about the DNC was stolen
by Russia. The Mueller report de-
scribed that ‘‘by the late summer of
2016, the Trump Campaign was plan-
ning a press strategy, a communica-
tions campaign and messaging based on
the possible release of Clinton emails
by WikiLeaks.’’ By October 7, the De-
partment of Homeland Security and
the Office of the Director of National
Intelligence issued a joint statement
naming the WikiLeaks disclosures as
‘‘consistent with the methods and mo-
tivations of Russian-directed efforts’’
to influence public opinion and were
‘‘intended to interfere with the U.S.
election process.’’ If not prior to the re-
lease of that joint statement, certainly
by that point, the President’s cam-
paign should have known better. In-
stead, they appeared willing to em-
brace the Russian information warfare
campaigns aimed at damaging their op-
ponent.
The special counsel’s January indict-
ment of longtime Trump associate
Roger Stone further details how Trump
associates sought information about
WikiLeaks releases of stolen materials
intended to damage Secretary Clinton.
That indictment stated: ‘‘A senior
Trump campaign official was directed
to contact Stone about any additional
releases and . . . other damaging infor-
mation [WikiLeaks] had regarding the
Clinton campaign.’’ That indictment
also showed that on October 7, 2016—a
half-hour after the joint statement by
DHS and ODNI that WikiLeaks was
part of Russia’s operation to interfere
with U.S. Presidential elections—
WikiLeaks disseminated the first set of
emails from Clinton chairman John
Podesta. In response to those releases,
‘‘an associate of the high-ranking
Trump campaign official sent a text
message to Stone that read ‘well
done.’ ’’ Trump campaign associates ap-
plauded the actions by WikiLeaks,
which Trump’s then-CIA Director later
labeled ‘‘a non-state hostile intel-
ligence service often abetted by state
actors like Russia.’’ Instead of calling
the FBI, the campaign celebrated. In
the last month of the campaign alone,
the President publicly boasted of his
love of WikiLeaks at least 124 times.
Embracing WikiLeaks is not the only
example of the President’s problematic
embrace of Russian information war-
fare operations. The President appears
to have welcomed the GRU’s hacking
operation and its intention to damage
his opponent’s candidacy. On July 27,
2016, Trump announced publicly during
a press conference:
Russia, if you are listening, I hope you’re
able to find the 30,000 emails that are miss-
ing. I think you will be rewarded mightily by
our press.
The special counsel’s report con-
firmed that the GRU tried to assist
Trump with those efforts, finding that
‘‘within approximately five hours of
Trump’s statement, GRU officers tar-
geted for the first time Clinton’s per-
sonal office.’’
This call for Russia to hack his polit-
ical opponent and find her so-called de-
leted emails was not an isolated re-
mark or sarcasm, as the President
likes to say. The special counsel’s re-
port detailed that during the same pe-
riod:
Trump asked individuals affiliated with his
campaign to find the deleted emails. Michael
Flynn . . . recalled that Trump made this re-
quest repeatedly and Flynn subsequently
contacted multiple people in an effort to ob-
tain the emails.
Further, as described in the special
counsel’s report, one of the people Gen-
eral Flynn contacted to obtain Sec-
retary Clinton’s alleged deleted emails
claimed that he had organized meet-
ings with parties whom he believed
‘‘had ties and affiliations with Russia,’’
though the special counsel’s investiga-
tion was not able to establish that
Flynn’s contacts interacted with
Kremlin-linked hackers. As Brookings
Institution senior fellow Benjamin
Wittes laid out in April, Trump ‘‘not
only called publicly on the Russians to
deliver the dirt on his opponent but he
also privately ordered his campaign to
seek the material out . . . knowing . . .
that Russia would or might be the
source.’’
As I mentioned earlier, the special
counsel was not able to find sufficient
evidence to prove that the Trump cam-
paign’s embracing of Kremlin or Krem-
lin-linked operations constituted a
crime beyond a reasonable doubt, but,
clearly, the special counsel established
a breadth of episodes where Trump em-
braced Russian operations in support of
the campaign. Maybe those acts don’t
meet a criminal standard, but there are
significant implications for this behav-
ior. For instance, is it OK for a can-
didate to get elected President or
elected to any public office by capital-
izing on information stolen by a for-
eign adversary? Will that be acceptable
the next time around? Will foreign
campaigns targeting our elections be
accepted as normal from now on? The
actions of President Trump indicate,
unfortunately, that it is acceptable and
even welcome, and that is to the det-
riment of our national security and the
integrity of our democracy.
I would like now to highlight a sec-
ond aspect of the Kremlin’s playbook,
operations to denigrate the legitimacy
of U.S. elections and democratic proc-
esses in general. The January 2017 in-
telligence community assessment
found that one of the main objectives
of the Kremlin-ordered election inter-
ference campaign was to undermine the
American public’s faith in our elec-
toral system. The intelligence commu-
nity’s assessed in January 2017: ‘‘When
it appeared to Moscow that Secretary
Clinton was likely to win the presi-
dency, the Russian influence campaign
focused more on undercutting Sec-
retary Clinton’s legitimacy . . . includ-
ing by impugning the fairness of the
election.’’ The intelligence commu-
nity’s assessment further stated that
‘‘Pro-Kremlin bloggers had prepared a
Twitter campaign, #DemocracyRIP, on
election night in anticipation of Sec-
retary Clinton’s victory.’’
The special counsel’s work confirmed
the intelligence community’s assess-
ment. The Mueller report showed sig-
nificant evidence of how the Kremlin-
linked troll organization the Internet
Research Agency deployed information
operations around the theme that the
election was rigged, fraudulent, or oth-
erwise corrupt. The special counsel’s
indictment of Internet Research Agen-
cy officials from February 2018 stated:
‘‘Starting in or around the summer of
2016, [the Kremlin-linked troll organi-
zation] also began to promote allega-
tions of voter fraud by the Democratic
Party through their fictitious U.S.
personas and groups on social media.’’
The Kremlin-linked troll organization
purchased advertisements on Facebook
to further promote allegations of vote
rigging, including ads promoting a
Facebook post that charged ‘‘Hillary
Clinton has already committed voter
fraud during the Democratic Iowa Cau-
cus.’’ Other examples include posts
that voter fraud allegations were being
investigated in North Carolina on the
Internet Research Agency’s fraudulent
Twitter account @TENlGOP, which
claimed to be the Tennessee Repub-
lican Party. Just days before the elec-
tion, the agency used the same fraudu-
lent Twitter handle to push the mes-
sage ‘‘#VoterFraud by counting tens of
thousands of ineligible mail in Hillary
votes being reported in Broward Coun-
ty, Florida.’’
Consciously or unconsciously, Presi-
dent Trump also embraced this tactic
from the Russian information warfare
playbook and ran with it. According to
a New York Times compilation, Trump
tweeted at least 28 times during the
2016 Presidential campaign that the
election, the electoral process, or cer-
tain early voting procedures were
rigged, fraudulent, and corrupt. Let me
give you a few examples. On August 1,
2016, Trump told a rally in Ohio: ‘‘I’m
afraid the election is going to be
rigged, I have to be honest.’’ On Sep-
tember 6, 2016, he stated: ‘‘The only
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:21 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22OC6.041 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5956 October 22, 2019
way I can lose in my opinion . . . is if
cheating goes on . . . go down to cer-
tain areas and study [to] make sure
that other people don’t come in and
vote five times.’’ Multiple press reports
indicate that Trump’s campaign
website invited supporters to serve as
‘‘Trump election observers’’ to help
him ‘‘stop crooked Hilary from rigging
the election.’’ At the final debate on
October 19, 2016, Trump indicated he
would not necessarily accept the re-
sults of the election, instead saying he
would ‘‘look at it at that time,’’ alleg-
ing ‘‘millions of people’’ on the voter
rolls ‘‘shouldn’t be registered to vote.’’
At an Ohio rally the next day, Trump
alleged that Secretary Clinton ‘‘is a
candidate who is truly capable of any-
thing, including voter fraud.’’ On Octo-
ber 21, 2016, Trump told a rally in Penn-
sylvania:
Remember, folks, it is a rigged system.
That’s why you’ve got to get out and vote.
You’ve got to watch. Because this system is
totally rigged.
In these instances and others, Trump
furthered the Kremlin’s disinformation
campaign by embracing and promoting
the themes that our democratic system
was rigged. As New Yorker journalist
Jonathan Blitzer observed at that
time, ‘‘Trump has taken . . . [the voter
fraud] concept to the extreme: trying
to delegitimize a national election
even while campaigning for the presi-
dency.’’
It is wildly irresponsible to push con-
spiracy theories that threaten the in-
tegrity of our democratic system with-
out any evidence. It is wrong when a
candidate for President pushes con-
spiracy theories that advance a central
theme of the Russian information war-
fare campaign that our electoral sys-
tem is ‘‘rigged’’ and aids key strategic
objectives of the Kremlin. These tac-
tics also undermine the American
public’s faith in our electoral system
and strengthen Putin’s position in the
strategic competition between the
United States and Russia. It is unpatri-
otic and cannot be accepted as part of
our democracy and open society.
The mere idea that our entire elec-
tion system would be attacked by the
Russians to delegitimize it, and then to
have those efforts echoed by the Presi-
dent does a huge disservice to the
American public. If the American pub-
lic does not have faith in the integrity
of our electoral system, then we have
profoundly lost a fundamental prin-
ciple of our government that thousands
of Americans have defended over years
and years of effort. Our elections have
to be protected. They can’t be deni-
grated. The denigration that we saw
was outrageous.
These two aspects of the Kremlin’s
playbook are supported by a third as-
pect—the recruitment and exploitation
of local surrogates. This process was
described in an amicus brief from De-
cember 2017 filed against President
Trump by former national security of-
ficials, including Director of National
Intelligence Clapper, CIA and NSA Di-
rector Hayden, CIA Director Brennan,
and Acting CIA Director Morell. The
brief stated:
The Russian Government continues to use
local actors in a number of ways, [including]
to get closer to a target (especially one who
would be hesitant to offer assistance to Rus-
sian operatives directly), or manipulate a
target to suit their needs. They use these
agents to probe individual targets to see if
they might be open to relationships or black-
mail. And they recruit individuals within a
country to help them understand how to ap-
peal to U.S. populations and target and
shape the contours of disinformation cam-
paigns.
The recent Senate Intelligence Com-
mittee report affirmed these tactics,
explaining: ‘‘Russian backed trolls
pushing disinformation have also
sought to connect with and potentially
coopt individuals to take action in the
real world.’’
The special counsel’s report de-
scribed how the Kremlin and Kremlin-
linked actors deployed these tactics in
the United States to interfere in the
2016 election, including:
As early as 2014, the [Internet Research
Agency] instructed its employees to target
U.S. persons to advance its operational
goals. Initially, recruitment focused on U.S.
persons who could amplify content posted by
the [Internet Research Agency].
However, the activities that the
Kremlin-troll agency, wittingly or un-
wittingly, used Americans for grew
over time to include assistance with
organizing pro-Trump rallies and dem-
onstrations. The special counsel’s re-
lated indictment of the Internet Re-
search Agency officials stated that by
late August 2016, the Internet Research
Agency had an internal list ‘‘of over 100
real U.S. persons contacted through
[Internet Research Agency]-controlled
false U.S. persona accounts and
tracked to monitor recruitment efforts
and requests.’’ These efforts to exploit
local surrogates included two different
types of interactions with the Trump
campaign according to the special
counsel—reposting Kremlin-linked
troll content from social media and re-
quests for assistance with organizing
political rallies.
This aspect of the Kremlin play-
book—recruitment and exploitation of
local surrogates—was also embraced,
consciously or unconsciously, by the
President and his inner circle. The spe-
cial counsel’s report detailed how
Trump’s family and campaign associ-
ates retweeted Kremlin-linked troll or-
ganization posts, amplifying a foreign
adversary’s information warfare cam-
paign against our Presidential election.
The special counsel found: ‘‘Posts from
the [Internet Research Agency]-con-
trolled Twitter account @TEN_GOP
were cited or retweeted by multiple
Trump campaign officials and surro-
gates, including Donald J. Trump Jr,
Eric Trump, Kellyanne Conway, Brad
Parscale, and Michael T. Flynn.’’ The
posts these campaign surrogates cited
or retweeted included two other as-
pects of the information warfare cam-
paign—accusations to damage Sec-
retary Clinton’s campaign and allega-
tions of voter fraud.
With regards to this aspect, as well,
the special counsel did not conclude
there was enough evidence to establish
that the embrace and amplification of
these information warfare operations
was willful coordination by the Trump
campaign amounting to a criminal
conspiracy. It may well be that the
President and the people around him
didn’t know that at @TEN_GOP wasn’t
the Tennessee Republican Party but
was, in fact, Russian trolls thousands
of miles away, fraudulently pumping
disinformation into our system. How-
ever, it still shows a willingness to em-
brace for partisan advantage baseless,
unsubstantiated allegations from un-
known sources threatening the very
fabric of our democracy—claims we
know now were ginned up by a foreign
adversary. It may not be criminal, but
it is incredibly reckless and wrong. It
is not the standard of conduct we
should demand from someone seeking
political office and the public trust
that goes with that office. Again, this
is part of a troubling pattern of behav-
ior by the President.
Equally important, the election of a
President who consciously or uncon-
sciously embraces the tactics of for-
eign disinformation operations has im-
plications for our national security and
that of our allies and partners. As Ben-
jamin Wittes from the Brookings Insti-
tution assessed, that the Internet Re-
search Agency, a Kremlin-linked troll
organization, ‘‘was able to . . . get
Trump figures—including Trump him-
self—to engage with and promote so-
cial-media content as part of a hostile
power’s covert efforts to influence the
American electorate . . . shows a trou-
bling degree of vulnerability on the
part of the U.S. political system to
outside influence campaigns.
Now, unfortunately, we can antici-
pate that these aspects of the playbook
will continue and escalate in sophis-
tication and scale in 2020. The 2016 elec-
tion was not just a one-off operation
for the Kremlin. As then-Director of
National Intelligence Dan Coats
warned, Russia’s malign activities ‘‘are
persistent, they are pervasive, and they
are meant to undermine America’s de-
mocracy.’’
FBI Director Chris Wray also empha-
sized similar concerns during his spring
speech to the Council on Foreign Rela-
tions, stating that the threat from
Russian foreign malign influence ‘‘is
not just an election cycle threat; it’s
pretty much a 365-days-a-year threat.’’
Director Wray further warned that
‘‘our adversaries are going to keep
adapting and upping their game.’’
The intelligence community assessed
in January 2017 that the campaign
against us represented a ‘‘new normal’’
in Russian influence efforts in which
‘‘Moscow will apply lessons learned
from its campaign aimed at the U.S.
presidential elections to future influ-
ence efforts in the U.S. and world-
wide.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:33 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22OC6.042 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5957
October 22, 2019
The recent Senate Intelligence Com-
mittee’s report concluded that infor-
mation warfare attacks in 2016 ‘‘rep-
resent only the latest installment in an
increasingly brazen interference by the
Kremlin on citizens and democratic in-
stitutions of the United States.’’ And
Director Mueller told the House Intel-
ligence Committee in July that Rus-
sian interference ‘‘wasn’t a single at-
tempt. They’re doing it as we sit here.’’
This interference has only increased
in sophistication as the Russians used
lessons learned from tactics developed
in the Kremlin playbook in 2016. We
saw Kremlin and Kremlin-linked actors
deploy information warfare campaigns
designed to advance their preferred
candidates in the 2018 elections.
An October 2018 Department of Jus-
tice indictment from the Eastern Dis-
trict of Virginia detailed information
warfare operations in 2017 and 2018 by
the Internet Research Agency lever-
aged to promote candidates aligned
with President Trump and denigrate
candidates opposed to him, including
anti-Trump Republicans. These oper-
ations demonstrated a high level of
precision and specificity in messaging
for the Agency’s employees to deploy,
including references to relevant news
articles and topical items of the day to
optimally promote Russia’s candidates
and causes of choice.
For example, the indictment cited
how managers of the Internet Research
Agency provided employees a news ar-
ticle titled ‘‘Civil War if Trump Taken
Down’’ and instructed them to use
their fraudulent personas to ‘‘[n]ame
those who oppose the President and
those who impede his efforts to imple-
ment his preelection promises.’’ One of
the targets of these efforts was anti-
Trump Republicans. The trolling in-
structions included detailed talking
points to deploy over social media plat-
forms, including ‘‘focus on the fact
that the Anti-Trump Republicans: a)
drag their feet with regard to financing
the construction of the border wall; b)
are not lowering taxes; c) slander
Trump and harm his reputation (bring
up McCain); d) do not want to cancel
ObamaCare; e) are not in a hurry to
adopt laws that oppose the refugees
coming from Middle Eastern countries
entering this country.’’
This information warfare operation
was designed to support the President
and detailed a sophisticated campaign
deployed against an unwitting Amer-
ican public by trolls pretending to be
fellow citizens. As national security
journalist Natasha Bertrand wrote in
The Atlantic about the 2018 informa-
tion warfare campaigns detailed in the
Eastern District’s indictment, ‘‘[t]he
messaging strategy mimicked the over-
heated rhetoric . . . that [the Internet
Research Agency] employed to consid-
erable effect during the Presidential
election. The partisan—and at times
hateful—comments so artfully mim-
icked the daily back and forth on so-
cial media that they seemed to be
those of real Americans.’’
She also observed how these mes-
sages supported the President, noting
that ‘‘[a]t times, the messaging copied
President Trump’s bombast almost ver-
batim’’ and ‘‘the echo chamber between
Trump’s election rhetoric and that of
the Russian trolls was striking.’’
And the Russian information oper-
ations were not limited only to sup-
porting President Trump. The Eastern
District of Virginia indictment also
showed how the Kremlin-linked troll
organization worked to advance Repub-
lican challengers of several congres-
sional races through a fraudulent Twit-
ter account called @CovfefeNationUS,
which encouraged readers to contribute
to a political action committee seeking
to defeat incumbent Democratic Sen-
ators and Representatives in the 2018
midterm election. These operations
demonstrated a sophisticated under-
standing of the American political sys-
tem.
We also saw evidence from the 2018
midterms of a second tactic from the
Kremlin’s playbook that I discussed
earlier, attacking the legitimacy of the
election, which is a fundamental at-
tack on the democracy of this coun-
try—the ethic that holds us together.
Here, too, the operation evolved in so-
phistication. In the same indictment,
the Eastern District of Virginia de-
scribed information warfare operations
that worked to undermine the legit-
imacy of the U.S. election, with spe-
cific messages for its employees to dis-
seminate. One example from the indict-
ment was instructions for the Russian
Internet Research Agency’s employees
to cite specific online articles on voter
fraud. The Kremlin-linked trolls were
told the state in deployed messages:
Remind that the majority of ‘‘blue States’’
have no voter IDs, which suggests that large
scale falsifications are bound to be hap-
pening there. . . . Democrats in the coming
election will surely attempt to falsify the re-
sults.
The indictment also detailed how
these information warfare campaigns
were deployed across multiple plat-
forms, including being pushed out
using multiple fraudulent Twitter ac-
counts to reinforce and amplify their
message.
Finally, we saw the continuation of a
third aspect of the Russian playbook,
the recruitment of local surrogates to
advance Kremlin interests with the
2018 election. As the Eastern Virginia’s
indictment states, between March 2016
and around July 2017, ‘‘while con-
cealing its true identity, location, and
purpose, the [Kremlin-linked troll or-
ganization] used the false U.S. persona
‘Helen Christopherson’ to contact indi-
viduals and groups in the United States
to promote protests, rallies, and
marches, including by funding adver-
tising, flyers, and rallies and supplies.’’
The indictment further details how
the Kremlin-linked troll organization
used a different fake persona ‘‘while
concealing its true identity, location,
and purpose, to solicit at least one per-
son presumed to be located in the
United States to assist with . . . social
media activities.’’ These efforts to re-
cruit surrogates included posting on
and managing content on a fraudulent
Facebook page created specially to fur-
ther a Russian information warfare
campaign.
As we have been warned, these oper-
ations will continue to look more
American, and the Kremlin and Krem-
lin-linked agents will continue to try
to recruit people in the United States
to advance Russia’s hybrid operations.
Many of the President’s national se-
curity officials have warned that we
could see heightened Russian informa-
tion warfare attacks and other influ-
ence operations in the 2020 elections.
Even before the 2018 midterm elections,
Christopher Krebs, Homeland Secu-
rity’s Cybersecurity and Infrastructure
Security Agency Director, warned:
The midterm is . . . just the warm-up, or
the exhibition game. . . . The big game, we
think, for adversaries is probably 2020.
FBI Director Wray echoed that as-
sessment, stating this spring that the
‘‘2018 elections were seen as a dress re-
hearsal for the big show in 2020‘‘ and
that the FBI anticipates the 2020
threat being even more challenging.
Former Director of National Intel-
ligence Daniel Coats testified to the
Senate Intelligence Committee in late
January: ‘‘Moscow may employ addi-
tional influence toolkits—such as
spreading disinformation, conducting
hack-and-leak operations, or manipu-
lating data—in a more targeted fashion
to influence U.S. policy, actions, and
elections.’’
There are several examples which
further demonstrate how these efforts
have become more sophisticated and
pervasive. In 2016, Russia disseminated
what turned out to be authentic stolen
information. However, just a few
months later, during the French Presi-
dential elections, Kremlin and Krem-
lin-linked actors disseminated a mix of
real and fake information about Presi-
dential candidate Emmanuel Macron in
order to damage him and bolster their
preferred candidate, Marine Le Pen. So
next time foreign adversaries may use
a mixture of real and fake information
as part of their influence operations.
We already saw a multi-country,
multi-language information warfare
campaign uncovered by the Atlantic
Council’s Digital Forensic Research
Lab that made use of ‘‘fake accounts,
forged documents, and dozens of online
platforms to spread stories that at-
tacked western interests and unity.’’
It may also be harder to discern what
is real and what is fake because it is
more likely to look like it is coming
from regular Americans who are con-
cerned about an issue. In February
2018, Russia expert Heather Conley
warned in testimony before the Senate
Armed Services Subcommittee on Cy-
bersecurity that Russian information
warfare campaigns in 2018 and 2020 will
adapt and ‘‘look more American, [and]
it will look less Russian.’’
In addition, new technologies, includ-
ing the use of artificial intelligence
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22OC6.044 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5958 October 22, 2019
and deepfake recordings that seem real
but are actually doctored or entirely
fabricated, will add an additional layer
of complexity and make it easier for us
to fall for these operations. As then-Di-
rector of National Intelligence Dan
Coats testified to the Senate Intel-
ligence Committee in late January,
‘‘Adversaries and strategic competitors
probably will attempt to use deep fakes
or similar machine-learning tech-
nologies to create convincing but false
image, audio, and video files to aug-
ment influence campaigns directed
against the United States and our al-
lies and partners.’’
Despite these assessments by our
senior national security officials and
our intelligence community, the volu-
minous evidence in the special coun-
sel’s indictments and report, additional
indictments from the Department of
Justice, and bipartisan reports from
the Senate Intelligence Committee, the
President appears unwilling or unable
to recognize the urgency of this na-
tional security threat or the need to
immediately implement a comprehen-
sive strategy to counter and deter Rus-
sian hybrid warfare. Instead of alerting
Americans to the threat, the President
continues to ignore the analysis of his
own intelligence agencies. Instead of
leading efforts to deter foreign adver-
saries, the President, with the whole
world watching at the July 2019 G20
Osaka summit, treated election inter-
ference as a joke, signaling to Putin
that he would not hold Russia account-
able.
This doesn’t only apply to past Rus-
sian interference in the 2016 election.
The President’s blind spot when it
comes to Russian election interference
is harming our ability to counter fu-
ture interference. The New York Times
reported in April that former Home-
land Security Secretary Kirstjen
Nielsen was told not to bring up the
issue with the President of expected
Russian interference in the 2020 elec-
tion. Acting Chief of Staff Mick
Mulvaney said it ‘‘wasn’t a great sub-
ject and should be kept below [the
President’s] level.’’
The President’s unwillingness to ac-
cept Russian interference and his pub-
lic statements inviting other countries
to interfere in future elections have
created real impediments to formu-
lating a whole-of-government and a
whole-of-society strategy to counter
and deter Russia or others from at-
tacking our elections. Despite almost 3
years having passed since the 2016 elec-
tion, the White House has not led ef-
forts to develop a comprehensive strat-
egy to counter foreign election inter-
ference. While, as I mentioned, indi-
vidual U.S. Departments and agencies
took steps to disrupt Russia in the 2018
midterm elections, no wholesale strat-
egy to deter and counter these oper-
ations appears to have been imple-
mented for 2020.
Don’t just take my word for it. Then-
European Commander General Curtis
Scaparrotti, who was on the frontlines
in deterring Russia, testified this
spring to the Senate Committee on
Armed Services that U.S. efforts to
counter Russian influence operations
still lacked ‘‘effective unification
across the interagency.’’ Equally trou-
bling was his assessment that the
United States has yet to develop ‘‘a
multifaceted strategy to counter Rus-
sia.’’
When FBI Director Christopher Wray
testified in May before the Senate Ap-
propriations Subcommittee on Com-
merce, Justice, Science, and Related
Agencies, he could not identify a lead
person who was designated to coordi-
nate these efforts. This is despite a pro-
vision included in the fiscal year 2019
National Defense Authorization Act re-
quiring the President to designate an
NSC official to be in charge of coordi-
nating the U.S. Government response
to malign foreign influence operations.
To date, no such coordinator has been
named. Moreover, the cybersecurity co-
ordinator at the NSC was dismissed
over a year and a half ago, and that po-
sition remains unfilled. So, at the high-
est levels, we don’t have anyone in
charge.
What additional steps can we take
right now to protect the American peo-
ple against interference campaigns by
the Russians and other foreign adver-
saries—campaigns we know are coming
ahead of the 2020 elections?
In the near term, I believe we must
immediately adopt several measures
that would provide additional tools to
detect these information warfare oper-
ations and help reduce the American
people’s vulnerability to them. We
have no time to waste.
First, we must designate the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security, with the
concurrence of the Director of National
Intelligence and the FBI Director, with
the responsibility for increasing public
vigilance and reassuring the American
people about the legitimacy and valid-
ity of our elections.
This group of senior officials should
be organized to detect foreign inter-
ference in our political process and ex-
pose malign behavior, including on so-
cial media. In the run-up to the elec-
tion, this group must issue monthly
public reports—with a classified annex,
if necessary—showing top trends in
malign influence campaigns from coun-
tries identified as posing the greatest
threats. They also must provide a pub-
lic assessment as to whether these
countries are engaged in interference
in our election 90 days prior to election
day and again 30 days out. Making such
an assessment a requirement and in-
cluding a delivery date will help inocu-
late these assessments from questions
about political bias.
Even after election day, we need to
make sure this group is poised to af-
firm the legitimacy of the democratic
process. No less than 3 days after the
election, it must also make an assess-
ment to the maximum extent possible
as to whether foreign interference was
detected. To further protect the group
from accusations of political bias, the
spot assessment could be backed up by
a neutral, nonpartisan panel, which
would review and certify the govern-
ment’s assessment in short order, such
as within 2 weeks.
These types of public assessments are
not unprecedented. As I mentioned ear-
lier, the Office of the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence and the Department
of Homeland Security made an an-
nouncement about Russian influence
operations ahead of the 2016 election.
Ahead of the 2018 midterm elections,
the Director of National Intelligence,
the Department of Justice, the FBI,
and the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity made a public statement about
foreign influence, and the President
issued an Executive order regarding
election interference ahead of the 2018
midterm elections, which requires a 45-
day report after the election that as-
sesses attacks from foreign adver-
saries. Yet these sporadic statements
are not enough to reassure the Amer-
ican people, and a report 45 days after
the election is much too long to wait.
The public must know that this group
is going to keep us informed in real
time and issue warnings regarding the
threats.
Much of this idea was endorsed as a
recommendation in the recent bipar-
tisan Senate Intelligence Committee’s
report, which called for the executive
branch to stand up a task force to con-
tinually monitor and assess the use of
social media platforms by foreign
countries for ‘‘democratic inter-
ference’’ that, among other things,
would ‘‘periodically advise Congress
and the public on its findings.’’
Second, we need a better under-
standing of how the Kremlin and other
foreign adversaries are deploying
disinformation and foreign influence
operations across social media plat-
forms. Right now, we are depending on
social media companies to take down
unauthentic accounts that are engaged
in malign influence activities. These
companies have stepped up their efforts
to identify and counter these activi-
ties, which is something they failed to
do in the 2016 election. Ultimately,
they are for-profit enterprises, and the
government’s visibility on and under-
standing trends and indicators of for-
eign activity on these platforms is lim-
ited. We cannot solely rely on the so-
cial media companies to look after the
public good and protect our national
security.
One way to increase transparency
and help the American public under-
stand the changing threat picture
across social media platforms would be
greater support for independent re-
search, with the participation of the
social media companies and inde-
pendent third-party researchers, to
compile information and analyze
trends that are relevant to foreign in-
formation operations. Such research
would allow trusted independent re-
searchers and academics to gain in-
sight into cross-platform trends and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22OC6.045 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5959
October 22, 2019
provide analysis of indicators of for-
eign influence activities to the public.
This mechanism could also provide an
important tool for informing our gov-
ernment’s response to foreign influence
and disinformation operations ahead of
the 2020 elections. This concept also
has bipartisan support from the Senate
Intelligence Committee, which in-
cludes a similar recommendation in its
recent report.
We have proof that this concept
works and is vital to national security.
General Paul Nakasone, commander of
U.S. Cyber Command, publicly testified
to both the Senate Armed Services and
Intelligence Committees that two anal-
yses of Kremlin-linked influence oper-
ations across social media platforms
done by independent researchers at the
Senate Intelligence Committee’s be-
hest were, in his words, a very, very
helpful window into the adversary’s op-
erations ahead of the 2018 midterms. As
our adversaries continue to evolve and
adopt their techniques, we need to re-
double our efforts to understand what
to expect in the next election.
Third, we must reinforce the prohibi-
tion on candidates and campaigns that
accept offers of help from foreign ad-
versaries who interfere in our political
process to advance their strategic in-
terests.
The Trump campaign’s series of for-
eign contacts in the 2016 election and
the President’s continued statements
to solicit and show his willingness to
accept assistance from foreign govern-
ments make it clear that Congress
must act to prevent future interference
efforts. That is why I am a cosponsor of
S. 1562, the Foreign Influence Report-
ing in Elections Act—or the FIRE
Act—introduced by Senator WARNER.
The FIRE Act would require all cam-
paign officials to report within 1 week
to the Federal Election Commission
any contacts with foreign nationals at-
tempting to make campaign donations
or otherwise collaborate with the cam-
paign. The FEC would, in turn, have to
notify the FBI within 1 week.
It is in all of our interests to ensure
that we can defend against foreign at-
tacks on our democratic institutions,
and reporting these kinds of contacts
to the appropriate authorities is our
first line of defense. I am disappointed
that my Republican colleagues have
blocked Senator WARNER’s attempt to
pass the FIRE Act even after many of
them insisted that politicians should
report to the FBI any contacts or of-
fers of help by a foreign government.
Fourth, we should build upon the
passage in the Senate of S. 1328, the
Defending Elections against Trolls
from Enemy Regimes Act. This bipar-
tisan legislation by Senators DURBIN
and GRAHAM was a step in the right di-
rection by making improper inter-
ference in U.S. elections a violation of
immigration law and violators both de-
portable and ineligible for visas to
enter the United States. Additional
targeted sanctions should be consid-
ered on Russia to deter future election
interference with our allies and part-
ners.
These are some immediate steps we
can take as the Russian playbook for
the 2020 election crystallizes, but we
can also see a familiar pattern begin-
ning to emerge.
This is not hypothetical. Just yester-
day, Facebook announced it took down
50 accounts associated with the Inter-
net Research Agency. I have spoken
about it consistently throughout my
comments this evening.
Just yesterday, they took down 50 ac-
counts. These Kremlin-linked trolls
posed as real Americans, including
from swing States. They deployed in-
formation operations on social media
to praise President Trump and Senator
SANDERS and attack Vice President
Biden and Senators WARREN and HAR-
RIS—repeating tactics from 2016 and
2018.
Facebook’s head of cyber security
stated in conjunction with that an-
nouncement that we can guarantee
‘‘bad guys are going to keep trying to
do this.’’ This is just one more con-
firmation that Russia is deploying as-
pects of the same playbook in 2020.
This time, we know this information
warfare campaign is coming. In fact, it
has already begun. We need to build on
what we have learned and what we an-
ticipate coming next. We should be en-
suring that we have structures in place
to counter foreign election inter-
ference. Importantly, we must work to-
gether with private partners to expose
more of these operations and continue
to help the American people under-
stand it. We can speak the truth about
how Russia is exploiting our democ-
racy and open society to deploy its ma-
lign influence playbook so the public is
not caught unaware of these sophisti-
cated foreign tactics and attempts to
manipulate the social media environ-
ment.
We also cannot continue to let these
moments pass without speaking up
about the tenets of our democracy and
what it stands for. Russia exploited
vulnerabilities in our society, and their
tactics were encouraged and amplified
by a candidate who was seeking the
highest office in the land. That can-
didate, now President, appears to see
no reason to change his behavior for
the future and instead he has doubled
down.
Congress as a body and we as a coun-
try must speak out and say this is not
acceptable. It is not acceptable for can-
didates for political office—any polit-
ical office, those seeking to hold a posi-
tion of public trust, to seek to engage
with our adversaries or foreign author-
itarian regimes to advance their polit-
ical campaigns. It is not acceptable to
meet with foreign agents about getting
stolen information on your opponents,
information acquired by foreign espio-
nage. It is not acceptable to promote
materials stolen by foreign adversaries.
It is not acceptable to abuse the power
of the Presidency to advance your per-
sonal political interests to the det-
riment of the country. It is not accept-
able to promote propaganda and
disinformation campaigns that work to
delegitimize our democracy, a democ-
racy that generations have fought and
died to protect. This is a violation of
the public trust that is inherent in any
political office and which any can-
didate for public office must uphold to
be worthy of the American people’s
support.
It is critical that we unite in a bipar-
tisan manner to take immediate action
to counter these threats. The integrity
of our electoral system is not a Repub-
lican or a Democratic issue. It is an
American issue.
As Abraham Lincoln said, ‘‘America
will never be destroyed from the out-
side. If we falter and lose our freedoms,
it will be because we destroyed our-
selves.’’
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms.
MCSALLY). The Senator from Ten-
nessee.
Mr. ALEXANDER. Madam President,
the Senator from Alabama, Mr. JONES,
and I have legislation that we propose
to introduce tonight.
I am prepared to let him speak before
I do because I understand he has an-
other event, but I don’t see him.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. ALEXANDER. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
(The remarks of Mr. ALEXANDER and
Mr. JONES pertaining to the introduc-
tion of S. 2667 are printed in today’s
RECORD under ‘‘Statements on Intro-
duced Bills and Joint Resolutions.’’)
Mr. ALEXANDER. Madam President,
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MORAN. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
H.R. 3055
Mr. MORAN. Madam President, last
evening, I was here at this exact spot
asking my colleagues to support the
idea of advancing appropriations bills,
and I am pleased to see today that has
today occurred. It occurred on a vote of
92 to 2. That is a good sign.
It is a goal of mine to see the Senate
function. One of the ways we can deter-
mine whether we are doing our jobs is
whether we can pass appropriations
bills. The Senate is now considering 4
of 12 appropriations bills that should be
adopted on an annual basis.
I begin my remarks this evening by
thanking Chairman SHELBY and Vice
Chairman LEAHY for their leadership
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22OC6.046 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5960 October 22, 2019
and for working hard to bring appro-
priations bills to the floor, including
my subcommittee’s work on the Com-
merce, Justice, Science, and Related
Agencies appropriations bill.
As the chairman of that CJS Sub-
committee, I worked closely with the
ranking member, Senator SHAHEEN, the
Senator from New Hampshire, whom I
know very well. Senator SHAHEEN and I
have worked together to produce a
good-government, bipartisan bill that
is part of this appropriations package
we are now debating. I express my
gratitude to her and her staff for her
partnership, and I am proud we were
able to report the bill out of the Appro-
priations Committee by a unanimous
vote. I appreciate Senator SHAHEEN’s
willingness to find common ground,
and I look forward to seeing this bill
pass the Senate and ultimately be en-
acted into law.
As I have said before, this is a good
bill. It is consist with our subcommit-
tee’s 302(b) allocation, and I believe it
balances the many competing prior-
ities of our funding jurisdiction.
As you expect in a bill that is titled
‘‘Commerce, Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies,’’ there are many com-
peting interests in determining how we
allocate the spending within that 302(b)
allocation.
The CJS bill supports activities re-
lated to national security; Federal,
State, local, and Tribal law enforce-
ment; space exploration; economic de-
velopment; trade promotion and en-
forcement; scientific research; and
many other critical government func-
tions.
The CJS bill provides funding for the
Department of Commerce, which in-
cludes an increase of significant
amounts of dollars that are necessary
in fiscal year 2020 to fund the Census
Bureau to ensure that we have an accu-
rate counting for the 2020 decennial
census—a constitutional requirement.
It is one of the reasons that it is dif-
ficult to allocate money in our bill, be-
cause the census is so critical and must
be done in a professional and timely
manner. We believe we have included
the necessary support for that to
occur.
This bill also has a strong support for
NOAA programs—the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration—to
ensure continuation of core operations,
including ocean monitoring, fisheries
management, coastal grants to States,
aquaculture research, and severe
weather forecasting, and additional op-
portunities for economic growth by
supporting the Economic Development
Agency and continuing the National
Institute of Standards and Tech-
nology’s Manufacturing Extension
Partnership Program.
The CJS bill also supports space and
scientific exploration. This bill is the
bill that funds NASA. As many of my
colleagues know, this year the admin-
istration took a step—a bold step—in
advancing the timeframe by which
American astronauts will return to the
Moon. The plan is now to return to the
Moon by 2024. This bill helps accelerate
that goal and will cement America’s
leadership in space exploration. The
bill provides robust funding for NASA,
including funding for science and aero-
nautics and the Artemis mission—that
trip to the Moon—which will allow
NASA to begin to take those important
steps to achieve its goal—and a goal of
mine—of putting the first woman on
the Moon by 2024.
The bill also includes needed funding
for STEM education programs.
In most recent times, when the 50th
anniversary of Apollo 11 was cele-
brated, it caused me to remember back
to the days in which many people in
this country saw what we were able to
accomplish and dedicated their lives—
young people—to science and research,
to space exploration. This bill is sup-
portive of that and is designed to in-
spire the next generation of sci-
entists—young people and others.
Finally, the CJS bill also provides for
increased funding for the Department
of Justice. The funding includes addi-
tional resources for the Department’s
law enforcement components, enabling
the Department to hire additional
agents, deputy marshals, and correc-
tional officers, expanding the Depart-
ment’s efforts to combat mass violence
and violent crime.
Funding for the Executive Office for
Immigration Review is also increased
so that additional immigration judges
and support staff can be hired, con-
tinuing our committee’s effort to re-
duce the immigration court backlog,
which is now over 960,000.
Additionally, as an original sponsor
of the First Step Act, I am proud that
this bill provides $75 million—the fully
authorized level—to the Bureau of
Prisons for its implementation.
Our bill provides $2.3 billion in fund-
ing for State, local, and Tribal law en-
forcement assistance, including a total
of $517 million to combat the various
opioid, meth, and substance abuse cri-
ses raging our communities, $500 mil-
lion for grants authorized under the Vi-
olence Against Women Act, and $315
million for juvenile justice grants.
These grants will help local commu-
nities prevent crime and also provide
support and assistance for crime vic-
tims.
Unfortunately, many of our law en-
forcement officials are under signifi-
cant stress, increasing pressures, and
there is an increasing level of suicide
among law enforcement officers across
the country. Again, we have provided
funding for counseling—something I
wish were not necessary.
We have a transparent product here.
We worked in a bipartisan manner, as
many Kansans and Americans have
asked me to do, asking: Can we get
along? The answer is yes, we can get
along to do something as basic as an
appropriations bill. I hope the answer
will continue to be yes. It is important
for us to address the priorities and
needs of our Nation.
I look forward to advancing this leg-
islation. I will be here on the Senate
floor from time to time to respond to
my colleagues’ questions and to re-
spond to any amendments that may be
offered.
I urge my colleagues to support this
package of four bills, including our
CJS bill, so that we can move one step
closer to completing our constitu-
tionally required work of funding the
Federal Government.
I again thank Chairman SHELBY and
the vice chairman, Senator LEAHY, for
their leadership throughout this entire
process. I look forward to working with
them for the next few days and
throughout the year to see that we
have a successful conclusion.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Kansas.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT AGREEMENT—TREATY
DOCUMENT NO. 116–1
Mr. MORAN. Madam President as in
executive session, I ask unanimous
consent that the motion to reconsider
be considered made and laid upon the
table and the President be immediately
notified of the Senate’s consent to the
resolution of ratification with respect
to treaty document No. 116–1.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MORAN. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate be
in a period of morning business, with
Senators permitted to speak therein
for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
BUDGET ENFORCEMENT LEVELS
FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
Mr. ENZI. Madam President, section
251 of the Balanced Budget and Emer-
gency Deficit Control Act of 1985,
BBEDCA, establishes statutory limits
on discretionary spending and allows
for various adjustments to those lim-
its. In addition, sections 302 and 314(a)
of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974
allow the chairman of the Budget Com-
mittee to establish and make revisions
to allocations, aggregates, and levels
consistent with those adjustments.
The Senate will soon consider S.
Amdt. 948 to H.R. 3055, the Commerce,
Justice, Science, Agriculture, Rural
Development, Food and Drug Adminis-
tration, Interior, Environment, Mili-
tary Construction, Veterans Affairs,
Transportation, and Housing and
Urban Development Appropriations
Act, 2020. The Senate amendment pro-
vides appropriations for spending with-
in the jurisdiction of all the sub-
committees in the underlying bill ex-
cept for the Senate Appropriations
Subcommittee on Military Construc-
tion, Veterans Affairs, and Related
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22OC6.058 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5961
October 22, 2019
Agencies. The measure contains spend-
ing that qualifies for cap adjustments
under current law.
This measure includes $2,500 million
in nonsecurity budget authority that is
designated as being for the periodic
U.S. Census pursuant to section 251
(b)(2)(G) of BBEDCA. CBO estimates
that this budget authority will result
in $1,800 million in outlays in fiscal
year 2020.
This measure also includes $2,250 mil-
lion in nonsecurity discretionary budg-
et authority for wildfire suppression
operations pursuant to section 251
(b)(2)(F) of BBEDCA. This budget au-
thority and its associated outlays of
$2,250 million qualify for an adjustment
under BBEDCA.
As such, I am revising the budget au-
thority and outlay allocations to the
Committee on Appropriations by in-
creasing revised nonsecurity budget
authority by $4,750 million and outlays
by $4,050 million in fiscal year 2020.
Further, I am increasing the budgetary
aggregate for fiscal year 2020 by $4,750
million in budget authority and $4,050
million in outlays.
I ask unanimous consent that the ac-
companying tables, which provide de-
tails about the adjustment, be printed
in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
REVISION TO BUDGETARY AGGREGATES
(Pursuant to Sections 311 and 314(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of
1974)
$s in millions 2020
Current Spending Aggregates:
Budget Authority ........................................... 3,704,246
Outlays .......................................................... 3,681,491
Adjustments:
Budget Authority ........................................... 4,750
Outlays .......................................................... 4,050
Revised Spending Aggregates:
Budget Authority ........................................... 3,708,996
Outlays .......................................................... 3,685,541
REVISION TO SPENDING ALLOCATION TO THE COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
(Pursuant to Sections 302 and 314(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974)
$s in millions 2020
Current Allocation:
Revised Security Discretionary Budget Authority ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 666,500
Revised Nonsecurity Category Discretionary Budget Authority .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 621,508
General Purpose Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 1,364,379
Adjustments:
Revised Security Discretionary Budget Authority ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 0
Revised Nonsecurity Category Discretionary Budget Authority .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 4,750
General Purpose Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 4,050
Revised Allocations:
Revised Security Discretionary Budget Authority ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 666,500
Revised Nonsecurity Category Discretionary Budget Authority .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 626,258
General Purpose Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 1,368,429
Memorandum: Detail of Adjustments Regular OCO
Program
Integrity
Disaster
Relief
Emergency
Wildfire
Suppression
U.S. Census Total
Revised Security Discretionary Budget Authority .................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Revised Nonsecurity Category Discretionary Budget Authority ............................................................................................. 0 0 0 0 0 2,250 2,500 4,750
General Purpose Outlays ....................................................................................................................................................... 0 0 0 0 0 2,250 1,800 4,050
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO BILL STEBBINS
∑ Mr. DAINES. Madam President, this
week I have the honor of recognizing
pilot Bill Stebbins of Dawson County
for his tremendous impact on Montana
and over 60 years of experience as a
pilot.
Bill was honored by his colleagues
and the Federal Aviation Administra-
tion with the distinguished Wright
Brothers Master Pilot Award in August
of 2019. This high honor is reserved for
few pilots who have had a pilot’s li-
cense in good standing for 50 or more
years.
Bill has been flying since 1955, put-
ting him at over 60 years of flight with
an outstanding 13,000 hours spent in
the air.
After earning a mechanical engineer-
ing degree, Bill joined the Army where
he trained in fixed-wing aircraft at
Gary Air Force Base in San Marcos,
TX. He later advanced to fixed-wing
and helicopter training at Fort Rucker
in Alabama.
Upon leaving military service, Bill
worked for Montana-Dakota Utilities
and then Williston Basin Interstate
Pipeline, where he flew thousands of
miles of pipeline in a variety of fixed-
wing and rotary aircrafts to help in-
spect and maintain the pipeline’s pro-
tection.
Over the years, Bill has also com-
mitted himself to helping those in
need, including participating in count-
less search and rescue operations.
Most notably, in the 1980s Bill air-
lifted food and supplies into Makoshika
State Park to support a youth group
stranded at the Lion’s camp by heavy
rains and washed out roads.
Bill has spent 50 years based at the
Dawson Community Airport, where he
has served as the assistant airport
manager since 2015. He has had a tre-
mendous impact on the operation of
the Dawson County Airport.
It is my honor to recognize Bill for
his extraordinary accomplishments.
Bill’s experience as a pilot and his self-
less service to his community and
country is exemplary of the Montana
spirit.∑
f
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT
A message from the President of the
United States was communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Roberts, one of his
secretaries.
f
PRESIDENTIAL MESSAGE
REPORT ON THE CONTINUATION
OF THE NATIONAL EMERGENCY
ORIGINALLY DECLARED IN EX-
ECUTIVE ORDER 13413 OF OCTO-
BER 27, 2006, WITH RESPECT TO
THE SITUATION IN OR IN RELA-
TION TO THE DEMOCRATIC RE-
PUBLIC OF THE CONGO—PM 33
The PRESIDING OFFICER laid be-
fore the Senate the following message
from the President of the United
States, together with an accompanying
report; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs:
To the Congress of the United States:
Section 202(d) of the National Emer-
gencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides
for the automatic termination of a na-
tional emergency unless, within 90
days before the anniversary date of its
declaration, the President publishes in
Federal Register and transmits to the
Congress a notice stating that the
emergency is to continue in effect be-
yond the anniversary date. In accord-
ance with this provision, I have sent to
the Federal Register for publication the
enclosed notice stating that the na-
tional emergency with respect to the
situation in or in relation to the Demo-
cratic Republic of the Congo declared
in Executive Order 13413 of October 27,
2006, is to continue in effect beyond Oc-
tober 27, 2019.
The situation in or in relation to the
Democratic Republic of the Congo,
which has been marked by widespread
violence and atrocities that continue
to threaten regional stability, con-
tinues to pose an unusual and extraor-
dinary threat to the foreign policy of
the United States. For this reason, I
have determined that it is necessary to
continue the national emergency de-
clared in Executive Order 13413 with re-
spect to the situation in or in relation
to the Democratic Republic of the
Congo.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, October 22, 2019.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 10:12 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the House has passed the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:33 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.056 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5962 October 22, 2019
following bills, in which it requests the
concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 4387. An act to establish Growth Ac-
celerator Fund Competition within the
Small Business Administration, and for
other purposes.
H.R. 4405. An act to amend the Small Busi-
ness Act to improve the women’s business
center program, and for other purposes.
H.R. 4406. An act to amend the Small Busi-
ness Act to improve the small business de-
velopment centers program, and for other
purposes.
H.R. 4407. An act to amend the Small Busi-
ness Act to reauthorize the SCORE program,
and for other purposes.
The message further announced that
the House has agreed to the following
concurrent resolution, without amend-
ment:
S. Con. Res. 27. Concurrent resolution pro-
viding for the use of the catafalque situated
in the Exhibition Hall of the Capitol Visitor
Center in connection with the memorial
services to be conducted in the House wing of
the Capitol for the Honorable Elijah E. Cum-
mings, late a Representative from the State
of Maryland.
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bills were read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 4387. An act to establish Growth Ac-
celerator Fund Competition within the
Small Business Administration, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Small
Business and Entrepreneurship.
H.R. 4405. An act to amend the Small Busi-
ness Act to improve the women’s business
center program, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Small Business and Entre-
preneurship.
H.R. 4406. An act to amend the Small Busi-
ness Act to improve the small business de-
velopment centers program, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Small Busi-
ness and Entrepreneurship.
H.R. 4407. An act to amend the Small Busi-
ness Act to reauthorize the SCORE program,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Small Business and Entrepreneurship.
f
MEASURES DISCHARGED
The following joint resolution was
discharged from the Committee on Fi-
nance by petition, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
802(c), and placed on the calendar:
S. J. Res. 50. Joint resolution providing for
congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of
title 5, United States Code, of the rule sub-
mitted by the Internal Revenue Service, De-
partment of the Treasury, relating to ‘‘Con-
tributions in Exchange for State or Local
Tax Credits’’.
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST TIME
The following joint resolution was
read the first time:
S.J. Res. 59. Joint resolution expressing
the sense of Congress on the precipitous
withdrawal of United States Armed Forces
from Syria and Afghanistan, and Turkey’s
unprovoked incursion into Syria.
f
ENROLLED BILL PRESENTED
The Secretary of the Senate reported
that on today, October 22, 2019, she had
presented to the President of the
United States the following enrolled
bill:
S. 1196. An act to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
1715 Linnerud Drive in Sun Prairie, Wis-
consin, as the ‘‘Fire Captain Cory Barr Post
Office Building’’.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–2944. A communication from the Chief
of the Planning and Regulatory Affairs
Branch, Food and Nutrition Service, Depart-
ment of Agriculture, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘The
Emergency Food Assistance Program: Imple-
mentation of the Agricultural Act of 2018’’
(RIN0584–AE73) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on October 15, 2019;
to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry.
EC–2945. A communication from the Ad-
ministrator of the Specialty Crops Program,
Agricultural Marketing Service, Department
of Agriculture, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘United
States Standards for Grades of Apples’’ ((7
CFR Part 51) (Docket No. AMS–SC–18–0055;
SC18–330)) received in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on October 21, 2019; to the
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry.
EC–2946. A communication from the Ad-
ministrator of the Specialty Crops Program,
Agricultural Marketing Service, Department
of Agriculture, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Tart Cher-
ries Grown in the States of Michigan, et al.;
Free and Restricted Percentages for the 2018–
19 Crop Year and Revision of Grower Diver-
sion Requirements for Tart Cherries’’ ((7
CFR Part 930) (Docket No. AMS–SC–18–0083;
SC19–930–1FR)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on October 21, 2019;
to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry.
EC–2947. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Defense, transmitting a report
amending the report on the approved retire-
ment of Major General Lee K. Levy II,
United States Air Force, and his advance-
ment to the grade of major general on the re-
tired list; to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices.
EC–2948. A communication from the Alter-
nate Federal Register Liaison Officer, Office
of the Secretary, Department of Defense,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Voluntary State Tax With-
holding from Retired Pay’’ (RIN0790–AK19)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 17, 2019; to the Committee
on Armed Services.
EC–2949. A communication from the Regu-
latory Specialist, Office of the Comptroller
of the Currency, Department of the Treas-
ury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Amendments to the
Stress Testing Rule for National Banks and
Federal Savings Associations’’ (RIN1557–
AE55) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 18, 2019; to the Committee
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–2950. A communication from the Regu-
latory Specialist, Office of the Comptroller
of the Currency, Department of the Treas-
ury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Real Estate Apprais-
als’’ (RIN1557–AE57) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on October 18, 2019; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
EC–2951. A communication from the Regu-
latory Specialist, Office of the Comptroller
of the Currency, Department of the Treas-
ury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Thresholds Increase
for the Major Asset Prohibition of the Depos-
itory Institution Management Interlocks
Act Rules’’ (RIN1557–AE22) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on October 18,
2019; to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs.
EC–2952. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Legislative Affairs, Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Real Estate Appraisals’’ (RIN3064–AE87) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 16, 2019; to the Committee
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–2953. A communication from the Gen-
eral Counsel, National Credit Union Admin-
istration, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Federal Credit
Union Bylaws’’ (RIN3313–AE86) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
October 17, 2019; to the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–2954. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary for Export Administration,
Bureau of Industry and Security, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Addi-
tion of Certain Entities to the Entity List’’
(RIN0694–AH68) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on October 17, 2019;
to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
EC–2955. A communication from the Gen-
eral Counsel, National Credit Union Admin-
istration, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Supervisory Com-
mittee Audits and Verifications’’ (RIN3313–
AE91) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on October 17, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
EC–2956. A communication from the Gen-
eral Counsel, National Credit Union Admin-
istration, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Federal Credit
Union Bylaws’’ (RIN3313–AE86) received dur-
ing adjournment of the Senate in the Office
of the President of the Senate on October 18,
2019; to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs.
EC–2957. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Indiana; Infra-
structure SIP Requirements for the 2012
PM2.5 NAAQS; Interstate Transport’’ (FRL
No. 10000–66–Region 5) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 27,
2019; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–2958. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Wisconsin; Infra-
structure SIP Requirements for the 2012
PM2.5 NAAQS Interstate Transport’’ (FRL
No. 10000–67–Region 5) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 27,
2019; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–2959. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Imple-
mentation Plans; Montana; Regional Haze 5-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.014 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5963
October 22, 2019
Year Progress Report State Implementation
Plan’’ (FRL No. 10000–48–Region 8) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Sep-
tember 27, 2019; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
EC–2960. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Indiana; Update
to CRB Fee Billing Procedures; Withdrawal
of Direct Final Rule’’ (FRL No. 10001–24–Re-
gion 10) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 18, 2019; to the Committee
on Environment and Public Works.
EC–2961. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Air
Quality Implementation Plans; Pennsyl-
vania; Philadelphia County Reasonably
Available Control Technology for the 2008
Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Stand-
ard’’ (FRL No. 10001–46–Region 3) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Octo-
ber 18, 2019; to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works.
EC–2962. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Arkansas; Inter-
state Transport Requirements for the 2010 1-
Hour SO2 NAAQS’’ (FRL No. 10000–92–Region
6) received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on October 18, 2019; to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works.
EC–2963. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Air
Quality Implementation Plans; Virginia;
Correction Due to Vacatur of Revisions to
Implement the Revocation of the 1997 Ozone
National Ambient Air Quality Standards
Final Rule’’ (FRL No. 10001–46–Region 3) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
October 18, 2019; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
EC–2964. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval of Air Quality Implementa-
tion Plans; Ohio and West Virginia; Attain-
ment Plans for the Steubenville, Ohio-West
Virginia 2010 Sulfur Dioxide Nonattainment
Area’’ (FRL No. 10001–26–Region 6) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Octo-
ber 18, 2019; to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works.
EC–2965. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘National Emission Standards for Haz-
ardous Air Pollutants for Clay Ceramics’’
(FRL No. 10001–21–OAR) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on October 18, 2019;
to the Committee on Environment and Pub-
lic Works.
EC–2966. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Outer Continental Shelf Air Regula-
tions; Consistency Update for Virginia’’
(FRL No. 9999–40–Region 3) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on October 18,
2019; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–2967. A communication from the Chair-
man of the United States International
Trade Commission, transmitting, pursuant
to law, a report entitled ‘‘The Year in Trade
2018’’; to the Committee on Finance.
EC–2968. A communication from the Chief
of the Publications and Regulations Branch,
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Election to Take
Disaster Loss Deduction for the Preceding
Year’’ (RIN1545–BP44) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on October 18, 2019;
to the Committee on Finance.
EC–2969. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 3(d) of the Arms Export Control Act,
the certification of a proposed transfer of
major defense equipment, including up to 62
AIM–120B AMRAAM missiles and other com-
ponents from Norway to Raytheon with a
sales value of approximately $34,600,000
(Transmittal No. RSAT–16–5363); to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
EC–2970. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act,
the certification of a proposed license
amendment to a manufacturing license
agreement for the export of defense articles,
including technical data and defense serv-
ices, to Japan for the production of the MK41
Vertical Launching System (VLS) in the
amount of $100,000,000 or more (Transmittal
No. DDTC 19–027); to the Committee on For-
eign Relations.
EC–2971. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 3(d) of the Arms Export Control Act,
the certification of a proposed transfer of
major defense equipment, including two Oli-
ver Hazard Perry FFG–7 Frigates, including
spare parts support equipment and training
from Australia to Chile with a sales value of
approximately $1,400,000,000 (Transmittal No.
RSAT–19–6937); to the Committee on Foreign
Relations.
EC–2972. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act,
the certification of a proposed license
amendment for the export of defense arti-
cles, including technical data and defense
services, to Algeria and the UAE to support
the transfer, modification, maintenance, and
repair for Mine Resistant Ambush Protected
(MRAP) vehicles for end use by Algeria in
the amount of $50,000,000 or more (Trans-
mittal No. DDTC 19–013); to the Committee
on Foreign Relations.
EC–2973. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act,
the certification of a proposed license for the
export of firearms, parts, and components
abroad controlled under Category I of the
U.S. Munitions List of M60E6 7.62mm ma-
chine guns and spare parts to Denmark for
the Ministry of Defense in the amount of
$1,000,000 or more (Transmittal No. DDTC 19–
033); to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
EC–2974. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act,
the certification of a proposed license
amendment for the export of defense arti-
cles, including technical data and defense
services, to Australia for the P–8A aircraft
for the execution, sustainment, and follow-
on development to support the Maritime Pa-
trol and Reconnaissance Aircraft program in
the amount of $100,000,000 or more (Trans-
mittal No. DDTC 18–099); to the Committee
on Foreign Relations.
EC–2975. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act,
the certification of a proposed license for the
export of firearms abroad controlled under
Category I of the U.S. Munitions List of fully
automatic 7.62 mm machine guns to Oman
for the Omani Royal Police in the amount of
$1,000,000 or more (Transmittal No. DDTC 18–
111); to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
EC–2976. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act,
the certification of a proposed license for the
export of firearms, parts, and components
abroad controlled under Category I of the
U.S. Munitions List of 9 mm semi-automatic
pistols and spare barrels to Brazil in the
amount of $1,000,000 or more (Transmittal
No. DDTC 19–026); to the Committee on For-
eign Relations.
EC–2977. A communication from the Assist-
ant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to the
Case-Zablocki Act, 1 U.S.C. 112b, as amended,
the report of the texts and background state-
ments of international agreements, other
than treaties (List 2019–0094 - 2019–0103); to
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
EC–2978. A communication from the Acting
Assistant Secretary for Legislation, Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, a report entitled
‘‘Report to Congress on the NURSE Corps
Loan Repayment and Scholarship Programs
Fiscal Year 2018’’; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–2979. A communication from the Acting
Assistant Secretary for Legislation, Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, a report entitled
‘‘Fiscal Year 2018 Report on the Preventive
Medicine and Public Health Training Grant
Program’’; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–2980. A communication from the Acting
Assistant Secretary for Legislation, Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, a report entitled
‘‘Report to Congress on Newborn Screening
Activities Fiscal Year 2017 and Fiscal Year
2018’’; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–2981. A communication from the Acting
Assistant Secretary for Legislation, Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, a report entitled
‘‘Harmonization of Differences Between the
Department of Health and Human Services’
Human Subject Regulations and the Food
and Drug Administration’s Human Subject
Regulations’’; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–2982. A communication from the Dep-
uty General Counsel, Office of the General
Counsel, Department of Education, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Title I, Part A of the Elementary and
Secondary Education Act of 1965, As Amend-
ed by the Every Student Succeeds Act: Pro-
viding Equitable Services to Eligible Private
School Children, Teachers, and Families’’ re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 17, 2019; to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–2983. A communication from the Execu-
tive Director, Federal Retirement Thrift In-
vestment Board, transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report relative to seventeen audit re-
ports issued during fiscal year 2019 regarding
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.017 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5964 October 22, 2019
the Agency and the Thrift Savings Plan; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
EC–2984. A communication from the Senior
Procurement Executive, Office of Acquisi-
tion Policy, General Services Administra-
tion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Federal Acquisition
Regulation; Federal Acquisition Circular
2020–01; Introduction’’ ((48 CFR Chapter 1)
(FAC 2020–01)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on October 15, 2019;
to the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
EC–2985. A communication from the Senior
Procurement Executive, Office of Acquisi-
tion Policy, General Services Administra-
tion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Federal Acquisition
Regulation; Federal Acquisition Circular
2020–01; Small Entity Compliance Guide’’ ((48
CFR Chapter 1) (FAC 2020–01)) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Oc-
tober 15, 2019; to the Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs.
EC–2986. A communication from the Senior
Procurement Executive, Office of Acquisi-
tion Policy, General Services Administra-
tion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Federal Acquisition
Regulation; Federal Acquisition Circular
2018–008; Definition of ‘Commercial Item’ ’’
((48 CFR Chapter 2) (FAC 2020–01)) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
October 15, 2019; to the Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs.
EC–2987. A communication from the Reg-
ister of Copyrights and Director, United
States Copyright Office, Library of Congress,
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report enti-
tled ‘‘Proposed Schedule and Analysis of
Copyright Recordation Fee To Go into Effect
Spring 2020’’; to the Committee on the Judi-
ciary.
EC–2988. A communication from the Assist-
ant Administrator of the Diversion Control
Division, Drug Enforcement Administration,
Department of Justice, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Schedules of Controlled Substances: Place-
ment of Solriamefetol in Schedule IV’’ ((21
CFR Part 1308) (Docket No. DEA–504)) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 21, 2019; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
EC–2989. A communication from the Assist-
ant Administrator of the Diversion Control
Division, Drug Enforcement Administration,
Department of Justice, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Schedules of Controlled Substances: Place-
ment of Brexanolone in Schedule IV’’ ((21
CFR Part 1308) (Docket No. DEA–503)) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 21, 2019; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
EC–2990. A communication from the Assist-
ant Administrator of the Diversion Control
Division, Drug Enforcement Administration,
Department of Justice, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Schedules of Controlled Substances: Tem-
porary Placement of N-Ethylhexedrone, a-
PHP, 4-MEAP, MPHP, PV8, and 4-Chloro-a-
PVP in Schedule I’’ ((21 CFR Part 1308)
(Docket No. DEA–495)) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on October 21,
2019; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
EC–2991. A communication from the Assist-
ant Administrator of the Diversion Control
Division, Drug Enforcement Administration,
Department of Justice, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Listing of Noroxymorphone in the Code of
Federal Regulations and Assignment of a
Controlled Substances Code Number’’ ((21
CFR Part 1308) (Docket No. DEA–332)) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 21, 2019; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
f
PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS
The following petitions and memo-
rials were laid before the Senate and
were referred or ordered to lie on the
table as indicated:
POM–141. A resolution adopted by the
House of Representatives of the State of
Michigan urging the United States Congress
to allow jail and prison inmates to be eligi-
ble for Medicaid Coverage or to allow states
to seek a waiver from the law; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
HOUSE RESOLUTION NO. 93
Whereas, The Federal Medicaid Inmate Ex-
clusion Policy (MIEP) prohibits the payment
of federal Medicaid matching dollars for
medical services provided to prison inmates.
Medicaid will only cover the care an inmate
receives in an inpatient hospital or medical
institution; and
Whereas, Incarcerated individuals have
been ineligible for Medicaid since the incep-
tion of the program in 1965. National prison
populations have risen exponentially over
the past several decades from approximately
200,000 when Medicaid began to over a mil-
lion in county jails and state prisons cur-
rently; and
Whereas, The MIEP places a tremendous fi-
nancial burden on states, counties, and local
communities as hundreds of millions of dol-
lars are spent annually for health care serv-
ices provided in jails and prisons. Inmate
health issues run the gamut from mental ill-
ness to chronic diseases, including diabetes,
hypertension, kidney failure, and cancer.
Furthermore, the health complexities of
aging inmates increase health care costs,
and
Whereas, The repeal of or a federal waiver
from the exclusionary provision of MIEP
would enable states and counties to seek fed-
eral matching funds for Medicaid-covered
services. Furthermore, states that have ex-
panded Medicaid under the Affordable Care
Act would be reimbursed for at least 90 per-
cent of their spending on prison health care;
Now, therefore, be it
RESOLVED BY THE HOUSE OF REP-
RESENTATIVES, That we urge the Congress
of the United Stales to repeal the Medicaid
Inmate Exclusion Policy to allow prison in-
mates to be eligible for Medicaid coverage or
allow states to seek a waiver from the law;
and be it further
RESOLVED, That copies of this resolution
be transmitted to the President of the
United States Senate, the Speaker of the
United States House of Representatives, and
the members of the Michigan congressional
delegation.
POM–142. A joint resolution adopted by the
Legislature of the State of California urging
the United States Congress to enact robust
bipartisan federal infrastructure legislation
and address the shortfall in the federal High-
way Trust Fund by restoring the lost pur-
chasing power of the federal fuel tax; to the
Committee on Finance.
SENATE JOINT RESOLUTION NO. 5
Whereas, California’s transportation infra-
structure is aging and in serious need of re-
pair, with more than 44 percent of major
roads and highways considered in poor condi-
tion and another 25 percent rated mediocre;
and
Whereas, This problem is even more acute
in urban areas, where more than 53 percent
of major roads and highways are in poor con-
dition and 25 percent are rated mediocre; and
Whereas, California motorists spend in ex-
cess of $22 billion annually in additional op-
erating costs, more than $843 per driver, as a
result of driving on poorly maintained roads;
and
Whereas, Increasing levels of traffic con-
gestion are clogging urban freeways, impact-
ing commutes and commerce, and costing
Californians an estimated $29 billion annu-
ally in wasted time and fuel; and
Whereas, With California’s population ex-
pected to grow to 48 million by 2040, substan-
tial new investment in public transportation
will be needed to improve mobility. reduce
gridlock, and meet critical greenhouse gas
reduction targets, yet the state’s transit
agencies collectively face billions of dollars
annually in capital and operating shortfalls;
and
Whereas, These transit agencies face par-
ticularly acute regulatory challenges and
funding shortfalls in providing vital para-
transit services to the elderly, persons with
disabilities, and others with special needs;
and
Whereas, Freight transportation is critical
to the economic vitality of the United States
and robust investment in safe and efficient
transportation facilities and infrastructure
is essential to promoting strong economic
growth in California and throughout the na-
tion; and
Whereas, California serves as the nation’s
gateway to international trade as the entry
point for nearly one-fifth of the country’s
imports, by far the largest share of any
state, with the state’s vast network of land
and seaports, truck routes, and rail lines
transporting more than $2.8 trillion in goods
annually; and
Whereas, California’s freight system is re-
sponsible for the creation of 800,000 freight
jobs and stimulates creation of millions of
other jobs throughout the economy; and
Whereas, The California Legislature, hav-
ing risen to meet this crisis by enacting the
Road Repair and Accountability Act of 2017
(Chapter 5 of the Statutes of 2017) to add
more than $5 billion annually in new trans-
portation investment, depends on the federal
government to provide its share of the re-
sources needed to restore and enhance Cali-
fornia’s highway, transit, and active trans-
portation infrastructure for the generations
to come; and
Whereas, For the past 25 years, the Con-
gress of the United States has failed to take
action to preserve or restore the purchasing
power of the federal fuel tax or provide any
alternate solution adequate to ensure sus-
tained federal investment in the nation’s
transportation system; Now, therefore, be it
Resolved by the Senate and the Assembly of
the State of California, jointly, That the Legis-
lature urges the Congress and the President
of the United States to work together to
enact the robust bipartisan federal infra-
structure legislation necessary to restore
California’s and other states’ crumbling road
and freight infrastructure, respond to grow-
ing traffic congestion, and increase invest-
ment in public transportation, most particu-
larly, by expanding paratransit services for
the elderly and those with special needs; and
be it further
Resolved, That the Legislature urges the
Congress and the President of the United
States to address the shortfall in the federal
Highway Trust Fund by restoring the lost
purchasing power of the federal fuel tax in
order to provide the long-term funding sta-
bility necessary for California and other
states to rebuild infrastructure, invest in
people through good, well-paying jobs, and
strengthen the state’s and the nation’s econ-
omy; and be it further
Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate
transmit copies of this resolution to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.019 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5965
October 22, 2019
President and Vice President of the United
States, to the Speaker of the House of Rep-
resentatives, to the Majority Leader of the
Senate, and to each Senator and Representa-
tive from California in the Congress of the
United States.
POM–143. A resolution adopted by the Sen-
ate of the State of New Jersey condemning
comments made by the President of the
United States; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
SENATE RESOLUTION NO. 155
Whereas, The Founders conceived America
as a refuge for people fleeing from religious
and political persecution, and emphasized
that the nation gained as it attracted new
people in search of freedom and livelihood
for their families; and
Whereas, The immigration of people from
all over the world has defined every stage of
American history and propelled our social,
economic, political, scientific, cultural, ar-
tistic, and technological progress as a peo-
ple; and
Whereas, American patriotism is defined
not by race or ethnicity but by devotion to
the Constitutional ideals of equality, liberty,
inclusion, and democracy; and
Whereas, President John F. Kennedy,
whose family came to the United States
from Ireland, stated in his 1958 book ‘‘A Na-
tion of Immigrants’’ that, ‘‘The contribution
of immigrants can be seen in every aspect of
our national life. We see it in religion, in
politics, in business, in the arts, in edu-
cation, even in athletics and entertainment.
There is no part of our nation that has not
been touched by our immigrant background.
Immigrants have enriched and strengthened
every fabric of American life.’’; and
Whereas, The United States is unique
among nations because it draws its people
and its strength from every country and
every corner of the world, and by doing so,
the United States is a continuously renewed
and enriched nation; and
Whereas, President Donald Trump’s racist
comments have legitimized fear and hatred
of new Americans and people of color; and
Whereas, This House believes that immi-
grants and their descendants have made
America stronger, and that those who take
the oath of citizenship are as American as
those whose families have lived in the United
States for many generations; now, therefore,
Be it Resolved by the Senate of the State
of New Jersey:
1. This House strongly condemns President
Donald Trump’s racist comments that have
legitimized and increased fear and hatred of
new Americans and people of color by saying
that our fellow Americans who are immi-
grants, and those who may look to the Presi-
dent like immigrants, should ‘‘go back’’ to
their countries, by referring to immigrants
and asylum seekers as ‘‘invaders,’’ and by
saying that members of Congress who are
immigrants, or those assumed to be immi-
grants, do not belong in Congress or in the
United States of America.
2. Copies of this resolution as filed with the
Secretary of State, shall be transmitted by
the Secretary of the Senate to the President
and Vice President of the United States, the
Majority and Minority Leaders of the United
States Senate, the Speaker and Minority
Leader of the United States House of Rep-
resentatives, and every member of Congress
elected from this State.
POM–144. A resolution adopted by the City
Commission of Traverse City, Michigan urg-
ing the United States Congress to enact the
Energy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act
of 2019; to the Committee on Finance.
POM–145. A resolution adopted by the Se-
lectmen of the Town of Hampton Falls, New
Hampshire urging the United States Con-
gress to pass the Energy Innovation and Car-
bon Dividend Act of 2019; to the Committee
on Finance.
POM–146. A resolution adopted by the City
Commission of Sweetwater, Florida urging
reevaluation of an application for permanent
resident status by the United States Citizen-
ship and Immigration Services (USCIS); to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
POM–147. A petition from a citizen of the
State of Texas relative to appropriations to
states and Immigration and Customs En-
forcement; to the Committee on Appropria-
tions.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Ms. MURKOWSKI, from the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute:
S. 1317. A bill to facilitate the availability,
development, and environmentally respon-
sible production of domestic resources to
meet national material or critical mineral
needs, and for other purposes (Rept. No. 116–
131).
By Mr. HOEVEN, from the Committee on
Indian Affairs, without amendment:
S. 2071. A bill to repeal certain obsolete
laws relating to Indians (Rept. No. 116–132).
By Ms. MURKOWSKI, from the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources, without
amendment:
S. 334. A bill to authorize the construction
of the Musselshell-Judith Rural Water Sys-
tem and study of the Dry-Redwater Regional
Water Authority System in the States of
Montana and North Dakota, and for other
purposes (Rept. No. 116–133).
By Ms. MURKOWSKI, from the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources, with an
amendment:
S. 607. A bill to amend the Department of
Energy Organization Act to address insuffi-
cient compensation of employees and other
personnel of the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission, and for other purposes (Rept.
No. 116–134).
By Ms. MURKOWSKI, from the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute and
an amendment to the title:
S. 1602. A bill to amend the United States
Energy Storage Competitiveness Act of 2007
to establish a research, development, and
demonstration program for grid-scale energy
storage systems, and for other purposes
(Rept. No. 116–135).
By Ms. MURKOWSKI, from the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute:
S. 2094. A bill to amend the Energy Policy
and Conservation Act to provide Federal fi-
nancial assistance to States to implement
State energy security plans, and for other
purposes (Rept. No. 116–136).
H.R. 2114. A bill to amend the Energy Pol-
icy and Conservation Act to provide Federal
financial assistance to States to implement,
review, and revise State energy security
plans, and for other purposes (Rept. No. 116–
137).
By Ms. COLLINS, from the Special Com-
mittee on Aging:
Special Report entitled ‘‘Falls Prevention:
National, State, and Local Solutions to Bet-
ter Support Seniors’’ (Rept. No. 116–138).
By Mr. SHELBY, from the Committee on
Appropriations:
Special Report entitled ‘‘Further Revised
Allocations to Subcommittees of Budget To-
tals for Fiscal Year 2020’’ (Rept. No. 116–139).
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. KAINE, Mr. SANDERS, and
Mr. REED):
S. 2655. A bill to amend title IV of the
Higher Education Act of 1965 in order to in-
crease the amount of financial support avail-
able for working students; to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. KENNEDY:
S. 2656. A bill to disclose access to election
infrastructure by foreign nationals; to the
Committee on Rules and Administration.
By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and
Mr. MANCHIN):
S. 2657. A bill to support innovation in ad-
vanced geothermal research and develop-
ment, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. WARNER (for himself, Mr.
HAWLEY, and Mr. BLUMENTHAL):
S. 2658. A bill to promote competition and
reduce consumer switching costs in the pro-
vision of online communications services; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr.
JONES, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, and Ms. COR-
TEZ MASTO):
S. 2659. A bill to address the needs of work-
ers in industries likely to be impacted by
rapidly evolving technologies; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Ms. SMITH (for herself and Ms. COL-
LINS):
S. 2660. A bill to establish a grant program
for wind energy research, development, and
demonstration, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. GARDNER (for himself, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. MORAN, and Mr. REED):
S. 2661. A bill to amend the Communica-
tions Act of 1934 to designate 9-8-8 as the uni-
versal telephone number for the purpose of
the national suicide prevention and mental
health crisis hotline system operating
through the National Suicide Prevention
Lifeline and through the Veterans Crisis
Line, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself, Mr.
MCCONNELL, Mr. BRAUN, Mrs. CAPITO,
and Mr. PAUL):
S. 2662. A bill to amend sections 111, 169,
and 171 of the Clean Air Act to clarify when
a physical change in, or change in the meth-
od of operation of, a stationary source con-
stitutes a modification or construction, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works.
By Mr. MORAN (for himself and Ms.
SINEMA):
S. 2663. A bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, with respect to apportionments
to small transit intensive cities, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. MARKEY:
S. 2664. A bill to establish a voluntary pro-
gram to identify and promote internet-con-
nected products that meet industry-leading
cybersecurity and data security standards,
guidelines, best practices, methodologies,
procedures, and processes, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself, Mr.
PETERS, Mr. CARPER, and Mr.
WYDEN):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.026 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5966 October 22, 2019
S. 2665. A bill to amend section 5707 of title
5, United States Code, to require the General
Services Administration to make informa-
tion regarding travel by the heads of Execu-
tive agencies and other individuals in senior
positions publicly available; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
By Ms. MCSALLY (for herself, Mr.
HEINRICH, Mr. GARDNER, Mr. UDALL,
Mr. DAINES, Mr. TESTER, Mr. RISCH,
and Mr. BENNET):
S. 2666. A bill to promote the development
of renewable energy on public land, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources.
By Mr. ALEXANDER (for himself and
Mr. JONES):
S. 2667. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to make it easier to apply
for Federal student aid, to make that aid
predictable, to amend the Federal Pell Grant
program, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Ms. SINEMA:
S. 2668. A bill to establish a program for re-
search, development, and demonstration of
solar energy technologies, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. MCCONNELL (for himself, Mr.
BURR, Mr. GRAHAM, Mr. INHOFE, Mr.
RISCH, Ms. COLLINS, Mr. BARRASSO,
Mr. RUBIO, Mr. ISAKSON, Mrs. BLACK-
BURN, Ms. MCSALLY, Mr. BLUNT, Mrs.
CAPITO, Mr. CRUZ, and Mr. WICKER):
S.J. Res. 59. A joint resolution expressing
the sense of Congress on the precipitous
withdrawal of United States Armed Forces
from Syria and Afghanistan, and Turkey’s
unprovoked incursion into Syria; read the
first time.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. BURR (for himself and Mr.
TILLIS):
S. Res. 369. A resolution recognizing the
contributions of the Montagnard indigenous
tribespeople of the Central Highlands of
Vietnam to the United States Armed Forces
during the Vietnam War, and condemning
the ongoing violation of human rights by the
Government of the Socialist Republic of
Vietnam; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself,
Ms. SMITH, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, and Ms.
HASSAN):
S. Res. 370. A resolution designating Octo-
ber 2019 as ‘‘National Bullying Prevention
Month’’ and October 23, 2019, as ‘‘Unity
Day’’; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. COONS (for himself, Mr. ISAK-
SON, Mr. DURBIN, and Mr. YOUNG):
S. Res. 371. A resolution reaffirming the
support of the United States for the people of
the Republic of South Sudan and calling on
all parties to uphold their commitments to
peace and dialogue as outlined in the 2018 re-
vitalized peace agreement; to the Committee
on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mr. BEN-
NET, Mr. DURBIN, Ms. HARRIS, Mr.
BOOKER, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. MERKLEY, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, and Ms. WARREN):
S. Res. 372. A resolution expressing the
sense of the Senate that the Federal Govern-
ment should establish a national goal of con-
serving at least 30 percent of the land and
ocean of the United States by 2030; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina (for
himself, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. RUBIO, Ms.
WARREN, Mr. BRAUN, Mr. BROWN, Mr.
ISAKSON, Mr. COONS, Mrs. HYDE-
SMITH, Mr. JONES, Mr. YOUNG, and
Mr. LANKFORD):
S. Res. 373. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of September 2019 as
‘‘Sickle Cell Disease Awareness Month’’ in
order to educate communities across the
United States about sickle cell disease and
the need for research, early detection meth-
ods, effective treatments, and preventative
care programs with respect to complications
from sickle cell disease and conditions re-
lated to sickle cell disease; considered and
agreed to.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 127
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 127, a bill to direct the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs to seek to enter
into an agreement with the city of
Vallejo, California, for the transfer of
Mare Island Naval Cemetery in Vallejo,
California, and for other purposes.
S. 133
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
name of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. BURR) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 133, a bill to award a Congres-
sional Gold Medal, collectively, to the
United States merchant mariners of
World War II, in recognition of their
dedicated and vital service during
World War II.
S. 177
At the request of Mr. ROBERTS, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 177, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 and the Small
Business Act to expand the availability
of employee stock ownership plans in S
corporations, and for other purposes.
S. 206
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr.
ISAKSON) was added as a cosponsor of S.
206, a bill to award a Congressional
Gold Medal to the female telephone op-
erators of the Army Signal Corps,
known as the ‘‘Hello Girls’’.
S. 283
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from California
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 283, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to im-
prove access to, and utilization of, bone
mass measurement benefits under part
B of the Medicare program by estab-
lishing a minimum payment amount
under such part for bone mass meas-
urement.
S. 296
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 296, a bill to amend XVIII of the
Social Security Act to ensure more
timely access to home health services
for Medicare beneficiaries under the
Medicare program.
S. 362
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
RUBIO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
362, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to reform taxation of
alcoholic beverages.
S. 477
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
477, a bill to authorize the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion to establish a Climate Change
Education Program, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 479
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 479, a bill to revise section 48 of
title 18, United States Code, and for
other purposes.
S. 560
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING) was added as a cosponsor of S.
560, a bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act, the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974, and the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to re-
quire that group and individual health
insurance coverage and group health
plans provide coverage for treatment of
a congenital anomaly or birth defect.
S. 636
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 636, a bill to designate Venezuela
under section 244 of the Immigration
and Nationality Act to permit nation-
als of Venezuela to be eligible for tem-
porary protected status under such sec-
tion.
S. 642
At the request of Mr. ALEXANDER, the
names of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) and the Senator from
South Dakota (Mr. ROUNDS) were added
as cosponsors of S. 642, a bill to award
a Congressional Gold Medal to Master
Sergeant Rodrick ‘‘Roddie’’ Edmonds
in recognition of his heroic actions
during World War II.
S. 696
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
696, a bill to designate the same indi-
vidual serving as the Chief Nurse Offi-
cer of the Public Health Service as the
National Nurse for Public Health.
S. 764
At the request of Mr. LEE, the name
of the Senator from Alaska (Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI) was added as a cosponsor of S.
764, a bill to provide for congressional
approval of national emergency dec-
larations, and for other purposes.
S. 765
At the request of Mr. THUNE, the
name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
ROBERTS) was added as a cosponsor of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:58 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.031 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5967
October 22, 2019
S. 765, a bill to promote neutrality,
simplicity, and fairness in the taxation
of digital goods and digital services.
S. 775
At the request of Mr. SCHATZ, the
names of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY), the Senator from
Washington (Mrs. MURRAY) and the
Senator from Virginia (Mr. WARNER)
were added as cosponsors of S. 775, a
bill to amend the America COMPETES
Act to require certain agencies to de-
velop scientific integrity policies, and
for other purposes.
S. 778
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
name of the Senator from Hawaii (Mr.
SCHATZ) was added as a cosponsor of S.
778, a bill to direct the Secretary of
Commerce, acting through the Admin-
istrator of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration, to con-
duct coastal community vulnerability
assessments related to ocean acidifica-
tion, and for other purposes.
S. 953
At the request of Mr. DAINES, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 953, a bill to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service lo-
cated at 1100 West Kent Avenue in Mis-
soula, Montana, as the ‘‘Jeannette
Rankin Post Office Building’’.
S. 1508
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1508, a bill to amend title 18,
United States Code, to provide en-
hanced penalties for convicted mur-
derers who kill or target America’s
public safety officers.
S. 1590
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1590, a bill to amend the State De-
partment Basic Authorities Act of 1956
to authorize rewards for thwarting
wildlife trafficking linked to
transnational organized crime, and for
other purposes.
S. 1615
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1615, a bill to amend titles
10 and 37, United States Code, to pro-
vide compensation and credit for re-
tired pay purposes for maternity leave
taken by members of the reserve com-
ponents, and for other purposes.
S. 1652
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
names of the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. SINEMA) and the Senator from
Missouri (Mr. HAWLEY) were added as
cosponsors of S. 1652, a bill to amend
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to
provide for a refundable adoption tax
credit.
S. 1703
At the request of Mr. YOUNG, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1703, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to re-
form the low-income housing credit,
and for other purposes.
S. 1757
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. HAWLEY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1757, a bill to award a Congres-
sional Gold Medal, collectively, to the
United States Army Rangers Veterans
of World War II in recognition of their
extraordinary service during World
War II.
S. 1820
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Maine
(Ms. COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1820, a bill to improve the integ-
rity and safety of horseracing by re-
quiring a uniform anti-doping and
medication control program to be de-
veloped and enforced by an independent
Horseracing Anti-Doping and Medica-
tion Control Authority.
S. 1838
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
names of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) and the Senator from Con-
necticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL) were added
as cosponsors of S. 1838, a bill to amend
the Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992, and
for other purposes.
S. 1908
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Nevada
(Ms. ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1908, a bill to amend the Richard
B. Russell National School Lunch Act
to improve the efficiency of summer
meals.
S. 1941
At the request of Mrs. MURRAY, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1941, a bill to amend the
Richard B. Russell National School
Lunch Act to establish a permanent,
nationwide summer electronic benefits
transfer for children program.
S. 2028
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
names of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. HOEVEN), the Senator from
Arkansas (Mr. BOOZMAN) and the Sen-
ator from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON) were
added as cosponsors of S. 2028, a bill to
amend the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 to provide for new markets tax
credit investments in the Rural Jobs
Zone.
S. 2132
At the request of Mr. LANKFORD, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2132, a bill to promote security
and provide justice for United States
victims of international terrorism.
S. 2160
At the request of Mr. SCOTT of South
Carolina, the name of the Senator from
Arizona (Ms. MCSALLY) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 2160, a bill to require
carbon monoxide alarms in certain fed-
erally assisted housing, and for other
purposes.
S. 2179
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2179, a bill to amend the Older
Americans Act of 1965 to provide social
service agencies with the resources to
provide services to meet the urgent
needs of Holocaust survivors to age in
place with dignity, comfort, security,
and quality of life.
S. 2216
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2216, a bill to require the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to formally recognize
caregivers of veterans, notify veterans
and caregivers of clinical determina-
tions relating to eligibility for care-
giver programs, and temporarily ex-
tend benefits for veterans who are de-
termined ineligible for the family care-
giver program, and for other purposes.
S. 2246
At the request of Mr. MORAN, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. MURPHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2246, a bill to amend titles XVIII
and XIX of the Social Security Act to
provide equal coverage of in vitro spe-
cific IgE tests and percutaneous tests
for allergies under the Medicare and
Medicaid programs, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2264
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2264, a bill to amend title 18,
United States Code, to require the
impaneling of a new jury if a jury fails
to recommend by unanimous vote a
sentence for conviction of a crime pun-
ishable by death.
S. 2282
At the request of Ms. SMITH, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2282, a bill to amend the
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance
Act to enable Indian Tribes and trib-
ally designated housing entities to
apply for, receive, and administer
grants and subgrants under the Con-
tinuum of Care Program of the Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment.
S. 2298
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. MENENDEZ) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2298, a bill to amend the Clean
Air Act to eliminate the corn ethanol
mandate for renewable fuel.
S. 2417
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr.
ISAKSON) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2417, a bill to provide for payment of
proceeds from savings bonds to a State
with title to such bonds pursuant to
the judgment of a court.
S. 2434
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:58 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.034 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5968 October 22, 2019
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2434, a bill to establish the National
Criminal Justice Commission.
S. 2461
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2461, a bill to designate a portion of the
Arctic National Wildlife Refuge as wil-
derness.
S. 2485
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2485, a bill to prohibit Federal
agencies from using Government funds
to pay for expenses at lodging estab-
lishments that are owned by or employ
certain public officials or their rel-
atives.
S. 2539
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mrs. BLACKBURN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2539, a bill to modify and
reauthorize the Tibetan Policy Act of
2002, and for other purposes.
S. 2546
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2546, a bill to amend the Employee Re-
tirement Income Security Act of 1974
to require a group health plan or
health insurance coverage offered in
connection with such a plan to provide
an exceptions process for any medica-
tion step therapy protocol, and for
other purposes.
S. 2570
At the request of Ms. SINEMA, the
names of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
ROBERTS) and the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Ms. HARRIS) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 2570, a bill to award a
Congressional Gold Medal to Greg
LeMond in recognition of his service to
the United States as an athlete, activ-
ist, role model, and community leader.
S. 2610
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2610, a bill to reauthorize certain
programs under the Office of Indian
Energy Policy and Programs of the De-
partment of Energy, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2618
At the request of Mr. PAUL, the
names of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. GARDNER) and the Senator from
Wyoming (Mr. ENZI) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 2618, a bill to strengthen
employee cost savings suggestions pro-
grams within the Federal Government.
S. 2625
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
names of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL), the Senator from
Maryland (Mr. VAN HOLLEN), the Sen-
ator from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR),
the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH), the Senator from Maine
(Mr. KING) and the Senator from New
York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2625, a bill to authorize
the admission of a limited number of
Kurdish Syrians and other Syrian part-
ners as special immigrants, and for
other purposes.
S. 2641
At the request of Mr. RISCH, the
names of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN), the Senator from
Virginia (Mr. KAINE) and the Senator
from Illinois (Mr. DURBIN) were added
as cosponsors of S. 2641, a bill to pro-
mote United States national security
and prevent the resurgence of ISIS, and
for other purposes.
S. 2654
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the names of the Senator from Hawaii
(Ms. HIRONO) and the Senator from
Massachusetts (Mr. MARKEY) were
added as cosponsors of S. 2654, a bill to
prohibit the obligation or expenditure
of Federal funds for certain agreements
relating to the 46th G7 Summit, and for
other purposes.
S.J. RES. 56
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
names of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. UDALL) and the Senator from New
Mexico (Mr. HEINRICH) were added as
cosponsors of S.J. Res. 56, a joint reso-
lution providing for congressional dis-
approval under chapter 8 of title 5,
United States Code, of the rule sub-
mitted by the Department of Edu-
cation relating to ‘‘Borrower Defense
Institutional Accountability’’.
S. RES. 274
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. CARPER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 274, a resolution expressing
solidarity with Falun Gong practi-
tioners who have lost lives, freedoms,
and other rights for adhering to their
beliefs and practices, and condemning
the practice of non-consenting organ
harvesting, and for other purposes.
S. RES. 297
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 297, a resolution commending
the Inter-American Foundation (IAF)
on the occasion of its 50th anniversary
for its significant accomplishments
and contributions to the economic and
social development of the Americas.
S. RES. 318
At the request of Mr. RISCH, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 318, a resolution to support the
Global Fund to fight AIDS, Tuber-
culosis and Malaria, and the Sixth Re-
plenishment.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr.
JONES, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, and Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO):
S. 2659. A bill to address the needs of
workers in industries likely to be im-
pacted by rapidly evolving tech-
nologies; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 2659
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Investing in
Tomorrow’s Workforce Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress makes the following findings:
(1) In 2014, the United States spent just 0.1
percent of the Nation’s Gross Domestic Prod-
uct on labor market policies, less than half
of what the United States spent on labor
market policies 30 years ago.
(2) The number of workers receiving feder-
ally supported training has declined in the
past 3 decades as advances in technology
have simultaneously shifted labor market
demand over time.
(3) As much as 47 percent of all jobs in the
United States are at risk of being replaced
by automation technology, and job losses
from automation are more likely to impact
workers making less than $40,000 annually.
(4) Strong Federal investment in expanding
training services for workers whose jobs may
be lost due to automation could prepare the
United States workforce to better adapt to
changes in the labor market and enter into
skilled positions in technologically-oriented
occupations and industries.
(5) A focus on preparing the workforce of
the United States for jobs that utilize ad-
vanced technologies could grow wages, in-
crease economic productivity, and boost the
competitiveness of the United States.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) AUTOMATION.—The term ‘‘automation’’
means a device, process, or system that func-
tions without continuous input from an op-
erator, including—
(A) advanced technologies, such as—
(i) data collection, classification proc-
essing, and analytics; and
(ii) 3-D printing, digital design and simula-
tion, and digital manufacturing;
(B) robotics, including collaborative robot-
ics, and worker augmentation technology;
(C) autonomous vehicle technology; or
(D) autonomous machinery technology.
(2) DISLOCATED WORKER.—The term ‘‘dis-
located worker’’ has the meaning given the
term in section 3 of the Workforce Innova-
tion and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3102).
(3) IN-DEMAND INDUSTRY SECTOR OR OCCUPA-
TION.—The term ‘‘in-demand industry sector
or occupation’’ has the meaning given the
term in section 3 of that Act.
(4) INTEGRATED EDUCATION AND TRAINING.—
The term ‘‘integrated education and train-
ing’’ has the meaning given the term in sec-
tion 203 of that Act (29 U.S.C. 3272).
(5) ELIGIBLE PARTNERSHIP.—The term ‘‘eli-
gible partnership’’ means an industry or sec-
tor partnership, as defined in section 3 of
that Act, except that—
(A) for purposes of applying paragraph
(26)(A)(iii) of that section, the term ‘‘institu-
tion of higher education’’ has the meaning
given the term in section 101 of the Higher
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001); and
(B) the partnership shall include, in addi-
tion to the representatives described in
clauses (i) through (iii) of paragraph (26)(A)
of that section, representatives of—
(i) a State workforce development board or
a local workforce development board; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:58 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.036 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5969
October 22, 2019
(ii) an economic development organization.
(6) LOCAL AND STATE WORKFORCE DEVELOP-
MENT BOARDS.—The terms ‘‘local workforce
development board’’ and ‘‘State workforce
development board’’ have the meanings
given the terms ‘‘local board’’ and ‘‘State
board’’, respectively, in section 3 of the
Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
(29 U.S.C. 3102).
(7) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Labor.
(8) TRAINING SERVICES.—The term ‘‘train-
ing services’’ means training services de-
scribed in section 134(c)(3)(D) of that Act (29
U.S.C. 3174(c)(3)(D)).
SEC. 4. GAO STUDY ON BARRIERS TO AND OPPOR-
TUNITIES FOR RETRAINING WORK-
ERS.
(a) STUDY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Comptroller General
of the United States, in coordination with
the Secretary of Labor, shall conduct a
study of the barriers to providing, and oppor-
tunities for improving, training for workers
in industries that have, or are likely to have,
high rates of job loss due to automation.
(2) CONTENTS.—In conducting the study,
the Comptroller General shall study—
(A) considerations impacting, and strate-
gies to improve data collection with respect
to, the workforce in industries with high
rates of job loss or a high likelihood of auto-
mation in the United States, including con-
siderations and data collection strategies
concerning—
(i) industries and occupations most likely
to be impacted by automation, including—
(I) the geographical location of those in-
dustries and occupations;
(II) the annual average wages of those oc-
cupations; and
(III) demographic data on the race, gender,
and age of workers in those industries and
occupations;
(ii) employer-based training practices in
those industries and occupations;
(iii) the frequency with which employers
provide worker training to address skills
needs and react to changes in the labor mar-
ket;
(iv) projected job losses; and
(v) labor organization membership rates in
those industries and occupations;
(B) considerations impacting, and strate-
gies to improve data collection with respect
to, the workforce in in-demand industry sec-
tors and occupations in the United States,
such as advanced manufacturing, informa-
tion technology, and health care, including
considerations and data collection strategies
concerning—
(i) industry sectors and occupations that
may emerge or become in-demand industry
sectors or occupations as a result of automa-
tion, including—
(I) the geographical location of those in-
dustry sectors and occupations;
(II) the average annual wages of those oc-
cupations; and
(III) demographic data on the race, gender,
and age of workers in those occupations;
(ii) the skills and education needed to fill
the positions in those industry sectors;
(iii) employer-based training practices in
those industry sectors;
(iv) projected job gains; and
(v) labor organization membership rates in
those industries and occupations;
(C) barriers to, and opportunities for, re-
training workers in industries that have a
high likelihood of being impacted by auto-
mation;
(D) the impact of the geographical location
of workers and their access to transportation
on the ability of the workers to access job
training and related higher-skilled positions;
(E) the impact of workers’ access to other
benefits and services, including child care,
paid sick leave, paid family and medical
leave, or a retirement plan, on the ability of
the workers to access job training and re-
lated higher-skilled positions; and
(F) how reduced Federal funding for job
training programs has impacted the ability
of State and local governments, employers,
labor organizations, and communities to re-
spond to changes in the labor market, in-
cluding rapidly evolving technologies.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Comp-
troller General of the United States shall
prepare and submit to the Secretary of
Labor and the appropriate committees of
Congress a report concerning the results of
the study.
SEC. 5. GRANTS TO IMPROVE TRAINING FOR
WORKERS IMPACTED BY AUTOMA-
TION.
(a) GRANTS AUTHORIZED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—From the amounts appro-
priated under subsection (g) and beginning
not later than 1 year after receiving the re-
port by the Comptroller General of the
United States under section 4(b), the Sec-
retary of Labor shall award grants, on a
competitive basis, to eligible partnerships to
support demonstration and pilot projects re-
lating to the training needs of workers who
are, or are likely to become, dislocated
workers as a result of automation.
(2) DURATION.—A grant awarded under this
section shall be for a period not to exceed 4
years.
(3) USE OF REPORT.—The Secretary shall
use the report prepared the Comptroller Gen-
eral under section 4(b) to inform the grant
program carried out under this section.
(b) APPLICATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—To be eligible to receive a
grant under this section, an eligible partner-
ship shall submit an application to the Sec-
retary at such time, in such manner, and
containing such information as the Sec-
retary shall reasonably require.
(2) CONTENTS.—Each application submitted
under paragraph (1) shall include a descrip-
tion of the demonstration or pilot project to
be completed with the grant funds, which de-
scription shall include—
(A) a description of the members of the eli-
gible partnership who will be involved in the
demonstration or pilot program and the
services each member will provide;
(B) a description of the training services
that will be available to individuals partici-
pating in the demonstration or pilot project,
which may include—
(i) a plan to train dislocated workers from
industries likely to be impacted by automa-
tion and transition the workers into region-
ally in-demand industry sectors or occupa-
tions; and
(ii) a plan to partner with local businesses
to retrain, upskill, and re-deploy workers
within an industry as an alternative to lay-
offs;
(C) a plan to provide workers with tech-
nology-based skills training, which may in-
clude training to provide skills related to
coding, systems engineering, or information
technology security, in addition to other
skills; and
(D) a description of the goals that the eli-
gible partnership intends to achieve to
upskill workers and prepare them for in-de-
mand industry sectors or occupations.
(c) PRIORITIES.—In awarding grants under
this section, the Secretary shall give pri-
ority to—
(1) eligible partnerships that are located in
an area with a high concentration of—
(A) industries with a higher likelihood of
being impacted by automation; or
(B) industries included in in-demand indus-
try sectors, as determined under subpara-
graphs (A)(i) and (B) of section 3(23) of the
Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
(29 U.S.C. 3102(23));
(2) eligible partnerships—
(A) with a plan to provide incumbent work-
er training—
(i) to assist workers in obtaining the skills
necessary to retain employment or avert
layoffs; or
(ii) that allows a worker working for an
employer to acquire new skills that allow
the worker to obtain a higher-skilled or
higher-paid position with such employer; and
(B) that partner with local employers that
intend to backfill the pre-training positions
of the incumbent workers by hiring new
workers to fill those positions;
(3) eligible partnerships that will provide
workers with a transportation stipend, paid
sick leave, paid family and medical leave, ac-
cess to child care services, or other employ-
ment benefits; or
(4) eligible partnerships with a plan to de-
velop a shared training curriculum that can
be used across local and regional networks of
employers and training providers.
(d) USE OF FUNDS.—An eligible partnership
that receives a grant under this section shall
use the grant funds for 1 or more of the fol-
lowing:
(1) Providing training services under the
demonstration or pilot project, which may
include training services that prepare work-
ers for in-demand industry sectors or occupa-
tions.
(2) Providing assistance for employers in
developing a staff position for an individual
who will be responsible for supporting train-
ing services provided under the grant.
(3) Purchasing equipment or technology
necessary for training services provided
under paragraph (1).
(4) Providing job search and other transi-
tional assistance to workers in industries
with high rates of job loss.
(5) Providing a training stipend to workers
for training services.
(6) Providing integrated education and
training.
(e) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after an
eligible partnership’s completion of a dem-
onstration or pilot project supported under
this section, the eligible partnership shall
prepare and submit to the Secretary a report
regarding—
(1) the number of workers who received
training services through the demonstration
or pilot project, disaggregated by type of
training service and the age, gender, and
race of the workers;
(2) the number of such workers who suc-
cessfully transitioned into a new position
following completion of the training serv-
ices;
(3) the number of individuals who success-
fully transitioned into an in-demand indus-
try sector or occupation following comple-
tion of the training services;
(4) annual earnings data for individuals
who have completed training services
through the demonstration or pilot project;
(5) the percentage of individuals described
in paragraph (4) who are in education or
training activities, or in employment, during
the second quarter after exit from the train-
ing services;
(6) the percentage of individuals described
in paragraph (4) who are in education or
training activities, or in employment, during
the fourth quarter after exit from the train-
ing services; and
(7) any practices used by the partnership
that should be considered best practices with
respect to training workers in industries
that have, or are expected to have, high
rates of job loss as a result of automation.
(f) GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.—An eligible
partnership that receives a grant under this
section shall use the grant funds in a manner
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:58 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.038 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5970 October 22, 2019
that is consistent with the labor standards
and protections described in section 181 of
the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity
Act (29 U.S.C. 3241) and nondiscrimination
provisions described in section 188 of such
Act (29 U.S.C. 3248).
(g) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to
carry out this section such sums as may be
necessary for the first 5 full fiscal years after
the date of submittal of the report under sec-
tion 4(b).
SEC. 6. EXPANSION OF WORKER TRAINING SERV-
ICES.
(a) ADULT AND DISLOCATED WORKER EM-
PLOYMENT AND TRAINING.—Section
134(d)(1)(A) of the Workforce Innovation and
Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3174(d)(1)(A)) is
amended—
(1) in clause (xi), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the
end;
(2) in clause (xii), by striking the period
and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(xiii) training programs for individuals
who are, or are likely to become, dislocated
workers as a result of automation, including
activities that prepare the individuals for oc-
cupations in the technology sector.’’.
(b) NATIONAL DISLOCATED WORKER
GRANTS.—Section 170 of the Workforce Inno-
vation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3225) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (b)(1)(A), by inserting ‘‘ad-
vances in automation technology,’’ before
‘‘plant closures,’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
In addition to any funds reserved under sec-
tion 132(a)(2)(A) to carry out this section,
there are authorized to be appropriated to
carry out this section $40,000,000 for each of
fiscal years 2020 through 2024.’’.
By Mr. ALEXANDER (for himself
and Mr. JONES):
S. 2667. A bill to amend the Higher
Education Act of 1965 to make it easier
to apply for Federal student aid, to
make that aid predictable, to amend
the Federal Pell Grant program, and
for other purposes; to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions.
Mr. ALEXANDER. Madam President,
the Senator from Alabama will be here
shortly. I will go ahead and make my
remarks, and then he can add his.
I ask unanimous consent that I may
be able to use a piece of demonstrative
evidence as a part of my remarks.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President,
about 20 million Americans know what
this is. This is the FAFSA. This is the
form that about 20 million Americans
fill out every year in order to qualify
for the Pell grant and the student loan
they might use to go to college—20 mil-
lion Americans.
About 400,000 Tennesseans fill this
out every year, and what Senator
JONES and I propose to do is to reduce
the 108 questions that are filled out on-
line to between 17 and 30 as a way of
making it simpler and easier for 20 mil-
lion American families and their chil-
dren to go to college.
Last month, I received a letter from
Janet who volunteers with low-income
students in Nashville and has seen the
challenges students and their families
face to apply for college and financial
aid.
She describes the FAFSA as ‘‘being a
huge impediment . . . to students
raised in poverty to even attend col-
lege.’’
Janet continued, saying: ‘‘But a few
years ago, a different hurdle became
evident.’’ She was referring to some-
thing called verification.
She told the story of an excellent
student who began classes at Middle
Tennessee State University, but 6
weeks into her fall semester, her
FAFSA was flagged for verification—a
complicated process that stops Pell
grant payments while a student and
their families scramble to submit their
Federal tax information or prove they
didn’t have to file taxes.
‘‘Our student had to drop out of
school as she lost funding,’’ Janet said.
‘‘There has to be a better way.’’
Well, today Senator JONES and I are
suggesting a better way. We call it the
FAFSA Simplification Act, to give stu-
dents a better, simpler way to apply for
financial aid.
Every year, nearly 20 million fami-
lies, as I said, fill out the FAFSA to
apply for Federal student aid, includ-
ing 400,000 families in Tennessee.
A volunteer mentor with Tennessee
Promise, which is our State’s program
that provides 2 years of free commu-
nity college, told me that the FAFSA
has a ‘‘chilling effect’’ on students and
on parents.
Former Tennessee Governor Bill
Haslam told me that Tennessee has the
highest rate for filling out the
FAFSA—more students fill it out than
in any other State by percentage—but
it is still the single biggest impediment
to more students enrolling in Ten-
nessee Promise, which gives them a
free community college tuition.
The FAFSA Simplification Act will
make it easier for families to apply for
Federal student aid by doing three
things.
First, it reduces the number of ques-
tions on the FAFSA from 108 to 17 to 30
questions.
Second, it will greatly reduce the
need for the burdensome verification I
discussed, the process that caused
Janet’s student to drop out of school.
East Tennessee State University said
that one-third of its applicants, ap-
proximately 10,000 students, are se-
lected each year for verification.
Third, this legislation will allow stu-
dents to find out as early as eighth
grade how much Pell grant funding
they may be eligible for so students
can start to plan for college sooner.
This result has been 5 years in the
making.
In 2014, at a hearing before our Sen-
ate Education Committee, witnesses
testified that the vast majority of
questions on the FAFSA are unneces-
sary.
I asked if the four witnesses, who
came from many different directions,
would each write a letter to the com-
mittee recommending how they would
simplify the FAFSA. The witnesses
stopped for a moment, they looked at
one another, and said: We don’t have to
write you four letters because we all
agree on how to fix the FAFSA. We can
write you one letter, and they did.
So Senator MICHAEL BENNET, a
Democratic member who was on the
committee at the time, said: Well, if
that is true and if there is that much
agreement, then why don’t we do what
you recommend?
I mean, how many times do we go
home to Tennessee or Arizona and Ala-
bama and explain something and peo-
ple say: Well, then why don’t you do it?
This is a case of, well, then why don’t
we do it, and Senator JONES and I are
here to ask that question and rec-
ommend that we do.
So we started talking with other
Senators, students, college administra-
tors, other experts about how to sim-
plify the FAFSA.
In 2015, Senator BENNET and I—now,
listen to this list—along with Senator
BOOKER, Senator BURR, Senator KING,
Senators ENZI, WARNER, and ISAKSON,
introduced bipartisan legislation that
would reduce the number of FAFSA
questions to two questions.
After discussions with college admin-
istrators and States, we realized we
needed to keep some questions or
States and schools would have to cre-
ate their own additional forms that
students would need to fill out.
Over the last 4 years, we have im-
proved that legislation. We now believe
that what Senator JONES and I are pro-
posing will permit us to move forward
with bipartisan legislation that would
reduce the FAFSA to between 18 and 30
questions. That is the legislation we
have introduced today. This is one
more step to make it easier for fami-
lies to fill out the FAFSA.
In President Obama’s administration,
with the encouragement of our com-
mittee, families were allowed to use
the tax information from the previous
year so they could apply to colleges in
the fall rather than have to wait until
the spring.
Second, the Trump administration
has put the FAFSA application on a
phone app. I was at Sevier County High
School last November, and I saw stu-
dents zipping through the FAFSA on
their iPhones.
Third, last year’s Senate passed bi-
partisan legislation that Senator MUR-
RAY of Washington and I introduced
that allows students to answer up to 22
questions on the current FAFSA with
just 1 click, and that will stop requir-
ing students to give the same informa-
tion to the Federal Government twice.
I can’t tell you the number of parents
and grandparents who said to me: Why
do I have to give the same information
to the Federal Government twice in
order to apply for a student loan or a
Pell grant?
The answer is, you shouldn’t have to.
This would dramatically decrease the
number of students selected for verifi-
cation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:58 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.038 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5971
October 22, 2019
In conclusion, that third step, along
with the bill Senator JONES and I have
introduced today, is part of the pack-
age I introduced last month to perma-
nently fund historically Black colleges
and universities and other minority-
serving institutions, provide Pell
grants for prisoners, and allow Pell
grants to be used for short-term pro-
grams.
This legislation, which includes our
bill to simplify the FAFSA, can and
should pass the Senate and the House
this year so it can be signed into law
by the President.
By reducing the number of questions
on the FAFSA, reducing the need for
verification, and allowing students to
learn earlier how much aid they may
qualify for, the FAFSA Simplification
Act will make it simpler and easier for
students and families to apply for fi-
nancial aid.
I have some statements of support
which I would like to read into the
RECORD, but I will pause at this mo-
ment and give Senator JONES a chance
to speak, and then I will come back
after he has finished and ask for the
floor and discuss these statements of
support.
Mr. JONES. Madam President, first
of all, I want to thank deeply my col-
league from Tennessee for the work he
has done not just with me on this bill
but over the years.
This has been such an incredible
work in progress, and I am appreciative
of all of that work that has gone on. I
am honored today to be part of this bill
we are introducing that I believe is so
important to so many families around
the country and particularly in our
States of Tennessee and Alabama.
Anyone who has applied to college or
helped someone through the process is
all too familiar with that dreaded
FAFSA form.
As a father with three kids who have
gone off to college, I can tell you it
just doesn’t get any easier. In fact, the
free application for Federal student aid
hasn’t gotten any easier for nearly the
30 years it has been in existence.
Despite the headaches it can cause, it
is so important for students to fill out
that FAFSA. It is so important for
families to have that FAFSA form. It
is a key to accessing grants, scholar-
ships, and loans that can put a college
education within reach.
Far too often, as Senator ALEXANDER
said, it can intimidate people from
even starting it. Also, once they get
the letter asking for an audit, they just
stop.
Currently, the FAFSA is over 10
pages long. Often when I am back in
Alabama, I say it is almost like filling
out tax returns for Apple Computer or
IBM or one of the big corporations. It
has 108 questions. That is why I have
been very fortunate and honored to
partner with Senator ALEXANDER to
simplify this FAFSA form to between
17 to 30 questions.
As he said just a moment ago, this
has been 5 years in the making, but
this is a first great step in this Con-
gress to really have honed this down
over the years. We are now going to
ease the burden. We are going to reduce
the number and ease the burden for
verification and make it easier for
folks to start looking at it ahead of
time.
I appreciate Senator ALEXANDER’s
comments about the fact that this
ought to be able to be done this year.
This bill is a wonderful first step in a
process that hopefully we can get
across that finish line by the end of the
year.
Graduating with debt—especially sig-
nificant debt—can force graduates to
put off other major life steps, like buy-
ing a house or a car, having children,
getting married, or investing in a busi-
ness as an entrepreneur. The burden of
debt can literally change the course of
a young person’s life and guide their
decisions for decades.
Nationwide, only 62 percent of high
school seniors completed the FAFSA in
2018. Senator ALEXANDER’s State of
Tennessee, along with Louisiana, Mis-
sissippi, and Delaware, had the highest
FAFSA completion rate. Alabama
ranked right in the middle, about 26th.
The site called NerdWallet—which I
find to be a fascinating name for a
site—estimates that the high school
class of 2018, across this country, left
$2.6 billion in Pell grants on the table—
that is billion with a B—$2.6 billion
that was available to put kids through
school, and it was left on the table.
Form Your Future reports that stu-
dents missed out on $24 billion in total
aid annually. It also reports that 92
percent of low-income households will
receive grants and 85 percent of stu-
dents have a chance to receive finan-
cial aid.
The Department of Education’s Fed-
eral Student Aid staff shared that,
from October 1, 2018, through May 31 of
2019, there were nearly half a million
fewer total FAFSA submissions—not
just high school seniors—in the same
timeframe the year before—a half a
million fewer. I think there is a reason
for that. I think people start, they look
at it, they see the cumbersome nature
of it, and they just walk away and do
something else.
In Alabama, high school seniors, ac-
cording to the information I have, left
$57.5 million in grant monies on the
table—grant monies, not loan and debt,
but grant monies on the table, $57 mil-
lion, and only 49.9 percent of the
State’s seniors filled out the form.
Alabama students might be surprised
to learn that they could be eligible for
Federal financial aid, including Pell
grants that can provide up to $6,100 a
year. Not only does the FAFSA help
identify what Federal loans and grants
a student could receive, but it can also
lead to college specific or Statewide
scholarships.
The student loan debt that today’s
graduates face is profound. According
to The Institute for College Access and
Success, college student seniors who
graduated in 2018 in my home State of
Alabama’s 4-year public and private
colleges had an average of just under
$30,000 in student loan debt. It also
found that more than half of our col-
lege seniors are graduating with debt.
Simplifying this FAFSA form can get
money in their hands. It can get money
that is badly needed. As I go around
my State, I talk to people all the time,
and they know that not every kid is
going to college, not every kid needs a
4-year college degree to do well to be-
come part of that middle class. But for
those who want to go, for those who
have the aptitude to go, for those who
desire to go and get that 4-year or even
2-year college degree, college aid and
financial aid is often vital.
Alabama is a relatively poor State.
People want their kids to succeed, and
to do so often means a college degree.
The bill that Senator ALEXANDER and I
have filed today will help do just that.
I hope we can get this across the fin-
ish line. I believe it is going to help
millions and millions of kids, and I
know it will help so many families in
my State and the great State of Ten-
nessee.
I thank Senator ALEXANDER for
working with me on this. I look for-
ward to working with colleagues to get
this across the finish line.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Tennessee.
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President,
Senator JONES made a very important
point, not only about Alabama, but
really about every State.
The Pell grant that we are talking
about is money you don’t have to pay
back. This is not a student loan that
you lay awake at night worrying
about.
Forty percent of our college students
in this country go to community col-
leges, 2-year colleges. The average tui-
tion at community colleges in America
is $3,600. The average Pell grant is
$3,600. Just those few facts show that
basically 40 percent of those who go to
college in America can go tuition-free
or close to tuition-free because of the
availability of the Pell grant. Now, it
is higher in some States and lower in
other States, but that is a fact. These
are not loans that you have to pay
back. These are grants that basically
say that, if you want 2 years of college
past high school, you can have it.
In States like Tennessee and an in-
creasing number of other States, the
State government is stepping up to
say: Well, if the Pell grant doesn’t
quite cover your tuition, we will cover
the rest of it, so it is tuition-free.
It is important for us to say to the
American people—to parents, grand-
parents, and students—that: If you
want to go to college, you can; and tui-
tion is probably free or about free, but
first, you have to fill out this 108 ques-
tion FAFSA. That is the problem.
A president of a community college
in Memphis that has almost all Afri-
can-American students told me he
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:58 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22OC6.048 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5972 October 22, 2019
thinks he loses 1,500 students a semes-
ter because of the complexity of the
FAFSA. At the other end of the State,
the President of East Tennessee State
University says that 10,000 of his stu-
dents get their classes interrupted by
the so-called verification process. We
would fix almost all those problems
with this bill.
I am glad that Senator JONES has
stepped up and so many other Senators
are agreeable to this. I hope we can an-
swer the question that people ask me
when I go home: Okay. Why don’t you
do it?
We should do it. We have been work-
ing on it for 5 years—whether it is Sen-
ator BENNET who introduced the first
bill with me and a number of others or
whether it is Senator MURRAY who in-
troduced with me the bill that passed
the Senate last year that said that, in
one click, you can answer the tax ques-
tions and you don’t have to give that
information to the government twice.
We can do that this year, and 20 mil-
lion American families will be grateful.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that statements of support be
printed in the RECORD following my re-
marks.
I will just summarize some of them
quickly.
Justin Draeger, president of the Na-
tional Association of Student Finan-
cial Aid Administrators, said: ‘‘In
short, this bill makes the process of ap-
plying for student aid much easier for
all students, but the biggest positive
impact will be for our nation’s neediest
students.’’ I would like to thank Justin
and his association of financial aid ex-
perts for working with us because the
first bill we introduced didn’t take into
consideration a number of points that
it should have. The administrators
pointed them out to us, and so we be-
lieve we have come up with a set of so-
lutions that meets those needs and has
their support.
The National College Access Network
Executive Director Kim Cook said:
‘‘[Our organization] has long advocated
for a streamlined FAFSA to lessen one
of the barriers faced by many first-gen-
eration students going to college. By
combining this simpler FAFSA with a
Pell Grant look-up table, we can show
students, early in their decision-mak-
ing process, that there is money to
help them complete college.’’
Stacey Lightfoot testified before our
committee. She is vice president of col-
lege and career success at the Public
Education Foundation of Chattanooga:
‘‘The FAFSA is even more complex for
families, especially those from under-
served backgrounds, who get lost an-
swering over 100 questions on the form.
[This] proposal to simplify the FAFSA
is long overdue and has been thought-
fully created to ensure better access to
college by eliminating unnecessary and
irrelevant questions. The new bill
takes the most intimidating aspect of
the college process away from stu-
dents.’’
Why would we cause 20 million fami-
lies to answer unnecessary and intimi-
dating questions, and discourage their
students from going to college? Why
would we do that? We shouldn’t.
Executive director of Alabama Pos-
sible, Kristina Scott, said: ‘‘With the
FAFSA Simplification Act implemen-
tation of simple, clear Pell Grant look
up tables, we will be able to talk with
students beginning in middle school
about what aid for which they should
be eligible and how to access it by com-
pleting a shorter, simplified FAFSA.
These two changes can shift the con-
versation about postsecondary edu-
cation from ‘if’ to ‘when’ for low-in-
come and first-generation college-
going students and their families.’’
How many times do we hear it said
that—particularly in low-income fami-
lies—parents, grandparents, and others
discourage the students from going to
college because they are afraid it will
mean a lot of debt that they will never
be able to pay back. They can’t imag-
ine how they can handle this. This bill
and all that goes with it will allow con-
versations to begin with middle school
students, including low-income stu-
dents, and say: You may be in the
eighth grade or the seventh grade or a
freshman in high school, but you can
begin thinking now about at least 2
more years of college after high school
that are essentially tuition free, and it
is simple to do because of the simpler
FAFSA.
Mike Krause, director of the Ten-
nessee Higher Education Commission,
said: ‘‘For Tennessee, the complexity
of the FAFSA presents a barrier for
students attempting to enroll in Ten-
nessee Promise, Tennessee Reconnect,
and other financial aid programs like
the HOPE Access Grant. . . . Simpli-
fying the FAFSA would improve col-
lege access for students in Tennessee
by allowing the federal government
and our state to better target financial
aid to the neediest students.’’
Now, what he is saying is that this
complicated form is a barrier to free
college for students of all ages in Ten-
nessee. They have to fill this out first.
If they are discouraged from doing it,
they don’t go to college.
Barbara Duffield, executive director
of School House Connection, which
helps homeless and foster care chil-
dren, had this to say: ‘‘The FAFSA
Simplification Act removes barriers to
financial aid for some of our Nation’s
most vulnerable youth—those who ex-
perience homelessness or foster care.’’
This has been a good exercise in the
United States Senate. We have had tes-
timony before our committee. Our wit-
nesses told us what to do. Senator BEN-
NET and I, and a group of others who
were on the committee at that time,
said: Okay. Let’s do it.
We got advice from the financial aid
officers who said: Wait a minute. You
didn’t think about this and that. For
example, if you cut it down to two
questions, then Arizona and Tennessee
are going to have to ask more ques-
tions in order to do the State grant
programs that they have. So we recog-
nized that, and we adjusted our posi-
tion. Then Senator JONES, who is a new
member of our committee, stepped up
and said he wanted to be a part of it, so
now, we are ready to go.
Chairman BOBBY SCOTT, chairman of
the House Education Committee, intro-
duced a bill that would simplify the
FAFSA just last week. It is not the
same as our bill, but it heads in the
same direction.
I think every single Member of this
body wants to help students, especially
low-income students, have an oppor-
tunity to attend college if they want
to. We have everything in place for
them to do it, yet we have created this
single barrier—this 108-question form—
with unnecessary, needless questions
and a verification process in the middle
of the semester that would yank your
money and cause you to drop out of
school. We can change that this year. If
we will do it, we have bipartisan sup-
port in the Senate, and the President
will sign it. I hope it is law by the be-
ginning of next year.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
STATE OF TENNESSEE, HIGHER EDU-
CATION COMMISSION, STUDENT AS-
SISTANCE CORPORATION,
Nashville, TN, October 21, 2019.
Hon. LAMAR ALEXANDER,
Chairman, Senate Health, Education, Labor &
Pensions Committee.
Hon. DOUG JONES,
Member, Senate Health, Education, Labor &
Pensions Committee.
DEAR CHAIRMAN ALEXANDER AND SENATOR
JONES: The Tennessee Higher Education
Commission and Tennessee Student Assist-
ance Corporation write to express apprecia-
tion and strong support for the FAFSA Sim-
plification Act of 2019.
The Free Application for Federal Student
Aid (FAFSA) is the way nearly 20 million
Americans access federal, state, and institu-
tion based financial aid to attend college
each year. However, the complexity of the
form and chilling effect of the verification
process is one of the biggest barriers for our
most vulnerable students to enter a postsec-
ondary institution.
For Tennessee, the complexity of the
FAFSA presents a barrier for students at-
tempting to enroll in Tennessee Promise,
Tennessee Reconnect, and other financial aid
programs like the HOPE Access Grant. In
the 2018–19 school year, over 400,000 Ten-
nesseans submitted a FAFSA, and that infor-
mation was the cornerstone to access both
state and federal aid. Simplifying the
FAFSA would improve college access for stu-
dents in Tennessee by allowing the federal
government and our state to better target fi-
nancial aid to the neediest students. In par-
ticular, Tennessee sees great value for our
State in the FAFSA Simplification Act
based on four key aspects:
1. Statewide efforts to promote FAFSA
completion and college enrollment thrive on
simple messages. The new simple Pell Grant
formula will allow statewide college access
messaging campaigns to inform students and
families about how much Pell Grant they
will likely be eligible to receive based on a
table or simple calculator.
2. Tennessee and its public institutions de-
pend on the Needs Analysis formula to annu-
ally award over $400 million in State appro-
priated student financial aid. By continuing
the availability of this calculation and most
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:33 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22OC6.049 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5973
October 22, 2019
of the variables behind it, our State will
have the to continue awarding state and in-
stitutional aid without disruption.
3. FAFSA filing can quickly become chal-
lenging for applicants when sorting through
difficult financial questions. By relying on
tax information the federal government al-
ready has on file, students and families do
not have to find additional information and
are unlikely to be selected for burdensome
verification processes.
4. The flexibility provided to financial aid
administrators regarding professional judge-
ment and applicants to file provisionally
independent will be transformative for our
State’s most vulnerable students.
Thank you both for your strong commit-
ment to this issue. It is important to enact
this reform which will help us reach our
State’s goals.
Sincerely,
MIKE KRAUSE.
SUPPORT STATEMENTS
Justin Dragger, president of the National
Association of Student Financial Aid Admin-
istrators said: ‘‘In short, this bill makes the
process of applying for student aid much
easier for all students, but the biggest posi-
tive impact will be for our nation’s neediest
students.’’
National College Access Network Execu-
tive Director Kim Cook said: ‘‘NCAN has
long advocated for a streamlined FAFSA to
lessen one of the barriers faced by many
first-generation students going to college.
By combining this simpler FAFSA with a
Pell Grant look-up table, we can show stu-
dents, early in their decision-making proc-
ess, that there is money to help them com-
plete college.’’
Stacy Lightfoot, vice president of college
and career success at the Public Education
Foundation of Chattanooga-Hamilton Coun-
ty, said: ‘‘The FAFSA is even more complex
for families, especially those from under-
served backgrounds, who get lost answering
over 100 questions on the form. [This] pro-
posal to simplify the FAFSA is long overdue
and has been thoughtfully created to ensure
better access to college by eliminating un-
necessary and irrelevant questions. The new
bill takes the most intimidating aspect of
the college process away for students.’’
Executive director of Alabama Possible,
Kristina Scott, said: ‘‘With the FAFSA Sim-
plification Act implementation of simple,
clear Pell Grant look up tables, we will be
able to talk with students beginning in mid-
dle school about what aid for which they
should be eligible and how to access it by
completing a shorter, simplified FAFSA.
These two changes can shift the conversa-
tion about postsecondary education from ‘if’
to ‘when’ for low-income and first-generation
college-going students and their families.’’
Mike Krause, director of the Tennessee
Higher Education Commission: ‘‘For Ten-
nessee, the complexity of the FAFSA pre-
sents a barrier for students attempting to
enroll in Tennessee Promise, Tennessee Re-
connect, and other financial aid programs
like the HOPE Access Grant . . . Simplifying
the FAFSA would improve college access for
students in Tennessee by allowing the fed-
eral government and our state to better tar-
get financial aid to the neediest students.’’
Barbara Duffield, Executive Director of
School House Connection, said: ‘‘The FAFSA
Simplification Act removes barriers to fi-
nancial aid for some of our nation’s most
vulnerable youth—those who experience
homelessness or foster care.’’
NASFAA, NATIONAL COLLEGE ACCESS NET-
WORK RELEASE STATEMENT OF SUPPORT FOR
BIPARTISAN FAFSA SIMPLIFICATION ACT
Sens. Lamar Alexander (R–Tenn.) and
Doug Jones (D–Ala.) today introduced the
FAFSA Simplification Act of 2019, a bill that
would create a streamlined financial aid ap-
plication process, while still giving schools,
states, and scholarship providers enough in-
formation to offer financial aid to today’s di-
verse college-going population. Under this
proposal, all students would be able to deter-
mine their Pell Grant eligibility through Ad-
justed Gross Income (AGI) and household
size.
For far too long, thousands of students
who have every intention of attending col-
lege never enroll, or end up leaving millions
of financial aid dollars on the table—includ-
ing $2.3 billion in Pell Grant dollars annu-
ally—in large part due to the overly complex
nature of applying for and receiving federal
financial aid. While we have made signifi-
cant progress toward simplifying the process
in recent years—through the addition of skip
logic to the Free Application for Federal
Student Aid (FAFSA) and allowing some in-
come data to be imported via the Internal
Revenue Service’s Data Retrieval Tool, for
example—we can do better.
The FAFSA Simplification Act would sig-
nificantly reduce the number of questions on
the FAFSA—including irrelevant and unnec-
essary questions, such as the Selective Serv-
ice and drug offense-related questions—and
require students to only answer questions
based on their family income.
‘‘Taking into account feedback from finan-
cial aid professionals nationwide, this bill
takes a commonsense approach to shorten
the FAFSA application to an extent that
would not deprive institutions of crucial in-
formation needed to appropriately disburse
billions of dollars of financial aid to eligible
students,’’ said NASFAA President Justin
Draeger. ‘‘In short, this bill makes the proc-
ess of applying for student aid much easier
for all students, but the biggest positive im-
pact will be for our nation’s neediest stu-
dents.’’
‘‘NCAN has long advocated for a stream-
lined FAFSA to lessen one of the barriers
faced by many first-generation students
going to college. By combining this simpler
FAFSA with a Pell Grant look-up table, we
can show students, early in their decision-
making process, that there is money to help
them complete college,’’ said NCAN Execu-
tive Director Kim Cook. ‘‘We thank Senators
Alexander and Jones for championing this
issue and the students we serve.’’
A few NASFAA and NCAN members also
weighed in on the bill and what it would
mean for students:
‘‘Legislation that makes the process for
accessing financial aid simpler for our stu-
dents and families is a win,’’ said Brenda
Hicks, director of financial aid at South-
western College in Winfield, Kansas. ‘‘Con-
densing eligibility for the Federal Pell Grant
to a look-up table places pivotal information
directly in students’ hands in a concise and
accessible way. This kind of knowledge could
make the difference between a student who
feels a college education is out of reach fi-
nancially and a student who suddenly has
hope for their future.’’
‘‘One of the biggest reasons students and
families don’t complete the FAFSA is that
they don’t think they will be eligible for any
financial aid. This is true even for Pell-eligi-
ble families,’’ said Kristina Scott, executive
director of Alabama Possible. ‘‘With the
FAFSA Simplification Act implementation
of simple, clear Pell Grant look up tables, we
will be able to talk with students beginning
in middle school about what aid for which
they should be eligible and how to access it
by completing a shorter, simplified FAFSA.
These two changes can shift the conversa-
tion about postsecondary education from ‘if’
to ‘when’ for low-income and first-generation
college-going students and their families.’’
‘‘FAFSA simplification is an important
step in the right direction to make the finan-
cial aid process more transparent for stu-
dents and their families,’’ said Lori Vedder,
director of the office of financial aid at the
University of Michigan-Flint. ‘‘Allowing our
neediest students to avoid answering unnec-
essary questions when applying for financial
aid would remove barriers that often keep
many students from matriculating. Having
an earlier and upfront indication of their eli-
gibility to receive crucial need-based aid,
such as the federal Pell Grant, will help
these students realize they have the ability
to attend and afford college.’’
‘‘Completing the FAFSA, for as long as I
can remember, is a daunting process—one
that my mother needed help with over 20
years ago for my sister and me,’’ shared
Stacy Lightfoot, vice president of college
and career success at the Public Education
Foundation of Chattanooga-Hamilton Coun-
ty. ‘‘Now, the FAFSA is even more complex
for families, especially those from under-
served backgrounds, who get lost answering
over 100 questions on the form. Senator Alex-
ander’s proposal to simplify the FAFSA is
long overdue and has been thoughtfully cre-
ated to ensure better access to college by
eliminating unnecessary and irrelevant ques-
tions. The new bill takes the most intimi-
dating aspect of the college process away for
students.’’
NASFAA and NCAN look forward to work-
ing with lawmakers as this bill moves
through the legislative process. To request
an interview with a NASFAA spokesperson,
please email Director of Communications
Erin Powers or call (202) 785–6959. To request
an interview with an NCAN spokesperson,
please email Communications Manager Kelly
Mae Ross or call (202) 347–4848 x210.
ABOUT NCAN
The mission of the National College Access
Network is to build, strengthen, and em-
power communities and stakeholders to
close equity gaps in postsecondary attain-
ment for all students. Based in Washington,
D.C., NCAN is a nonprofit membership orga-
nization serving over 500 members that
touch the lives of more than 2 million stu-
dents each year. Our members include col-
lege access programs, school districts, insti-
tutions of higher education, and other non-
profits that are committed to the vision that
all students have an equitable opportunity
to achieve social and economic mobility
through higher education. For more informa-
tion, please visit www.collegeaccess.org.
ABOUT NASFAA
The National Association of Student Fi-
nancial Aid Administrators (NASFAA) is a
nonprofit membership organization that rep-
resents more than 28,000 financial aid profes-
sionals at nearly 3,000 colleges, universities,
and career schools across the country.
NASFAA member institutions serve nine out
of every 10 undergraduates in the United
States. Based in Washington, D.C., NASFAA
is the only national association with a pri-
mary focus on student aid legislation, regu-
latory analysis, and training for financial
aid administrators. For more information,
visit www.nasfaa.org.
By Mr. MCCONNELL (for himself,
Mr. BURR, Mr. GRAHAM, Mr.
INHOFE, Mr. RISCH, Ms. COLLINS,
Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. RUBIO, Mr.
ISAKSON, Mrs. BLACKBURN, Ms.
MCSALLY, Mr. BLUNT, Mrs. CAP-
ITO, Mr. CRUZ, and Mr. WICKER):
S.J. Res. 59. A joint resolution ex-
pressing the sense of Congress on the
precipitous withdrawal of United
States Armed Forces from Syria and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:33 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.053 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5974 October 22, 2019
Afghanistan, and Turkey’s unprovoked
incursion into Syria; read the first
time.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the text of
the bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S.J. RES. 59
Whereas the Islamic State of Iraq and al
Sham, better known by its acronym ISIS,
flourished in the chaos unleashed by the civil
war in Syria and at one point controlled ex-
tensive territory in Iraq and Syria;
Whereas ISIS murdered thousands of inno-
cent civilians, including Americans, and
sought to ethnically cleanse the territory it
controlled of religious minorities;
Whereas the Kurdish-led Syrian Demo-
cratic Forces, which is composed of Kurdish
and Arab fighters, remains an essential
United States partner in the successful cam-
paign to destroy ISIS’ so-called ‘‘caliphate’’;
Whereas, backed by the United States and
United States allies, the Syrian Democratic
Forces liberated millions of Syrians from
ISIS’ terrorist regime, and sustained ap-
proximately 11,000 casualties in the fight;
Whereas ISIS, al Qaeda, and their affiliates
have proven resilient and have regrouped
when the United States and its partners have
withdrawn from the fight against them;
Whereas Turkey’s unprovoked incursion
into northeastern Syria, which began on Oc-
tober 9, 2019, has displaced more than 166,000
civilians, according to the United Nations
High Commissioner on Refugees, and dozens
of civilians have been killed on both sides;
Whereas, as a result of Turkey’s incursion
into northeastern Syria and the withdrawal
of United States Armed Forces, the Syrian
Democratic Forces have turned to Russia
and the brutal Assad regime for support,
while more than a hundred ISIS-affiliated
detainees have escaped from detention facili-
ties; and
Whereas the Assad regime is responsible
for murdering at least 500,000 civilians and
displacing at least 12,000,000 Syrians, or
roughly half the country’s population at the
time that the civil war began in 2011, and the
regime’s return to northeastern Syria
through its new partnership with the Syrian
Democratic Forces will allow the regime to
extend its murderous campaign and again
subjugate the Kurdish, Sunni Arab, and reli-
gious minorities of northeastern Syria: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled, That Congress—
(1) condemns in the strongest terms the
Government of Turkey’s escalating hos-
tilities against Kurdish partners of the
United States in Syria, while recognizing the
Government of Turkey’s legitimate humani-
tarian, economic, and security concerns
emanating from the conflict in Syria;
(2) calls upon the United States Govern-
ment to pressure the Government of Turkey,
including through sanctions, to act with re-
straint, provide accountability for human
rights abuses conducted by militias acting in
support of Turkish military operations, and
curtail its hostilities against United States
partner forces in Syria;
(3) reiterates United States opposition to
the forced repatriation of refugees from
third countries into Syria, and calls upon all
refugee returns to be safe, dignified, and vol-
untary;
(4) urges the President to rescind his invi-
tation to the White House to Turkish Presi-
dent Recep Tayyip Erdogan until a more en-
during cease-fire has been established be-
tween Turkish and Kurdish forces in north-
eastern Syria;
(5) calls upon the United States Govern-
ment to continue supporting liberated Syr-
ian Kurdish and Arab communities in north-
east Syria through humanitarian support,
including those displaced or otherwise af-
fected by ongoing violence in Syria, and
calls upon other nations to increase support
to stabilization efforts in northeastern
Syria;
(6) strongly opposes any abandonment of
our Kurdish and Arab partners in Syria;
(7) calls for a halt to the withdrawal of
United States Armed Forces from Syria
where practical, and calls for the continued
use of air power to target ISIS and provide
protection of ethnic and religious minorities
in northeastern Syria;
(8) expresses support for a continued
United States military presence in Iraq,
along with efforts to help Iraqi forces control
their border, protect their sovereignty, and
counter ISIS;
(9) recognizes the continuing threat to
United States and United States allies posed
by al Qaeda and ISIS, which maintain an
ability to operate in Syria and Afghanistan;
(10) warns that a precipitous withdrawal of
United States forces from the ongoing fight
against these groups, without effective,
countervailing efforts to secure gains in
Syria and Afghanistan, could allow terror-
ists to regroup, destabilize critical regions,
and create vacuums that could be filled by
Iran or Russia, to the detriment of United
States interests and those of our allies;
(11) recognizes that an unbroken chain of
Iranian-controlled territory across Syria
poses a significant threat to Israel;
(12) reiterates support for international
diplomatic efforts to facilitate peaceful, ne-
gotiated resolutions to the ongoing conflicts
in Syria and Afghanistan on terms that re-
spect the rights of innocent civilians and
deny safe havens to terrorists;
(13) encourages close collaboration be-
tween the executive branch and the legisla-
tive branch to ensure continuing strong, bi-
partisan support for United States military
operations in Syria and Afghanistan; and
(14) calls upon the President to certify
whether conditions have been met for the en-
during defeat of al Qaeda and ISIS before ini-
tiating any further significant withdrawal of
United States forces from the region.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 369—RECOG-
NIZING THE CONTRIBUTIONS OF
THE MONTAGNARD INDIGENOUS
TRIBESPEOPLE OF THE CEN-
TRAL HIGHLANDS OF VIETNAM
TO THE UNITED STATES ARMED
FORCES DURING THE VIETNAM
WAR, AND CONDEMNING THE ON-
GOING VIOLATION OF HUMAN
RIGHTS BY THE GOVERNMENT
OF THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
VIETNAM
Mr. BURR (for himself and Mr.
TILLIS) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 369
Whereas the Montagnards are an indige-
nous tribespeople living in Vietnam’s Cen-
tral Highlands region;
Whereas the Montagnards were driven into
the mountains by invading Vietnamese and
Cambodians in the 9th century;
Whereas French Roman Catholic mission-
aries converted many of the Montagnards in
the 19th century and American Protestant
missionaries subsequently converted many
to various Protestant sects;
Whereas, during the 1960s, the United
States Mission in Saigon, the Central Intel-
ligence Agency (CIA), and United States
Army Special Forces, also known as the
Green Berets, trained the Montagnards in
unconventional warfare;
Whereas an estimated 61,000 Montagnards,
out of an estimated population of 1,000,000,
fought alongside the United States and the
Army of the Republic of Vietnam (ARVN)
forces against the North Vietnamese Army
and the Viet Cong;
Whereas the Central Intelligence Agency,
United States Special Forces, and the
Montagnards cooperated on the Village De-
fense Program, a forerunner to the War’s
Strategic Hamlet Program, and an estimated
43,000 Montagnards were organized into ‘‘Ci-
vilian Irregular Defense Groups’’ (CIDGs) to
provide protection for the areas around the
CIDGs’ operational bases;
Whereas, at its peak, the CIDGs had ap-
proximately 50 operational bases, with each
base containing a contingent of two United
States Army officers and ten enlisted men,
and an ARVN unit of the same size, and each
base trained 200 to 700 Montagnards, or
‘‘strikers’’;
Whereas another 18,000 Montagnards were
reportedly enlisted into mobile strike forces,
and various historical accounts describe a
strong bond between the United States Spe-
cial Forces and the Montagnards, in contrast
to Vietnamese Special Forces and ARVN
troops;
Whereas the lives of thousands of members
of the United States Armed Forces were
saved as a result of the heroic actions of the
Montagnards, who fought loyally and brave-
ly alongside United States Special Forces in
the Vietnam War;
Whereas, after the fall of the Republic of
Vietnam in 1975, thousands of Montagnards
fled across the border into Cambodia to es-
cape persecution;
Whereas the Government of the reunified
Vietnamese nation, renamed the Socialist
Republic of Vietnam, deeply distrusted the
Montagnards who had sided with the United
States and ARVN forces and subjected them
to imprisonment and various forms of dis-
crimination and oppression after the Viet-
nam War ended;
Whereas, after the Vietnam War, the
United States Government resettled large
numbers of Montagnards, mostly in North
Carolina, and an estimated several thousand
Montagnards currently reside in North Caro-
lina, which is the largest population of
Montagnards residing outside of Vietnam;
Whereas the Socialist Republic of Vietnam
currently remains a one-party state, ruled
and controlled by the Communist Party of
Vietnam (CPV), which continues to restrict
freedom of religion, movement, land and
property rights, and political expression;
Whereas officials of the Government of
Vietnam have forced Montagnards to pub-
licly denounce their religion, arrested and
imprisoned Montagnards who organized pub-
lic demonstrations, and mistreated
Montagnards in detention;
Whereas some Montagnard Americans have
complained that Vietnamese authorities ei-
ther have prevented them from visiting Viet-
nam or have subjected them to interrogation
upon re-entering the country on visits;
Whereas the Department of State’s 2018
Country Reports on Human Rights Practices
(‘‘2018 Human Rights Report’’) documents
that, despite Vietnam’s significant economic
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:58 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.042 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5975
October 22, 2019
growth, some indigenous and ethnic minor-
ity communities benefitted little from im-
proved economic conditions, even though
such communities formed a majority of the
population in certain areas, including the
Northwest and Central Highlands and por-
tions of the Mekong Delta;
Whereas the 2018 Human Rights Report
states that, although Vietnamese law pro-
hibits discrimination against ethnic minori-
ties, such social discrimination was long-
standing and persistent, notably in the Cen-
tral Highlands;
Whereas the 2018 Human Rights Report
documents that land rights protesters have
reported regular instances of government au-
thorities physically harassing and intimi-
dating them at land expropriation sites
around the country, or arresting local resi-
dents for ‘‘causing public disorder’’;
Whereas the United States Commission on
International Religious Freedom (USCIRF)
references in its 2019 Annual Report (the
‘‘2019 USCIRF Report’’) the accounts of
Montagnards being publicly berated and hu-
miliated for their affiliation with the unrec-
ognized Evangelical Church of Christ;
Whereas the 2019 USCIRF Report docu-
ments that one-quarter of prisoners of con-
science were minority religious groups, in-
cluding the Montagnards;
Whereas the 2019 USCIRF Report estimates
that 10,000 individuals in the Central High-
lands are refused ID cards, household reg-
istration, and birth certificates by local au-
thorities in retaliation for refusing to re-
nounce their faith; and
Whereas USCIRF has recommended every
year since 2002 that Vietnam be designated a
Country of Particular Concern (CPC) under
the International Religious Freedom Act of
1998 (Public Law 105–292) due to ‘‘systematic,
ongoing, egregious violations of religious
freedom’’: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) recognizes the contributions of the
Montagnards who fought loyally and bravely
with United States Armed Forces during the
Vietnam War and who continue to suffer per-
secution in Vietnam as a result of this rela-
tionship;
(2) condemns ongoing actions by the Gov-
ernment of Vietnam to suppress basic human
rights and civil liberties for all its citizens;
(3) calls on the Government of Vietnam to
allow human rights groups access to all re-
gions of the country and to end restrictions
of basic human rights, including the right
for Montagnards to practice their Christian
faith freely, the right to land and property,
freedom of movement, the right to retain
ethnic identity and culture, and access to an
adequate standard of living; and
(4) urges the President and Congress to de-
velop policies that support Montagnards and
other marginalized ethnic minority and in-
digenous populations in Vietnam and reflect
United States interests and commitment to
upholding human rights and democracy
abroad.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 370—DESIG-
NATING OCTOBER 2019 AS ‘‘NA-
TIONAL BULLYING PREVENTION
MONTH’’ AND OCTOBER 23, 2019,
AS ‘‘UNITY DAY’’
Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself, Ms.
SMITH, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, and Ms. HAS-
SAN) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 370
Whereas 1 in 5 students report being
bullied and nearly 16 percent of students re-
port being cyberbullied;
Whereas students who experience bullying
are at an increased risk for poor school ad-
justment, sleep difficulties, anxiety, and de-
pression;
Whereas National Bullying Prevention
Month was founded in 2006 by the National
Bullying Prevention Center of the PACER
Center and has been held during the month
of October each year since;
Whereas National Bullying Prevention
Month is a nationwide campaign that seeks
to educate the public about, and raise aware-
ness of, bullying prevention;
Whereas individuals, families, schools,
school districts, communities, and many
others have hosted thousands of events to
spread the message of National Bullying Pre-
vention Month;
Whereas Unity Day was started by the Na-
tional Bullying Prevention Center in October
2011 and is the signature event of National
Bullying Prevention Month;
Whereas Unity Day has been held on the
third or fourth Wednesday of each October
since 2011 and will be recognized in 2019 on
October 23;
Whereas the goal of Unity Day is to bring
together youth, parents, educators, busi-
nesses, and community members across the
United States to emphasize—
(1) a message of uniting for kindness, ac-
ceptance, inclusion, and mutual respect;
(2) that all students deserve to be safe in
school, online, and in their communities;
(3) that there is value in celebrating the
differences between people; and
(4) that compromise and tolerance are im-
portant in communication;
Whereas Unity Day has been highlighted
on national television shows and in public
service announcements, films, and public
displays of art and expression; and
Whereas Unity Day is often celebrated by—
(1) wearing orange, the official color of
Unity Day;
(2) holding student and teacher led discus-
sions at schools;
(3) organizing efforts at community cen-
ters; and
(4) expressing support for Unity Day
through art, music, dance, and social media:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates October 2019 as ‘‘National
Bullying Prevention Month’’;
(2) designates October 23, 2019, as ‘‘Unity
Day’’; and
(3) acknowledges that the prevention of
bullying of children should be a national pri-
ority.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 371—RE-
AFFIRMING THE SUPPORT OF
THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
PEOPLE OF THE REPUBLIC OF
SOUTH SUDAN AND CALLING ON
ALL PARTIES TO UPHOLD THEIR
COMMITMENTS TO PEACE AND
DIALOGUE AS OUTLINED IN THE
2018 REVITALIZED PEACE AGREE-
MENT
Mr. COONS (for himself, Mr. ISAKSON,
Mr. DURBIN, and Mr. YOUNG) submitted
the following resolution; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on Foreign
Relations:
S. RES. 371
Whereas the United States recognized
South Sudan as a sovereign, independent
state on July 9, 2011, following its secession
from Sudan;
Whereas the United States played a key
role in helping draft the 2005 Comprehensive
Peace Agreement that laid the groundwork
for the 2011 referendum on self-determina-
tion, through which the people of South
Sudan overwhelmingly voted for independ-
ence;
Whereas the people and Government of the
United States have a deep and abiding inter-
est in South Sudan’s political stabilization
and post-conflict development;
Whereas stability in Sudan is critical to
peace and security in the region, including
for South Sudan, and the United States Gov-
ernment remains committed to fostering Su-
dan’s peaceful transition, as reflected by the
passage of Senate Resolution 188 (116th),
which ‘‘encourag[es] a swift transfer of
power by the military to a civilian-led polit-
ical authority in the Republic of the Sudan’’;
Whereas, since the onset of the civil war in
South Sudan in December 2013, nearly 400,000
South Sudanese citizens are estimated to
have been killed, 1,900,000 have been inter-
nally displaced, and 2,300,000 have fled the
country and registered as refugees;
Whereas the Revitalized Agreement on the
Resolution of the Conflict in the Republic of
South Sudan (R-ARCSS) signed on Sep-
tember 12, 2018 by the political parties of
South Sudan, affirms the Parties’ commit-
ment to the permanent ceasefire and forbids
human rights violations and restrictions on
humanitarian assistance;
Whereas the R-ARCSS establishes two
phases of implementation, a Pre-Transi-
tional Period until May 12, 2019, which was
subsequently extended to November 12, 2019,
followed by the establishment of a Revital-
ized Transitional Government of National
Unity (RTGoNU) for three years;
Whereas the six-month extension of the
deadline to form the RTGoNU was granted to
allow additional time to complete critical
Pre-Transitional tasks, including agreement
on the number and boundaries of states and
important security arrangements;
Whereas the R-ARCSS stipulates that the
signatories will create an enabling political,
administrative, operational, and legal envi-
ronment for the delivery of humanitarian as-
sistance and protection;
Whereas the people of South Sudan con-
tinue to suffer from a humanitarian crisis,
with the United Nations reporting that over
6,300,000 people, more than half the popu-
lation, were classified as severely food inse-
cure at the peak of the lean season in 2019,
including an estimated 10,000 who faced fam-
ine conditions, and despite slight improve-
ments in food security during the harvest,
the number of children under age five who
are acutely malnourished is projected to rise
to 1,300,000 in early 2020;
Whereas humanitarian organizations are
providing lifesaving assistance to more than
5,300,000 South Sudanese people and are pro-
viding other vital support services such as
medical care to survivors of sexual violence
and facilitating access to education to over
690,000 children;
Whereas religious and faith-based organi-
zations have played a key role in the peace
process and humanitarian response efforts in
support of the people of South Sudan;
Whereas at least 112 humanitarian aid
workers have been killed since the start of
the conflict in 2013, including at least 15 in
2018;
Whereas the United States Department of
State 2018 Country Report on Human Rights
Practices in South Sudan states that both
the government and opposition forces en-
gaged in serious human rights abuses by per-
petrating extrajudicial killings, including
ethnically based targeted killings of civil-
ians, and by engaging in arbitrary deten-
tions, torture, rape, beatings, and looting of
property;
Whereas, on March 15, 2019, the United Na-
tions Security Council extended the mandate
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.043 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5976 October 22, 2019
of the United Nations Mission (UNMISS) in
South Sudan for one year and authorized
UNMISS to use all necessary means to deter
violence against civilians, to prevent and re-
spond to sexual and gender-based violence,
and to foster a secure environment for the
return or relocation of internally displaced
persons (IDPs) and refugees;
Whereas impunity for past atrocities con-
tinues to drive violence in South Sudan, and
signatories to the R-ARCSS committed to
the establishment of transitional justice
measures;
Whereas the United Nations Children’s
Fund (UNICEF) has reported that children
comprise approximately 25 percent of all re-
ported cases of conflict-related sexual vio-
lence, and the United Nations Commission
on Human Rights in South Sudan has re-
ported that forced recruitment of child sol-
diers is increasing, despite the 2018 peace
agreement;
Whereas illicitly obtained wealth and rev-
enue sources perpetuate conflict in South
Sudan;
Whereas leaders of South Sudan use vio-
lence and corruption as a means of capturing
key sectors of the national economy, such as
the oil and mining sectors, for purposes of
personal enrichment; and
Whereas the United Nations Security
Council adopted resolution 2471 on May 30,
2019, to extend its sanctions regime in South
Sudan and renew the prohibition of the sup-
ply, sale, or transfer to South Sudan of arms
and related material or the provision of
training, technical, and financial assistance
related to military activities or materials
until May 31, 2020: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That it is the sense of the Sen-
ate—
(1) to reaffirm the commitment of the
United States to support peace in South
Sudan;
(2) to call on the incumbent government
and all other signatories of the R-ARCSS
to—
(A) create a secure, enabling environment
for all relevant political leaders to partici-
pate actively in the formation of the
RTGoNU and South Sudan’s political sta-
bilization and post-conflict development;
(B) resolve peacefully the remaining polit-
ical issues for negotiation during the Pre-
Transitional Period, including agreement on
the number and boundaries of states before
the extended deadline of November 12, 2019;
(C) establish a RTGoNU by November 12,
2019;
(D) adhere to the cessation of hostilities
and enable the delivery of humanitarian as-
sistance and protection;
(E) immediately release all political pris-
oners and fulfill their responsibility to pro-
tect civilians; and
(F) ensure respect for and full exercise of
the right to freedom of expression, associa-
tion, and peaceful assembly;
(3) that the Secretary of State and the Ad-
ministrator of the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID) should
continue to provide immediate lifesaving as-
sistance to meet the dire humanitarian
needs of the South Sudanese people;
(4) that the Secretary of State and the
USAID Administrator should continue to
support civilians, particularly women and
children, who have been adversely affected
by the civil war, and should provide foreign
assistance to support peacebuilding, conflict
prevention, transitional justice, and rec-
onciliation efforts led by local civil society;
(5) that the Secretary of State should mon-
itor implementation of the UNMISS man-
date authorized by United Nations Security
Council Resolution 2459 (2019) and ensure
that any return or relocation of IDPs from
United Nations protection of civilian sites
are safe, informed, voluntary, dignified, and
conducted in coordination with humani-
tarian actors;
(6) that the Secretary of State, in conjunc-
tion with the Secretary of the Treasury,
should continue to monitor human rights
abuse and corruption in South Sudan and
take decisive action using authorities grant-
ed under the Global Magnitsky Human
Rights Accountability Act (subtitle F of
title XII of Public Law 114–328; 22 U.S.C. 2656
note);
(7) that the Secretary of the Treasury
should use best efforts to prevent, detect, in-
vestigate, and mitigate money laundering
activities; and
(8) that the United States Government
should support implementation and subse-
quent renewal of the United Nations Secu-
rity Council arms embargo in South Sudan
to prevent continued illicit acquisition of
arms and military equipment by all parties
and the proliferation of weapons throughout
the country, and that the lifting of a United
Nations arms embargo should be contingent
upon—
(A) sustained adherence to the permanent
ceasefire, tangible efforts to end impunity
for violence against civilians, and con-
sistent, unimpeded humanitarian access in
accordance with international humanitarian
principles of humanity, neutrality, impar-
tiality, and independence;
(B) holding free, fair, and peaceful demo-
cratic elections; and
(C) cessation of widespread abuses and vio-
lations by armed actors against civilians.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 372—EX-
PRESSING THE SENSE OF THE
SENATE THAT THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT SHOULD ESTAB-
LISH A NATIONAL GOAL OF CON-
SERVING AT LEAST 30 PERCENT
OF THE LAND AND OCEAN OF
THE UNITED STATES BY 2030
Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mr. BENNET,
Mr. DURBIN, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. BOOKER,
Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, and Ms.
WARREN) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources:
S. RES. 372
Whereas access to public land, nature, and
a healthy environment should be a right for
all people, as that access is essential to the
health, well-being, identity, cultures, and
economic prosperity of the United States;
Whereas the United States faces a con-
servation and climate crisis, with nature in
a steep decline and greenhouse gas emissions
not declining at the rate scientists say is
needed in the United States and worldwide;
Whereas scientists are documenting a
rapid loss of natural areas and wildlife in the
United States and throughout the world, in-
cluding—
(1) a finding that, from 2001 to 2017, a quan-
tity of natural areas equal to the size of a
football field disappeared to development
every 30 seconds in the United States, consti-
tuting more than 1,500,000 acres per year;
(2) a finding, published in the journal
‘‘Science’’, that the United States and Can-
ada have lost 2,900,000,000 birds since 1970,
representing a decline of 29 percent;
(3) the identification by State fish and
game agencies of approximately 12,000 ani-
mal and plant species in the United States
that require proactive conservation efforts
to avoid extinction, of which approximately
1⁄3 will be lost in the next decades;
(4) a finding by the United States Fish and
Wildlife Service that the United States has
lost more than 1⁄2 of all freshwater and salt-
water wetlands in the contiguous 48 States;
and
(5) the 2019 findings by the Intergovern-
mental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiver-
sity and Ecosystem Services that—
(A) human activities are damaging 2⁄3 of
ocean areas;
(B) only 3 percent of ocean areas remain
pristine;
(C) 15 percent of mangroves remain;
(D) 50 percent of coral reefs remain; and
(E) at the current rate of losses, less than
10 percent of the Earth will be free of sub-
stantial human impact by 2050;
Whereas climate change is accelerating the
decline of nature in the United States;
Whereas the Third National Climate As-
sessment found that climate change—
(1) is reducing the ability of ecosystems to
provide clean water and regulate water
flows;
(2) is limiting the ability of nature to buff-
er communities against disasters such as
fires, storms, and floods, which dispropor-
tionately impacts communities of color and
indigenous populations; and
(3) is having far-reaching effects on marine
and terrestrial wildlife, including by altering
habitats, forcing changes to migratory pat-
terns, and altering the timing of biological
events;
Whereas the decline of natural areas and
wildlife in the United States follows global
patterns, as the Intergovernmental Science-
Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Eco-
system Services found that approximately
1,000,000 plant and animal species are threat-
ened by extinction over the coming decades
as a result of land conversion, development,
climate change, invasive species, pollution,
and other stressors;
Whereas nature, like the climate, is near-
ing a tipping point where the continued loss
and degradation of the natural environment
will—
(1) push many ecosystems and wildlife spe-
cies past the point of no return;
(2) threaten the health and economic pros-
perity of the United States; and
(3) increase the costs of natural disasters,
for which the Federal Government spent
about $91,000,000,000 in 2018;
Whereas the existing protections for land,
the ocean, and wildlife in the United States
are not sufficient to prevent a further de-
cline of nature in the United States, with—
(1) only 12 percent of the land area in the
United States permanently protected, most-
ly in Alaska and the West; and
(2) only 26 percent of Federal ocean terri-
tory permanently protected, the vast major-
ity of which is in the remote western Pacific
Ocean or northwestern Hawaii;
Whereas the United States has historically
demonstrated leadership and resolve to pro-
tect, conserve, and restore the natural envi-
ronment, including through a network of
protected areas;
Whereas that network of protected areas is
protected and supported by a variety of con-
servation laws passed at other times of cri-
sis;
Whereas the United States—
(1) ranks among the top 5 countries in the
world for the amount of wilderness-quality
land and ocean remaining; and
(2) has the conservation experience and
traditions necessary to make great strides in
the protection of the remaining natural
areas in the United States for future genera-
tions;
Whereas the Federal Government, the pri-
vate sector, civil society, farmers, ranchers,
fishing communities, and sportsmen have a
history of working together to conserve the
land and ocean of the United States;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.045 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5977
October 22, 2019
Whereas the Exclusive Economic Zone of
the United States, consisting of waters with-
in 200 miles of the coastline—
(1) covers 4,500,000 square miles;
(2) is 23 percent larger than the landmass
of the United States; and
(3) provides a home to various ocean habi-
tats and ecosystems, including—
(A) coral reefs;
(B) kelp forests;
(C) mangroves;
(D) seagrass beds; and
(E) deep-sea corals;
Whereas conserving and restoring nature is
one of the most efficient and cost-effective
strategies for fighting climate change;
Whereas, to confront the deterioration of
natural systems and the loss of biodiversity
around the world, and to remain below a 1.5
degrees Celsius increase in average global
temperature, scientists recommend that
roughly 1⁄2 of the planet be conserved; and
Whereas, as a step toward achieving that
goal, some scientists have recommended
that all countries commit to conserving and
protecting at least 30 percent of the land and
30 percent of the ocean in each country by
2030, with a long-term goal of conserving 1⁄2
of the planet: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That it is the sense of the Senate
that—
(1) given the evidence as of October 2019,
the Federal Government should establish a
national goal of conserving at least 30 per-
cent of the land and 30 percent of the ocean
within the territory of the United States by
2030;
(2) the goal described in paragraph (1)
should be accomplished through an effort
that includes the objectives of—
(A) working with local communities, In-
dian Tribes, States, and private landowners
to conserve natural places and resources;
(B) improving access to nature for all peo-
ple in the United States, including for com-
munities of color and economically dis-
advantaged communities;
(C) sequestering carbon and greenhouse gas
emissions in the land and ocean of the
United States;
(D) increasing public incentives for private
landowners to voluntarily conserve and pro-
tect areas of demonstrated conservation
value and with a high capacity to sequester
carbon and greenhouse gas emissions;
(E) focusing work at a large-landscape
scale that is biologically and ecologically
meaningful;
(F) preventing extinction by recovering
and restoring animal and plant species;
(G) stabilizing ecosystems and the services
of ecosystems, restoring degraded eco-
systems, and maintaining ecological func-
tions; and
(H) increasing economic opportunities for
farmers, ranchers, fishermen, and foresters;
and
(3) the goal described in paragraph (1) and
the objectives described in paragraph (2)
should be accomplished through an effort
that—
(A) makes science the foundation of con-
servation decisions by providing commu-
nities access to sound, up-to-date scientific
information about—
(i) the land and waters around those com-
munities; and
(ii) how the land and waters around those
communities are changing in a warming
world;
(B) respects Tribal sovereignty and the
right to Tribal self-determination so that
American Indian, Alaska Native, and Native
Hawaiian communities can fulfill what each
views as priorities for the stewardship of the
natural, cultural, and historic resources of
the community;
(C) protects private property rights and
traditional land uses and enables land own-
ers to pass down the working land of those
land owners to the next generation because
private land accounts for approximately 60
percent of the land area in the contiguous 48
States;
(D) addresses environmental justice and
the necessity of a more equitable distribu-
tion of the benefits of nature to all people,
including communities of color and economi-
cally disadvantaged communities;
(E) takes into account a wide range of
flexible and enduring conservation solutions;
(F) involves the design and implementa-
tion of objectives and strategies locally and
regionally; and
(G) provides tools and resources to ensure
that the areas described in subparagraphs
(A) through (C) are effectively managed for
conservation values and to sequester carbon
and greenhouse gas emissions.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 373—EX-
PRESSING SUPPORT FOR THE
DESIGNATION OF SEPTEMBER
2019 AS ‘‘SICKLE CELL DISEASE
AWARENESS MONTH’’ IN ORDER
TO EDUCATE COMMUNITIES
ACROSS THE UNITED STATES
ABOUT SICKLE CELL DISEASE
AND THE NEED FOR RESEARCH,
EARLY DETECTION METHODS,
EFFECTIVE TREATMENTS, AND
PREVENTATIVE CARE PRO-
GRAMS WITH RESPECT TO COM-
PLICATIONS FROM SICKLE CELL
DISEASE AND CONDITIONS RE-
LATED TO SICKLE CELL DIS-
EASE
Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina (for
himself, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. RUBIO, Ms.
WARREN, Mr. BRAUN, Mr. BROWN, Mr.
ISAKSON, Mr. COONS, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH,
Mr. JONES, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr.
LANKFORD) submitted the following
resolution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 373
Whereas sickle cell disease (referred to in
this preamble as ‘‘SCD’’) is an inherited
blood disorder that is a major health prob-
lem in the United States and worldwide;
Whereas SCD causes the rapid destruction
of sickle cells, which results in multiple
medical complications, including anemia,
jaundice, gallstones, strokes, restricted
blood flow, damaged tissue in the liver,
spleen, and kidneys, and death;
Whereas SCD causes episodes of consider-
able pain in the arms, legs, chest, and abdo-
men of an individual;
Whereas SCD affects an estimated 100,000
individuals in the United States;
Whereas approximately 1,000 babies are
born with SCD each year in the United
States, with the disease occurring in ap-
proximately 1 in 365 newborn African-Amer-
ican infants and 1 in 16,300 newborn His-
panic-American infants, and can be found in
individuals of Mediterranean, Middle East-
ern, Asian, and Indian origin;
Whereas more than 3,000,000 individuals in
the United States have the sickle cell trait
and 1 in 13 African Americans carries the
trait;
Whereas there is a 1 in 4 chance that a
child born to parents who both have the
sickle cell trait will have the disease;
Whereas the life expectancy of an indi-
vidual with SCD is often severely limited;
Whereas, while hematopoietic stem cell
transplantation (commonly known as
‘‘HSCT’’) is currently the only cure for SCD
and advances in treating the associated com-
plications of SCD have occurred, more re-
search is needed to find widely available
treatments and cures to help individuals
with SCD; and
Whereas September 2019 has been des-
ignated as Sickle Cell Disease Awareness
Month in order to educate communities
across the United States about SCD, includ-
ing early detection methods, effective treat-
ments, and preventative care programs with
respect to complications from SCD and con-
ditions related to SCD: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports the goals and ideals of Sickle
Cell Disease Awareness Month; and
(2) encourages the people of the United
States to hold appropriate programs, events,
and activities during Sickle Cell Disease
Awareness Month to raise public awareness
of preventative care programs, treatments,
and other patient services for those suffering
from sickle cell disease, complications from
sickle cell disease, and conditions related to
sickle cell disease.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 948. Mr. SHELBY proposed an amend-
ment to the bill H.R. 3055, making appropria-
tions for the Departments of Commerce and
Justice, Science, and Related Agencies for
the fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, and
for other purposes.
SA 949. Mr. YOUNG (for himself and Mr.
GARDNER) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 950. Mr. McCONNELL (for Mr. SHELBY)
proposed an amendment to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra.
SA 951. Mr. WARNER (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. KAINE, and Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed to amendment SA 948 proposed
by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 952. Mr. MERKLEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 953. Mr. TESTER submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 954. Mr. TESTER (for himself and Mr.
DAINES) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 955. Ms. BALDWIN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 956. Ms. HASSAN (for herself and Mr.
VAN HOLLEN) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment SA 948
proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 957. Mr. JONES submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 958. Mr. JONES submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 959. Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself
and Mr. MURPHY) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.046 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5978 October 22, 2019
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 960. Ms. CORTEZ MASTO submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 961. Ms. CORTEZ MASTO (for herself
and Mr. LANKFORD) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 962. Ms. CORTEZ MASTO (for herself
and Mr. PORTMAN) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 963. Mr. GARDNER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 964. Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Mr.
BENNET) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 965. Mr. GARDNER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 966. Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Mr.
BENNET) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 948. Mr. SHELBY proposed an
amendment to the bill H.R. 3055, mak-
ing appropriations for the Departments
of Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; as follows:
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Commerce,
Justice, Science, Agriculture, Rural Devel-
opment, Food and Drug Administration, In-
terior, Environment, Transportation, and
Housing and Urban Development Appropria-
tions Act, 2020’’.
SEC. 2. REFERENCES TO ACT.
Except as expressly provided otherwise,
any reference to ‘‘this Act’’ contained in any
division of this Act shall be treated as refer-
ring only to the provisions of that division.
SEC. 3. REFERENCES TO REPORT.
(a) Any reference to a ‘‘report accom-
panying this Act’’ contained in division A
shall be treated as a reference to Senate Re-
port 116–127. The effect of such Report shall
be limited to division A and shall apply for
purposes of determining the allocation of
funds provided by, and the implementation
of, division A.
(b) Any reference to a ‘‘report accom-
panying this Act’’ contained in division B
shall be treated as a reference to Senate Re-
port 116–110. The effect of such Report shall
be limited to division B and shall apply for
purposes of determining the allocation of
funds provided by, and the implementation
of, division B.
(c) Any reference to a ‘‘report accom-
panying this Act’’ contained in division C
shall be treated as a reference to Senate Re-
port 116–123. The effect of such Report shall
be limited to division C and shall apply for
purposes of determining the allocation of
funds provided by, and the implementation
of, division C.
(d) Any reference to a ‘‘report accom-
panying this Act’’ contained in division D
shall be treated as a reference to Senate Re-
port 116–109. The effect of such Report shall
be limited to division D and shall apply for
purposes of determining the allocation of
funds provided by, and the implementation
of, division D.
DIVISION A—COMMERCE AND JUSTICE,
SCIENCE, AND RELATED AGENCIES AP-
PROPRIATIONS ACT, 2020
The following sums are appropriated, out
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise
appropriated, for the Departments of Com-
merce and Justice, Science, and Related
Agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and for other purposes,
namely:
TITLE I
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
INTERNATIONAL TRADE ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS AND ADMINISTRATION
For necessary expenses for international
trade activities of the Department of Com-
merce provided for by law, and for engaging
in trade promotional activities abroad, in-
cluding expenses of grants and cooperative
agreements for the purpose of promoting ex-
ports of United States firms, without regard
to sections 3702 and 3703 of title 44, United
States Code; full medical coverage for de-
pendent members of immediate families of
employees stationed overseas and employees
temporarily posted overseas; travel and
transportation of employees of the Inter-
national Trade Administration between two
points abroad, without regard to section
40118 of title 49, United States Code; employ-
ment of citizens of the United States and
aliens by contract for services; rental of
space abroad for periods not exceeding 10
years, and expenses of alteration, repair, or
improvement; purchase or construction of
temporary demountable exhibition struc-
tures for use abroad; payment of tort claims,
in the manner authorized in the first para-
graph of section 2672 of title 28, United
States Code, when such claims arise in for-
eign countries; not to exceed $294,300 for offi-
cial representation expenses abroad; pur-
chase of passenger motor vehicles for official
use abroad, not to exceed $45,000 per vehicle;
obtaining insurance on official motor vehi-
cles; and rental of tie lines, $521,250,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2020, of
which $11,000,000 is to be derived from fees to
be retained and used by the International
Trade Administration, notwithstanding sec-
tion 3302 of title 31, United States Code: Pro-
vided, That, of amounts provided under this
heading, not less than $16,400,000 shall be for
China antidumping and countervailing duty
enforcement and compliance activities: Pro-
vided further, That the provisions of the first
sentence of section 105(f) and all of section
108(c) of the Mutual Educational and Cul-
tural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2455(f)
and 2458(c)) shall apply in carrying out these
activities; and that for the purpose of this
Act, contributions under the provisions of
the Mutual Educational and Cultural Ex-
change Act of 1961 shall include payment for
assessments for services provided as part of
these activities.
BUREAU OF INDUSTRY AND SECURITY
OPERATIONS AND ADMINISTRATION
For necessary expenses for export adminis-
tration and national security activities of
the Department of Commerce, including
costs associated with the performance of ex-
port administration field activities both do-
mestically and abroad; full medical coverage
for dependent members of immediate fami-
lies of employees stationed overseas; em-
ployment of citizens of the United States
and aliens by contract for services abroad;
payment of tort claims, in the manner au-
thorized in the first paragraph of section 2672
of title 28, United States Code, when such
claims arise in foreign countries; not to ex-
ceed $13,500 for official representation ex-
penses abroad; awards of compensation to in-
formers under the Export Control Reform
Act of 2018 (subtitle B of title XVII of the
John S. McCain National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2019; Public Law 115–
232; 132 Stat. 2208; 50 U.S.C. 4801 et seq.), and
as authorized by section 1(b) of the Act of
June 15, 1917 (40 Stat. 223; 22 U.S.C. 401(b));
and purchase of passenger motor vehicles for
official use and motor vehicles for law en-
forcement use with special requirement vehi-
cles eligible for purchase without regard to
any price limitation otherwise established
by law, $127,652,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That the provisions of
the first sentence of section 105(f) and all of
section 108(c) of the Mutual Educational and
Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C.
2455(f) and 2458(c)) shall apply in carrying out
these activities: Provided further, That pay-
ments and contributions collected and ac-
cepted for materials or services provided as
part of such activities may be retained for
use in covering the cost of such activities,
and for providing information to the public
with respect to the export administration
and national security activities of the De-
partment of Commerce and other export con-
trol programs of the United States and other
governments.
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE
PROGRAMS
For grants for economic development as-
sistance as provided by the Public Works and
Economic Development Act of 1965, for trade
adjustment assistance, and for grants au-
thorized by section 27 of the Stevenson-
Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15
U.S.C. 3722), $279,500,000, to remain available
until expended, of which $31,000,000 shall be
for grants under such section 27.
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of administering
the economic development assistance pro-
grams as provided for by law, $40,000,000: Pro-
vided, That these funds may be used to mon-
itor projects approved pursuant to title I of
the Public Works Employment Act of 1976,
title II of the Trade Act of 1974, section 27 of
the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innova-
tion Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3722), and the Com-
munity Emergency Drought Relief Act of
1977.
MINORITY BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
MINORITY BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
For necessary expenses of the Department
of Commerce in fostering, promoting, and
developing minority business enterprises, in-
cluding expenses of grants, contracts, and
other agreements with public or private or-
ganizations, $40,000,000, of which not more
than $15,500,000 shall be available for over-
head expenses, including salaries and ex-
penses, rent, utilities, and information tech-
nology services.
ECONOMIC AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses, as authorized by
law, of economic and statistical analysis pro-
grams of the Department of Commerce,
$107,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.039 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5979
October 22, 2019
BUREAU OF THE CENSUS
CURRENT SURVEYS AND PROGRAMS
For necessary expenses for collecting, com-
piling, analyzing, preparing, and publishing
statistics, provided for by law, $274,000,000:
Provided, That, from amounts provided here-
in, funds may be used for promotion, out-
reach, and marketing activities.
PERIODIC CENSUSES AND PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses for collecting, com-
piling, analyzing, preparing, and publishing
statistics for periodic censuses and programs
provided for by law, $7,284,319,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2021: Provided,
That, from amounts provided herein, funds
may be used for promotion, outreach, and
marketing activities: Provided further, That
within the amounts appropriated, $3,556,000
shall be transferred to the ‘‘Office of Inspec-
tor General’’ account for activities associ-
ated with carrying out investigations and
audits related to the Bureau of the Census:
Provided further, That of the amount pro-
vided under this heading, $2,500,000,000 is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for the 2020
Census pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(G) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND
INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses, as provided for by
law, of the National Telecommunications
and Information Administration (NTIA),
$42,441,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021: Provided, That, notwith-
standing 31 U.S.C. 1535(d), the Secretary of
Commerce shall charge Federal agencies for
costs incurred in spectrum management,
analysis, operations, and related services,
and such fees shall be retained and used as
offsetting collections for costs of such spec-
trum services, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided further, That the Secretary
of Commerce is authorized to retain and use
as offsetting collections all funds trans-
ferred, or previously transferred, from other
Government agencies for all costs incurred
in telecommunications research, engineer-
ing, and related activities by the Institute
for Telecommunication Sciences of NTIA, in
furtherance of its assigned functions under
this paragraph, and such funds received from
other Government agencies shall remain
available until expended.
PUBLIC TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES,
PLANNING AND CONSTRUCTION
For the administration of prior-year
grants, recoveries and unobligated balances
of funds previously appropriated are avail-
able for the administration of all open grants
until their expiration.
UNITED STATES PATENT AND TRADEMARK
OFFICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the United
States Patent and Trademark Office
(USPTO) provided for by law, including de-
fense of suits instituted against the Under
Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual
Property and Director of the USPTO,
$3,450,681,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That the sum herein appro-
priated from the general fund shall be re-
duced as offsetting collections of fees and
surcharges assessed and collected by the
USPTO under any law are received during
fiscal year 2020, so as to result in a fiscal
year 2020 appropriation from the general
fund estimated at $0: Provided further, That
during fiscal year 2020, should the total
amount of such offsetting collections be less
than $3,450,681,000, this amount shall be re-
duced accordingly: Provided further, That any
amount received in excess of $3,450,681,000 in
fiscal year 2020 and deposited in the Patent
and Trademark Fee Reserve Fund shall re-
main available until expended: Provided fur-
ther, That the Director of USPTO shall sub-
mit a spending plan to the Committees on
Appropriations of the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate for any amounts made
available by the preceding proviso and such
spending plan shall be treated as a re-
programming under section 505 of this Act
and shall not be available for obligation or
expenditure except in compliance with the
procedures set forth in that section: Provided
further, That any amounts reprogrammed in
accordance with the preceding proviso shall
be transferred to the United States Patent
and Trademark Office ‘‘Salaries and Ex-
penses’’ account: Provided further, That from
amounts provided herein, not to exceed $900
shall be made available in fiscal year 2020 for
official reception and representation ex-
penses: Provided further, That in fiscal year
2020 from the amounts made available for
‘‘Salaries and Expenses’’ for the USPTO, the
amounts necessary to pay (1) the difference
between the percentage of basic pay contrib-
uted by the USPTO and employees under sec-
tion 8334(a) of title 5, United States Code,
and the normal cost percentage (as defined
by section 8331(17) of that title) as provided
by the Office of Personnel Management
(OPM) for USPTO’s specific use, of basic pay,
of employees subject to subchapter III of
chapter 83 of that title, and (2) the present
value of the otherwise unfunded accruing
costs, as determined by OPM for USPTO’s
specific use of post-retirement life insurance
and post-retirement health benefits coverage
for all USPTO employees who are enrolled in
Federal Employees Health Benefits (FEHB)
and Federal Employees Group Life Insurance
(FEGLI), shall be transferred to the Civil
Service Retirement and Disability Fund, the
FEGLI Fund, and the FEHB Fund, as appro-
priate, and shall be available for the author-
ized purposes of those accounts: Provided fur-
ther, That any differences between the
present value factors published in OPM’s
yearly 300 series benefit letters and the fac-
tors that OPM provides for USPTO’s specific
use shall be recognized as an imputed cost on
USPTO’s financial statements, where appli-
cable: Provided further, That, notwith-
standing any other provision of law, all fees
and surcharges assessed and collected by
USPTO are available for USPTO only pursu-
ant to section 42(c) of title 35, United States
Code, as amended by section 22 of the Leahy-
Smith America Invents Act (Public Law 112–
29): Provided further, That within the
amounts appropriated, $2,000,000 shall be
transferred to the ‘‘Office of Inspector Gen-
eral’’ account for activities associated with
carrying out investigations and audits re-
lated to the USPTO.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS AND
TECHNOLOGY
SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL RESEARCH AND
SERVICES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the National In-
stitute of Standards and Technology (NIST),
$753,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, of which not to exceed $9,000,000 may
be transferred to the ‘‘Working Capital
Fund’’: Provided, That not to exceed $5,000
shall be for official reception and representa-
tion expenses: Provided further, That NIST
may provide local transportation for summer
undergraduate research fellowship program
participants.
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY SERVICES
For necessary expenses for industrial tech-
nology services, $161,500,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, of which $145,500,000
shall be for the Hollings Manufacturing Ex-
tension Partnership, and of which $16,000,000
shall be for the National Network for Manu-
facturing Innovation (also known as ‘‘Manu-
facturing USA’’).
CONSTRUCTION OF RESEARCH FACILITIES
For construction of new research facilities,
including architectural and engineering de-
sign, and for renovation and maintenance of
existing facilities, not otherwise provided for
the National Institute of Standards and
Technology, as authorized by sections 13
through 15 of the National Institute of
Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C.
278c–278e), $123,000,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That the Secretary
of Commerce shall include in the budget jus-
tification materials that the Secretary sub-
mits to Congress in support of the Depart-
ment of Commerce budget (as submitted
with the budget of the President under sec-
tion 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code)
an estimate for each National Institute of
Standards and Technology construction
project having a total multi-year program
cost of more than $5,000,000, and simulta-
neously the budget justification materials
shall include an estimate of the budgetary
requirements for each such project for each
of the 5 subsequent fiscal years.
NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC
ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS, RESEARCH, AND FACILITIES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of activities au-
thorized by law for the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration, including
maintenance, operation, and hire of aircraft
and vessels; pilot programs for state-led fish-
eries management, notwithstanding any
other provision of law; grants, contracts, or
other payments to nonprofit organizations
for the purposes of conducting activities pur-
suant to cooperative agreements; and reloca-
tion of facilities, $3,727,466,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2021: Provided,
That fees and donations received by the Na-
tional Ocean Service for the management of
national marine sanctuaries may be retained
and used for the salaries and expenses associ-
ated with those activities, notwithstanding
section 3302 of title 31, United States Code:
Provided further, That in addition, $174,774,000
shall be derived by transfer from the fund en-
titled ‘‘Promote and Develop Fishery Prod-
ucts and Research Pertaining to American
Fisheries’’, which shall only be used for fish-
ery activities related to the Saltonstall-Ken-
nedy Grant Program; Fisheries Data Collec-
tions, Surveys and Assessments; and Inter-
jurisdictional Fisheries Grants: Provided fur-
ther, That not to exceed $62,070,000 shall be
for payment to the Department of Commerce
Working Capital Fund: Provided further, That
of the $3,919,740,000 provided for in direct ob-
ligations under this heading, $3,727,466,000 is
appropriated from the general fund,
$174,774,000 is provided by transfer, and
$17,500,000 is derived from recoveries of prior
year obligations: Provided further, That any
deviation from the amounts designated for
specific activities in the report accom-
panying this Act, or any use of deobligated
balances of funds provided under this head-
ing in previous years, shall be subject to the
procedures set forth in section 505 of this
Act: Provided further, That in addition, for
necessary retired pay expenses under the Re-
tired Serviceman’s Family Protection and
Survivor Benefits Plan, and for payments for
the medical care of retired personnel and
their dependents under the Dependents’ Med-
ical Care Act (10 U.S.C. ch. 55), such sums as
may be necessary.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5980 October 22, 2019
PROCUREMENT, ACQUISITION AND CONSTRUCTION
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For procurement, acquisition and con-
struction of capital assets, including alter-
ation and modification costs, of the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration,
$1,552,528,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2022, except that funds provided
for acquisition and construction of vessels
and construction of facilities shall remain
available until expended: Provided, That of
the $1,565,528,000 provided for in direct obli-
gations under this heading, $1,552,528,000 is
appropriated from the general fund and
$13,000,000 is provided from recoveries of
prior year obligations: Provided further, That
any deviation from the amounts designated
for specific activities in the report accom-
panying this Act, or any use of deobligated
balances of funds provided under this head-
ing in previous years, shall be subject to the
procedures set forth in section 505 of this
Act: Provided further, That the Secretary of
Commerce shall include in budget justifica-
tion materials that the Secretary submits to
Congress in support of the Department of
Commerce budget (as submitted with the
budget of the President under section 1105(a)
of title 31, United States Code) an estimate
for each National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration procurement, acquisition or
construction project having a total of more
than $5,000,000 and simultaneously the budg-
et justification shall include an estimate of
the budgetary requirements for each such
project for each of the 5 subsequent fiscal
years: Provided further, That, within the
amounts appropriated, $1,302,000 shall be
transferred to the ‘‘Office of Inspector Gen-
eral’’ account for activities associated with
carrying out investigations and audits re-
lated to satellite procurement, acquisition
and construction.
PACIFIC COASTAL SALMON RECOVERY
For necessary expenses associated with the
restoration of Pacific salmon populations,
$65,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021: Provided, That, of the funds
provided herein, the Secretary of Commerce
may issue grants to the States of Wash-
ington, Oregon, Idaho, Nevada, California,
and Alaska, and to the Federally recognized
tribes of the Columbia River and Pacific
Coast (including Alaska), for projects nec-
essary for conservation of salmon and
steelhead populations that are listed as
threatened or endangered, or that are identi-
fied by a State as at-risk to be so listed, for
maintaining populations necessary for exer-
cise of tribal treaty fishing rights or native
subsistence fishing, or for conservation of
Pacific coastal salmon and steelhead habi-
tat, based on guidelines to be developed by
the Secretary of Commerce: Provided further,
That all funds shall be allocated based on
scientific and other merit principles and
shall not be available for marketing activi-
ties: Provided further, That funds disbursed to
States shall be subject to a matching re-
quirement of funds or documented in-kind
contributions of at least 33 percent of the
Federal funds.
FISHERMEN’S CONTINGENCY FUND
For carrying out the provisions of title IV
of Public Law 95–372, not to exceed $349,000,
to be derived from receipts collected pursu-
ant to that Act, to remain available until ex-
pended.
FISHERIES FINANCE PROGRAM ACCOUNT
Subject to section 502 of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974, during fiscal year 2020,
obligations of direct loans may not exceed
$24,000,000 for Individual Fishing Quota loans
and not to exceed $100,000,000 for traditional
direct loans as authorized by the Merchant
Marine Act of 1936.
DEPARTMENTAL MANAGEMENT
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses for the manage-
ment of the Department of Commerce pro-
vided for by law, including not to exceed
$4,500 for official reception and representa-
tion, $61,000,000: Provided, That, of the
amounts provided under this heading, no less
than $34,231,000 shall be spent on personnel
compensation and benefits, as identified by
object classes 11, 12, and 13: Provided further,
That no employee of the Department of Com-
merce may be detailed or assigned from a bu-
reau or office funded by this Act or any
other Act to offices within the Office of the
Secretary of the Department of Commerce
for more than 30 days in a fiscal year unless
the individuals employing bureau or office is
fully reimbursed for the salary and expenses
of the employee for the entire period of as-
signment using funds provided under this
heading.
RENOVATION AND MODERNIZATION
For necessary expenses for the renovation
and modernization of the Herbert C. Hoover
Building, $1,000,000, to remain available until
expended.
BUSINESS APPLICATION SYSTEM MODERNIZATION
For carrying out the activities and re-
quirements described in section 1077 of divi-
sion A of the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2018, $22,000,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2022.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5
U.S.C. App.), $34,744,000: Provided, That not-
withstanding section 6413(b) of the Middle
Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012
(Public Law 112–96), $2,000,000, to remain
available until expended, from the amounts
provided under this heading, shall be derived
from the Public Safety Trust Fund for ac-
tivities associated with carrying out inves-
tigations and audits related to the First Re-
sponder Network Authority (FirstNet).
GENERAL PROVISIONS—DEPARTMENT OF
COMMERCE
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
SEC. 101. During the current fiscal year, ap-
plicable appropriations and funds made
available to the Department of Commerce by
this Act shall be available for the activities
specified in the Act of October 26, 1949 (15
U.S.C. 1514), to the extent and in the manner
prescribed by the Act, and, notwithstanding
31 U.S.C. 3324, may be used for advanced pay-
ments not otherwise authorized only upon
the certification of officials designated by
the Secretary of Commerce that such pay-
ments are in the public interest.
SEC. 102. During the current fiscal year, ap-
propriations made available to the Depart-
ment of Commerce by this Act for salaries
and expenses shall be available for hire of
passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31
U.S.C. 1343 and 1344; services as authorized
by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and uniforms or allowances
therefor, as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901–
5902).
SEC. 103. Not to exceed 5 percent of any ap-
propriation made available for the current
fiscal year for the Department of Commerce
in this Act may be transferred between such
appropriations, but no such appropriation
shall be increased by more than 10 percent
by any such transfers: Provided, That any
transfer pursuant to this section shall be
treated as a reprogramming of funds under
section 505 of this Act and shall not be avail-
able for obligation or expenditure except in
compliance with the procedures set forth in
that section: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary of Commerce shall notify the Com-
mittees on Appropriations at least 15 days in
advance of the acquisition or disposal of any
capital asset (including land, structures, and
equipment) not specifically provided for in
this Act or any other law appropriating
funds for the Department of Commerce.
SEC. 104. The requirements set forth by sec-
tion 105 of the Commerce, Justice, Science,
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act,
2012 (Public Law 112–55), as amended by sec-
tion 105 of title I of division B of Public Law
113–6, are hereby adopted by reference and
made applicable with respect to fiscal year
2020: Provided, That the life cycle cost for the
Joint Polar Satellite System is $11,322,125,000
and the life cycle cost for the Geostationary
Operational Environmental Satellite R-Se-
ries Program is $10,828,059,000.
SEC. 105. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, the Secretary may furnish serv-
ices (including but not limited to utilities,
telecommunications, and security services)
necessary to support the operation, mainte-
nance, and improvement of space that per-
sons, firms, or organizations are authorized,
pursuant to the Public Buildings Cooperative
Use Act of 1976 or other authority, to use or
occupy in the Herbert C. Hoover Building,
Washington, DC, or other buildings, the
maintenance, operation, and protection of
which has been delegated to the Secretary
from the Administrator of General Services
pursuant to the Federal Property and Ad-
ministrative Services Act of 1949 on a reim-
bursable or non-reimbursable basis. Amounts
received as reimbursement for services pro-
vided under this section or the authority
under which the use or occupancy of the
space is authorized, up to $200,000, shall be
credited to the appropriation or fund which
initially bears the costs of such services.
SEC. 106. Nothing in this title shall be con-
strued to prevent a grant recipient from de-
terring child pornography, copyright in-
fringement, or any other unlawful activity
over its networks.
SEC. 107. The Administrator of the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion is authorized to use, with their consent,
with reimbursement and subject to the lim-
its of available appropriations, the land,
services, equipment, personnel, and facilities
of any department, agency, or instrumen-
tality of the United States, or of any State,
local government, Indian tribal government,
Territory, or possession, or of any political
subdivision thereof, or of any foreign govern-
ment or international organization, for pur-
poses related to carrying out the responsibil-
ities of any statute administered by the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion.
SEC. 108. The National Technical Informa-
tion Service shall not charge any customer
for a copy of any report or document gen-
erated by the Legislative Branch unless the
Service has provided information to the cus-
tomer on how an electronic copy of such re-
port or document may be accessed and
downloaded for free online. Should a cus-
tomer still require the Service to provide a
printed or digital copy of the report or docu-
ment, the charge shall be limited to recov-
ering the Service’s cost of processing, repro-
ducing, and delivering such report or docu-
ment.
SEC. 109. To carry out the responsibilities
of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration (NOAA), the Administrator of
NOAA is authorized to: (1) enter into grants
and cooperative agreements with; (2) use on
a non-reimbursable basis land, services,
equipment, personnel, and facilities provided
by; and (3) receive and expend funds made
available on a consensual basis from: a Fed-
eral agency, State or subdivision thereof,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5981
October 22, 2019
local government, tribal government, terri-
tory, or possession or any subdivisions there-
of: Provided, That funds received for permit-
ting and related regulatory activities pursu-
ant to this section shall be deposited under
the heading ‘‘National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration—Operations, Re-
search, and Facilities’’ and shall remain
available until September 30, 2022, for such
purposes: Provided further, That all funds
within this section and their corresponding
uses are subject to section 505 of this Act.
SEC. 110. Amounts provided by this Act or
by any prior appropriations Act that remain
available for obligation, for necessary ex-
penses of the programs of the Economics and
Statistics Administration of the Department
of Commerce, including amounts provided
for programs of the Bureau of Economic
Analysis and the Bureau of the Census, shall
be available for expenses of cooperative
agreements with appropriate entities, in-
cluding any Federal, State, or local govern-
mental unit, or institution of higher edu-
cation, to aid and promote statistical, re-
search, and methodology activities which
further the purposes for which such amounts
have been made available.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Department
of Commerce Appropriations Act, 2020’’.
TITLE II
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For expenses necessary for the administra-
tion of the Department of Justice,
$114,740,000, of which not to exceed $4,000,000
for security and construction of Department
of Justice facilities shall remain available
until expended.
JUSTICE INFORMATION SHARING TECHNOLOGY
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses for information
sharing technology, including planning, de-
velopment, deployment, and departmental
direction, $33,875,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That the Attorney
General may transfer up to $40,000,000 to this
account, from funds available to the Depart-
ment of Justice for information technology,
to remain available until expended, for en-
terprise-wide information technology initia-
tives: Provided further, That the transfer au-
thority in the preceding proviso is in addi-
tion to any other transfer authority con-
tained in this Act: Provided further, That any
transfer pursuant to the first proviso shall
be treated as a reprogramming under section
505 of this Act and shall not be available for
obligation or expenditure except in compli-
ance with the procedures set forth in that
section.
EXECUTIVE OFFICE FOR IMMIGRATION REVIEW
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For expenses necessary for the administra-
tion of immigration-related activities of the
Executive Office for Immigration Review,
$672,966,000, of which $4,000,000 shall be de-
rived by transfer from the Executive Office
for Immigration Review fees deposited in the
‘‘Immigration Examinations Fee’’ account,
and of which not less than $15,000,000 shall be
available for services and activities provided
by the Legal Orientation Program: Provided,
That not to exceed $35,000,000 of the total
amount made available under this heading
shall remain available until expended.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General, $105,000,000, including not to
exceed $10,000 to meet unforeseen emer-
gencies of a confidential character.
UNITED STATES PAROLE COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the United
States Parole Commission as authorized,
$13,308,000: Provided, That, notwithstanding
any other provision of law, upon the expira-
tion of a term of office of a Commissioner,
the Commissioner may continue to act until
a successor has been appointed.
LEGAL ACTIVITIES
SALARIES AND EXPENSES, GENERAL LEGAL
ACTIVITIES
For expenses necessary for the legal activi-
ties of the Department of Justice, not other-
wise provided for, including not to exceed
$20,000 for expenses of collecting evidence, to
be expended under the direction of, and to be
accounted for solely under the certificate of,
the Attorney General; the administration of
pardon and clemency petitions; and rent of
private or Government-owned space in the
District of Columbia, $924,000,000, of which
not to exceed $20,000,000 for litigation sup-
port contracts shall remain available until
expended: Provided, That of the amount pro-
vided for INTERPOL Washington dues pay-
ments, not to exceed $685,000 shall remain
available until expended: Provided further,
That of the total amount appropriated, not
to exceed $9,000 shall be available to
INTERPOL Washington for official reception
and representation expenses: Provided fur-
ther, That notwithstanding section 205 of
this Act, upon a determination by the Attor-
ney General that emergent circumstances re-
quire additional funding for litigation activi-
ties of the Civil Division, the Attorney Gen-
eral may transfer such amounts to ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses, General Legal Activities’’
from available appropriations for the current
fiscal year for the Department of Justice, as
may be necessary to respond to such cir-
cumstances: Provided further, That any
transfer pursuant to the preceding proviso
shall be treated as a reprogramming under
section 505 of this Act and shall not be avail-
able for obligation or expenditure except in
compliance with the procedures set forth in
that section: Provided further, That of the
amount appropriated, such sums as may be
necessary shall be available to the Civil
Rights Division for salaries and expenses as-
sociated with the election monitoring pro-
gram under section 8 of the Voting Rights
Act of 1965 (52 U.S.C. 10305) and to reimburse
the Office of Personnel Management for such
salaries and expenses: Provided further, That
of the amounts provided under this heading
for the election monitoring program,
$3,390,000 shall remain available until ex-
pended: Provided further, That of the amount
appropriated, not less than $195,982,000 shall
be available for the Criminal Division, in-
cluding related expenses for the Mutual
Legal Assistance Treaty Program.
In addition, for reimbursement of expenses
of the Department of Justice associated with
processing cases under the National Child-
hood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986, not to ex-
ceed $13,000,000, to be appropriated from the
Vaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund.
SALARIES AND EXPENSES, ANTITRUST DIVISION
For expenses necessary for the enforce-
ment of antitrust and kindred laws,
$166,755,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That notwithstanding any
other provision of law, fees collected for
premerger notification filings under the
Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements
Act of 1976 (15 U.S.C. 18a), regardless of the
year of collection (and estimated to be
$141,000,000 in fiscal year 2020), shall be re-
tained and used for necessary expenses in
this appropriation, and shall remain avail-
able until expended: Provided further, That
the sum herein appropriated from the gen-
eral fund shall be reduced as such offsetting
collections are received during fiscal year
2020, so as to result in a final fiscal year 2020
appropriation from the general fund esti-
mated at $25,755,000.
SALARIES AND EXPENSES, UNITED STATES
ATTORNEYS
For necessary expenses of the Offices of the
United States Attorneys, including inter-
governmental and cooperative agreements,
$2,278,360,000: Provided, That of the total
amount appropriated, not to exceed $7,200
shall be available for official reception and
representation expenses: Provided further,
That not to exceed $25,000,000 shall remain
available until expended: Provided further,
That each United States Attorney shall es-
tablish or participate in a task force on
human trafficking.
UNITED STATES TRUSTEE SYSTEM FUND
For necessary expenses of the United
States Trustee Program, as authorized,
$227,229,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That, notwithstanding any
other provision of law, deposits to the United
States Trustee System Fund and amounts
herein appropriated shall be available in
such amounts as may be necessary to pay re-
funds due depositors: Provided further, That,
notwithstanding any other provision of law,
fees deposited into the Fund pursuant to sec-
tion 589a(b) of title 28, United States Code
(as limited by section 1004(b) of the Bank-
ruptcy Judgeship Act of 2017 (division B of
Public Law 115–72)), shall be retained and
used for necessary expenses in this appro-
priation and shall remain available until ex-
pended: Provided further, That to the extent
that fees deposited into the Fund in fiscal
year 2020, net of amounts necessary to pay
refunds due depositors, exceed $227,229,000,
those excess amounts shall be available in
future fiscal years only to the extent pro-
vided in advance in appropriations Acts: Pro-
vided further, That the sum herein appro-
priated from the general fund shall be re-
duced (1) as such fees are received during fis-
cal year 2020, net of amounts necessary to
pay refunds due depositors, (estimated at
$309,000,000) and (2) to the extent that any re-
maining general fund appropriations can be
derived from amounts deposited in the Fund
in previous fiscal years that are not other-
wise appropriated, so as to result in a final
fiscal year 2020 appropriation from the gen-
eral fund estimated at $0.
SALARIES AND EXPENSES, FOREIGN CLAIMS
SETTLEMENT COMMISSION
For expenses necessary to carry out the ac-
tivities of the Foreign Claims Settlement
Commission, including services as author-
ized by section 3109 of title 5, United States
Code, $2,335,000.
FEES AND EXPENSES OF WITNESSES
For fees and expenses of witnesses, for ex-
penses of contracts for the procurement and
supervision of expert witnesses, for private
counsel expenses, including advances, and for
expenses of foreign counsel, $270,000,000, to
remain available until expended, of which
not to exceed $16,000,000 is for construction of
buildings for protected witness safesites; not
to exceed $3,000,000 is for the purchase and
maintenance of armored and other vehicles
for witness security caravans; and not to ex-
ceed $18,000,000 is for the purchase, installa-
tion, maintenance, and upgrade of secure
telecommunications equipment and a secure
automated information network to store and
retrieve the identities and locations of pro-
tected witnesses: Provided, That amounts
made available under this heading may not
be transferred pursuant to section 205 of this
Act.
SALARIES AND EXPENSES, COMMUNITY
RELATIONS SERVICE
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Community
Relations Service, $16,000,000: Provided, That
notwithstanding section 205 of this Act, upon
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5982 October 22, 2019
a determination by the Attorney General
that emergent circumstances require addi-
tional funding for conflict resolution and vi-
olence prevention activities of the Commu-
nity Relations Service, the Attorney General
may transfer such amounts to the Commu-
nity Relations Service, from available appro-
priations for the current fiscal year for the
Department of Justice, as may be necessary
to respond to such circumstances: Provided
further, That any transfer pursuant to the
preceding proviso shall be treated as a re-
programming under section 505 of this Act
and shall not be available for obligation or
expenditure except in compliance with the
procedures set forth in that section.
ASSETS FORFEITURE FUND
For expenses authorized by subparagraphs
(B), (F), and (G) of section 524(c)(1) of title 28,
United States Code, $20,514,000, to be derived
from the Department of Justice Assets For-
feiture Fund.
UNITED STATES MARSHALS SERVICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the United
States Marshals Service, $1,410,000,000, of
which not to exceed $6,000 shall be available
for official reception and representation ex-
penses, and not to exceed $25,000,000 shall re-
main available until expended.
CONSTRUCTION
For construction in space controlled, occu-
pied or utilized by the United States Mar-
shals Service for prisoner holding and re-
lated support, $17,000,000, to remain available
until expended.
FEDERAL PRISONER DETENTION
For necessary expenses related to United
States prisoners in the custody of the United
States Marshals Service as authorized by
section 4013 of title 18, United States Code,
$1,867,461,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That not to exceed
$20,000,000 shall be considered ‘‘funds appro-
priated for State and local law enforcement
assistance’’ pursuant to section 4013(b) of
title 18, United States Code: Provided further,
That the United States Marshals Service
shall be responsible for managing the Justice
Prisoner and Alien Transportation System.
NATIONAL SECURITY DIVISION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For expenses necessary to carry out the ac-
tivities of the National Security Division,
$110,000,000, of which not to exceed $5,000,000
for information technology systems shall re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That notwithstanding section 205 of this Act,
upon a determination by the Attorney Gen-
eral that emergent circumstances require
additional funding for the activities of the
National Security Division, the Attorney
General may transfer such amounts to this
heading from available appropriations for
the current fiscal year for the Department of
Justice, as may be necessary to respond to
such circumstances: Provided further, That
any transfer pursuant to the preceding pro-
viso shall be treated as a reprogramming
under section 505 of this Act and shall not be
available for obligation or expenditure ex-
cept in compliance with the procedures set
forth in that section.
INTERAGENCY LAW ENFORCEMENT
INTERAGENCY CRIME AND DRUG ENFORCEMENT
For necessary expenses for the identifica-
tion, investigation, and prosecution of indi-
viduals associated with the most significant
drug trafficking organizations, transnational
organized crime, and money laundering orga-
nizations not otherwise provided for, to in-
clude inter-governmental agreements with
State and local law enforcement agencies en-
gaged in the investigation and prosecution of
individuals involved in transnational orga-
nized crime and drug trafficking, $550,458,000,
of which $50,000,000 shall remain available
until expended: Provided, That any amounts
obligated from appropriations under this
heading may be used under authorities avail-
able to the organizations reimbursed from
this appropriation.
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Federal Bu-
reau of Investigation for detection, inves-
tigation, and prosecution of crimes against
the United States, $9,467,902,000, of which not
to exceed $216,900,000 shall remain available
until expended: Provided, That not to exceed
$284,000 shall be available for official recep-
tion and representation expenses.
CONSTRUCTION
For necessary expenses, to include the cost
of equipment, furniture, and information
technology requirements, related to con-
struction or acquisition of buildings, facili-
ties, and sites by purchase, or as otherwise
authorized by law; conversion, modification,
and extension of federally owned buildings;
preliminary planning and design of projects;
and operation and maintenance of secure
work environment facilities and secure net-
working capabilities; $485,000,000, to remain
available until expended.
DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Drug En-
forcement Administration, including not to
exceed $70,000 to meet unforeseen emer-
gencies of a confidential character pursuant
to section 530C of title 28, United States
Code; and expenses for conducting drug edu-
cation and training programs, including
travel and related expenses for participants
in such programs and the distribution of
items of token value that promote the goals
of such programs, $2,340,010,000, of which not
to exceed $75,000,000 shall remain available
until expended and not to exceed $90,000 shall
be available for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses.
BUREAU OF ALCOHOL, TOBACCO, FIREARMS AND
EXPLOSIVES
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives,
for training of State and local law enforce-
ment agencies with or without reimburse-
ment, including training in connection with
the training and acquisition of canines for
explosives and fire accelerants detection;
and for provision of laboratory assistance to
State and local law enforcement agencies,
with or without reimbursement,
$1,370,000,000, of which not to exceed $36,000
shall be for official reception and representa-
tion expenses, not to exceed $1,000,000 shall
be available for the payment of attorneys’
fees as provided by section 924(d)(2) of title
18, United States Code, and not to exceed
$20,000,000 shall remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That none of the funds ap-
propriated herein shall be available to inves-
tigate or act upon applications for relief
from Federal firearms disabilities under sec-
tion 925(c) of title 18, United States Code:
Provided further, That such funds shall be
available to investigate and act upon appli-
cations filed by corporations for relief from
Federal firearms disabilities under section
925(c) of title 18, United States Code: Pro-
vided further, That no funds made available
by this or any other Act may be used to
transfer the functions, missions, or activities
of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms
and Explosives to other agencies or Depart-
ments.
FEDERAL PRISON SYSTEM
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Federal Pris-
on System for the administration, operation,
and maintenance of Federal penal and cor-
rectional institutions, and for the provision
of technical assistance and advice on correc-
tions related issues to foreign governments,
$7,470,000,000 of which not less than $75,000,000
shall be for the programs and activities au-
thorized by the First Step Act of 2018 (Public
Law 115–391): Provided, That the Attorney
General may transfer to the Department of
Health and Human Services such amounts as
may be necessary for direct expenditures by
that Department for medical relief for in-
mates of Federal penal and correctional in-
stitutions: Provided further, That the Direc-
tor of the Federal Prison System, where nec-
essary, may enter into contracts with a fis-
cal agent or fiscal intermediary claims proc-
essor to determine the amounts payable to
persons who, on behalf of the Federal Prison
System, furnish health services to individ-
uals committed to the custody of the Federal
Prison System: Provided further, That not to
exceed $5,400 shall be available for official re-
ception and representation expenses: Pro-
vided further, That not to exceed $50,000,000
shall remain available until expended for
necessary operations: Provided further, That,
of the amounts provided for contract con-
finement, not to exceed $20,000,000 shall re-
main available until expended to make pay-
ments in advance for grants, contracts and
reimbursable agreements, and other ex-
penses: Provided further, That the Director of
the Federal Prison System may accept do-
nated property and services relating to the
operation of the prison card program from a
not-for-profit entity which has operated such
program in the past, notwithstanding the
fact that such not-for-profit entity furnishes
services under contracts to the Federal Pris-
on System relating to the operation of pre-
release services, halfway houses, or other
custodial facilities.
BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
For planning, acquisition of sites, and con-
struction of new facilities; purchase and ac-
quisition of facilities and remodeling, and
equipping of such facilities for penal and cor-
rectional use, including all necessary ex-
penses incident thereto, by contract or force
account; and constructing, remodeling, and
equipping necessary buildings and facilities
at existing penal and correctional institu-
tions, including all necessary expenses inci-
dent thereto, by contract or force account,
$290,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, of which $181,000,000 shall be avail-
able only for costs related to construction of
new facilities: Provided, That labor of United
States prisoners may be used for work per-
formed under this appropriation.
FEDERAL PRISON INDUSTRIES, INCORPORATED
The Federal Prison Industries, Incor-
porated, is hereby authorized to make such
expenditures within the limits of funds and
borrowing authority available, and in accord
with the law, and to make such contracts
and commitments without regard to fiscal
year limitations as provided by section 9104
of title 31, United States Code, as may be
necessary in carrying out the program set
forth in the budget for the current fiscal
year for such corporation.
LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES,
FEDERAL PRISON INDUSTRIES, INCORPORATED
Not to exceed $2,700,000 of the funds of the
Federal Prison Industries, Incorporated,
shall be available for its administrative ex-
penses, and for services as authorized by sec-
tion 3109 of title 5, United States Code, to be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5983
October 22, 2019
computed on an accrual basis to be deter-
mined in accordance with the corporation’s
current prescribed accounting system, and
such amounts shall be exclusive of deprecia-
tion, payment of claims, and expenditures
which such accounting system requires to be
capitalized or charged to cost of commod-
ities acquired or produced, including selling
and shipping expenses, and expenses in con-
nection with acquisition, construction, oper-
ation, maintenance, improvement, protec-
tion, or disposition of facilities and other
property belonging to the corporation or in
which it has an interest.
STATE AND LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT
ACTIVITIES
OFFICE ON VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN
VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN PREVENTION AND
PROSECUTION PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For grants, contracts, cooperative agree-
ments, and other assistance for the preven-
tion and prosecution of violence against
women, as authorized by the Omnibus Crime
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34
U.S.C. 10101 et seq.) (‘‘the 1968 Act’’); the Vio-
lent Crime Control and Law Enforcement
Act of 1994 (Public Law 103–322) (‘‘the 1994
Act’’); the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990
(Public Law 101–647) (‘‘the 1990 Act’’); the
Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to
end the Exploitation of Children Today Act
of 2003 (Public Law 108–21); the Juvenile Jus-
tice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974
(34 U.S.C. 11101 et seq.) (‘‘the 1974 Act’’); the
Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protec-
tion Act of 2000 (Public Law 106–386) (‘‘the
2000 Act’’); the Violence Against Women and
Department of Justice Reauthorization Act
of 2005 (Public Law 109–162) (‘‘the 2005 Act’’);
the Violence Against Women Reauthoriza-
tion Act of 2013 (Public Law 113–4) (‘‘the 2013
Act’’); the Rape Survivor Child Custody Act
of 2015 (Public Law 114–22) (‘‘the 2015 Act’’);
and the Abolish Human Trafficking Act
(Public Law 115–392); and for related victims
services, $500,000,000, to remain available
until expended, which shall be derived by
transfer from amounts available for obliga-
tion in this Act from the Fund established
by section 1402 of chapter XIV of title II of
Public Law 98–473 (34 U.S.C. 20101), notwith-
standing section 1402(d) of such Act of 1984,
and merged with the amounts otherwise
made available under this heading: Provided,
That except as otherwise provided by law,
not to exceed 5 percent of funds made avail-
able under this heading may be used for ex-
penses related to evaluation, training, and
technical assistance: Provided further, That
of the amount provided—
(1) $215,000,000 is for grants to combat vio-
lence against women, as authorized by part
T of the 1968 Act;
(2) $36,500,000 is for transitional housing as-
sistance grants for victims of domestic vio-
lence, dating violence, stalking, or sexual as-
sault as authorized by section 40299 of the
1994 Act;
(3) $2,500,000 is for the National Institute of
Justice and the Bureau of Justice Statistics
for research, evaluation, and statistics of vi-
olence against women and related issues ad-
dressed by grant programs of the Office on
Violence Against Women, which shall be
transferred to ‘‘Research, Evaluation and
Statistics’’ for administration by the Office
of Justice Programs;
(4) $11,000,000 is for a grant program to pro-
vide services to advocate for and respond to
youth victims of domestic violence, dating
violence, sexual assault, and stalking; assist-
ance to children and youth exposed to such
violence; programs to engage men and youth
in preventing such violence; and assistance
to middle and high school students through
education and other services related to such
violence: Provided, That unobligated bal-
ances available for the programs authorized
by sections 41201, 41204, 41303, and 41305 of the
1994 Act, prior to its amendment by the 2013
Act, shall be available for this program: Pro-
vided further, That 10 percent of the total
amount available for this grant program
shall be available for grants under the pro-
gram authorized by section 2015 of the 1968
Act: Provided further, That the definitions
and grant conditions in section 40002 of the
1994 Act shall apply to this program;
(5) $53,000,000 is for grants to encourage ar-
rest policies as authorized by part U of the
1968 Act, of which $4,000,000 is for a homicide
reduction initiative;
(6) $37,500,000 is for sexual assault victims
assistance, as authorized by section 41601 of
the 1994 Act;
(7) $43,500,000 is for rural domestic violence
and child abuse enforcement assistance
grants, as authorized by section 40295 of the
1994 Act;
(8) $20,000,000 is for grants to reduce violent
crimes against women on campus, as author-
ized by section 304 of the 2005 Act;
(9) $45,500,000 is for legal assistance for vic-
tims, as authorized by section 1201 of the 2000
Act;
(10) $5,000,000 is for enhanced training and
services to end violence against and abuse of
women in later life, as authorized by section
40802 of the 1994 Act;
(11) $17,000,000 is for grants to support fami-
lies in the justice system, as authorized by
section 1301 of the 2000 Act: Provided, That
unobligated balances available for the pro-
grams authorized by section 1301 of the 2000
Act and section 41002 of the 1994 Act, prior to
their amendment by the 2013 Act, shall be
available for this program;
(12) $6,000,000 is for education and training
to end violence against and abuse of women
with disabilities, as authorized by section
1402 of the 2000 Act;
(13) $1,000,000 is for the National Resource
Center on Workplace Responses to assist vic-
tims of domestic violence, as authorized by
section 41501 of the 1994 Act;
(14) $1,000,000 is for analysis and research
on violence against Indian women, including
as authorized by section 904 of the 2005 Act:
Provided, That such funds may be transferred
to ‘‘Research, Evaluation and Statistics’’ for
administration by the Office of Justice Pro-
grams;
(15) $500,000 is for a national clearinghouse
that provides training and technical assist-
ance on issues relating to sexual assault of
American Indian and Alaska Native women;
(16) $4,000,000 is for grants to assist tribal
governments in exercising special domestic
violence criminal jurisdiction, as authorized
by section 904 of the 2013 Act: Provided, That
the grant conditions in section 40002(b) of the
1994 Act shall apply to this program; and
(17) $1,000,000 is for the purposes authorized
under the 2015 Act.
OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS
RESEARCH, EVALUATION AND STATISTICS
For grants, contracts, cooperative agree-
ments, and other assistance authorized by
title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and
Safe Streets Act of 1968 (‘‘the 1968 Act’’); the
Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Preven-
tion Act of 1974 (‘‘the 1974 Act’’); the Missing
Children’s Assistance Act (34 U.S.C. 11291 et
seq.); the Prosecutorial Remedies and Other
Tools to end the Exploitation of Children
Today Act of 2003 (Public Law 108–21); the
Justice for All Act of 2004 (Public Law 108–
405); the Violence Against Women and De-
partment of Justice Reauthorization Act of
2005 (Public Law 109–162) (‘‘the 2005 Act’’);
the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 (Pub-
lic Law 101–647); the Second Chance Act of
2007 (Public Law 110–199); the Victims of
Crime Act of 1984 (Public Law 98–473); the
Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act
of 2006 (Public Law 109–248) (‘‘the Adam
Walsh Act’’); the PROTECT Our Children
Act of 2008 (Public Law 110–401); subtitle D of
title II of the Homeland Security Act of 2002
(Public Law 107–296) (‘‘the 2002 Act’’); the
NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007
(Public Law 110–180); the Violence Against
Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Public
Law 113–4) (‘‘the 2013 Act’’); and other pro-
grams, $80,000,000, to remain available until
expended, of which—
(1) $43,000,000 is for criminal justice statis-
tics programs, and other activities, as au-
thorized by part C of title I of the 1968 Act;
and
(2) $37,000,000 is for research, development,
and evaluation programs, and other activi-
ties as authorized by part B of title I of the
1968 Act and subtitle D of title II of the 2002
Act, of which $5,000,000 is for research tar-
geted toward developing a better under-
standing of the domestic radicalization phe-
nomenon, and advancing evidence-based
strategies for effective intervention and pre-
vention; $1,000,000 is for research to study the
root causes of school violence to include the
impact and effectiveness of grants made
under the STOP School Violence Act;
$1,000,000 is for a national study to under-
stand the responses of law enforcement to
sex trafficking of minors; $2,000,000 is for a
national center on forensics; and $3,000,000 is
for a national center for restorative justice.
STATE AND LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT
ASSISTANCE
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For grants, contracts, cooperative agree-
ments, and other assistance authorized by
the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforce-
ment Act of 1994 (Public Law 103–322) (‘‘the
1994 Act’’); the Omnibus Crime Control and
Safe Streets Act of 1968 (‘‘the 1968 Act’’); the
Justice for All Act of 2004 (Public Law 108–
405); the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990
(Public Law 101–647) (‘‘the 1990 Act’’); the
Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthoriza-
tion Act of 2005 (Public Law 109–164); the Vio-
lence Against Women and Department of
Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public
Law 109–162) (‘‘the 2005 Act’’); the Adam
Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of
2006 (Public Law 109–248) (‘‘the Adam Walsh
Act’’); the Victims of Trafficking and Vio-
lence Protection Act of 2000 (Public Law 106–
386); the NICS Improvement Amendments
Act of 2007 (Public Law 110–180); subtitle D of
title II of the Homeland Security Act of 2002
(Public Law 107–296) (‘‘the 2002 Act’’); the
Second Chance Act of 2007 (Public Law 110–
199); the Prioritizing Resources and Organi-
zation for Intellectual Property Act of 2008
(Public Law 110–403); the Victims of Crime
Act of 1984 (Public Law 98–473); the Mentally
Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction
Reauthorization and Improvement Act of
2008 (Public Law 110–416); the Violence
Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013
(Public Law 113–4) (‘‘the 2013 Act’’); the Com-
prehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of
2016 (Public Law 114–198) (‘‘CARA’’); the Jus-
tice for All Reauthorization Act of 2016 (Pub-
lic Law 114–324); Kevin and Avonte’s Law (di-
vision Q of Public Law 115–141) (‘‘Kevin and
Avonte’s Law’’); the Keep Young Athletes
Safe Act of 2018 (title III of division S of Pub-
lic Law 115–141) (‘‘the Keep Young Athletes
Safe Act’’); the STOP School Violence Act of
2018 (title V of division S of Public Law 115–
141) (‘‘the STOP School Violence Act’’); the
Fix NICS Act of 2018 (title VI of division S of
Public Law 115–141); the Project Safe Neigh-
borhoods Grant Program Authorization Act
of 2018 (Public Law 115–185); the SUPPORT
for Patients and Communities Act (Public
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5984 October 22, 2019
Law 115–271); and the Second Chance Reau-
thorization Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–391);
and other programs, $1,789,790,000, to remain
available until expended as follows—
(1) $545,000,000 for the Edward Byrne Memo-
rial Justice Assistance Grant program as au-
thorized by subpart 1 of part E of title I of
the 1968 Act (except that section 1001(c), and
the special rules for Puerto Rico under sec-
tion 505(g) of title I of the 1968 Act shall not
apply for purposes of this Act), of which, not-
withstanding such subpart 1, $12,000,000 is for
the Officer Robert Wilson III Memorial Ini-
tiative on Preventing Violence Against Law
Enforcement Officer Resilience and Surviv-
ability (VALOR), $7,500,000 is for an initia-
tive to support evidence-based policing,
$8,000,000 is for an initiative to enhance pros-
ecutorial decision-making, $2,400,000 is for
the operationalization, maintenance and ex-
pansion of the National Missing and Uniden-
tified Persons System, $2,500,000 is for an
academic based training initiative to im-
prove police-based responses to people with
mental illness or developmental disabilities,
$2,000,000 is for a student loan repayment as-
sistance program pursuant to section 952 of
Public Law 110–315, $15,500,000 is for prison
rape prevention and prosecution grants to
States and units of local government, and
other programs, as authorized by the Prison
Rape Elimination Act of 2003 (Public Law
108–79), $2,000,000 is for a grant program au-
thorized by Kevin and Avonte’s Law,
$3,000,000 is for a regional law enforcement
technology initiative, $20,000,000 is for pro-
grams to reduce gun crime and gang vio-
lence, as authorized by Public Law 115–185,
$2,000,000 is for a grant to provide a drug field
testing and training initiative, $5,500,000 is
for the Capital Litigation Improvement
Grant Program, as authorized by section 426
of Public Law 108–405, and for grants for
wrongful conviction review, $1,000,000 is for a
collaborative mental health and anti-recidi-
vism initiative, $100,000,000 is for grants for
law enforcement activities associated with
the presidential nominating conventions,
$2,000,000 is for a program to improve juve-
nile indigent defense, and $8,000,000 is for
community-based violence prevention initia-
tives;
(2) $150,000,000 for the State Criminal Alien
Assistance Program, as authorized by sec-
tion 241(i)(5) of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1231(i)(5)): Provided, That
no jurisdiction shall request compensation
for any cost greater than the actual cost for
Federal immigration and other detainees
housed in State and local detention facili-
ties;
(3) $85,000,000 for victim services programs
for victims of trafficking, as authorized by
section 107(b)(2) of Public Law 106–386, for
programs authorized under Public Law 109–
164, or programs authorized under Public
Law 113–4;
(4) $14,000,000 for economic, high tech-
nology, white collar, and Internet crime pre-
vention grants, including as authorized by
section 401 of Public Law 110–403, of which
$2,500,000 is for competitive grants that help
State and local law enforcement tackle in-
tellectual property thefts, and $2,000,000 for a
competitive grant program for training stu-
dents in computer forensics and digital in-
vestigation;
(5) $20,000,000 for sex offender management
assistance, as authorized by the Adam Walsh
Act, and related activities;
(6) $27,500,000 for the Patrick Leahy Bullet-
proof Vest Partnership Grant Program, as
authorized by section 2501 of title I of the
1968 Act: Provided, That $1,500,000 is trans-
ferred directly to the National Institute of
Standards and Technology’s Office of Law
Enforcement Standards for research, testing
and evaluation programs;
(7) $1,000,000 for the National Sex Offender
Public Website;
(8) $78,290,000 for grants to States to up-
grade criminal and mental health records for
the National Instant Criminal Background
Check System, of which no less than
$25,000,000 shall be for grants made under the
authorities of the NICS Improvement
Amendments Act of 2007 (Public Law 110–180)
and Fix NICS Act of 2018;
(9) $30,000,000 for Paul Coverdell Forensic
Sciences Improvement Grants under part BB
of title I of the 1968 Act;
(10) $136,000,000 for DNA-related and foren-
sic programs and activities, of which—
(A) $125,000,000 is for a DNA analysis and
capacity enhancement program and for other
local, State, and Federal forensic activities,
including the purposes authorized under sec-
tion 2 of the DNA Analysis Backlog Elimi-
nation Act of 2000 (Public Law 106–546) (the
Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program):
Provided, That up to 4 percent of funds made
available under this paragraph may be used
for the purposes described in the DNA Train-
ing and Education for Law Enforcement,
Correctional Personnel, and Court Officers
program (Public Law 108–405, section 303);
(B) $7,000,000 is for the purposes described
in the Kirk Bloodsworth Post-Conviction
DNA Testing Grant Program (Public Law
108–405, section 412); and
(C) $4,000,000 is for Sexual Assault Forensic
Exam Program grants, including as author-
ized by section 304 of Public Law 108–405;
(11) $48,000,000 for a grant program for com-
munity-based sexual assault response re-
form;
(12) $12,000,000 for the court-appointed spe-
cial advocate program, as authorized by sec-
tion 217 of the 1990 Act;
(13) $38,000,000 for assistance to Indian
tribes;
(14) $90,000,000 for offender reentry pro-
grams and research, as authorized by the
Second Chance Act of 2007 (Public Law 110–
199) and by the Second Chance Reauthoriza-
tion Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–391), without
regard to the time limitations specified at
section 6(1) of such Act, of which not to ex-
ceed $6,000,000 is for a program to improve
State, local, and tribal probation or parole
supervision efforts and strategies, $5,000,000
is for Children of Incarcerated Parents Dem-
onstrations to enhance and maintain paren-
tal and family relationships for incarcerated
parents as a reentry or recidivism reduction
strategy, and $4,500,000 is for additional rep-
lication sites employing the Project HOPE
Opportunity Probation with Enforcement
model implementing swift and certain sanc-
tions in probation, and for a research project
on the effectiveness of the model: Provided,
That up to $7,500,000 of funds made available
in this paragraph may be used for perform-
ance-based awards for Pay for Success
projects, of which up to $5,000,000 shall be for
Pay for Success programs implementing the
Permanent Supportive Housing Model;
(15) $67,500,000 for initiatives to improve
police-community relations, of which
$22,500,000 is for a competitive matching
grant program for purchases of body-worn
cameras for State, local and Tribal law en-
forcement, $28,000,000 is for a justice rein-
vestment initiative, for activities related to
criminal justice reform and recidivism re-
duction, and $17,000,000 is for an Edward
Byrne Memorial criminal justice innovation
program;
(16) $378,000,000 for comprehensive opioid
abuse reduction activities, including as au-
thorized by CARA, and for the following pro-
grams, which shall address opioid, stimulant,
and substance abuse reduction consistent
with underlying program authorities—
(A) $80,000,000 for Drug Courts, as author-
ized by section 1001(a)(25)(A) of title I of the
1968 Act;
(B) $33,000,000 for mental health courts and
adult and juvenile collaboration program
grants, as authorized by parts V and HH of
title I of the 1968 Act, and the Mentally Ill
Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction
Reauthorization and Improvement Act of
2008 (Public Law 110–416);
(C) $31,000,000 for grants for Residential
Substance Abuse Treatment for State Pris-
oners, as authorized by part S of title I of the
1968 Act;
(D) $23,000,000 for a veterans treatment
courts program;
(E) $31,000,000 for a program to monitor
prescription drugs and scheduled listed
chemical products; and
(F) $180,000,000 for a comprehensive opioid,
stimulant, and substance abuse program;
(17) $2,500,000 for a competitive grant pro-
gram authorized by the Keep Young Athletes
Safe Act; and
(18) $67,000,000 for grants to be adminis-
tered by the Bureau of Justice Assistance for
purposes authorized under the STOP School
Violence Act:
Provided, That, if a unit of local government
uses any of the funds made available under
this heading to increase the number of law
enforcement officers, the unit of local gov-
ernment will achieve a net gain in the num-
ber of law enforcement officers who perform
non-administrative public sector safety serv-
ice.
JUVENILE JUSTICE PROGRAMS
For grants, contracts, cooperative agree-
ments, and other assistance authorized by
the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Pre-
vention Act of 1974 (‘‘the 1974 Act’’); the Om-
nibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of
1968 (‘‘the 1968 Act’’); the Violence Against
Women and Department of Justice Reauthor-
ization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109–162) (‘‘the
2005 Act’’); the Missing Children’s Assistance
Act (34 U.S.C. 11291 et seq.); the Prosecu-
torial Remedies and Other Tools to end the
Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003
(Public Law 108–21); the Victims of Child
Abuse Act of 1990 (Public Law 101–647) (‘‘the
1990 Act’’); the Adam Walsh Child Protection
and Safety Act of 2006 (Public Law 109–248)
(‘‘the Adam Walsh Act’’); the PROTECT Our
Children Act of 2008 (Public Law 110–401); the
Violence Against Women Reauthorization
Act of 2013 (Public Law 113–4) (‘‘the 2013
Act’’); the Justice for All Reauthorization
Act of 2016 (Public Law 114–324); the Juvenile
Justice Reform Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–
385); and other juvenile justice programs,
$315,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended as follows—
(1) $63,000,000 for programs authorized by
section 221 of the 1974 Act, and for training
and technical assistance to assist small, non-
profit organizations with the Federal grants
process: Provided, That of the amounts pro-
vided under this paragraph, $500,000 shall be
for a competitive demonstration grant pro-
gram to support emergency planning among
State, local and tribal juvenile justice resi-
dential facilities;
(2) $97,000,000 for youth mentoring grants;
(3) $40,000,000 for delinquency prevention,
as authorized by section 505 of the 1974 Act,
of which, pursuant to sections 261 and 262
thereof—
(A) $5,000,000 shall be for the Tribal Youth
Program;
(B) $500,000 shall be for an Internet site
providing information and resources on chil-
dren of incarcerated parents;
(C) $2,000,000 shall be for competitive
grants focusing on girls in the juvenile jus-
tice system;
(D) $10,000,000 shall be for an opioid-af-
fected youth initiative; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5985
October 22, 2019
(E) $8,000,000 shall be for an initiative re-
lating to children exposed to violence;
(4) $27,000,000 for programs authorized by
the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990;
(5) $85,000,000 for missing and exploited
children programs, including as authorized
by sections 404(b) and 405(a) of the 1974 Act
(except that section 102(b)(4)(B) of the PRO-
TECT Our Children Act of 2008 (Public Law
110–401) shall not apply for purposes of this
Act); and
(6) $3,000,000 for child abuse training pro-
grams for judicial personnel and practi-
tioners, as authorized by section 222 of the
1990 Act:
Provided, That not more than 10 percent of
each amount may be used for research, eval-
uation, and statistics activities designed to
benefit the programs or activities author-
ized: Provided further, That not more than 2
percent of the amounts designated under
paragraphs (1) through (3) and (6) may be
used for training and technical assistance:
Provided further, That the two preceding pro-
visos shall not apply to grants and projects
administered pursuant to sections 261 and 262
of the 1974 Act and to missing and exploited
children programs.
PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICER BENEFITS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For payments and expenses authorized
under section 1001(a)(4) of title I of the Omni-
bus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of
1968, such sums as are necessary (including
amounts for administrative costs), to remain
available until expended; and $24,800,000 for
payments authorized by section 1201(b) of
such Act and for educational assistance au-
thorized by section 1218 of such Act, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That notwithstanding section 205 of this Act,
upon a determination by the Attorney Gen-
eral that emergent circumstances require
additional funding for such disability and
education payments, the Attorney General
may transfer such amounts to ‘‘Public Safe-
ty Officer Benefits’’ from available appro-
priations for the Department of Justice as
may be necessary to respond to such cir-
cumstances: Provided further, That any
transfer pursuant to the preceding proviso
shall be treated as a reprogramming under
section 505 of this Act and shall not be avail-
able for obligation or expenditure except in
compliance with the procedures set forth in
that section.
COMMUNITY ORIENTED POLICING SERVICES
COMMUNITY ORIENTED POLICING SERVICES
PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For activities authorized by the Violent
Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of
1994 (Public Law 103–322); the Omnibus Crime
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (‘‘the
1968 Act’’); the Violence Against Women and
Department of Justice Reauthorization Act
of 2005 (Public Law 109–162) (‘‘the 2005 Act’’);
the American Law Enforcement Heroes Act
of 2017 (Public Law 115–37); and the SUP-
PORT for Patients and Communities Act
(Public Law 115–271), $335,000,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That any
balances made available through prior year
deobligations shall only be available in ac-
cordance with section 505 of this Act: Pro-
vided further, That of the amount provided
under this heading—
(1) $245,000,000 is for grants under section
1701 of title I of the 1968 Act (34 U.S.C. 10381)
for the hiring and rehiring of additional ca-
reer law enforcement officers under part Q of
such title notwithstanding subsection (i) of
such section: Provided, That, notwith-
standing section 1704(c) of such title (34
U.S.C. 10384(c)), funding for hiring or rehir-
ing a career law enforcement officer may not
exceed $125,000 unless the Director of the Of-
fice of Community Oriented Policing Serv-
ices grants a waiver from this limitation:
Provided further, That within the amounts
appropriated under this paragraph,
$27,000,000 is for improving tribal law en-
forcement, including hiring, equipment,
training, anti-methamphetamine activities,
and anti-opioid activities: Provided further,
That of the amounts appropriated under this
paragraph, $6,500,000 is for community polic-
ing development activities in furtherance of
the purposes in section 1701: Provided further,
That of the amounts appropriated under this
paragraph $38,000,000 is for regional informa-
tion sharing activities, as authorized by part
M of title I of the 1968 Act, which shall be
transferred to and merged with ‘‘Research,
Evaluation, and Statistics’’ for administra-
tion by the Office of Justice Programs: Pro-
vided further, That within the amounts ap-
propriated under this paragraph, no less than
$3,000,000 is to support the Tribal Access Pro-
gram: Provided further, That within the
amounts appropriated under this paragraph,
$5,000,000 is for training, peer mentoring, and
mental health program activities as author-
ized under the Law Enforcement Mental
Health and Wellness Act (Public Law 115–
113);
(2) $10,000,000 is for activities authorized by
the POLICE Act of 2016 (Public Law 114–199);
(3) $12,000,000 is for competitive grants to
State law enforcement agencies in States
with high seizures of precursor chemicals,
finished methamphetamine, laboratories,
and laboratory dump seizures: Provided, That
funds appropriated under this paragraph
shall be utilized for investigative purposes to
locate or investigate illicit activities, in-
cluding precursor diversion, laboratories, or
methamphetamine traffickers;
(4) $35,000,000 is for competitive grants to
statewide law enforcement agencies in
States with high rates of primary treatment
admissions for heroin and other opioids: Pro-
vided, That these funds shall be utilized for
investigative purposes to locate or inves-
tigate illicit activities, including activities
related to the distribution of heroin or un-
lawful distribution of prescription opioids, or
unlawful heroin and prescription opioid traf-
fickers through statewide collaboration; and
(5) $33,000,000 is for competitive grants to
be administered by the Community Oriented
Policing Services Office for purposes author-
ized under the STOP School Violence Act
(title V of division S of Public Law 115–141).
GENERAL PROVISIONS—DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
SEC. 201. In addition to amounts otherwise
made available in this title for official recep-
tion and representation expenses, a total of
not to exceed $50,000 from funds appropriated
to the Department of Justice in this title
shall be available to the Attorney General
for official reception and representation ex-
penses.
SEC. 202. None of the funds appropriated by
this title shall be available to pay for an
abortion, except where the life of the mother
would be endangered if the fetus were carried
to term, or in the case of rape or incest: Pro-
vided, That should this prohibition be de-
clared unconstitutional by a court of com-
petent jurisdiction, this section shall be null
and void.
SEC. 203. None of the funds appropriated
under this title shall be used to require any
person to perform, or facilitate in any way
the performance of, any abortion.
SEC. 204. Nothing in the preceding section
shall remove the obligation of the Director
of the Bureau of Prisons to provide escort
services necessary for a female inmate to re-
ceive such service outside the Federal facil-
ity: Provided, That nothing in this section in
any way diminishes the effect of section 203
intended to address the philosophical beliefs
of individual employees of the Bureau of
Prisons.
SEC. 205. Not to exceed 5 percent of any ap-
propriation made available for the current
fiscal year for the Department of Justice in
this Act may be transferred between such ap-
propriations, but no such appropriation, ex-
cept as otherwise specifically provided, shall
be increased by more than 10 percent by any
such transfers: Provided, That any transfer
pursuant to this section shall be treated as a
reprogramming of funds under section 505 of
this Act and shall not be available for obliga-
tion except in compliance with the proce-
dures set forth in that section.
SEC. 206. None of the funds made available
under this title may be used by the Federal
Bureau of Prisons or the United States Mar-
shals Service for the purpose of transporting
an individual who is a prisoner pursuant to
conviction for crime under State or Federal
law and is classified as a maximum or high
security prisoner, other than to a prison or
other facility certified by the Federal Bu-
reau of Prisons as appropriately secure for
housing such a prisoner.
SEC. 207. (a) None of the funds appropriated
by this Act may be used by Federal prisons
to purchase cable television services, or to
rent or purchase audiovisual or electronic
media or equipment used primarily for rec-
reational purposes.
(b) Subsection (a) does not preclude the
rental, maintenance, or purchase of audio-
visual or electronic media or equipment for
inmate training, religious, or educational
programs.
SEC. 208. None of the funds made available
under this title shall be obligated or ex-
pended for any new or enhanced information
technology program having total estimated
development costs in excess of $100,000,000,
unless the Deputy Attorney General and the
investment review board certify to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Senate that the in-
formation technology program has appro-
priate program management controls and
contractor oversight mechanisms in place,
and that the program is compatible with the
enterprise architecture of the Department of
Justice.
SEC. 209. The notification thresholds and
procedures set forth in section 505 of this Act
shall apply to deviations from the amounts
designated for specific activities in this Act
and in the report accompanying this Act,
and to any use of deobligated balances of
funds provided under this title in previous
years.
SEC. 210. None of the funds appropriated by
this Act may be used to plan for, begin, con-
tinue, finish, process, or approve a public-
private competition under the Office of Man-
agement and Budget Circular A–76 or any
successor administrative regulation, direc-
tive, or policy for work performed by em-
ployees of the Bureau of Prisons or of Fed-
eral Prison Industries, Incorporated.
SEC. 211. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, no funds shall be available for
the salary, benefits, or expenses of any
United States Attorney assigned dual or ad-
ditional responsibilities by the Attorney
General or his designee that exempt that
United States Attorney from the residency
requirements of section 545 of title 28, United
States Code.
SEC. 212. At the discretion of the Attorney
General, and in addition to any amounts
that otherwise may be available (or author-
ized to be made available) by law, with re-
spect to funds appropriated by this title
under the headings ‘‘Research, Evaluation
and Statistics’’, ‘‘State and Local Law En-
forcement Assistance’’, and ‘‘Juvenile Jus-
tice Programs’’—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5986 October 22, 2019
(1) up to 2 percent of funds made available
to the Office of Justice Programs for grant
or reimbursement programs may be used by
such Office to provide training and technical
assistance; and
(2) up to 2 percent of funds made available
for grant or reimbursement programs under
such headings, except for amounts appro-
priated specifically for research, evaluation,
or statistical programs administered by the
National Institute of Justice and the Bureau
of Justice Statistics, shall be transferred to
and merged with funds provided to the Na-
tional Institute of Justice and the Bureau of
Justice Statistics, to be used by them for re-
search, evaluation, or statistical purposes,
without regard to the authorizations for
such grant or reimbursement programs.
SEC. 213. Upon request by a grantee for
whom the Attorney General has determined
there is a fiscal hardship, the Attorney Gen-
eral may, with respect to funds appropriated
in this or any other Act making appropria-
tions for fiscal years 2017 through 2020 for the
following programs, waive the following re-
quirements:
(1) For the adult and juvenile offender
State and local reentry demonstration
projects under part FF of title I of the Omni-
bus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of
1968 (34 U.S.C. 10631 et seq.), the require-
ments under section 2976(g)(1) of such part
(34 U.S.C. 10631(g)(1)).
(2) For grants to protect inmates and safe-
guard communities as authorized by section
6 of the Prison Rape Elimination Act of 2003
(34 U.S.C. 30305(c)(3)), the requirements of
section 6(c)(3) of such Act.
SEC. 214. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, section 20109(a) of subtitle A of
title II of the Violent Crime Control and Law
Enforcement Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12109(a))
shall not apply to amounts made available
by this or any other Act.
SEC. 215. None of the funds made available
under this Act, other than for the national
instant criminal background check system
established under section 103 of the Brady
Handgun Violence Prevention Act (34 U.S.C.
40901), may be used by a Federal law enforce-
ment officer to facilitate the transfer of an
operable firearm to an individual if the Fed-
eral law enforcement officer knows or sus-
pects that the individual is an agent of a
drug cartel, unless law enforcement per-
sonnel of the United States continuously
monitor or control the firearm at all times.
SEC. 216. (a) None of the income retained in
the Department of Justice Working Capital
Fund pursuant to title I of Public Law 102–
140 (105 Stat. 784; 28 U.S.C. 527 note) shall be
available for obligation during fiscal year
2020, except up to $12,000,000 may be obli-
gated for implementation of a unified De-
partment of Justice financial management
system.
(b) Not to exceed $30,000,000 of the unobli-
gated balances transferred to the capital ac-
count of the Department of Justice Working
Capital Fund pursuant to title I of Public
Law 102–140 (105 Stat. 784; 28 U.S.C. 527 note)
shall be available for obligation in fiscal
year 2020, and any use, obligation, transfer or
allocation of such funds shall be treated as a
reprogramming of funds under section 505 of
this Act.
(c) Not to exceed $10,000,000 of the excess
unobligated balances available under section
524(c)(8)(E) of title 28, United States Code,
shall be available for obligation during fiscal
year 2020, and any use, obligation, transfer or
allocation of such funds shall be treated as a
reprogramming of funds under section 505 of
this Act.
SEC. 217. Discretionary funds that are made
available in this Act for the Office of Justice
Programs may be used to participate in Per-
formance Partnership Pilots authorized
under section 526 of division H of Public Law
113–76, section 524 of division G of Public Law
113–235, section 525 of division H of Public
Law 114–113, and such authorities as are en-
acted for Performance Partnership Pilots in
an appropriations Act for fiscal years 2019
and 2020.
SEC. 218. In this fiscal year and each fiscal
year thereafter, amounts credited to and
made available in the Department of Justice
Working Capital Fund as an offsetting col-
lection pursuant to section 108 of Public Law
103–121, 107 Stat. 1164 (1994) shall be so cred-
ited and available only to the extent and in
such amounts as provided in advance in ap-
propriations Acts: Provided, That notwith-
standing 31 U.S.C. 3302 or any other statute
affecting the crediting of collections, the At-
torney General may credit, as a discre-
tionary offsetting collection, to the Depart-
ment of Justice Working Capital Fund, for
fiscal year 2020, up to three percent of all
amounts collected pursuant to civil debt col-
lection litigation activities of the Depart-
ment of Justice and, such amounts so cred-
ited in fiscal year 2020 shall remain available
until expended, shall be subject to the terms
and conditions of that fund, and shall be
used only for paying the costs of processing
and tracking such litigation: Provided fur-
ther, That any such amounts from the fund
that the Attorney General determines are
necessary to pay for the costs of processing
and tracking civil debt collection litigation
activities in fiscal year 2020 shall be trans-
ferred to other appropriations accounts in
the Department of Justice for paying the
costs of such activities, and shall be in addi-
tion to any amounts otherwise made avail-
able for such purpose in those appropriations
accounts: Provided further, That such trans-
fer authority is in addition to any other
transfer authority provided by law: Provided
further, That any transfer of funds pursuant
to this section shall be treated as a re-
programming of funds under section 505 of
this Act and shall not be available for obliga-
tion except in compliance with the proce-
dures set forth in that section.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Department
of Justice Appropriations Act, 2020’’.
TITLE III
SCIENCE
OFFICE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY POLICY
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Science and Technology Policy, in carrying
out the purposes of the National Science and
Technology Policy, Organization, and Prior-
ities Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 6601 et seq.), hire
of passenger motor vehicles, and services as
authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United
States Code, not to exceed $2,250 for official
reception and representation expenses, and
rental of conference rooms in the District of
Columbia, $5,544,000.
NATIONAL SPACE COUNCIL
For necessary expenses of the National
Space Council, in carrying out the purposes
of Title V of Public Law 100–685 and Execu-
tive Order 13803, hire of passenger motor ve-
hicles, and services as authorized by section
3109 of title 5, United States Code, not to ex-
ceed $2,250 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses, $1,965,000: Provided,
That notwithstanding any other provision of
law, the National Space Council may accept
personnel support from Federal agencies, de-
partments, and offices, and such Federal
agencies, departments, and offices may de-
tail staff without reimbursement to the Na-
tional Space Council for purposes provided
herein.
NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE
ADMINISTRATION
SCIENCE
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, in the conduct and support of
science research and development activities,
including research, development, operations,
support, and services; maintenance and re-
pair, facility planning and design; space
flight, spacecraft control, and communica-
tions activities; program management; per-
sonnel and related costs, including uniforms
or allowances therefor, as authorized by sec-
tions 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States
Code; travel expenses; purchase and hire of
passenger motor vehicles; and purchase,
lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of
mission and administrative aircraft,
$6,905,700,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021: Provided, That, $1,945,000,000
shall be for Earth Science; $2,631,100,000 shall
be for Planetary Science; $1,171,600,000 shall
be for Astrophysics; $423,000,000 shall be for
the James Webb Space Telescope; and
$735,000,000 shall be for Heliophysics: Provided
further, That the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration shall use the Space
Launch System as the launch vehicle for the
Jupiter Europa Clipper mission.
AERONAUTICS
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, in the conduct and support of aero-
nautics research and development activities,
including research, development, operations,
support, and services; maintenance and re-
pair, facility planning and design; space
flight, spacecraft control, and communica-
tions activities; program management; per-
sonnel and related costs, including uniforms
or allowances therefor, as authorized by sec-
tions 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States
Code; travel expenses; purchase and hire of
passenger motor vehicles; and purchase,
lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of
mission and administrative aircraft,
$783,900,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021.
SPACE TECHNOLOGY
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, in the conduct and support of
space technology research and development
activities, including research, development,
operations, support, and services; mainte-
nance and repair, facility planning and de-
sign; space flight, spacecraft control, and
communications activities; program man-
agement; personnel and related costs, includ-
ing uniforms or allowances therefor, as au-
thorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5,
United States Code; travel expenses; pur-
chase and hire of passenger motor vehicles;
and purchase, lease, charter, maintenance,
and operation of mission and administrative
aircraft, $1,076,400,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2021: Provided, That
$180,000,000 shall be for RESTORE–L: Pro-
vided further, That $100,000,000 shall be for the
development and demonstration of a nuclear
thermal propulsion system, of which
$70,000,000 shall be for the design of a flight
demonstration system.
EXPLORATION
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, in the conduct and support of ex-
ploration research and development activi-
ties, including research, development, oper-
ations, support, and services; maintenance
and repair, facility planning and design;
space flight, spacecraft control, and commu-
nications activities; program management;
personnel and related costs, including uni-
forms or allowances therefor, as authorized
by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United
States Code; travel expenses; purchase and
hire of passenger motor vehicles; and pur-
chase, lease, charter, maintenance, and oper-
ation of mission and administrative aircraft,
$6,222,600,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021: Provided, That not less than
$1,406,700,000 shall be for the Orion Multi-
Purpose Crew Vehicle: Provided further, That
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5987
October 22, 2019
not less than $2,585,900,000 shall be for the
Space Launch System (SLS) launch vehicle,
which shall have a lift capability not less
than 130 metric tons and which shall have
core elements and an Exploration Upper
Stage developed simultaneously: Provided
further, That of the amounts provided for
SLS, not less than $300,000,000 shall be for
Exploration Upper Stage development: Pro-
vided further, That $590,000,000 shall be for
Exploration Ground Systems: Provided fur-
ther, That the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration shall provide to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate, concur-
rent with the annual budget submission, a 5-
year budget profile for an integrated system
that includes the SLS, the Orion Multi-Pur-
pose Crew Vehicle, and associated ground
systems that will ensure an Exploration Mis-
sion-2 crewed launch as early as possible, as
well as a system-based funding profile for a
sustained launch cadence beyond the initial
crewed test launch: Provided further, That
$1,640,000,000 shall be for exploration research
and development.
SPACE OPERATIONS
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, in the conduct and support of
space operations research and development
activities, including research, development,
operations, support and services; space
flight, spacecraft control and communica-
tions activities, including operations, pro-
duction, and services; maintenance and re-
pair, facility planning and design; program
management; personnel and related costs, in-
cluding uniforms or allowances therefor, as
authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5,
United States Code; travel expenses; pur-
chase and hire of passenger motor vehicles;
and purchase, lease, charter, maintenance
and operation of mission and administrative
aircraft, $4,150,200,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2021.
SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, ENGINEERING, AND
MATHEMATICS ENGAGEMENT
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, in the conduct and support of aero-
space and aeronautical education research
and development activities, including re-
search, development, operations, support,
and services; program management; per-
sonnel and related costs, including uniforms
or allowances therefor, as authorized by sec-
tions 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States
Code; travel expenses; purchase and hire of
passenger motor vehicles; and purchase,
lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of
mission and administrative aircraft,
$112,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021, of which $22,000,000 shall be
for the Established Program to Stimulate
Competitive Research and $47,000,000 shall be
for the National Space Grant College and
Fellowship Program.
SAFETY, SECURITY AND MISSION SERVICES
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, in the conduct and support of
science, aeronautics, space technology, ex-
ploration, space operations and education re-
search and development activities, including
research, development, operations, support,
and services; maintenance and repair, facil-
ity planning and design; space flight, space-
craft control, and communications activi-
ties; program management; personnel and re-
lated costs, including uniforms or allowances
therefor, as authorized by sections 5901 and
5902 of title 5, United States Code; travel ex-
penses; purchase and hire of passenger motor
vehicles; not to exceed $63,000 for official re-
ception and representation expenses; and
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and
operation of mission and administrative air-
craft, $2,934,800,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2021.
CONSTRUCTION AND ENVIRONMENTAL
COMPLIANCE AND RESTORATION
For necessary expenses for construction of
facilities including repair, rehabilitation, re-
vitalization, and modification of facilities,
construction of new facilities and additions
to existing facilities, facility planning and
design, and restoration, and acquisition or
condemnation of real property, as authorized
by law, and environmental compliance and
restoration, $524,400,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2025: Provided, That pro-
ceeds from leases deposited into this account
shall be available for a period of 5 years to
the extent and in amounts as provided in an-
nual appropriations Acts: Provided further,
That such proceeds referred to in the pre-
ceding proviso shall be available for obliga-
tion for fiscal year 2020 in an amount not to
exceed $14,900,000: Provided further, That each
annual budget request shall include an an-
nual estimate of gross receipts and collec-
tions and proposed use of all funds collected
pursuant to section 20145 of title 51, United
States Code.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the Inspec-
tor General Act of 1978, $40,000,000, of which
$500,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
Funds for any announced prize otherwise
authorized shall remain available, without
fiscal year limitation, until a prize is
claimed or the offer is withdrawn.
Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropria-
tion made available for the current fiscal
year for the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration in this Act may be trans-
ferred between such appropriations, but no
such appropriation, except as otherwise spe-
cifically provided, shall be increased by more
than 10 percent by any such transfers. Bal-
ances so transferred shall be merged with
and available for the same purposes and the
same time period as the appropriations to
which transferred. Any transfer pursuant to
this provision shall be treated as a re-
programming of funds under section 505 of
this Act and shall not be available for obliga-
tion except in compliance with the proce-
dures set forth in that section.
The spending plan required by this Act
shall be provided by NASA at the theme,
program, project and activity level. The
spending plan, as well as any subsequent
change of an amount established in that
spending plan that meets the notification re-
quirements of section 505 of this Act, shall be
treated as a reprogramming under section
505 of this Act and shall not be available for
obligation or expenditure except in compli-
ance with the procedures set forth in that
section.
Not more than 50 percent of the amounts
made available in this Act for the Gateway;
Advanced Cislunar and Surface Capabilities;
Commercial LEO Development; and Lunar
Discovery and Exploration, excluding the
Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter, may be obli-
gated until the Administrator submits a
multi-year plan to the Committees on Ap-
propriations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate that identifies estimated
dates, by fiscal year, for Space Launch Sys-
tem flights to build the Gateway; the com-
mencement of partnerships with commercial
entities for additional LEO missions to land
humans and rovers on the Moon; and con-
ducting additional scientific activities on
the Moon. The multi-year plan shall include
key milestones to be met by fiscal year to
achieve goals for each of the lunar programs
described in the previous sentence and fund-
ing required by fiscal year to achieve such
milestones.
NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION
RESEARCH AND RELATED ACTIVITIES
For necessary expenses in carrying out the
National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42
U.S.C. 1861 et seq.), and Public Law 86–209 (42
U.S.C. 1880 et seq.); services as authorized by
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code;
maintenance and operation of aircraft and
purchase of flight services for research sup-
port; acquisition of aircraft; and authorized
travel; $6,769,670,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2021, of which not to ex-
ceed $500,000,000 shall remain available until
expended for polar research and operations
support, and for reimbursement to other
Federal agencies for operational and science
support and logistical and other related ac-
tivities for the United States Antarctic pro-
gram: Provided, That receipts for scientific
support services and materials furnished by
the National Research Centers and other Na-
tional Science Foundation supported re-
search facilities may be credited to this ap-
propriation.
MAJOR RESEARCH EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES
CONSTRUCTION
For necessary expenses for the acquisition,
construction, commissioning, and upgrading
of major research equipment, facilities, and
other such capital assets pursuant to the Na-
tional Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42
U.S.C. 1861 et seq.), including authorized
travel, $253,230,000, to remain available until
expended.
EDUCATION AND HUMAN RESOURCES
For necessary expenses in carrying out
science, mathematics and engineering edu-
cation and human resources programs and
activities pursuant to the National Science
Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861 et
seq.), including services as authorized by sec-
tion 3109 of title 5, United States Code, au-
thorized travel, and rental of conference
rooms in the District of Columbia,
$937,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021.
AGENCY OPERATIONS AND AWARD MANAGEMENT
For agency operations and award manage-
ment necessary in carrying out the National
Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C.
1861 et seq.); services authorized by section
3109 of title 5, United States Code; hire of
passenger motor vehicles; uniforms or allow-
ances therefor, as authorized by sections 5901
and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; rental
of conference rooms in the District of Co-
lumbia; and reimbursement of the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security for security
guard services; $336,900,000: Provided, That
not to exceed $8,280 is for official reception
and representation expenses: Provided fur-
ther, That contracts may be entered into
under this heading in fiscal year 2020 for
maintenance and operation of facilities and
for other services to be provided during the
next fiscal year.
OFFICE OF THE NATIONAL SCIENCE BOARD
For necessary expenses (including payment
of salaries, authorized travel, hire of pas-
senger motor vehicles, the rental of con-
ference rooms in the District of Columbia,
and the employment of experts and consult-
ants under section 3109 of title 5, United
States Code) involved in carrying out section
4 of the National Science Foundation Act of
1950 (42 U.S.C. 1863) and Public Law 86–209 (42
U.S.C. 1880 et seq.), $4,500,000: Provided, That
not to exceed $2,500 shall be available for of-
ficial reception and representation expenses.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General as authorized by the Inspec-
tor General Act of 1978, $15,700,000, of which
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5988 October 22, 2019
$400,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropria-
tion made available for the current fiscal
year for the National Science Foundation in
this Act may be transferred between such ap-
propriations, but no such appropriation shall
be increased by more than 10 percent by any
such transfers. Any transfer pursuant to this
paragraph shall be treated as a reprogram-
ming of funds under section 505 of this Act
and shall not be available for obligation ex-
cept in compliance with the procedures set
forth in that section.
The Director of the National Science Foun-
dation (NSF) shall notify the Committees on
Appropriations of the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate at least 30 days in ad-
vance of any planned divestment through
transfer, decommissioning, termination, or
deconstruction of any NSF-owned facilities
or any NSF capital assets (including land,
structures, and equipment) valued greater
than $2,500,000.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Science Ap-
propriations Act, 2020’’.
TITLE IV
RELATED AGENCIES
COMMISSION ON CIVIL RIGHTS
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Commission
on Civil Rights, including hire of passenger
motor vehicles, $10,200,000: Provided, That
none of the funds appropriated in this para-
graph may be used to employ any individuals
under Schedule C of subpart C of part 213 of
title 5 of the Code of Federal Regulations ex-
clusive of one special assistant for each Com-
missioner: Provided further, That none of the
funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be
used to reimburse Commissioners for more
than 75 billable days, with the exception of
the chairperson, who is permitted 125 billable
days: Provided further, That the Chair may
accept and use any gift or donation to carry
out the work of the Commission: Provided
further, That none of the funds appropriated
in this paragraph shall be used for any activ-
ity or expense that is not explicitly author-
ized by section 3 of the Civil Rights Commis-
sion Act of 1983 (42 U.S.C. 1975a).
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Equal Em-
ployment Opportunity Commission as au-
thorized by title VII of the Civil Rights Act
of 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employ-
ment Act of 1967, the Equal Pay Act of 1963,
the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990,
section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973,
the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Genetic In-
formation Nondiscrimination Act (GINA) of
2008 (Public Law 110–233), the ADA Amend-
ments Act of 2008 (Public Law 110–325), and
the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009
(Public Law 111–2), including services as au-
thorized by section 3109 of title 5, United
States Code; hire of passenger motor vehi-
cles as authorized by section 1343(b) of title
31, United States Code; nonmonetary awards
to private citizens; and up to $30,500,000 for
payments to State and local enforcement
agencies for authorized services to the Com-
mission, $384,500,000: Provided, That the Com-
mission is authorized to make available for
official reception and representation ex-
penses not to exceed $2,250 from available
funds: Provided further, That the Commission
may take no action to implement any work-
force repositioning, restructuring, or reorga-
nization until such time as the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate have been notified of
such proposals, in accordance with the re-
programming requirements of section 505 of
this Act: Provided further, That the Chair
may accept and use any gift or donation to
carry out the work of the Commission.
INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Inter-
national Trade Commission, including hire
of passenger motor vehicles and services as
authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United
States Code, and not to exceed $2,250 for offi-
cial reception and representation expenses,
$99,400,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION
PAYMENT TO THE LEGAL SERVICES
CORPORATION
For payment to the Legal Services Cor-
poration to carry out the purposes of the
Legal Services Corporation Act of 1974,
$425,500,000, of which $388,200,000 is for basic
field programs and required independent au-
dits; $5,300,000 is for the Office of Inspector
General, of which such amounts as may be
necessary may be used to conduct additional
audits of recipients; $22,000,000 is for manage-
ment and grants oversight; $4,000,000 is for
client self-help and information technology;
$4,500,000 is for a Pro Bono Innovation Fund;
and $1,500,000 is for loan repayment assist-
ance: Provided, That the Legal Services Cor-
poration may continue to provide locality
pay to officers and employees at a rate no
greater than that provided by the Federal
Government to Washington, DC-based em-
ployees as authorized by section 5304 of title
5, United States Code, notwithstanding sec-
tion 1005(d) of the Legal Services Corpora-
tion Act (42 U.S.C. 2996d(d)): Provided further,
That the authorities provided in section 205
of this Act shall be applicable to the Legal
Services Corporation: Provided further, That,
for the purposes of section 505 of this Act,
the Legal Services Corporation shall be con-
sidered an agency of the United States Gov-
ernment.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISION—LEGAL SERVICES
CORPORATION
None of the funds appropriated in this Act
to the Legal Services Corporation shall be
expended for any purpose prohibited or lim-
ited by, or contrary to any of the provisions
of, sections 501, 502, 503, 504, 505, and 506 of
Public Law 105–119, and all funds appro-
priated in this Act to the Legal Services Cor-
poration shall be subject to the same terms
and conditions set forth in such sections, ex-
cept that all references in sections 502 and
503 to 1997 and 1998 shall be deemed to refer
instead to 2019 and 2020, respectively.
MARINE MAMMAL COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Marine
Mammal Commission as authorized by title
II of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of
1972 (16 U.S.C. 1361 et seq.), $3,616,000.
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE
REPRESENTATIVE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
United States Trade Representative, includ-
ing the hire of passenger motor vehicles and
the employment of experts and consultants
as authorized by section 3109 of title 5,
United States Code, $54,000,000, of which
$1,000,000 shall remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That of the total amount
made available under this heading, not to ex-
ceed $124,000 shall be available for official re-
ception and representation expenses.
TRADE ENFORCEMENT TRUST FUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For activities of the United States Trade
Representative authorized by section 611 of
the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforce-
ment Act of 2015 (19 U.S.C. 4405), including
transfers, $15,000,000, to be derived from the
Trade Enforcement Trust Fund: Provided,
That any transfer pursuant to subsection
(d)(1) of such section shall be treated as a re-
programming under section 505 of this Act.
STATE JUSTICE INSTITUTE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the State Jus-
tice Institute, as authorized by the State
Justice Institute Act of 1984 (42 U.S.C. 10701
et seq.) $6,300,000, of which $500,000 shall re-
main available until September 30, 2021: Pro-
vided, That not to exceed $2,250 shall be
available for official reception and represen-
tation expenses: Provided further, That, for
the purposes of section 505 of this Act, the
State Justice Institute shall be considered
an agency of the United States Government.
TITLE V
GENERAL PROVISIONS
(INCLUDING RESCISSIONS)
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
SEC. 501. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this Act shall be used for publicity
or propaganda purposes not authorized by
the Congress.
SEC. 502. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this Act shall remain available for
obligation beyond the current fiscal year un-
less expressly so provided herein.
SEC. 503. The expenditure of any appropria-
tion under this Act for any consulting serv-
ice through procurement contract, pursuant
to section 3109 of title 5, United States Code,
shall be limited to those contracts where
such expenditures are a matter of public
record and available for public inspection,
except where otherwise provided under exist-
ing law, or under existing Executive order
issued pursuant to existing law.
SEC. 504. If any provision of this Act or the
application of such provision to any person
or circumstances shall be held invalid, the
remainder of the Act and the application of
each provision to persons or circumstances
other than those as to which it is held in-
valid shall not be affected thereby.
SEC. 505. None of the funds provided under
this Act, or provided under previous appro-
priations Acts to the agencies funded by this
Act that remain available for obligation or
expenditure in fiscal year 2020, or provided
from any accounts in the Treasury of the
United States derived by the collection of
fees available to the agencies funded by this
Act, shall be available for obligation or ex-
penditure through a reprogramming of funds
that: (1) creates or initiates a new program,
project, or activity; (2) eliminates a pro-
gram, project, or activity; (3) increases funds
or personnel by any means for any project or
activity for which funds have been denied or
restricted; (4) relocates an office or employ-
ees; (5) reorganizes or renames offices, pro-
grams, or activities; (6) contracts out or
privatizes any functions or activities pres-
ently performed by Federal employees; (7)
augments existing programs, projects, or ac-
tivities in excess of $500,000 or 10 percent,
whichever is less, or reduces by 10 percent
funding for any program, project, or activ-
ity, or numbers of personnel by 10 percent; or
(8) results from any general savings, includ-
ing savings from a reduction in personnel,
which would result in a change in existing
programs, projects, or activities as approved
by Congress; unless the House and Senate
Committees on Appropriations are notified
15 days in advance of such reprogramming of
funds.
SEC. 506. (a) If it has been finally deter-
mined by a court or Federal agency that any
person intentionally affixed a label bearing a
‘‘Made in America’’ inscription, or any in-
scription with the same meaning, to any
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5989
October 22, 2019
product sold in or shipped to the United
States that is not made in the United States,
the person shall be ineligible to receive any
contract or subcontract made with funds
made available in this Act, pursuant to the
debarment, suspension, and ineligibility pro-
cedures described in sections 9.400 through
9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations.
(b)(1) To the extent practicable, with re-
spect to authorized purchases of promotional
items, funds made available by this Act shall
be used to purchase items that are manufac-
tured, produced, or assembled in the United
States, its territories or possessions.
(2) The term ‘‘promotional items’’ has the
meaning given the term in OMB Circular A–
87, Attachment B, Item (1)(f)(3).
SEC. 507. (a) The Departments of Commerce
and Justice, the National Science Founda-
tion, and the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration shall provide to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate a quar-
terly report on the status of balances of ap-
propriations at the account level. For unob-
ligated, uncommitted balances and unobli-
gated, committed balances the quarterly re-
ports shall separately identify the amounts
attributable to each source year of appro-
priation from which the balances were de-
rived. For balances that are obligated, but
unexpended, the quarterly reports shall sepa-
rately identify amounts by the year of obli-
gation.
(b) The report described in subsection (a)
shall be submitted within 30 days of the end
of each quarter.
(c) If a department or agency is unable to
fulfill any aspect of a reporting requirement
described in subsection (a) due to a limita-
tion of a current accounting system, the de-
partment or agency shall fulfill such aspect
to the maximum extent practicable under
such accounting system and shall identify
and describe in each quarterly report the ex-
tent to which such aspect is not fulfilled.
SEC. 508. Any costs incurred by a depart-
ment or agency funded under this Act result-
ing from, or to prevent, personnel actions
taken in response to funding reductions in-
cluded in this Act shall be absorbed within
the total budgetary resources available to
such department or agency: Provided, That
the authority to transfer funds between ap-
propriations accounts as may be necessary
to carry out this section is provided in addi-
tion to authorities included elsewhere in this
Act: Provided further, That use of funds to
carry out this section shall be treated as a
reprogramming of funds under section 505 of
this Act and shall not be available for obliga-
tion or expenditure except in compliance
with the procedures set forth in that section:
Provided further, That for the Department of
Commerce, this section shall also apply to
actions taken for the care and protection of
loan collateral or grant property.
SEC. 509. None of the funds provided by this
Act shall be available to promote the sale or
export of tobacco or tobacco products, or to
seek the reduction or removal by any foreign
country of restrictions on the marketing of
tobacco or tobacco products, except for re-
strictions which are not applied equally to
all tobacco or tobacco products of the same
type.
SEC. 510. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, amounts deposited or available
in the Fund established by section 1402 of
chapter XIV of title II of Public Law 98–473
(34 U.S.C. 20101) in any fiscal year in excess
of $3,177,000,000 shall not be available for ob-
ligation until the following fiscal year: Pro-
vided, That notwithstanding section 1402(d)
of such Act, of the amounts available from
the Fund for obligation: (1) $10,000,000 shall
be transferred to the Department of Justice
Office of the Inspector General and remain
available until expended for oversight and
auditing purposes; and (2) 5 percent shall be
available to the Office for Victims of Crime
for grants, consistent with the requirements
of the Victims of Crime Act, to Indian tribes
to improve services for victims of crime.
SEC. 511. None of the funds made available
to the Department of Justice in this Act
may be used to discriminate against or deni-
grate the religious or moral beliefs of stu-
dents who participate in programs for which
financial assistance is provided from those
funds, or of the parents or legal guardians of
such students.
SEC. 512. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be transferred to any depart-
ment, agency, or instrumentality of the
United States Government, except pursuant
to a transfer made by, or transfer authority
provided in, this Act or any other appropria-
tions Act.
SEC. 513. (a) The Inspectors General of the
Department of Commerce, the Department
of Justice, the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration, the National Science
Foundation, and the Legal Services Corpora-
tion shall conduct audits, pursuant to the In-
spector General Act (5 U.S.C. App.), of grants
or contracts for which funds are appro-
priated by this Act, and shall submit reports
to Congress on the progress of such audits,
which may include preliminary findings and
a description of areas of particular interest,
within 180 days after initiating such an audit
and every 180 days thereafter until any such
audit is completed.
(b) Within 60 days after the date on which
an audit described in subsection (a) by an In-
spector General is completed, the Secretary,
Attorney General, Administrator, Director,
or President, as appropriate, shall make the
results of the audit available to the public on
the Internet website maintained by the De-
partment, Administration, Foundation, or
Corporation, respectively. The results shall
be made available in redacted form to ex-
clude—
(1) any matter described in section 552(b) of
title 5, United States Code; and
(2) sensitive personal information for any
individual, the public access to which could
be used to commit identity theft or for other
inappropriate or unlawful purposes.
(c) Any person awarded a grant or contract
funded by amounts appropriated by this Act
shall submit a statement to the Secretary of
Commerce, the Attorney General, the Ad-
ministrator, Director, or President, as appro-
priate, certifying that no funds derived from
the grant or contract will be made available
through a subcontract or in any other man-
ner to another person who has a financial in-
terest in the person awarded the grant or
contract.
(d) The provisions of the preceding sub-
sections of this section shall take effect 30
days after the date on which the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget, in
consultation with the Director of the Office
of Government Ethics, determines that a
uniform set of rules and requirements, sub-
stantially similar to the requirements in
such subsections, consistently apply under
the executive branch ethics program to all
Federal departments, agencies, and entities.
SEC. 514. (a) None of the funds appropriated
or otherwise made available under this Act
may be used by the Departments of Com-
merce and Justice, the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration, or the National
Science Foundation to acquire a high-impact
or moderate-impact information system, as
defined for security categorization in the Na-
tional Institute of Standards and Tech-
nology’s (NIST) Federal Information Proc-
essing Standard Publication 199, ‘‘Standards
for Security Categorization of Federal Infor-
mation and Information Systems’’ unless the
agency has—
(1) reviewed the supply chain risk for the
information systems against criteria devel-
oped by NIST and the Federal Bureau of In-
vestigation (FBI) to inform acquisition deci-
sions for high-impact and moderate-impact
information systems within the Federal Gov-
ernment;
(2) reviewed the supply chain risk from the
presumptive awardee against available and
relevant threat information provided by the
FBI and other appropriate agencies; and
(3) in consultation with the FBI or other
appropriate Federal entity, conducted an as-
sessment of any risk of cyber-espionage or
sabotage associated with the acquisition of
such system, including any risk associated
with such system being produced, manufac-
tured, or assembled by one or more entities
identified by the United States Government
as posing a cyber threat, including but not
limited to, those that may be owned, di-
rected, or subsidized by the People’s Repub-
lic of China, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, or
the Russian Federation.
(b) None of the funds appropriated or oth-
erwise made available under this Act may be
used to acquire a high-impact or moderate-
impact information system reviewed and as-
sessed under subsection (a) unless the head
of the assessing entity described in sub-
section (a) has—
(1) developed, in consultation with NIST,
the FBI, and supply chain risk management
experts, a mitigation strategy for any identi-
fied risks;
(2) determined, in consultation with NIST
and the FBI, that the acquisition of such sys-
tem is in the national interest of the United
States; and
(3) reported that determination to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate and the
agency Inspector General.
SEC. 515. None of the funds made available
in this Act shall be used in any way whatso-
ever to support or justify the use of torture
by any official or contract employee of the
United States Government.
SEC. 516. (a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of law or treaty, none of the funds
appropriated or otherwise made available
under this Act or any other Act may be ex-
pended or obligated by a department, agen-
cy, or instrumentality of the United States
to pay administrative expenses or to com-
pensate an officer or employee of the United
States in connection with requiring an ex-
port license for the export to Canada of com-
ponents, parts, accessories or attachments
for firearms listed in Category I, section
121.1 of title 22, Code of Federal Regulations
(International Trafficking in Arms Regula-
tions (ITAR), part 121, as it existed on April
1, 2005) with a total value not exceeding $500
wholesale in any transaction, provided that
the conditions of subsection (b) of this sec-
tion are met by the exporting party for such
articles.
(b) The foregoing exemption from obtain-
ing an export license—
(1) does not exempt an exporter from filing
any Shipper’s Export Declaration or notifi-
cation letter required by law, or from being
otherwise eligible under the laws of the
United States to possess, ship, transport, or
export the articles enumerated in subsection
(a); and
(2) does not permit the export without a li-
cense of—
(A) fully automatic firearms and compo-
nents and parts for such firearms, other than
for end use by the Federal Government, or a
Provincial or Municipal Government of Can-
ada;
(B) barrels, cylinders, receivers (frames) or
complete breech mechanisms for any firearm
listed in Category I, other than for end use
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5990 October 22, 2019
by the Federal Government, or a Provincial
or Municipal Government of Canada; or
(C) articles for export from Canada to an-
other foreign destination.
(c) In accordance with this section, the
District Directors of Customs and post-
masters shall permit the permanent or tem-
porary export without a license of any un-
classified articles specified in subsection (a)
to Canada for end use in Canada or return to
the United States, or temporary import of
Canadian-origin items from Canada for end
use in the United States or return to Canada
for a Canadian citizen.
(d) The President may require export li-
censes under this section on a temporary
basis if the President determines, upon pub-
lication first in the Federal Register, that
the Government of Canada has implemented
or maintained inadequate import controls
for the articles specified in subsection (a),
such that a significant diversion of such arti-
cles has and continues to take place for use
in international terrorism or in the esca-
lation of a conflict in another nation. The
President shall terminate the requirements
of a license when reasons for the temporary
requirements have ceased.
SEC. 517. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, no department, agency, or in-
strumentality of the United States receiving
appropriated funds under this Act or any
other Act shall obligate or expend in any
way such funds to pay administrative ex-
penses or the compensation of any officer or
employee of the United States to deny any
application submitted pursuant to 22 U.S.C.
2778(b)(1)(B) and qualified pursuant to 27 CFR
section 478.112 or .113, for a permit to import
United States origin ‘‘curios or relics’’ fire-
arms, parts, or ammunition.
SEC. 518. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used to include in any
new bilateral or multilateral trade agree-
ment the text of—
(1) paragraph 2 of article 16.7 of the United
States–Singapore Free Trade Agreement;
(2) paragraph 4 of article 17.9 of the United
States–Australia Free Trade Agreement; or
(3) paragraph 4 of article 15.9 of the United
States–Morocco Free Trade Agreement.
SEC. 519. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used to authorize or issue
a national security letter in contravention of
any of the following laws authorizing the
Federal Bureau of Investigation to issue na-
tional security letters: The Right to Finan-
cial Privacy Act of 1978; The Electronic Com-
munications Privacy Act of 1986; The Fair
Credit Reporting Act; The National Security
Act of 1947; USA PATRIOT Act; USA FREE-
DOM Act of 2015; and the laws amended by
these Acts.
SEC. 520. If at any time during any quarter,
the program manager of a project within the
jurisdiction of the Departments of Com-
merce or Justice, the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration, or the National
Science Foundation totaling more than
$75,000,000 has reasonable cause to believe
that the total program cost has increased by
10 percent or more, the program manager
shall immediately inform the respective Sec-
retary, Administrator, or Director. The Sec-
retary, Administrator, or Director shall no-
tify the House and Senate Committees on
Appropriations within 30 days in writing of
such increase, and shall include in such no-
tice: the date on which such determination
was made; a statement of the reasons for
such increases; the action taken and pro-
posed to be taken to control future cost
growth of the project; changes made in the
performance or schedule milestones and the
degree to which such changes have contrib-
uted to the increase in total program costs
or procurement costs; new estimates of the
total project or procurement costs; and a
statement validating that the project’s man-
agement structure is adequate to control
total project or procurement costs.
SEC. 521. Funds appropriated by this Act,
or made available by the transfer of funds in
this Act, for intelligence or intelligence re-
lated activities are deemed to be specifically
authorized by the Congress for purposes of
section 504 of the National Security Act of
1947 (50 U.S.C. 3094) during fiscal year 2020
until the enactment of the Intelligence Au-
thorization Act for fiscal year 2020.
SEC. 522. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this Act may be
used to enter into a contract in an amount
greater than $5,000,000 or to award a grant in
excess of such amount unless the prospective
contractor or grantee certifies in writing to
the agency awarding the contract or grant
that, to the best of its knowledge and belief,
the contractor or grantee has filed all Fed-
eral tax returns required during the three
years preceding the certification, has not
been convicted of a criminal offense under
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and has
not, more than 90 days prior to certification,
been notified of any unpaid Federal tax as-
sessment for which the liability remains
unsatisfied, unless the assessment is the sub-
ject of an installment agreement or offer in
compromise that has been approved by the
Internal Revenue Service and is not in de-
fault, or the assessment is the subject of a
non-frivolous administrative or judicial pro-
ceeding.
(RESCISSIONS)
SEC. 523. (a) Of the unobligated balances
from prior year appropriations available to
the Department of Commerce, the following
funds are hereby rescinded, not later than
September 30, 2020, from the following ac-
counts in the specified amounts—
(1) ‘‘Economic Development Administra-
tion, Economic Development Assistance Pro-
grams’’, $10,000,000; and
(2) ‘‘National Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration, Fisheries Enforcement Asset
Forfeiture Fund’’, $5,000,000.
(b) Of the unobligated balances available
to the Department of Justice, the following
funds are hereby rescinded, not later than
September 30, 2020, from the following ac-
counts in the specified amounts—
(1) ‘‘Working Capital Fund’’, $100,000,000;
(2) ‘‘Federal Bureau of Investigation, Sala-
ries and Expenses’’, $71,974,000 including
from, but not limited to, fees collected to de-
fray expenses for the automation of finger-
print identification and criminal justice in-
formation services and associated costs; and
(3) ‘‘State and Local Law Enforcement Ac-
tivities, Office of Justice Programs’’,
$70,000,000.
(c) Of the unobligated balances available to
the National Aeronautics and Space Admin-
istration from prior year appropriations
under the heading ‘‘Science’’, $70,000,000 is
hereby rescinded.
(d) The Departments of Commerce and Jus-
tice and the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration shall submit to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Senate a report no later
than September 1, 2020, specifying the
amount of each rescission made pursuant to
subsections (a), (b), and (c).
(e) The amounts rescinded in subsections
(a), (b), and (c) shall not be from amounts
that were designated by the Congress as an
emergency or disaster relief requirement
pursuant to the concurrent resolution on the
budget or the Balanced Budget and Emer-
gency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 524. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used to purchase first
class or premium airline travel in contraven-
tion of sections 301–10.122 through 301–10.124
of title 41 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
SEC. 525. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used to send or otherwise
pay for the attendance of more than 50 em-
ployees from a Federal department or agen-
cy, who are stationed in the United States,
at any single conference occurring outside
the United States unless—
(1) such conference is a law enforcement
training or operational conference for law
enforcement personnel and the majority of
Federal employees in attendance are law en-
forcement personnel stationed outside the
United States; or
(2) such conference is a scientific con-
ference and the department or agency head
determines that such attendance is in the
national interest and notifies the Commit-
tees on Appropriations of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Senate within at least
15 days of that determination and the basis
for that determination.
SEC. 526. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available in this or any
other Act may be used to transfer, release,
or assist in the transfer or release to or with-
in the United States, its territories, or pos-
sessions Khalid Sheikh Mohammed or any
other detainee who—
(1) is not a United States citizen or a mem-
ber of the Armed Forces of the United
States; and
(2) is or was held on or after June 24, 2009,
at the United States Naval Station, Guanta-
namo Bay, Cuba, by the Department of De-
fense.
SEC. 527. (a) None of the funds appropriated
or otherwise made available in this or any
other Act may be used to construct, acquire,
or modify any facility in the United States,
its territories, or possessions to house any
individual described in subsection (c) for the
purposes of detention or imprisonment in the
custody or under the effective control of the
Department of Defense.
(b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall
not apply to any modification of facilities at
United States Naval Station, Guantanamo
Bay, Cuba.
(c) An individual described in this sub-
section is any individual who, as of June 24,
2009, is located at United States Naval Sta-
tion, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and who—
(1) is not a citizen of the United States or
a member of the Armed Forces of the United
States; and
(2) is—
(A) in the custody or under the effective
control of the Department of Defense; or
(B) otherwise under detention at United
States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba.
SEC. 528. The Director of the Office of Man-
agement and Budget shall instruct any de-
partment, agency, or instrumentality of the
United States receiving funds appropriated
under this Act to track undisbursed balances
in expired grant accounts and include in its
annual performance plan and performance
and accountability reports the following:
(1) Details on future action the depart-
ment, agency, or instrumentality will take
to resolve undisbursed balances in expired
grant accounts.
(2) The method that the department, agen-
cy, or instrumentality uses to track
undisbursed balances in expired grant ac-
counts.
(3) Identification of undisbursed balances
in expired grant accounts that may be re-
turned to the Treasury of the United States.
(4) In the preceding 3 fiscal years, details
on the total number of expired grant ac-
counts with undisbursed balances (on the
first day of each fiscal year) for the depart-
ment, agency, or instrumentality and the
total finances that have not been obligated
to a specific project remaining in the ac-
counts.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5991
October 22, 2019
SEC. 529. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act may be used for the Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion (NASA), the Office of Science and Tech-
nology Policy (OSTP), or the National Space
Council (NSC) to develop, design, plan, pro-
mulgate, implement, or execute a bilateral
policy, program, order, or contract of any
kind to participate, collaborate, or coordi-
nate bilaterally in any way with China or
any Chinese-owned company unless such ac-
tivities are specifically authorized by a law
enacted after the date of enactment of this
Act.
(b) None of the funds made available by
this Act may be used to effectuate the
hosting of official Chinese visitors at facili-
ties belonging to or utilized by NASA.
(c) The limitations described in sub-
sections (a) and (b) shall not apply to activi-
ties which NASA, OSTP, or NSC, after con-
sultation with the Federal Bureau of Inves-
tigation, have certified—
(1) pose no risk of resulting in the transfer
of technology, data, or other information
with national security or economic security
implications to China or a Chinese-owned
company; and
(2) will not involve knowing interactions
with officials who have been determined by
the United States to have direct involvement
with violations of human rights.
(d) Any certification made under sub-
section (c) shall be submitted to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Senate, and the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, no later
than 30 days prior to the activity in question
and shall include a description of the purpose
of the activity, its agenda, its major partici-
pants, and its location and timing.
SEC. 530. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to pay the salaries
or expenses of personnel to deny, or fail to
act on, an application for the importation of
any model of shotgun if—
(1) all other requirements of law with re-
spect to the proposed importation are met;
and
(2) no application for the importation of
such model of shotgun, in the same configu-
ration, had been denied by the Attorney Gen-
eral prior to January 1, 2011, on the basis
that the shotgun was not particularly suit-
able for or readily adaptable to sporting pur-
poses.
SEC. 531. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be used to maintain or
establish a computer network unless such
network blocks the viewing, downloading,
and exchanging of pornography.
(b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit
the use of funds necessary for any Federal,
State, tribal, or local law enforcement agen-
cy or any other entity carrying out criminal
investigations, prosecution, adjudication, or
other law enforcement- or victim assistance-
related activity.
SEC. 532. The Departments of Commerce
and Justice, the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration, the National Science
Foundation, the Commission on Civil Rights,
the Equal Employment Opportunity Com-
mission, the International Trade Commis-
sion, the Legal Services Corporation, the
Marine Mammal Commission, the Offices of
Science and Technology Policy and the
United States Trade Representative, the Na-
tional Space Council, and the State Justice
Institute shall submit spending plans, signed
by the respective department or agency
head, to the Committees on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives and the Sen-
ate within 45 days after the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
SEC. 533. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be obligated or expended to
implement the Arms Trade Treaty until the
Senate approves a resolution of ratification
for the Treaty.
SEC. 534. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of this Act, none of the funds appro-
priated or otherwise made available by this
Act may be used to pay award or incentive
fees for contractor performance that has
been judged to be below satisfactory per-
formance or for performance that does not
meet the basic requirements of a contract,
unless the Agency determines that any such
deviations are due to unforeseeable events,
government-driven scope changes, or are not
significant within the overall scope of the
project and/or program and unless such
awards or incentive fees are consistent with
16.401(e)(2) of the FAR.
SEC. 535. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used in contravention of
section 7606 (‘‘Legitimacy of Industrial Hemp
Research’’) of the Agricultural Act of 2014
(Public Law 113–79) by the Department of
Justice or the Drug Enforcement Adminis-
tration.
SEC. 536. None of the funds made available
under this Act to the Department of Justice
may be used, with respect to any of the
States of Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkan-
sas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Dela-
ware, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Illinois, Indi-
ana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine,
Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Min-
nesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Ne-
vada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mex-
ico, New York, North Carolina, North Da-
kota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsyl-
vania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Ten-
nessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia,
Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, and
Wyoming, or with respect to the District of
Columbia, the Commonwealth of the North-
ern Mariana Islands, the United States Vir-
gin Islands, Guam, or Puerto Rico, to pre-
vent any of them from implementing their
own laws that authorize the use, distribu-
tion, possession, or cultivation of medical
marijuana.
SEC. 537. The Department of Commerce,
the National Aeronautics and Space Admin-
istration, and the National Science Founda-
tion shall provide a quarterly report to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate on any of-
ficial travel to China by any employee of
such Department or agency, including the
purpose of such travel.
SEC. 538. None of the funds provided in this
Act shall be available for obligation for the
James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) after
December 31, 2019, if the individual identified
under subsection (c)(2)(E) of section 30104 of
title 51, United States Code, as responsible
for JWST determines that the formulation
and development costs (with development
cost as defined under section 30104 of title 51,
United States Code) are likely to exceed
$8,802,700,000, unless the program is modified
so that the costs do not exceed $8,802,700,000.
This division may be cited as the ‘‘Com-
merce, Justice, Science, and Related Agen-
cies Appropriations Act, 2020’’.
DIVISION B—AGRICULTURE, RURAL DE-
VELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMINIS-
TRATION, AND RELATED AGENCIES AP-
PROPRIATIONS ACT, 2020
The following sums are appropriated, out
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise
appropriated, for Agriculture, Rural Devel-
opment, Food and Drug Administration, and
Related Agencies programs for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2020, and for other
purposes, namely:
TITLE I
AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS
PROCESSING, RESEARCH, AND MARKETING
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Secretary, $46,782,000, of which not to exceed
$6,030,000 shall be available for the imme-
diate Office of the Secretary: Provided, That
funds made available by this Act to an agen-
cy in the Rural Development mission area
for salaries and expenses are available to
fund up to one administrative support staff
for the Office; not to exceed $1,496,000 shall
be available for the Office of Homeland Secu-
rity; not to exceed $4,711,000 shall be avail-
able for the Office of Partnerships and Public
Engagement; not to exceed $23,176,000 shall
be available for the Office of the Assistant
Secretary for Administration, of which
$22,301,000 shall be available for Depart-
mental Administration to provide for nec-
essary expenses for management support
services to offices of the Department and for
general administration, security, repairs and
alterations, and other miscellaneous supplies
and expenses not otherwise provided for and
necessary for the practical and efficient
work of the Department: Provided further,
That funds made available by this Act to an
agency in the Administration mission area
for salaries and expenses are available to
fund up to one administrative support staff
for the Office; not to exceed $3,869,000 shall
be available for the Office of Assistant Sec-
retary for Congressional Relations to carry
out the programs funded by this Act, includ-
ing programs involving intergovernmental
affairs and liaison within the executive
branch; and not to exceed $7,500,000 shall be
available for the Office of Communications:
Provided further, That the Secretary of Agri-
culture is authorized to transfer funds appro-
priated for any office of the Office of the Sec-
retary to any other office of the Office of the
Secretary: Provided further, That no appro-
priation for any office shall be increased or
decreased by more than 5 percent: Provided
further, That not to exceed $22,000 of the
amount made available under this paragraph
for the immediate Office of the Secretary
shall be available for official reception and
representation expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, as determined by the Secretary:
Provided further, That the amount made
available under this heading for Depart-
mental Administration shall be reimbursed
from applicable appropriations in this Act
for travel expenses incident to the holding of
hearings as required by 5 U.S.C. 551–558: Pro-
vided further, That funds made available
under this heading for the Office of the As-
sistant Secretary for Congressional Rela-
tions may be transferred to agencies of the
Department of Agriculture funded by this
Act to maintain personnel at the agency
level: Provided further, That no funds made
available under this heading for the Office of
Assistant Secretary for Congressional Rela-
tions may be obligated after 30 days from the
date of enactment of this Act, unless the
Secretary has notified the Committees on
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress
on the allocation of these funds by USDA
agency.
EXECUTIVE OPERATIONS
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF ECONOMIST
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Chief Economist, $24,286,000, of which
$8,000,000 shall be for grants or cooperative
agreements for policy research under 7
U.S.C. 3155.
OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Hearings and Appeals, $15,222,000.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5992 October 22, 2019
OFFICE OF BUDGET AND PROGRAM ANALYSIS
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Budget and Program Analysis, $9,525,000.
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Chief Information Officer, $101,400,000, of
which not less than $48,950,000 is for cyberse-
curity requirements of the department.
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Chief Financial Officer, $13,500,000.
OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR
CIVIL RIGHTS
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, $901,000:
Provided, That funds made available by this
Act to an agency in the Civil Rights mission
area for salaries and expenses are available
to fund up to one administrative support
staff for the Office.
OFFICE OF CIVIL RIGHTS
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Civil Rights, $24,206,000.
AGRICULTURE BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For payment of space rental and related
costs pursuant to Public Law 92–313, includ-
ing authorities pursuant to the 1984 delega-
tion of authority from the Administrator of
General Services to the Department of Agri-
culture under 40 U.S.C. 121, for programs and
activities of the Department which are in-
cluded in this Act, and for alterations and
other actions needed for the Department and
its agencies to consolidate unneeded space
into configurations suitable for release to
the Administrator of General Services, and
for the operation, maintenance, improve-
ment, and repair of Agriculture buildings
and facilities, and for related costs,
$331,114,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS MANAGEMENT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Department
of Agriculture, to comply with the Com-
prehensive Environmental Response, Com-
pensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601
et seq.) and the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42
U.S.C. 6901 et seq.), $3,503,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That ap-
propriations and funds available herein to
the Department for Hazardous Materials
Management may be transferred to any
agency of the Department for its use in
meeting all requirements pursuant to the
above Acts on Federal and non-Federal
lands.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General, including employment pur-
suant to the Inspector General Act of 1978
(Public Law 95–452; 5 U.S.C. App.), $98,208,000,
including such sums as may be necessary for
contracting and other arrangements with
public agencies and private persons pursuant
to section 6(a)(9) of the Inspector General
Act of 1978 (Public Law 95–452; 5 U.S.C. App.),
and including not to exceed $125,000 for cer-
tain confidential operational expenses, in-
cluding the payment of informants, to be ex-
pended under the direction of the Inspector
General pursuant to the Inspector General
Act of 1978 (Public Law 95–452; 5 U.S.C. App.)
and section 1337 of the Agriculture and Food
Act of 1981 (Public Law 97–98).
OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
General Counsel, $45,146,000.
OFFICE OF ETHICS
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Ethics, $4,136,000.
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR
RESEARCH, EDUCATION, AND ECONOMICS
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Under Secretary for Research, Education,
and Economics, $800,000: Provided, That funds
made available by this Act to an agency in
the Research, Education, and Economics
mission area for salaries and expenses are
available to fund up to one administrative
support staff for the Office.
ECONOMIC RESEARCH SERVICE
For necessary expenses of the Economic
Research Service, $86,757,000.
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL STATISTICS SERVICE
For necessary expenses of the National Ag-
ricultural Statistics Service, $175,294,000, of
which up to $45,300,000 shall be available
until expended for the Census of Agriculture:
Provided, That amounts made available for
the Census of Agriculture may be used to
conduct Current Industrial Report surveys
subject to 7 U.S.C. 2204g(d) and (f).
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Agricultural
Research Service and for acquisition of lands
by donation, exchange, or purchase at a
nominal cost not to exceed $100, and for land
exchanges where the lands exchanged shall
be of equal value or shall be equalized by a
payment of money to the grantor which
shall not exceed 25 percent of the total value
of the land or interests transferred out of
Federal ownership, $1,424,966,000, of which
$41,100,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, shall be used to carry out the science
program at the National Bio- and Agro-de-
fense Facility located in Manhattan, Kansas:
Provided, That appropriations hereunder
shall be available for the operation and
maintenance of aircraft and the purchase of
not to exceed one for replacement only: Pro-
vided further, That appropriations hereunder
shall be available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2250
for the construction, alteration, and repair
of buildings and improvements, but unless
otherwise provided, the cost of constructing
any one building shall not exceed $500,000,
except for headhouses or greenhouses which
shall each be limited to $1,800,000, except for
10 buildings to be constructed or improved at
a cost not to exceed $1,100,000 each, and ex-
cept for two buildings to be constructed at a
cost not to exceed $3,000,000 each, and the
cost of altering any one building during the
fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the
current replacement value of the building or
$500,000, whichever is greater: Provided fur-
ther, That appropriations hereunder shall be
available for entering into lease agreements
at any Agricultural Research Service loca-
tion for the construction of a research facil-
ity by a non-Federal entity for use by the
Agricultural Research Service and a condi-
tion of the lease shall be that any facility
shall be owned, operated, and maintained by
the non-Federal entity and shall be removed
upon the expiration or termination of the
lease agreement: Provided further, That the
limitations on alterations contained in this
Act shall not apply to modernization or re-
placement of existing facilities at Beltsville,
Maryland: Provided further, That appropria-
tions hereunder shall be available for grant-
ing easements at the Beltsville Agricultural
Research Center: Provided further, That the
foregoing limitations shall not apply to re-
placement of buildings needed to carry out
the Act of April 24, 1948 (21 U.S.C. 113a): Pro-
vided further, That appropriations hereunder
shall be available for granting easements at
any Agricultural Research Service location
for the construction of a research facility by
a non-Federal entity for use by, and accept-
able to, the Agricultural Research Service
and a condition of the easements shall be
that upon completion the facility shall be
accepted by the Secretary, subject to the
availability of funds herein, if the Secretary
finds that acceptance of the facility is in the
interest of the United States: Provided fur-
ther, That funds may be received from any
State, other political subdivision, organiza-
tion, or individual for the purpose of estab-
lishing or operating any research facility or
research project of the Agricultural Re-
search Service, as authorized by law.
BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
For the acquisition of land, construction,
repair, improvement, extension, alteration,
and purchase of fixed equipment or facilities
as necessary to carry out the agricultural re-
search programs of the Department of Agri-
culture, where not otherwise provided,
$304,800,000 to remain available until ex-
pended, of which $166,900,000 shall be allo-
cated for ARS facilities co-located with uni-
versity partners.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF FOOD AND
AGRICULTURE
RESEARCH AND EDUCATION ACTIVITIES
For payments to agricultural experiment
stations, for cooperative forestry and other
research, for facilities, and for other ex-
penses, $937,649,000, which shall be for the
purposes, and in the amounts, specified in
the table titled ‘‘National Institute of Food
and Agriculture, Research and Education Ac-
tivities’’ in the report accompanying this
Act: Provided, That funds for research grants
for 1994 institutions, education grants for
1890 institutions, capacity building for non-
land-grant colleges of agriculture, the agri-
culture and food research initiative, veteri-
nary medicine loan repayment, multicul-
tural scholars, graduate fellowship and insti-
tution challenge grants, and grants manage-
ment systems shall remain available until
expended: Provided further, That each institu-
tion eligible to receive funds under the
Evans-Allen program receives no less than
$1,000,000: Provided further, That funds for
education grants for Alaska Native and Na-
tive Hawaiian-serving institutions be made
available to individual eligible institutions
or consortia of eligible institutions with
funds awarded equally to each of the States
of Alaska and Hawaii: Provided further, That
funds for education grants for 1890 institu-
tions shall be made available to institutions
eligible to receive funds under 7 U.S.C. 3221
and 3222: Provided further, That not more
than 5 percent of the amounts made avail-
able by this or any other Act to carry out
the Agriculture and Food Research Initiative
under 7 U.S.C. 450i(b) may be retained by the
Secretary of Agriculture to pay administra-
tive costs incurred by the Secretary in car-
rying out that authority.
NATIVE AMERICAN INSTITUTIONS ENDOWMENT
FUND
For the Native American Institutions En-
dowment Fund authorized by Public Law
103–382 (7 U.S.C. 301 note), $11,880,000, to re-
main available until expended.
EXTENSION ACTIVITIES
For payments to States, the District of Co-
lumbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Is-
lands, Micronesia, the Northern Marianas,
and American Samoa, $509,082,000, which
shall be for the purposes, and in the
amounts, specified in the table titled ‘‘Na-
tional Institute of Food and Agriculture, Ex-
tension Activities’’ in the report accom-
panying this Act: Provided, That funds for fa-
cility improvements at 1890 institutions
shall remain available until expended: Pro-
vided further, That institutions eligible to re-
ceive funds under 7 U.S.C. 3221 for coopera-
tive extension receive no less than $1,000,000:
Provided further, That funds for cooperative
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5993
October 22, 2019
extension under sections 3(b) and (c) of the
Smith-Lever Act (7 U.S.C. 343(b) and (c)) and
section 208(c) of Public Law 93–471 shall be
available for retirement and employees’
compensation costs for extension agents.
INTEGRATED ACTIVITIES
For the integrated research, education,
and extension grants programs, including
necessary administrative expenses,
$38,000,000, which shall be for the purposes,
and in the amounts, specified in the table ti-
tled ‘‘National Institute of Food and Agri-
culture, Integrated Activities’’ in the report
accompanying this Act: Provided, That funds
for the Food and Agriculture Defense Initia-
tive shall remain available until September
30, 2021: Provided further, That notwith-
standing any other provision of law, indirect
costs shall not be charged against any Ex-
tension Implementation Program Area grant
awarded under the Crop Protection/Pest
Management Program (7 U.S.C. 7626).
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR
MARKETING AND REGULATORY PROGRAMS
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Under Secretary for Marketing and Regu-
latory Programs, $901,000: Provided, That
funds made available by this Act to an agen-
cy in the Marketing and Regulatory Pro-
grams mission area for salaries and expenses
are available to fund up to one administra-
tive support staff for the Office.
ANIMAL AND PLANT HEALTH INSPECTION
SERVICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Animal and
Plant Health Inspection Service, including
up to $30,000 for representation allowances
and for expenses pursuant to the Foreign
Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4085),
$1,027,916,000, of which $470,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be available
for the control of outbreaks of insects, plant
diseases, animal diseases and for control of
pest animals and birds (‘‘contingency fund’’)
to the extent necessary to meet emergency
conditions; of which $11,520,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be used for
the cotton pests program for cost share pur-
poses or for debt retirement for active eradi-
cation zones; of which $37,857,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be for Animal
Health Technical Services; of which $705,000
shall be for activities under the authority of
the Horse Protection Act of 1970, as amended
(15 U.S.C. 1831); of which $62,840,000, to re-
main available until expended, shall be used
to support avian health; of which $4,251,000,
to remain available until expended, shall be
for information technology infrastructure; of
which $186,013,000, to remain available until
expended, shall be for specialty crop pests; of
which, $13,826,000, to remain available until
expended, shall be for field crop and range-
land ecosystem pests; of which $16,523,000, to
remain available until expended, shall be for
zoonotic disease management; of which
$40,966,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, shall be for emergency preparedness
and response; of which $60,000,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be for tree
and wood pests; of which $5,725,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be for the Na-
tional Veterinary Stockpile; of which up to
$1,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, shall be for the scrapie program for
indemnities; of which $2,500,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be for the
wildlife damage management program for
aviation safety: Provided, That of amounts
available under this heading for wildlife
services methods development, $1,000,000
shall remain available until expended: Pro-
vided further, That of amounts available
under this heading for the screwworm pro-
gram, $4,990,000 shall remain available until
expended; of which $20,800,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be used to
carry out the science program at the Na-
tional Bio- and Agro-defense Facility located
in Manhattan, Kansas: Provided further, That
no funds shall be used to formulate or ad-
minister a brucellosis eradication program
for the current fiscal year that does not re-
quire minimum matching by the States of at
least 40 percent: Provided further, That this
appropriation shall be available for the oper-
ation and maintenance of aircraft and the
purchase of not to exceed five, of which two
shall be for replacement only: Provided fur-
ther, That in addition, in emergencies which
threaten any segment of the agricultural
production industry of the United States,
the Secretary may transfer from other ap-
propriations or funds available to the agen-
cies or corporations of the Department such
sums as may be deemed necessary, to be
available only in such emergencies for the
arrest and eradication of contagious or infec-
tious disease or pests of animals, poultry, or
plants, and for expenses in accordance with
sections 10411 and 10417 of the Animal Health
Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 8310 and 8316) and
sections 431 and 442 of the Plant Protection
Act (7 U.S.C. 7751 and 7772), and any unex-
pended balances of funds transferred for such
emergency purposes in the preceding fiscal
year shall be merged with such transferred
amounts: Provided further, That appropria-
tions hereunder shall be available pursuant
to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the repair and alter-
ation of leased buildings and improvements,
but unless otherwise provided the cost of al-
tering any one building during the fiscal
year shall not exceed 10 percent of the cur-
rent replacement value of the building.
In fiscal year 2020, the agency is authorized
to collect fees to cover the total costs of pro-
viding technical assistance, goods, or serv-
ices requested by States, other political sub-
divisions, domestic and international organi-
zations, foreign governments, or individuals,
provided that such fees are structured such
that any entity’s liability for such fees is
reasonably based on the technical assistance,
goods, or services provided to the entity by
the agency, and such fees shall be reim-
bursed to this account, to remain available
until expended, without further appropria-
tion, for providing such assistance, goods, or
services.
BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
For plans, construction, repair, preventive
maintenance, environmental support, im-
provement, extension, alteration, and pur-
chase of fixed equipment or facilities, as au-
thorized by 7 U.S.C. 2250, and acquisition of
land as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 428a, $3,175,000,
to remain available until expended.
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING SERVICE
MARKETING SERVICES
For necessary expenses of the Agricultural
Marketing Service, $181,549,000, of which
$6,000,000 shall be available for the purposes
of section 12306 of Public Law 113–79: Pro-
vided, That this appropriation shall be avail-
able pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the
alteration and repair of buildings and im-
provements, but the cost of altering any one
building during the fiscal year shall not ex-
ceed 10 percent of the current replacement
value of the building: Provided further, That
up to $4,454,000 of this appropriation may be
used for United States Warehouse Act activi-
ties to supplement amounts made available
by the United States Warehouse Act.
Fees may be collected for the cost of stand-
ardization activities, as established by regu-
lation pursuant to law (31 U.S.C. 9701).
LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
Not to exceed $61,227,000 (from fees col-
lected) shall be obligated during the current
fiscal year for administrative expenses: Pro-
vided, That if crop size is understated and/or
other uncontrollable events occur, the agen-
cy may exceed this limitation by up to 10
percent with notification to the Committees
on Appropriations of both Houses of Con-
gress.
FUNDS FOR STRENGTHENING MARKETS, INCOME,
AND SUPPLY (SECTION 32)
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
Funds available under section 32 of the Act
of August 24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c), shall be
used only for commodity program expenses
as authorized therein, and other related op-
erating expenses, except for: (1) transfers to
the Department of Commerce as authorized
by the Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956 (16 U.S.C.
742a et seq.); (2) transfers otherwise provided
in this Act; and (3) not more than $20,705,000
for formulation and administration of mar-
keting agreements and orders pursuant to
the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act
of 1937 and the Agricultural Act of 1961 (Pub-
lic Law 87–128).
PAYMENTS TO STATES AND POSSESSIONS
For payments to departments of agri-
culture, bureaus and departments of mar-
kets, and similar agencies for marketing ac-
tivities under section 204(b) of the Agricul-
tural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1623(b)),
$1,235,000.
LIMITATION ON INSPECTION AND WEIGHING
SERVICES EXPENSES
Not to exceed $55,000,000 (from fees col-
lected) shall be obligated during the current
fiscal year for inspection and weighing serv-
ices: Provided, That if grain export activities
require additional supervision and oversight,
or other uncontrollable factors occur, this
limitation may be exceeded by up to 10 per-
cent with notification to the Committees on
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR FOOD
SAFETY
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Under Secretary for Food Safety, $800,000:
Provided, That funds made available by this
Act to an agency in the Food Safety mission
area for salaries and expenses are available
to fund up to one administrative support
staff for the Office.
FOOD SAFETY AND INSPECTION SERVICE
For necessary expenses to carry out serv-
ices authorized by the Federal Meat Inspec-
tion Act, the Poultry Products Inspection
Act, and the Egg Products Inspection Act,
including not to exceed $10,000 for represen-
tation allowances and for expenses pursuant
to section 8 of the Act approved August 3,
1956 (7 U.S.C. 1766), $1,054,344,000; and in addi-
tion, $1,000,000 may be credited to this ac-
count from fees collected for the cost of lab-
oratory accreditation as authorized by sec-
tion 1327 of the Food, Agriculture, Conserva-
tion and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 138f): Pro-
vided, That funds provided for the Public
Health Data Communication Infrastructure
system shall remain available until ex-
pended: Provided further, That no fewer than
148 full-time equivalent positions shall be
employed during fiscal year 2020 for purposes
dedicated solely to inspections and enforce-
ment related to the Humane Methods of
Slaughter Act (7 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.): Provided
further, That the Food Safety and Inspection
Service shall continue implementation of
section 11016 of Public Law 110–246 as further
clarified by the amendments made in section
12106 of Public Law 113–79: Provided further,
That this appropriation shall be available
pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alter-
ation and repair of buildings and improve-
ments, but the cost of altering any one
building during the fiscal year shall not ex-
ceed 10 percent of the current replacement
value of the building.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5994 October 22, 2019
TITLE II
FARM PRODUCTION AND CONSERVATION
PROGRAMS
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR FARM
PRODUCTION AND CONSERVATION
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Under Secretary for Farm Production and
Conservation, $901,000: Provided, That funds
made available by this Act to an agency in
the Farm Production and Conservation mis-
sion area for salaries and expenses are avail-
able to fund up to one administrative sup-
port staff for the Office.
FARM PRODUCTION AND CONSERVATION
BUSINESS CENTER
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Farm Pro-
duction and Conservation Business Center,
$206,530,000: Provided, That $60,228,000 of
amounts appropriated for the current fiscal
year pursuant to section 1241(a) of the Farm
Security and Rural Investment Act of 1985
(16 U.S.C. 3841(a)) shall be transferred to and
merged with this account.
FARM SERVICE AGENCY
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Farm Serv-
ice Agency, $1,127,837,000, of which not less
than $20,000,000 shall be for the hiring of new
employees to fill vacancies at Farm Service
Agency county offices and farm loan officers
and shall be available until September 30,
2021: Provided, That not more than 50 percent
of the funding made available under this
heading for information technology related
to farm program delivery may be obligated
until the Secretary submits to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations of both Houses of
Congress, and receives written or electronic
notification of receipt from such Committees
of, a plan for expenditure that (1) identifies
for each project/investment over $25,000 (a)
the functional and performance capabilities
to be delivered and the mission benefits to be
realized, (b) the estimated lifecycle cost for
the entirety of the project/investment, in-
cluding estimates for development as well as
maintenance and operations, and (c) key
milestones to be met; (2) demonstrates that
each project/investment is, (a) consistent
with the Farm Service Agency Information
Technology Roadmap, (b) being managed in
accordance with applicable lifecycle manage-
ment policies and guidance, and (c) subject
to the applicable Department’s capital plan-
ning and investment control requirements;
and (3) has been reviewed by the Government
Accountability Office and approved by the
Committees on Appropriations of both
Houses of Congress: Provided further, That
the agency shall submit a report by the end
of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020 to
the Committees on Appropriations and the
Government Accountability Office, that
identifies for each project/investment that is
operational (a) current performance against
key indicators of customer satisfaction, (b)
current performance of service level agree-
ments or other technical metrics, (c) current
performance against a pre-established cost
baseline, (d) a detailed breakdown of current
and planned spending on operational en-
hancements or upgrades, and (e) an assess-
ment of whether the investment continues to
meet business needs as intended as well as
alternatives to the investment: Provided fur-
ther, That the Secretary is authorized to use
the services, facilities, and authorities (but
not the funds) of the Commodity Credit Cor-
poration to make program payments for all
programs administered by the Agency: Pro-
vided further, That other funds made avail-
able to the Agency for authorized activities
may be advanced to and merged with this ac-
count: Provided further, That funds made
available to county committees shall remain
available until expended: Provided further,
That none of the funds available to the Farm
Service Agency shall be used to close Farm
Service Agency county offices: Provided fur-
ther, That none of the funds available to the
Farm Service Agency shall be used to perma-
nently relocate county based employees that
would result in an office with two or fewer
employees without prior notification and ap-
proval of the Committees on Appropriations
of both Houses of Congress.
STATE MEDIATION GRANTS
For grants pursuant to section 502(b) of the
Agricultural Credit Act of 1987, as amended
(7 U.S.C. 5101–5106), $5,545,000.
GRASSROOTS SOURCE WATER PROTECTION
PROGRAM
For necessary expenses to carry out well-
head or groundwater protection activities
under section 1240O of the Food Security Act
of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839bb–2), $6,500,000, to re-
main available until expended.
DAIRY INDEMNITY PROGRAM
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses involved in making
indemnity payments to dairy farmers and
manufacturers of dairy products under a
dairy indemnity program, such sums as may
be necessary, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such program is car-
ried out by the Secretary in the same man-
ner as the dairy indemnity program de-
scribed in the Agriculture, Rural Develop-
ment, Food and Drug Administration, and
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001
(Public Law 106–387, 114 Stat. 1549A–12).
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT INSURANCE FUND
PROGRAM ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For gross obligations for the principal
amount of direct and guaranteed farm own-
ership (7 U.S.C. 1922 et seq.) and operating (7
U.S.C. 1941 et seq.) loans, emergency loans (7
U.S.C. 1961 et seq.), Indian tribe land acquisi-
tion loans (25 U.S.C. 488), boll weevil loans (7
U.S.C. 1989), guaranteed conservation loans
(7 U.S.C. 1924 et seq.), and Indian highly
fractionated land loans (25 U.S.C. 488) to be
available from funds in the Agricultural
Credit Insurance Fund, as follows:
$2,750,000,000 for guaranteed farm ownership
loans and $1,500,000,000 for farm ownership di-
rect loans; $1,960,000,000 for unsubsidized
guaranteed operating loans and $1,550,133,000
for direct operating loans; emergency loans,
$37,668,000; Indian tribe land acquisition
loans, $20,000,000; guaranteed conservation
loans, $150,000,000; Indian highly fractionated
land loans, $10,000,000; and for boll weevil
eradication program loans, $60,000,000: Pro-
vided, That the Secretary shall deem the
pink bollworm to be a boll weevil for the
purpose of boll weevil eradication program
loans.
For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans
and grants, including the cost of modifying
loans as defined in section 502 of the Con-
gressional Budget Act of 1974, as follows:
farm operating loans, $58,440,000 for direct
operating loans, $20,972,000 for unsubsidized
guaranteed operating loans, emergency
loans, $2,023,000 and $2,745,000 for Indian high-
ly fractionated land loans, and $60,000 for
boll weevil eradication loans, to remain
available until expended.
In addition, for administrative expenses
necessary to carry out the direct and guar-
anteed loan programs, $319,762,000: Provided,
That of this amount, $294,114,000 shall be
transferred to and merged with the appro-
priation for ‘‘Farm Service Agency, Salaries
and Expenses’’: Provided further, That of this
amount $16,081,000 shall be transferred to and
merged with the appropriation for ‘‘Farm
Production and Conservation Business Cen-
ter, Salaries and Expenses’’.
Funds appropriated by this Act to the Ag-
ricultural Credit Insurance Program Ac-
count for farm ownership, operating and con-
servation direct loans and guaranteed loans
may be transferred among these programs:
Provided, That the Committees on Appropria-
tions of both Houses of Congress are notified
at least 15 days in advance of any transfer.
RISK MANAGEMENT AGENCY
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Risk Man-
agement Agency, $58,361,000: Provided, That
$2,000,000 shall be available for compliance
and integrity activities required under sec-
tion 516(b)(2)(C) of the Federal Crop Insur-
ance Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1516(b)(2)(C)) in ad-
dition to other amounts provided: Provided
further, That not to exceed $1,000 shall be
available for official reception and represen-
tation expenses, as authorized by 7 U.S.C.
1506(i).
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE
CONSERVATION OPERATIONS
For necessary expenses for carrying out
the provisions of the Act of April 27, 1935 (16
U.S.C. 590a–f), including preparation of con-
servation plans and establishment of meas-
ures to conserve soil and water (including
farm irrigation and land drainage and such
special measures for soil and water manage-
ment as may be necessary to prevent floods
and the siltation of reservoirs and to control
agricultural related pollutants); operation of
conservation plant materials centers; classi-
fication and mapping of soil; dissemination
of information; acquisition of lands, water,
and interests therein for use in the plant ma-
terials program by donation, exchange, or
purchase at a nominal cost not to exceed $100
pursuant to the Act of August 3, 1956 (7
U.S.C. 428a); purchase and erection or alter-
ation or improvement of permanent and tem-
porary buildings; and operation and mainte-
nance of aircraft, $835,228,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2021: Provided,
That appropriations hereunder shall be
available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2250 for con-
struction and improvement of buildings and
public improvements at plant materials cen-
ters, except that the cost of alterations and
improvements to other buildings and other
public improvements shall not exceed
$250,000: Provided further, That when build-
ings or other structures are erected on non-
Federal land, that the right to use such land
is obtained as provided in 7 U.S.C. 2250a: Pro-
vided further, That of the amounts made
available under this heading, $11,200,000,
shall remain available until expended for the
authorities under 16 U.S.C. 1001–1005 and
1007–1009 for authorized ongoing watershed
projects with a primary purpose of providing
water to rural communities.
WATERSHED AND FLOOD PREVENTION
OPERATIONS
For necessary expenses to carry out pre-
ventive measures, including but not limited
to surveys and investigations, engineering
operations, works of improvement, and
changes in use of land, in accordance with
the Watershed Protection and Flood Preven-
tion Act (16 U.S.C. 1001–1005 and 1007–1009)
and in accordance with the provisions of
laws relating to the activities of the Depart-
ment, $175,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That for funds provided
by this Act or any other prior Act, the limi-
tation regarding the size of the watershed or
subwatershed exceeding two hundred and
fifty thousand acres in which such activities
can be undertaken shall only apply for ac-
tivities undertaken for the primary purpose
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5995
October 22, 2019
of flood prevention (including structural and
land treatment measures): Provided further,
That of the amounts made available under
this heading, $70,000,000 shall be allocated to
projects and activities that can commence
promptly following enactment; that address
regional priorities for flood prevention, agri-
cultural water management, inefficient irri-
gation systems, fish and wildlife habitat, or
watershed protection; or that address au-
thorized ongoing projects under the authori-
ties of section 13 of the Flood Control Act of
December 22, 1944 (Public Law 78–534) with a
primary purpose of watershed protection by
preventing floodwater damage and stabi-
lizing stream channels, tributaries, and
banks to reduce erosion and sediment trans-
port.
CORPORATIONS
The following corporations and agencies
are hereby authorized to make expenditures,
within the limits of funds and borrowing au-
thority available to each such corporation or
agency and in accord with law, and to make
contracts and commitments without regard
to fiscal year limitations as provided by sec-
tion 104 of the Government Corporation Con-
trol Act as may be necessary in carrying out
the programs set forth in the budget for the
current fiscal year for such corporation or
agency, except as hereinafter provided.
FEDERAL CROP INSURANCE CORPORATION FUND
For payments as authorized by section 516
of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C.
1516), such sums as may be necessary, to re-
main available until expended.
COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION FUND
REIMBURSEMENT FOR NET REALIZED LOSSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For the current fiscal year, such sums as
may be necessary to reimburse the Com-
modity Credit Corporation for net realized
losses sustained, but not previously reim-
bursed, pursuant to section 2 of the Act of
August 17, 1961 (15 U.S.C. 713a–11): Provided,
That of the funds available to the Com-
modity Credit Corporation under section 11
of the Commodity Credit Corporation Char-
ter Act (15 U.S.C. 714i) for the conduct of its
business with the Foreign Agricultural Serv-
ice, up to $5,000,000 may be transferred to and
used by the Foreign Agricultural Service for
information resource management activities
of the Foreign Agricultural Service that are
not related to Commodity Credit Corpora-
tion business.
HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT
(LIMITATION ON EXPENSES)
For the current fiscal year, the Commodity
Credit Corporation shall not expend more
than $5,000,000 for site investigation and
cleanup expenses, and operations and main-
tenance expenses to comply with the require-
ment of section 107(g) of the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9607(g)), and section
6001 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42
U.S.C. 6961).
TITLE III
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR RURAL
DEVELOPMENT
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Under Secretary for Rural Development,
$800,000.
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses for carrying out
the administration and implementation of
Rural Development programs, including ac-
tivities with institutions concerning the de-
velopment and operation of agricultural co-
operatives; and for cooperative agreements;
$242,005,000: Provided, That notwithstanding
any other provision of law, funds appro-
priated under this heading may be used for
advertising and promotional activities that
support Rural Development programs: Pro-
vided further, That in addition to any other
funds appropriated for purposes authorized
by section 502(i) of the Housing Act of 1949
(42 U.S.C. 1472(i)), any amounts collected
under such section, as amended by this Act,
will immediately be credited to this account
and will remain available until expended for
such purposes.
RURAL HOUSING SERVICE
RURAL HOUSING INSURANCE FUND PROGRAM
ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For gross obligations for the principal
amount of direct and guaranteed loans as au-
thorized by title V of the Housing Act of
1949, to be available from funds in the rural
housing insurance fund, as follows:
$1,000,000,000 shall be for direct loans and
$24,000,000,000 shall be for unsubsidized guar-
anteed loans; $28,000,000 for section 504 hous-
ing repair loans; $40,000,000 for section 515
rental housing; $230,000,000 for section 538
guaranteed multi-family housing loans;
$10,000,000 for credit sales of single family
housing acquired property; $5,000,000 for sec-
tion 523 self-help housing land development
loans; and $5,000,000 for section 524 site devel-
opment loans.
For the cost of direct and guaranteed
loans, including the cost of modifying loans,
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974, as follows: section 502
loans, $90,000,000 shall be for direct loans;
section 504 housing repair loans, $4,679,000;
section 523 self-help housing land develop-
ment loans, $577,000; section 524 site develop-
ment loans, $546,000; and repair, rehabilita-
tion, and new construction of section 515
rental housing, $12,144,000: Provided, That to
support the loan program level for section
538 guaranteed loans made available under
this heading the Secretary may charge or ad-
just any fees to cover the projected cost of
such loan guarantees pursuant to the provi-
sions of the Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2
U.S.C. 661 et seq.), and the interest on such
loans may not be subsidized: Provided further,
That applicants in communities that have a
current rural area waiver under section 541
of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490q)
shall be treated as living in a rural area for
purposes of section 502 guaranteed loans pro-
vided under this heading: Provided further,
That of the amounts available under this
paragraph for section 502 direct loans, no less
than $5,000,000 shall be available for direct
loans for individuals whose homes will be
built pursuant to a program funded with a
mutual and self-help housing grant author-
ized by section 523 of the Housing Act of 1949
until June 1, 2020: Provided further, That the
Secretary shall implement provisions to pro-
vide incentives to nonprofit organizations
and public housing authorities to facilitate
the acquisition of Rural Housing Service
(RHS) multifamily housing properties by
such nonprofit organizations and public
housing authorities that commit to keep
such properties in the RHS multifamily
housing program for a period of time as de-
termined by the Secretary, with such incen-
tives to include, but not be limited to, the
following: allow such nonprofit entities and
public housing authorities to earn a Return
on Investment on their own resources to in-
clude proceeds from low income housing tax
credit syndication, own contributions,
grants, and developer loans at favorable
rates and terms, invested in a deal; and allow
reimbursement of organizational costs asso-
ciated with owner’s oversight of asset re-
ferred to as ‘‘Asset Management Fee’’ of up
to $7,500 per property.
In addition, for the cost of direct loans,
grants, and contracts, as authorized by sec-
tions 514 and 516 of the Housing Act of 1949
(42 U.S.C. 1484, 1486), $18,583,000, to remain
available until expended, for direct farm
labor housing loans and domestic farm labor
housing grants and contracts: Provided, That
any balances available for the Farm Labor
Program Account shall be transferred to and
merged with this account.
In addition, for administrative expenses
necessary to carry out the direct and guar-
anteed loan programs, $412,254,000 shall be
transferred to and merged with the appro-
priation for ‘‘Rural Development, Salaries
and Expenses’’.
RENTAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
For rental assistance agreements entered
into or renewed pursuant to the authority
under section 521(a)(2) of the Housing Act of
1949 or agreements entered into in lieu of
debt forgiveness or payments for eligible
households as authorized by section
502(c)(5)(D) of the Housing Act of 1949,
$1,375,000,000, of which $40,000,000 shall be
available until September 30, 2021; and in ad-
dition such sums as may be necessary, as au-
thorized by section 521(c) of the Act, to liq-
uidate debt incurred prior to fiscal year 1992
to carry out the rental assistance program
under section 521(a)(2) of the Act: Provided,
That rental assistance agreements entered
into or renewed during the current fiscal
year shall be funded for a one-year period:
Provided further, That any unexpended bal-
ances remaining at the end of such one-year
agreements may be transferred and used for
purposes of any debt reduction; mainte-
nance, repair, or rehabilitation of any exist-
ing projects; preservation; and rental assist-
ance activities authorized under title V of
the Act: Provided further, That rental assist-
ance provided under agreements entered into
prior to fiscal year 2020 for a farm labor
multi-family housing project financed under
section 514 or 516 of the Act may not be re-
captured for use in another project until
such assistance has remained unused for a
period of 12 consecutive months, if such
project has a waiting list of tenants seeking
such assistance or the project has rental as-
sistance eligible tenants who are not receiv-
ing such assistance: Provided further, That
such recaptured rental assistance shall, to
the extent practicable, be applied to another
farm labor multi-family housing project fi-
nanced under section 514 or 516 of the Act:
Provided further, That except as provided in
the third proviso under this heading and not-
withstanding any other provision of the Act,
the Secretary may recapture rental assist-
ance provided under agreements entered into
prior to fiscal year 2020 for a project that the
Secretary determines no longer needs rental
assistance and use such recaptured funds for
current needs.
MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING REVITALIZATION
PROGRAM ACCOUNT
For the rural housing voucher program as
authorized under section 542 of the Housing
Act of 1949, but notwithstanding subsection
(b) of such section, and for additional costs
to conduct a demonstration program for the
preservation and revitalization of multi-fam-
ily rental housing properties described in
this paragraph, $56,500,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That of the
funds made available under this heading,
$32,000,000, shall be available for rural hous-
ing vouchers to any low-income household
(including those not receiving rental assist-
ance) residing in a property financed with a
section 515 loan which has been prepaid after
September 30, 2005: Provided further, That the
amount of such voucher shall be the dif-
ference between comparable market rent for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5996 October 22, 2019
the section 515 unit and the tenant paid rent
for such unit: Provided further, That funds
made available for such vouchers shall be
subject to the availability of annual appro-
priations: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary shall, to the maximum extent prac-
ticable, administer such vouchers with cur-
rent regulations and administrative guid-
ance applicable to section 8 housing vouchers
administered by the Secretary of the Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Development:
Provided further, That if the Secretary deter-
mines that the amount made available for
vouchers in this or any other Act is not
needed for vouchers, the Secretary may use
such funds for the demonstration program
for the preservation and revitalization of
multi-family rental housing properties de-
scribed in this paragraph: Provided further,
That of the funds made available under this
heading, $24,500,000 shall be available for a
demonstration program for the preservation
and revitalization of the sections 514, 515,
and 516 multi-family rental housing prop-
erties to restructure existing USDA multi-
family housing loans, as the Secretary deems
appropriate, expressly for the purposes of en-
suring the project has sufficient resources to
preserve the project for the purpose of pro-
viding safe and affordable housing for low-in-
come residents and farm laborers including
reducing or eliminating interest; deferring
loan payments, subordinating, reducing or
reamortizing loan debt; and other financial
assistance including advances, payments and
incentives (including the ability of owners to
obtain reasonable returns on investment) re-
quired by the Secretary: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall as part of the pres-
ervation and revitalization agreement obtain
a restrictive use agreement consistent with
the terms of the restructuring: Provided fur-
ther, That if the Secretary determines that
additional funds for vouchers described in
this paragraph are needed, funds for the pres-
ervation and revitalization demonstration
program may be used for such vouchers: Pro-
vided further, That if Congress enacts legisla-
tion to permanently authorize a multi-fam-
ily rental housing loan restructuring pro-
gram similar to the demonstration program
described herein, the Secretary may use
funds made available for the demonstration
program under this heading to carry out
such legislation with the prior approval of
the Committees on Appropriations of both
Houses of Congress: Provided further, That in
addition to any other available funds, the
Secretary may expend not more than
$1,000,000 total, from the program funds made
available under this heading, for administra-
tive expenses for activities funded under this
heading.
MUTUAL AND SELF-HELP HOUSING GRANTS
For grants and contracts pursuant to sec-
tion 523(b)(1)(A) of the Housing Act of 1949 (42
U.S.C. 1490c), $30,000,000, to remain available
until expended.
RURAL HOUSING ASSISTANCE GRANTS
For grants for very low-income housing re-
pair and rural housing preservation made by
the Rural Housing Service, as authorized by
42 U.S.C. 1474, and 1490m, $45,000,000, to re-
main available until expended.
RURAL COMMUNITY FACILITIES PROGRAM
ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For gross obligations for the principal
amount of direct and guaranteed loans as au-
thorized by section 306 and described in sec-
tion 381E(d)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and
Rural Development Act, $2,800,000,000 for di-
rect loans and $500,000,000 for guaranteed
loans.
For the cost of grants for rural community
facilities programs as authorized by section
306 and described in section 381E(d)(1) of the
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development
Act, $45,778,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That $6,000,000 of the
amount appropriated under this heading
shall be available for a Rural Community
Development Initiative: Provided further,
That such funds shall be used solely to de-
velop the capacity and ability of private,
nonprofit community-based housing and
community development organizations, low-
income rural communities, and Federally
Recognized Native American Tribes to un-
dertake projects to improve housing, com-
munity facilities, community and economic
development projects in rural areas: Provided
further, That such funds shall be made avail-
able to qualified private, nonprofit and pub-
lic intermediary organizations proposing to
carry out a program of financial and tech-
nical assistance: Provided further, That such
intermediary organizations shall provide
matching funds from other sources, includ-
ing Federal funds for related activities, in an
amount not less than funds provided: Pro-
vided further, That $5,778,000 of the amount
appropriated under this heading shall be to
provide grants for facilities in rural commu-
nities with extreme unemployment and se-
vere economic depression (Public Law 106–
387), with up to 5 percent for administration
and capacity building in the State rural de-
velopment offices: Provided further, That
$4,000,000 of the amount appropriated under
this heading shall be available for commu-
nity facilities grants to tribal colleges, as
authorized by section 306(a)(19) of such Act:
Provided further, That sections 381E–H and
381N of the Consolidated Farm and Rural De-
velopment Act are not applicable to the
funds made available under this heading.
RURAL BUSINESS—COOPERATIVE SERVICE
RURAL BUSINESS PROGRAM ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For the cost of loan guarantees and grants,
for the rural business development programs
authorized by section 310B and described in
subsections (a), (c), (f) and (g) of section 310B
of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Develop-
ment Act, $65,475,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That of the amount
appropriated under this heading, not to ex-
ceed $500,000 shall be made available for one
grant to a qualified national organization to
provide technical assistance for rural trans-
portation in order to promote economic de-
velopment and $9,000,000 shall be for grants
to the Delta Regional Authority (7 U.S.C.
2009aa et seq.), the Northern Border Regional
Commission (40 U.S.C. 15101 et seq.), and the
Appalachian Regional Commission (40 U.S.C.
14101 et seq.) for any Rural Community Ad-
vancement Program purpose as described in
section 381E(d) of the Consolidated Farm and
Rural Development Act, of which not more
than 5 percent may be used for administra-
tive expenses: Provided further, That
$4,000,000 of the amount appropriated under
this heading shall be for business grants to
benefit Federally Recognized Native Amer-
ican Tribes, including $250,000 for a grant to
a qualified national organization to provide
technical assistance for rural transportation
in order to promote economic development:
Provided further, That sections 381E–H and
381N of the Consolidated Farm and Rural De-
velopment Act are not applicable to funds
made available under this heading.
INTERMEDIARY RELENDING PROGRAM FUND
ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For the principal amount of direct loans,
as authorized by the Intermediary Relending
Program Fund Account (7 U.S.C. 1936b),
$18,889,000.
For the cost of direct loans, $5,219,000, as
authorized by the Intermediary Relending
Program Fund Account (7 U.S.C. 1936b), of
which $557,000 shall be available through
June 30, 2020, for Federally Recognized Na-
tive American Tribes; and of which $1,072,000
shall be available through June 30, 2020, for
Mississippi Delta Region counties (as deter-
mined in accordance with Public Law 100–
460): Provided, That such costs, including the
cost of modifying such loans, shall be as de-
fined in section 502 of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974.
In addition, for administrative expenses to
carry out the direct loan programs, $4,468,000
shall be transferred to and merged with the
appropriation for ‘‘Rural Development, Sala-
ries and Expenses’’.
RURAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT LOANS
PROGRAM ACCOUNT
For the principal amount of direct loans,
as authorized under section 313B(a) of the
Rural Electrification Act, for the purpose of
promoting rural economic development and
job creation projects, $50,000,000.
The cost of grants authorized under sec-
tion 313B(a) of the Rural Electrification Act,
for the purpose of promoting rural economic
development and job creation projects shall
not exceed $10,000,000.
RURAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT GRANTS
For rural cooperative development grants
authorized under section 310B(e) of the Con-
solidated Farm and Rural Development Act
(7 U.S.C. 1932), $15,600,000, of which $2,800,000
shall be for cooperative agreements for the
appropriate technology transfer for rural
areas program: Provided, That not to exceed
$3,000,000 shall be for grants for cooperative
development centers, individual coopera-
tives, or groups of cooperatives that serve
socially disadvantaged groups and a major-
ity of the boards of directors or governing
boards of which are comprised of individuals
who are members of socially disadvantaged
groups; and of which $3,000,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be for Agri-
culture Innovation Centers authorized pursu-
ant to section 6402 of Public Law 107–171.
RURAL ENERGY FOR AMERICA PROGRAM
For the cost of a program of loan guaran-
tees, under the same terms and conditions as
authorized by section 9007 of the Farm Secu-
rity and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7
U.S.C. 8107), $706,000: Provided, That the cost
of loan guarantees, including the cost of
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act
of 1974.
RURAL UTILITIES SERVICE
RURAL WATER AND WASTE DISPOSAL PROGRAM
ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For the cost of direct loans, loan guaran-
tees and grants for rural water, waste water,
waste disposal, and solid waste management
programs authorized by sections 306, 306A,
306C, 306D, 306E, and 310B and described in
sections 306C(a)(2), 306D, 306E, and 381E(d)(2)
of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Develop-
ment Act, $484,980,000, to remain available
until expended, of which not to exceed
$1,000,000 shall be available for the rural util-
ities program described in section
306(a)(2)(B) of such Act, and of which not to
exceed $1,500,000 shall be available for the
rural utilities program described in section
306E of such Act: Provided, That not to ex-
ceed $15,000,000 of the amount appropriated
under this heading shall be for grants au-
thorized by section 306A(i)(2) of the Consoli-
dated Farm and Rural Development Act in
addition to funding authorized by section
306A(i)(1) of such Act: Provided further, That
$68,000,000 of the amount appropriated under
this heading shall be for loans and grants in-
cluding water and waste disposal systems
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5997
October 22, 2019
grants authorized by section 306C(a)(2)(B)
and section 306D of the Consolidated Farm
and Rural Development Act, and Federally
Recognized Native American Tribes author-
ized by 306C(a)(1) of such Act: Provided fur-
ther, That funding provided for section 306D
of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Develop-
ment Act may be provided to a consortium
formed pursuant to section 325 of Public Law
105–83: Provided further, That not more than 2
percent of the funding provided for section
306D of the Consolidated Farm and Rural De-
velopment Act may be used by the State of
Alaska for training and technical assistance
programs and not more than 2 percent of the
funding provided for section 306D of the Con-
solidated Farm and Rural Development Act
may be used by a consortium formed pursu-
ant to section 325 of Public Law 105–83 for
training and technical assistance programs:
Provided further, That not to exceed
$30,000,000 of the amount appropriated under
this heading shall be for technical assistance
grants for rural water and waste systems
pursuant to section 306(a)(14) of such Act, un-
less the Secretary makes a determination of
extreme need, of which $8,000,000 shall be
made available for a grant to a qualified
nonprofit multi-State regional technical as-
sistance organization, with experience in
working with small communities on water
and waste water problems, the principal pur-
pose of such grant shall be to assist rural
communities with populations of 3,300 or
less, in improving the planning, financing,
development, operation, and management of
water and waste water systems, and of which
not less than $800,000 shall be for a qualified
national Native American organization to
provide technical assistance for rural water
systems for tribal communities: Provided fur-
ther, That not to exceed $19,570,000 of the
amount appropriated under this heading
shall be for contracting with qualified na-
tional organizations for a circuit rider pro-
gram to provide technical assistance for
rural water systems: Provided further, That
not to exceed $4,000,000 shall be for solid
waste management grants: Provided further,
That $10,000,000 of the amount appropriated
under this heading shall be transferred to,
and merged with, the Rural Utilities Service,
High Energy Cost Grants Account to provide
grants authorized under section 19 of the
Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C.
918a): Provided further, That any prior year
balances for high-energy cost grants author-
ized by section 19 of the Rural Electrifica-
tion Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 918a) shall be trans-
ferred to and merged with the Rural Utilities
Service, High Energy Cost Grants Account:
Provided further, That sections 381E–H and
381N of the Consolidated Farm and Rural De-
velopment Act are not applicable to the
funds made available under this heading.
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION AND TELECOMMUNI-
CATIONS LOANS PROGRAM ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
The principal amount of direct and guaran-
teed loans as authorized by sections 305, 306,
and 317 of the Rural Electrification Act of
1936 (7 U.S.C. 935, 936, and 940g) shall be made
as follows: loans made pursuant to sections
305, 306, and 317, notwithstanding 317(c), of
that Act, rural electric, $5,500,000,000; guar-
anteed underwriting loans pursuant to sec-
tion 313A, $750,000,000; 5 percent rural tele-
communications loans, cost of money rural
telecommunications loans, and for loans
made pursuant to section 306 of that Act,
rural telecommunications loans, $690,000,000:
Provided, That up to $2,000,000,000 shall be
used for the construction, acquisition, design
and engineering or improvement of fossil-
fueled electric generating plants (whether
new or existing) that utilize carbon sub-
surface utilization and storage systems.
For the cost of direct loans as authorized
by section 305 of the Rural Electrification
Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 935), including the cost
of modifying loans, as defined in section 502
of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, cost
of money rural telecommunications loans,
$3,795,000.
In addition, for administrative expenses
necessary to carry out the direct and guar-
anteed loan programs, $33,270,000, which shall
be transferred to and merged with the appro-
priation for ‘‘Rural Development, Salaries
and Expenses’’.
DISTANCE LEARNING, TELEMEDICINE, AND
BROADBAND PROGRAM
For the principal amount of broadband
telecommunication loans, $29,851,000.
For grants for telemedicine and distance
learning services in rural areas, as author-
ized by 7 U.S.C. 950aaa et seq., $34,000,000, to
remain available until expended: Provided,
That $3,000,000 shall be made available for
grants authorized by 379G of the Consoli-
dated Farm and Rural Development Act: Pro-
vided further, That funding provided under
this heading for grants under 379G of the
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development
Act may only be provided to entities that
meet all of the eligibility criteria for a con-
sortium as established by this section.
For the cost of broadband loans, as author-
ized by section 601 of the Rural Electrifica-
tion Act, $5,340,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That the cost of direct
loans shall be as defined in section 502 of the
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
In addition, $30,000,000, to remain available
until expended, for a grant program to fi-
nance broadband transmission in rural areas
eligible for Distance Learning and Telemedi-
cine Program benefits authorized by 7 U.S.C.
950aaa.
TITLE IV
DOMESTIC FOOD PROGRAMS
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR FOOD,
NUTRITION, AND CONSUMER SERVICES
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition, and
Consumer Services, $800,000: Provided, That
funds made available by this Act to an agen-
cy in the Food, Nutrition and Consumer
Services mission area for salaries and ex-
penses are available to fund up to one admin-
istrative support staff for the Office.
FOOD AND NUTRITION SERVICE
CHILD NUTRITION PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses to carry out the
Richard B. Russell National School Lunch
Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), except section 21,
and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C.
1771 et seq.), except sections 17 and 21;
$23,602,569,000 to remain available through
September 30, 2021, of which such sums as are
made available under section 14222(b)(1) of
the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of
2008 (Public Law 110–246), as amended by this
Act, shall be merged with and available for
the same time period and purposes as pro-
vided herein: Provided, That of the total
amount available, $12,475,000 shall be avail-
able to carry out section 19 of the Child Nu-
trition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.):
Provided further, That of the total amount
available, $30,000,000 shall be available to
provide competitive grants to State agencies
for subgrants to local educational agencies
and schools to purchase the equipment, with
a value of greater than $1,000, needed to
serve healthier meals, improve food safety,
and to help support the establishment, main-
tenance, or expansion of the school breakfast
program: Provided further, That of the total
amount available, $28,000,000 shall remain
available until expended to carry out section
749(g) of the Agriculture Appropriations Act
of 2010 (Public Law 111–80): Provided further,
That section 26(d) of the Richard B. Russell
National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C.
1769g(d)) is amended in the first sentence by
striking ‘‘2010 through 2019’’ and inserting
‘‘2010 through 2020’’: Provided further, That
section 9(h)(3) of the Richard B. Russell Na-
tional School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(h)(3))
is amended in the first sentence by striking
‘‘For fiscal year 2019’’ and inserting ‘‘For fis-
cal year 2020’’: Provided further, That section
9(h)(4) of the Richard B. Russell National
School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(h)(4)) is
amended in the first sentence by striking
‘‘For fiscal year 2019’’ and inserting ‘‘For fis-
cal year 2020’’.
SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM
FOR WOMEN, INFANTS, AND CHILDREN (WIC)
For necessary expenses to carry out the
special supplemental nutrition program as
authorized by section 17 of the Child Nutri-
tion Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786), $6,000,000,000,
to remain available through September 30,
2021: Provided, That notwithstanding section
17(h)(10) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42
U.S.C. 1786(h)(10)), not less than $80,000,000
shall be used for breastfeeding peer coun-
selors and other related activities, and
$19,000,000 shall be used for infrastructure:
Provided further, That none of the funds pro-
vided in this account shall be available for
the purchase of infant formula except in ac-
cordance with the cost containment and
competitive bidding requirements specified
in section 17 of such Act: Provided further,
That none of the funds provided shall be
available for activities that are not fully re-
imbursed by other Federal Government de-
partments or agencies unless authorized by
section 17 of such Act: Provided further, That
upon termination of a federally mandated
vendor moratorium and subject to terms and
conditions established by the Secretary, the
Secretary may waive the requirement at 7
CFR 246.12(g)(6) at the request of a State
agency.
SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION ASSISTANCE
PROGRAM
For necessary expenses to carry out the
Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2011
et seq.), $69,163,287,000, of which $3,000,000,000,
to remain available through December 31,
2021, shall be placed in reserve for use only in
such amounts and at such times as may be-
come necessary to carry out program oper-
ations: Provided, That funds provided herein
shall be expended in accordance with section
16 of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008: Pro-
vided further, That of the funds made avail-
able under this heading, $998,000 may be used
to provide nutrition education services to
State agencies and Federally Recognized
Tribes participating in the Food Distribution
Program on Indian Reservations: Provided
further, That this appropriation shall be sub-
ject to any work registration or workfare re-
quirements as may be required by law: Pro-
vided further, That funds made available for
Employment and Training under this head-
ing shall remain available through Sep-
tember 30, 2021: Provided further, That funds
made available under this heading for sec-
tion 28(d)(1), section 4(b), and section 27(a) of
the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 shall re-
main available through September 30, 2021:
Provided further, That none of the funds made
available under this heading may be obli-
gated or expended in contravention of sec-
tion 213A of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1183A): Provided further,
That funds made available under this head-
ing may be used to enter into contracts and
employ staff to conduct studies, evaluations,
or to conduct activities related to program
integrity provided that such activities are
authorized by the Food and Nutrition Act of
2008.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5998 October 22, 2019
COMMODITY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
For necessary expenses to carry out dis-
aster assistance and the Commodity Supple-
mental Food Program as authorized by sec-
tion 4(a) of the Agriculture and Consumer
Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c note);
the Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1983;
special assistance for the nuclear affected is-
lands, as authorized by section 103(f)(2) of the
Compact of Free Association Amendments
Act of 2003 (Public Law 108–188); and the
Farmers’ Market Nutrition Program, as au-
thorized by section 17(m) of the Child Nutri-
tion Act of 1966, $344,248,000, to remain avail-
able through September 30, 2021: Provided,
That none of these funds shall be available
to reimburse the Commodity Credit Corpora-
tion for commodities donated to the pro-
gram: Provided further, That notwithstanding
any other provision of law, effective with
funds made available in fiscal year 2020 to
support the Seniors Farmers’ Market Nutri-
tion Program, as authorized by section 4402
of the Farm Security and Rural Investment
Act of 2002, such funds shall remain available
through September 30, 2021: Provided further,
That of the funds made available under sec-
tion 27(a) of the Food and Nutrition Act of
2008 (7 U.S.C. 2036(a)), the Secretary may use
up to 15 percent for costs associated with the
distribution of commodities.
NUTRITION PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION
For necessary administrative expenses of
the Food and Nutrition Service for carrying
out any domestic nutrition assistance pro-
gram, $160,891,000: Provided, That of the funds
provided herein, $2,000,000 shall be used for
the purposes of section 4404 of Public Law
107–171, as amended by section 4401 of Public
Law 110–246.
TITLE V
FOREIGN ASSISTANCE AND RELATED
PROGRAMS
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR TRADE
AND FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL AFFAIRS
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Under Secretary for Trade and Foreign Agri-
cultural Affairs, $875,000: Provided, That
funds made available by this Act to any
agency in the Trade and Foreign Agricul-
tural Affairs mission area for salaries and
expenses are available to fund up to one ad-
ministrative support staff for the Office.
OFFICE OF CODEX ALIMENTARIUS
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Codex Alimentarius, $4,775,000, including not
to exceed $40,000 for official reception and
representation expenses.
FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL SERVICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Foreign Ag-
ricultural Service, including not to exceed
$250,000 for representation allowances and for
expenses pursuant to section 8 of the Act ap-
proved August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 1766),
$217,920,000, of which no more than 6 percent
shall remain available until September 30,
2021, for overseas operations to include the
payment of locally employed staff: Provided,
That the Service may utilize advances of
funds, or reimburse this appropriation for ex-
penditures made on behalf of Federal agen-
cies, public and private organizations and in-
stitutions under agreements executed pursu-
ant to the agricultural food production as-
sistance programs (7 U.S.C. 1737) and the for-
eign assistance programs of the United
States Agency for International Develop-
ment: Provided further, That funds made
available for middle-income country training
programs, funds made available for the
Borlaug International Agricultural Science
and Technology Fellowship program, and up
to $2,000,000 of the Foreign Agricultural
Service appropriation solely for the purpose
of offsetting fluctuations in international
currency exchange rates, subject to docu-
mentation by the Foreign Agricultural Serv-
ice, shall remain available until expended.
FOOD FOR PEACE TITLE I DIRECT CREDIT AND
FOOD FOR PROGRESS PROGRAM ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For administrative expenses to carry out
the credit program of title I, Food for Peace
Act (Public Law 83–480) and the Food for
Progress Act of 1985, $142,000, shall be trans-
ferred to and merged with the appropriation
for ‘‘Farm Service Agency, Salaries and Ex-
penses’’.
FOOD FOR PEACE TITLE II GRANTS
For expenses during the current fiscal
year, not otherwise recoverable, and unre-
covered prior years’ costs, including interest
thereon, under the Food for Peace Act (Pub-
lic Law 83–480), for commodities supplied in
connection with dispositions abroad under
title II of said Act, $1,716,000,000, to remain
available until expended.
MCGOVERN-DOLE INTERNATIONAL FOOD FOR
EDUCATION AND CHILD NUTRITION PROGRAM
GRANTS
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of section 3107 of the Farm Secu-
rity and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7
U.S.C. 1736o–1), $210,255,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That the Com-
modity Credit Corporation is authorized to
provide the services, facilities, and authori-
ties for the purpose of implementing such
section, subject to reimbursement from
amounts provided herein: Provided further,
That of the amount made available under
this heading, not more than 10 percent, but
not less than $15,000,000, shall remain avail-
able until expended to purchase agricultural
commodities as described in subsection
3107(a)(2) of the Farm Security and Rural In-
vestment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 1736o–1(a)(2)).
COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION EXPORT
(LOANS) CREDIT GUARANTEE PROGRAM ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For administrative expenses to carry out
the Commodity Credit Corporation’s Export
Guarantee Program, GSM 102 and GSM 103,
$6,381,000, to cover common overhead ex-
penses as permitted by section 11 of the Com-
modity Credit Corporation Charter Act and
in conformity with the Federal Credit Re-
form Act of 1990, of which $6,063,000 shall be
transferred to and merged with the appro-
priation for ‘‘Foreign Agricultural Service,
Salaries and Expenses’’, and of which $318,000
shall be transferred to and merged with the
appropriation for ‘‘Farm Service Agency,
Salaries and Expenses’’.
TITLE VI
RELATED AGENCY AND FOOD AND DRUG
ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Food and
Drug Administration, including hire and pur-
chase of passenger motor vehicles; for pay-
ment of space rental and related costs pursu-
ant to Public Law 92–313 for programs and
activities of the Food and Drug Administra-
tion which are included in this Act; for rent-
al of special purpose space in the District of
Columbia or elsewhere; in addition to
amounts appropriated to the FDA Innova-
tion Account, for carrying out the activities
described in section 1002(b)(4) of the 21st Cen-
tury Cures Act (Public Law 114–255); for mis-
cellaneous and emergency expenses of en-
forcement activities, authorized and ap-
proved by the Secretary and to be accounted
for solely on the Secretary’s certificate, not
to exceed $25,000; and notwithstanding sec-
tion 521 of Public Law 107–188; $5,761,442,000:
Provided, That of the amount provided under
this heading, $1,074,714,000 shall be derived
from prescription drug user fees authorized
by 21 U.S.C. 379h, and shall be credited to
this account and remain available until ex-
pended; $220,142,000 shall be derived from
medical device user fees authorized by 21
U.S.C. 379j, and shall be credited to this ac-
count and remain available until expended;
$513,223,000 shall be derived from human ge-
neric drug user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C.
379j–42, and shall be credited to this account
and remain available until expended;
$41,923,000 shall be derived from biosimilar
biological product user fees authorized by 21
U.S.C. 379j–52, and shall be credited to this
account and remain available until ex-
pended; $30,611,000 shall be derived from ani-
mal drug user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C.
379j–12, and shall be credited to this account
and remain available until expended;
$20,151,000 shall be derived from generic new
animal drug user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C.
379j–21, and shall be credited to this account
and remain available until expended;
$712,000,000 shall be derived from tobacco
product user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C.
387s, and shall be credited to this account
and remain available until expended: Pro-
vided further, That in addition to and not-
withstanding any other provision under this
heading, amounts collected for prescription
drug user fees, medical device user fees,
human generic drug user fees, biosimilar bio-
logical product user fees, animal drug user
fees, and generic new animal drug user fees
that exceed the respective fiscal year 2020
limitations are appropriated and shall be
credited to this account and remain avail-
able until expended: Provided further, That
fees derived from prescription drug, medical
device, human generic drug, biosimilar bio-
logical product, animal drug, and generic
new animal drug assessments for fiscal year
2020, including any such fees collected prior
to fiscal year 2020 but credited for fiscal year
2020, shall be subject to the fiscal year 2020
limitations: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary may accept payment during fiscal
year 2020 of user fees specified under this
heading and authorized for fiscal year 2021,
prior to the due date for such fees, and that
amounts of such fees assessed for fiscal year
2021 for which the Secretary accepts pay-
ment in fiscal year 2020 shall not be included
in amounts under this heading: Provided fur-
ther, That none of these funds shall be used
to develop, establish, or operate any program
of user fees authorized by 31 U.S.C. 9701: Pro-
vided further, That of the total amount ap-
propriated: (1) $1,081,356,000 shall be for the
Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutri-
tion and related field activities in the Office
of Regulatory Affairs, of which no less than
$16,000,000 shall be used for inspections of for-
eign seafood manufacturers and field exami-
nations of imported seafood; (2) $1,967,193,000
shall be for the Center for Drug Evaluation
and Research and related field activities in
the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (3)
$419,302,000 shall be for the Center for Bio-
logics Evaluation and Research and for re-
lated field activities in the Office of Regu-
latory Affairs; (4) $240,966,000 shall be for the
Center for Veterinary Medicine and for re-
lated field activities in the Office of Regu-
latory Affairs; (5) $580,486,000 shall be for the
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
and for related field activities in the Office
of Regulatory Affairs; (6) $66,712,000 shall be
for the National Center for Toxicological Re-
search; (7) $661,739,000 shall be for the Center
for Tobacco Products and for related field
activities in the Office of Regulatory Affairs;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5999
October 22, 2019
(8) $189,634,000 shall be for Rent and Related
activities, of which $54,889,000 is for White
Oak Consolidation, other than the amounts
paid to the General Services Administration
for rent; (9) $239,382,000 shall be for payments
to the General Services Administration for
rent; and (10) $314,672,000 shall be for other
activities, including the Office of the Com-
missioner of Food and Drugs, the Office of
Foods and Veterinary Medicine, the Office of
Medical and Tobacco Products, the Office of
Global and Regulatory Policy, the Office of
Operations, the Office of the Chief Scientist,
and central services for these offices: Pro-
vided further, That not to exceed $25,000 of
this amount shall be for official reception
and representation expenses, not otherwise
provided for, as determined by the Commis-
sioner: Provided further, That any transfer of
funds pursuant to section 770(n) of the Fed-
eral Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C.
379dd(n)) shall only be from amounts made
available under this heading for other activi-
ties: Provided further, That of the amounts
that are made available under this heading
for ‘‘other activities’’, and that are not de-
rived from user fees, $1,500,000 shall be trans-
ferred to and merged with the appropriation
for ‘‘Department of Health and Human Serv-
ices—Office of Inspector General’’ for over-
sight of the programs and operations of the
Food and Drug Administration and shall be
in addition to funds otherwise made avail-
able for oversight of the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration: Provided further, That funds
may be transferred from one specified activ-
ity to another with the prior approval of the
Committees on Appropriations of both
Houses of Congress.
In addition, mammography user fees au-
thorized by 42 U.S.C. 263b, export certifi-
cation user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 381,
priority review user fees authorized by 21
U.S.C. 360n and 360ff, food and feed recall
fees, food reinspection fees, and voluntary
qualified importer program fees authorized
by 21 U.S.C. 379j–31, outsourcing facility fees
authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j–62, prescription
drug wholesale distributor licensing and in-
spection fees authorized by 21 U.S.C.
353(e)(3), third-party logistics provider li-
censing and inspection fees authorized by 21
U.S.C. 360eee–3(c)(1), third-party auditor fees
authorized by 21 U.S.C. 384d(c)(8), and med-
ical countermeasure priority review voucher
user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 360bbb–4a,
and, contingent upon the enactment of the
Over-the-Counter Monograph User Fee Act of
2019, fees relating to over-the-counter mono-
graph drugs authorized by part 10 of sub-
chapter C of Chapter VII of the Federal
Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act shall be cred-
ited to this account, to remain available
until expended.
BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
For plans, construction, repair, improve-
ment, extension, alteration, demolition, and
purchase of fixed equipment or facilities of
or used by the Food and Drug Administra-
tion, where not otherwise provided,
$11,788,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
FDA INNOVATION ACCOUNT, CURES ACT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses to carry out the
purposes described under section 1002(b)(4) of
the 21st Century Cures Act, in addition to
amounts available for such purposes under
the heading ‘‘Salaries and Expenses’’,
$75,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That amounts appropriated
in this paragraph are appropriated pursuant
to section 1002(b)(3) of the 21st Century Cures
Act, are to be derived from amounts trans-
ferred under section 1002(b)(2)(A) of such Act,
and may be transferred by the Commissioner
of Food and Drugs to the appropriation for
‘‘Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration Salaries and
Expenses’’ solely for the purposes provided in
such Act: Provided further, That upon a de-
termination by the Commissioner that funds
transferred pursuant to the previous proviso
are not necessary for the purposes provided,
such amounts may be transferred back to
the account: Provided further, That such
transfer authority is in addition to any other
transfer authority provided by law.
INDEPENDENT AGENCY
FARM CREDIT ADMINISTRATION
LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
Not to exceed $77,000,000 (from assessments
collected from farm credit institutions, in-
cluding the Federal Agricultural Mortgage
Corporation) shall be obligated during the
current fiscal year for administrative ex-
penses as authorized under 12 U.S.C. 2249:
Provided, That this limitation shall not
apply to expenses associated with receiver-
ships: Provided further, That the agency may
exceed this limitation by up to 10 percent
with notification to the Committees on Ap-
propriations of both Houses of Congress.
TITLE VII
GENERAL PROVISIONS
(INCLUDING RESCISSIONS AND TRANSFERS OF
FUNDS)
SEC. 701. Within the unit limit of cost fixed
by law, appropriations and authorizations
made for the Department of Agriculture for
the current fiscal year under this Act shall
be available for the purchase, in addition to
those specifically provided for, of not to ex-
ceed 71 passenger motor vehicles of which 68
shall be for replacement only, and for the
hire of such vehicles: Provided, That notwith-
standing this section, the only purchase of
new passenger vehicles shall be for those de-
termined by the Secretary to be necessary
for transportation safety, to reduce oper-
ational costs, and for the protection of life,
property, and public safety.
SEC. 702. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture
may transfer unobligated balances of discre-
tionary funds appropriated by this Act or
any other available unobligated discre-
tionary balances that are remaining avail-
able of the Department of Agriculture to the
Working Capital Fund for the acquisition of
plant and capital equipment necessary for
the delivery of financial, administrative, and
information technology services of primary
benefit to the agencies of the Department of
Agriculture, such transferred funds to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That none of the funds made available by
this Act or any other Act shall be trans-
ferred to the Working Capital Fund without
the prior approval of the agency adminis-
trator: Provided further, That none of the
funds transferred to the Working Capital
Fund pursuant to this section shall be avail-
able for obligation without written notifica-
tion to and the prior approval of the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of both Houses of
Congress: Provided further, That none of the
funds appropriated by this Act or made
available to the Department’s Working Cap-
ital Fund shall be available for obligation or
expenditure to make any changes to the De-
partment’s National Finance Center without
written notification to and prior approval of
the Committees on Appropriations of both
Houses of Congress as required by section 716
of this Act: Provided further, That none of the
funds appropriated by this Act or made
available to the Department’s Working Cap-
ital Fund shall be available for obligation or
expenditure to initiate, plan, develop, imple-
ment, or make any changes to remove or re-
locate any systems, missions, or functions of
the offices of the Chief Financial Officer or
any personnel from the National Finance
Center prior to written notification to and
prior approval of the Committee on Appro-
priations of both Houses of Congress and in
accordance with the requirements of section
716 of this Act: Provided further, That the
Secretary of Agriculture and the offices of
the Chief Financial Officer shall actively
market to existing and new Departments and
other government agencies National Finance
Center shared services including, but not
limited to, payroll, financial management,
and human capital shared services and allow
the National Finance Center to perform
technology upgrades: Provided further, That
of annual income amounts in the Working
Capital Fund of the Department of Agri-
culture attributable to the amounts in ex-
cess of the true costs of the shared services
provided by the National Finance Center and
budgeted for the National Finance Center,
the Secretary shall reserve not more than 4
percent for the replacement or acquisition of
capital equipment, including equipment for
the improvement, delivery, and implementa-
tion of financial, administrative, and infor-
mation technology services, and other sys-
tems of the National Finance Center or to
pay any unforeseen, extraordinary cost of
the National Finance Center: Provided fur-
ther, That none of the amounts reserved
shall be available for obligation unless the
Secretary submits written notification of
the obligation to the Committees on Appro-
priations of both Houses of Congress: Pro-
vided further, That the limitations on the ob-
ligation of funds pending notification to
Congressional Committees shall not apply to
any obligation that, as determined by the
Secretary, is necessary to respond to a de-
clared state of emergency that significantly
impacts the operations of the National Fi-
nance Center; or to evacuate employees of
the National Finance Center to a safe haven
to continue operations of the National Fi-
nance Center.
SEC. 703. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this Act shall remain available for
obligation beyond the current fiscal year un-
less expressly so provided herein.
SEC. 704. No funds appropriated by this Act
may be used to pay negotiated indirect cost
rates on cooperative agreements or similar
arrangements between the United States De-
partment of Agriculture and nonprofit insti-
tutions in excess of 10 percent of the total di-
rect cost of the agreement when the purpose
of such cooperative arrangements is to carry
out programs of mutual interest between the
two parties. This does not preclude appro-
priate payment of indirect costs on grants
and contracts with such institutions when
such indirect costs are computed on a simi-
lar basis for all agencies for which appropria-
tions are provided in this Act.
SEC. 705. Appropriations to the Department
of Agriculture for the cost of direct and
guaranteed loans made available in the cur-
rent fiscal year shall remain available until
expended to disburse obligations made in the
current fiscal year for the following ac-
counts: the Rural Development Loan Fund
program account, the Rural Electrification
and Telecommunication Loans program ac-
count, and the Rural Housing Insurance
Fund program account.
SEC. 706. None of the funds made available
to the Department of Agriculture by this Act
may be used to acquire new information
technology systems or significant upgrades,
as determined by the Office of the Chief In-
formation Officer, without the approval of
the Chief Information Officer and the con-
currence of the Executive Information Tech-
nology Investment Review Board: Provided,
That notwithstanding any other provision of
law, none of the funds appropriated or other-
wise made available by this Act may be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00069 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6000 October 22, 2019
transferred to the Office of the Chief Infor-
mation Officer without written notification
to and the prior approval of the Committees
on Appropriations of both Houses of Con-
gress: Provided further, That, notwith-
standing section 11319 of title 40, United
States Code, none of the funds available to
the Department of Agriculture for informa-
tion technology shall be obligated for
projects, contracts, or other agreements over
$25,000 prior to receipt of written approval by
the Chief Information Officer: Provided fur-
ther, That the Chief Information Officer may
authorize an agency to obligate funds with-
out written approval from the Chief Informa-
tion Officer for projects, contracts, or other
agreements up to $250,000 based upon the per-
formance of an agency measured against the
performance plan requirements described in
the explanatory statement accompanying
Public Law 113–235.
SEC. 707. Funds made available under sec-
tion 524(b) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act
(7 U.S.C. 1524(b)) in the current fiscal year
shall remain available until expended to dis-
burse obligations made in the current fiscal
year.
SEC. 708. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, any former RUS borrower that
has repaid or prepaid an insured, direct or
guaranteed loan under the Rural Electrifica-
tion Act of 1936, or any not-for-profit utility
that is eligible to receive an insured or di-
rect loan under such Act, shall be eligible for
assistance under section 313B(a) of such Act
in the same manner as a borrower under such
Act.
SEC. 709. Except as otherwise specifically
provided by law, not more than $20,000,000 in
unobligated balances from appropriations
made available for salaries and expenses in
this Act for the Farm Service Agency shall
remain available through September 30, 2021,
for information technology expenses: Pro-
vided, That except as otherwise specifically
provided by law, unobligated balances from
appropriations made available for salaries
and expenses in this Act for the Rural Devel-
opment mission area shall remain available
through September 30, 2021, for information
technology expenses.
SEC. 710. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this Act may be
used for first-class travel by the employees
of agencies funded by this Act in contraven-
tion of sections 301–10.122 through 301–10.124
of title 41, Code of Federal Regulations.
SEC. 711. In the case of each program estab-
lished or amended by the Agricultural Act of
2014 (Public Law 113–79) or by a successor to
that Act, other than by title I or subtitle A
of title III of such Act, or programs for
which indefinite amounts were provided in
that Act, that is authorized or required to be
carried out using funds of the Commodity
Credit Corporation—
(1) such funds shall be available for salaries
and related administrative expenses, includ-
ing technical assistance, associated with the
implementation of the program, without re-
gard to the limitation on the total amount
of allotments and fund transfers contained in
section 11 of the Commodity Credit Corpora-
tion Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714i); and
(2) the use of such funds for such purpose
shall not be considered to be a fund transfer
or allotment for purposes of applying the
limitation on the total amount of allotments
and fund transfers contained in such section.
SEC. 712. Of the funds made available by
this Act, not more than $2,900,000 shall be
used to cover necessary expenses of activi-
ties related to all advisory committees, pan-
els, commissions, and task forces of the De-
partment of Agriculture, except for panels
used to comply with negotiated rule makings
and panels used to evaluate competitively
awarded grants.
SEC. 713. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be used to maintain or
establish a computer network unless such
network blocks the viewing, downloading,
and exchanging of pornography.
(b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit
the use of funds necessary for any Federal,
State, tribal, or local law enforcement agen-
cy or any other entity carrying out criminal
investigations, prosecution, or adjudication
activities.
SEC. 714. Notwithstanding subsection (b) of
section 14222 of Public Law 110–246 (7 U.S.C.
612c–6; in this section referred to as ‘‘section
14222’’), none of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this or any
other Act shall be used to pay the salaries
and expenses of personnel to carry out a pro-
gram under section 32 of the Act of August
24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c; in this section referred
to as ‘‘section 32’’) in excess of $1,331,784,000
(exclusive of carryover appropriations from
prior fiscal years), as follows: Child Nutri-
tion Programs Entitlement Commodities—
$485,000,000; State Option Contracts—
$5,000,000; Removal of Defective Commod-
ities— $2,500,000; Administration of Section
32 Commodity Purchases—$35,853,000: Pro-
vided, That of the total funds made available
in the matter preceding this proviso that re-
main unobligated on October 1, 2020, such un-
obligated balances shall carryover into fiscal
year 2021 and shall remain available until ex-
pended for any of the purposes of section 32,
except that any such carryover funds used in
accordance with clause (3) of section 32 may
not exceed $350,000,000 and may not be obli-
gated until the Secretary of Agriculture pro-
vides written notification of the expendi-
tures to the Committees on Appropriations
of both Houses of Congress at least two
weeks in advance: Provided further, That,
with the exception of any available carry-
over funds authorized in any prior appropria-
tions Act to be used for the purposes of
clause (3) of section 32, none of the funds ap-
propriated or otherwise made available by
this or any other Act shall be used to pay the
salaries or expenses of any employee of the
Department of Agriculture to carry out
clause (3) of section 32.
SEC. 715. None of the funds appropriated by
this or any other Act shall be used to pay the
salaries and expenses of personnel who pre-
pare or submit appropriations language as
part of the President’s budget submission to
the Congress for programs under the juris-
diction of the Appropriations Subcommit-
tees on Agriculture, Rural Development,
Food and Drug Administration, and Related
Agencies that assumes revenues or reflects a
reduction from the previous year due to user
fees proposals that have not been enacted
into law prior to the submission of the budg-
et unless such budget submission identifies
which additional spending reductions should
occur in the event the user fees proposals are
not enacted prior to the date of the con-
vening of a committee of conference for the
fiscal year 2021 appropriations Act.
SEC. 716. (a) None of the funds provided by
this Act, or provided by previous appropria-
tions Acts to the agencies funded by this Act
that remain available for obligation or ex-
penditure in the current fiscal year, or pro-
vided from any accounts in the Treasury de-
rived by the collection of fees available to
the agencies funded by this Act, shall be
available for obligation or expenditure
through a reprogramming, transfer of funds,
or reimbursements as authorized by the
Economy Act, or in the case of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, through use of the au-
thority provided by section 702(b) of the De-
partment of Agriculture Organic Act of 1944
(7 U.S.C. 2257) or section 8 of Public Law 89–
106 (7 U.S.C. 2263), that—
(1) creates new programs;
(2) eliminates a program, project, or activ-
ity;
(3) increases funds or personnel by any
means for any project or activity for which
funds have been denied or restricted;
(4) relocates an office or employees;
(5) reorganizes offices, programs, or activi-
ties; or
(6) contracts out or privatizes any func-
tions or activities presently performed by
Federal employees;
unless the Secretary of Agriculture, or the
Secretary of Health and Human Services (as
the case may be) notifies in writing and re-
ceives approval from the Committees on Ap-
propriations of both Houses of Congress at
least 30 days in advance of the reprogram-
ming of such funds or the use of such author-
ity.
(b) None of the funds provided by this Act,
or provided by previous Appropriations Acts
to the agencies funded by this Act that re-
main available for obligation or expenditure
in the current fiscal year, or provided from
any accounts in the Treasury derived by the
collection of fees available to the agencies
funded by this Act, shall be available for ob-
ligation or expenditure for activities, pro-
grams, or projects through a reprogramming
or use of the authorities referred to in sub-
section (a) involving funds in excess of
$500,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less,
that—
(1) augments existing programs, projects,
or activities;
(2) reduces by 10 percent funding for any
existing program, project, or activity, or
numbers of personnel by 10 percent as ap-
proved by Congress; or
(3) results from any general savings from a
reduction in personnel which would result in
a change in existing programs, activities, or
projects as approved by Congress; unless the
Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary of
Health and Human Services (as the case may
be) notifies in writing and receives approval
from the Committees on Appropriations of
both Houses of Congress at least 30 days in
advance of the reprogramming or transfer of
such funds or the use of such authority.
(c) The Secretary of Agriculture or the
Secretary of Health and Human Services
shall notify in writing and receive approval
from the Committees on Appropriations of
both Houses of Congress before imple-
menting any program or activity not carried
out during the previous fiscal year unless the
program or activity is funded by this Act or
specifically funded by any other Act.
(d) None of the funds provided by this Act,
or provided by previous Appropriations Acts
to the agencies funded by this Act that re-
main available for obligation or expenditure
in the current fiscal year, or provided from
any accounts in the Treasury derived by the
collection of fees available to the agencies
funded by this Act, shall be available for—
(1) modifying major capital investments
funding levels, including information tech-
nology systems, that involves increasing or
decreasing funds in the current fiscal year
for the individual investment in excess of
$500,000 or 10 percent of the total cost, which-
ever is less;
(2) realigning or reorganizing new, current,
or vacant positions or agency activities or
functions to establish a center, office,
branch, or similar entity with five or more
personnel; or
(3) carrying out activities or functions that
were not described in the budget request; un-
less the agencies funded by this Act notify,
in writing, the Committees on Appropria-
tions of both Houses of Congress at least 30
days in advance of using the funds for these
purposes.
(e) As described in this section, no funds
may be used for any activities unless the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00070 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6001
October 22, 2019
Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary of
Health and Human Services receives from
the Committee on Appropriations of both
Houses of Congress written or electronic
mail confirmation of receipt of the notifica-
tion as required in this section.
SEC. 717. Notwithstanding section
310B(g)(5) of the Consolidated Farm and
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1932(g)(5)),
the Secretary may assess a one-time fee for
any guaranteed business and industry loan
in an amount that does not exceed 3 percent
of the guaranteed principal portion of the
loan.
SEC. 718. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available to the Department
of Agriculture, the Food and Drug Adminis-
tration, or the Farm Credit Administration
shall be used to transmit or otherwise make
available reports, questions, or responses to
questions that are a result of information re-
quested for the appropriations hearing proc-
ess to any non-Department of Agriculture,
non-Department of Health and Human Serv-
ices, or non-Farm Credit Administration em-
ployee.
SEC. 719. Unless otherwise authorized by
existing law, none of the funds provided in
this Act, may be used by an executive branch
agency to produce any prepackaged news
story intended for broadcast or distribution
in the United States unless the story in-
cludes a clear notification within the text or
audio of the prepackaged news story that the
prepackaged news story was prepared or
funded by that executive branch agency.
SEC. 720. No employee of the Department of
Agriculture may be detailed or assigned
from an agency or office funded by this Act
or any other Act to any other agency or of-
fice of the Department for more than 60 days
in a fiscal year unless the individual’s em-
ploying agency or office is fully reimbursed
by the receiving agency or office for the sal-
ary and expenses of the employee for the pe-
riod of assignment.
SEC. 721. Not later than 30 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of Agriculture, the Commissioner of the
Food and Drug Administration, and the
Chairman of the Farm Credit Administration
shall submit to the Committees on Appro-
priations of both Houses of Congress a de-
tailed spending plan by program, project,
and activity for all the funds made available
under this Act including appropriated user
fees, as defined in the report accompanying
this Act.
SEC. 722. Of the unobligated balances from
amounts made available for the supple-
mental nutrition program as authorized by
section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966
(42 U.S.C. 1786), $800,000,000 are hereby re-
scinded.
SEC. 723. The Secretary shall continue an
intermediary loan packaging program based
on the pilot program in effect for fiscal year
2013 for packaging and reviewing section 502
single family direct loans. The Secretary
shall continue agreements with current
intermediary organizations and with addi-
tional qualified intermediary organizations.
The Secretary shall work with these organi-
zations to increase effectiveness of the sec-
tion 502 single family direct loan program in
rural communities and shall set aside and
make available from the national reserve
section 502 loans an amount necessary to
support the work of such intermediaries and
provide a priority for review of such loans.
SEC. 724. For loans and loan guarantees
that do not require budget authority and the
program level has been established in this
Act, the Secretary of Agriculture may in-
crease the program level for such loans and
loan guarantees by not more than 25 percent:
Provided, That prior to the Secretary imple-
menting such an increase, the Secretary no-
tifies, in writing, the Committees on Appro-
priations of both Houses of Congress at least
15 days in advance.
SEC. 725. None of the credit card refunds or
rebates transferred to the Working Capital
Fund pursuant to section 729 of the Agri-
culture, Rural Development, Food and Drug
Administration, and Related Agencies Ap-
propriations Act, 2002 (7 U.S.C. 2235a; Public
Law 107–76) shall be available for obligation
without written notification to, and the
prior approval of, the Committees on Appro-
priations of both Houses of Congress: Pro-
vided, That the refunds or rebates so trans-
ferred shall be available for obligation only
for the acquisition of plant and capital
equipment necessary for the delivery of fi-
nancial, administrative, and information
technology services, including cloud adop-
tion and migration, of primary benefit to the
agencies of the Department of Agriculture.
SEC. 726. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to implement, ad-
minister, or enforce the ‘‘variety’’ require-
ments of the final rule entitled ‘‘Enhancing
Retailer Standards in the Supplemental Nu-
trition Assistance Program (SNAP)’’ pub-
lished by the Department of Agriculture in
the Federal Register on December 15, 2016 (81
Fed. Reg. 90675) until the Secretary of Agri-
culture amends the definition of the term
‘‘variety’’ as de fined in section
278.1(b)(1)(ii)(C) of title 7, Code of Federal
Regulations, and ‘‘variety’’ as applied in the
definition of the term ‘‘staple food’’ as de-
fined in section 271.2 of title 7, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations, to increase the number of
items that qualify as acceptable varieties in
each staple food category so that the total
number of such items in each staple food cat-
egory exceeds the number of such items in
each staple food category included in the
final rule as published on December 15, 2016:
Provided, That until the Secretary promul-
gates such regulatory amendments, the Sec-
retary shall apply the requirements regard-
ing acceptable varieties and breadth of stock
to Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Pro-
gram retailers that were in effect on the day
before the date of the enactment of the Agri-
cultural Act of 2014 (Public Law 113–79).
SEC. 727. None of the funds made available
by this Act or any other Act may be used—
(1) in contravention of section 7606 of the
Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 5940), sub-
title G of the Agricultural Marketing Act of
1946, or section 10114 of the Agriculture Im-
provement Act of 2018; or
(2) to prohibit the transportation, proc-
essing, sale, or use of hemp, or seeds of such
plant, that is grown or cultivated in accord-
ance with subsection section 7606 of the Agri-
cultural Act of 2014 or Subtitle G of the Agri-
cultural Marketing Act of 1946, within or
outside the State in which the hemp is
grown or cultivated.
SEC. 728. In carrying out subsection (h) of
section 502 of the Housing Act of 1949 (42
U.S.C. 1472), the Secretary of Agriculture
shall have the same authority with respect
to loans guaranteed under such section and
eligible lenders for such loans as the Sec-
retary has under subsections (h) and (j) of
section 538 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1490p–2)
with respect to loans guaranteed under such
section 538 and eligible lenders for such
loans.
SEC. 729. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to propose, promul-
gate, or implement any rule, or take any
other action with respect to, allowing or re-
quiring information intended for a pre-
scribing health care professional, in the case
of a drug or biological product subject to sec-
tion 503(b)(1) of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 353(b)(1)), to be dis-
tributed to such professional electronically
(in lieu of in paper form) unless and until a
Federal law is enacted to allow or require
such distribution.
SEC. 730. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to notify a sponsor
or otherwise acknowledge receipt of a sub-
mission for an exemption for investigational
use of a drug or biological product under sec-
tion 505(i) of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355(i)) or section
351(a)(3) of the Public Health Service Act (42
U.S.C. 262(a)(3)) in research in which a
human embryo is intentionally created or
modified to include a heritable genetic modi-
fication. Any such submission shall be
deemed to have not been received by the Sec-
retary, and the exemption may not go into
effect.
SEC. 731. None of the funds made available
by this or any other Act may be used to
carry out the final rule promulgated by the
Food and Drug Administration and put into
effect November 16, 2015, in regards to the
hazard analysis and risk-based preventive
control requirements of the current good
manufacturing practice, hazard analysis, and
risk-based preventive controls for food for
animals rule with respect to the regulation
of the production, distribution, sale, or re-
ceipt of dried spent grain byproducts of the
alcoholic beverage production process.
SEC. 732. There is hereby appropriated
$10,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, to carry out section 6407 of the Farm
Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7
U.S.C. 8107a): Provided, That the Secretary
may allow eligible entities, or comparable
entities that provide energy efficiency serv-
ices using their own billing mechanism to
offer loans to customers in any part of their
service territory and to offer loans to replace
a manufactured housing unit with another
manufactured housing unit, if replacement
would be more cost effective in saving en-
ergy.
SEC. 733. (a) The Secretary of Agriculture
shall—
(1) conduct audits in a manner that evalu-
ates the following factors in the country or
region being audited, as applicable—
(A) veterinary control and oversight;
(B) disease history and vaccination prac-
tices;
(C) livestock demographics and
traceability;
(D) epidemiological separation from poten-
tial sources of infection;
(E) surveillance practices;
(F) diagnostic laboratory capabilities; and
(G) emergency preparedness and response;
and
(2) promptly make publicly available the
final reports of any audits or reviews con-
ducted pursuant to subsection (1).
(b) This section shall be applied in a man-
ner consistent with United States obliga-
tions under its international trade agree-
ments.
SEC. 734. No food that bears or contains
partially hydrogenated oils (as defined in the
order published by the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration in the Federal Register on June
17, 2015 (80 Fed. Reg. 34650 et seq.)) shall be
considered to be adulterated within the
meaning of subsection (a)(1) or (a)(2)(C)(i) of
section 402 of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 342(a)) because such
food contains such partially hydrogenated
oils until the applicable compliance dates
specified by FDA in the Federal Register on
May 21, 2018 (83 Fed. Reg. 23358 et seq.).
SEC. 735. The National Bio and Agro-De-
fense Facility shall be transferred without
reimbursement from the Secretary of Home-
land Security to the Secretary of Agri-
culture.
SEC. 736. There is hereby appropriated
$1,000,000 for the Secretary to carry out a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00071 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6002 October 22, 2019
pilot program that provides forestry inven-
tory analysis, forest management and eco-
nomic outcomes modelling for certain cur-
rently enrolled Conservation Reserve Pro-
gram participants. The Secretary shall allow
the Commodity Credit Corporation to enter
into agreements with and provide grants to
qualified non-profit organizations dedicated
to conservation, forestry and wildlife habi-
tats, that also have experience in conducting
accurate forest inventory analysis through
the use of advanced, cost-effective tech-
nology. The Secretary shall focus the anal-
ysis on lands enrolled for at least eight years
and located in areas with a substantial con-
centration of acres enrolled under conserva-
tion practices devoted to multiple bottom-
land hardwood tree species including CP03,
CP03A, CP11, CP22, CP31 and CP40.
SEC. 737. In addition to amounts otherwise
made available by this Act and notwith-
standing the last sentence of 16 U.S.C. 1310,
there is appropriated $4,000,000, to remain
available until expended, to implement non-
renewable agreements on eligible lands, in-
cluding flooded agricultural lands, as deter-
mined by the Secretary, under the Water
Bank Act (16 U.S.C. 1301–1311).
SEC. 738. There is hereby appropriated
$2,000,000 to carry out section 1621 of Public
Law 110–246.
SEC. 739. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to carry out any ac-
tivities or incur any expense related to the
issuance of licenses under section 3 of the
Animal Welfare Act (7 U.S.C. 2133), or the re-
newal of such licenses, to class B dealers who
sell dogs and cats for use in research, experi-
ments, teaching, or testing.
SEC. 740. (a)(1) No Federal funds made
available for this fiscal year for the rural
water, waste water, waste disposal, and solid
waste management programs authorized by
sections 306, 306A, 306C, 306D, 306E, and 310B
of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Develop-
ment Act (7 U.S.C. 1926 et seq.) shall be used
for a project for the construction, alteration,
maintenance, or repair of a public water or
wastewater system unless all of the iron and
steel products used in the project are pro-
duced in the United States.
(2) In this section, the term ‘‘iron and steel
products’’ means the following products
made primarily of iron or steel: lined or un-
lined pipes and fittings, manhole covers and
other municipal castings, hydrants, tanks,
flanges, pipe clamps and restraints, valves,
structural steel, reinforced precast concrete,
and construction materials.
(b) Subsection (a) shall not apply in any
case or category of cases in which the Sec-
retary of Agriculture (in this section re-
ferred to as the ‘‘Secretary’’) or the designee
of the Secretary finds that—
(1) applying subsection (a) would be incon-
sistent with the public interest;
(2) iron and steel products are not produced
in the United States in sufficient and reason-
ably available quantities or of a satisfactory
quality; or
(3) inclusion of iron and steel products pro-
duced in the United States will increase the
cost of the overall project by more than 25
percent.
(c) If the Secretary or the designee re-
ceives a request for a waiver under this sec-
tion, the Secretary or the designee shall
make available to the public on an informal
basis a copy of the request and information
available to the Secretary or the designee
concerning the request, and shall allow for
informal public input on the request for at
least 15 days prior to making a finding based
on the request. The Secretary or the des-
ignee shall make the request and accom-
panying information available by electronic
means, including on the official public Inter-
net Web site of the Department.
(d) This section shall be applied in a man-
ner consistent with United States obliga-
tions under international agreements.
(e) The Secretary may retain up to 0.25
percent of the funds appropriated in this Act
for ‘‘Rural Utilities Service—Rural Water
and Waste Disposal Program Account’’ for
carrying out the provisions described in sub-
section (a)(1) for management and oversight
of the requirements of this section.
(f) Subsection (a) shall not apply with re-
spect to a project for which the engineering
plans and specifications include use of iron
and steel products otherwise prohibited by
such subsection if the plans and specifica-
tions have received required approvals from
State agencies prior to the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
(g) For purposes of this section, the terms
‘‘United States’’ and ‘‘State’’ shall include
each of the several States, the District of Co-
lumbia, and each federally recognized Indian
tribe.
SEC. 741. The Secretary shall set aside for
Rural Economic Area Partnership (REAP)
Zones, until August 15, 2020, an amount of
funds made available in title III under the
headings of Rural Housing Insurance Fund
Program Account, Mutual and Self-Help
Housing Grants, Rural Housing Assistance
Grants, Rural Community Facilities Pro-
gram Account, Rural Business Program Ac-
count, Rural Development Loan Fund Pro-
gram Account, and Rural Water and Waste
Disposal Program Account, equal to the
amount obligated in REAP Zones with re-
spect to funds provided under such headings
in the most recent fiscal year any such funds
were obligated under such headings for
REAP Zones.
SEC. 742. There is hereby appropriated
$1,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, for a pilot program for the Secretary
to provide grants to qualified non-profit or-
ganizations and public housing authorities
to provide technical assistance, including fi-
nancial and legal services, to RHS multi-
family housing borrowers to facilitate the
acquisition of RHS multi-family housing
properties in areas where the Secretary de-
termines a risk of loss of affordable housing,
by non-profit housing organizations and pub-
lic housing authorities as authorized by law
that commit to keep such properties in the
RHS multi-family housing program for a pe-
riod of time as determined by the Secretary.
SEC. 743. None of the funds appropriated by
this Act may be used in any way, directly or
indirectly, to influence congressional action
on any legislation or appropriation matters
pending before Congress, other than to com-
municate to Members of Congress as de-
scribed in 18 U.S.C. 1913.
SEC. 744. In response to an eligible commu-
nity where the drinking water supplies are
inadequate due to a natural disaster, as de-
termined by the Secretary, including
drought or severe weather, the Secretary
may provide potable water through the
Emergency Community Water Assistance
Grant Program for an additional period of
time not to exceed 120 days beyond the es-
tablished period provided under the Program
in order to protect public health.
SEC. 745. Of the total amounts made avail-
able by this Act for direct loans and grants
in the following headings: ‘‘Rural Housing
Service—Rural Housing Insurance Fund Pro-
gram Account’’; ‘‘Rural Housing Service—
Mutual and Self-Help Housing Grants’’;
‘‘Rural Housing Service—Rural Housing As-
sistance Grants’’; ‘‘Rural Housing Service—
Rural Community Facilities Program Ac-
count’’; ‘‘Rural Business-Cooperative Serv-
ice—Rural Business Program Account’’;
‘‘Rural Business-Cooperative Service—Rural
Economic Development Loans Program Ac-
count’’; ‘‘Rural Business-Cooperative Serv-
ice—Rural Cooperative Development
Grants’’; ‘‘Rural Utilities Service—Rural
Water and Waste Disposal Program Ac-
count’’; ‘‘Rural Utilities Service—Rural
Electrification and Telecommunications
Loans Program Account’’; and ‘‘Rural Utili-
ties Service—Distance Learning, Telemedi-
cine, and Broadband Program’’, to the max-
imum extent feasible, at least 10 percent of
the funds shall be allocated for assistance in
persistent poverty counties under this sec-
tion, including, notwithstanding any other
provision regarding population limits, any
county seat of such a persistent poverty
county that has a population that does not
exceed the authorized population limit by
more than 10 percent: Provided, That for pur-
poses of this section, the term ‘‘persistent
poverty counties’’ means any county that
has had 20 percent or more of its population
living in poverty over the past 30 years, as
measured by the 1980, 1990, and 2000 decennial
censuses, and 2007–2011 American Community
Survey 5-year average: Provided further, That
with respect to specific activities for which
program levels have been made available by
this Act that are not supported by budget
authority, the requirements of this section
shall be applied to such program level.
SEC. 746. In addition to any other funds
made available in this Act or any other Act,
there is appropriated $5,000,000 to carry out
section 18(g)(8) of the Richard B. Russell Na-
tional School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1769(g)),
to remain available until expended.
SEC. 747. There is hereby appropriated
$2,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021, for the cost of loans and
grants that is consistent with section 4206 of
the Agricultural Act of 2014, for necessary
expenses of the Secretary to support projects
that provide access to healthy food in under-
served areas, to create and preserve quality
jobs, and to revitalize low-income commu-
nities.
SEC. 748. For an additional amount for
‘‘Animal and Plant Health Inspection Serv-
ice—Salaries and Expenses’’, $8,500,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2021, for
one-time control and management and asso-
ciated activities directly related to the mul-
tiple-agency response to citrus greening.
SEC. 749. None of the funds made available
by this or any other Act may be used to en-
force the final rule promulgated by the Food
and Drug Administration entitled ‘‘Stand-
ards for the Growing, Harvesting, Packing,
and Holding of Produce for Human Consump-
tion,’’ and published on November 27, 2015,
with respect to the regulation of the produc-
tion, distribution, sale, or receipt of grape
varietals that are grown, harvested and used
solely for wine and receive commercial proc-
essing that adequately reduces the presence
of microorganisms of public health signifi-
cance.
SEC. 750. There is hereby appropriated
$5,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021, for a pilot program for the
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
to provide grants to nonprofit organizations
for programs and services to establish and
enhance farming and ranching opportunities
for military veterans.
SEC. 751. For school year 2019–2020, none of
the funds made available by this Act may be
used to implement or enforce the matter fol-
lowing the first comma in the second sen-
tence of footnote (c) of section 220.8(c) of
title 7, Code of Federal Regulations, with re-
spect to the substitution of vegetables for
fruits under the school breakfast program es-
tablished under section 4 of the Child Nutri-
tion Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1773).
SEC. 752. Not later than 180 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of Agriculture shall issue a final rule based
on the proposed rule entitled ‘‘National Or-
ganic Program; Origin of Livestock,’’ pub-
lished in the Federal Register on April 28,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00072 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6003
October 22, 2019
2015 (80 Fed. Reg. 23455): Provided, That the
final rule shall incorporate public comments
submitted in response to the proposed rule.
SEC. 753. There is hereby appropriated
$20,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, to carry out section 12513 of Public
Law 115–334: Provided, That the Secretary
shall take measures to ensure an equal dis-
tribution of funds between the three regional
innovation initiatives.
SEC. 754. There is hereby appropriated
$5,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021, to carry out section 2103 of
Public Law 115-334.
SEC. 755. There is hereby appropriated
$1,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021, to carry out section 4208 of
Public Law 115-334.
SEC. 756. There is hereby appropriated
$2,000,000 to carry out section 4206 of Public
Law 115–334.
SEC. 757. There is hereby appropriated
$20,000,000, for an additional amount for ‘‘De-
partment of Health and Human Services—
Food and Drug Administration—Buildings
and Facilities’’ to remain available until ex-
pended and in addition to amounts otherwise
made available for such purposes, for nec-
essary expenses of plans, construction, re-
pair, improvement, extension, alteration,
demolition and purchase of fixed equipment
or facilities of or used by FDA.
SEC. 758. There is hereby appropriated
$5,000,000 to carry out section 6424 of Public
Law 115-334.
SEC. 759. Of the unobligated balances from
amounts made available to carry out section
749 of Division A of Public Law 115–31 and
section 739 of Division A of Public Law 115–
141, $15,073,000 are rescinded.
SEC. 760. In addition to amounts otherwise
made available by this or any other Act,
there is hereby appropriated $5,000,000, to re-
main available until expended, under the
heading ‘‘Rural Water Technical Assistance
Grant Program Account’’ for the cost of a
pilot program in coordination with a re-
gional research university consortium for re-
search and direct services to address chal-
lenges facing traditional rural wastewater
systems needs: Provided, That the pilot
should address the wastewater needs of his-
torically impoverished communities that
have had difficult soil conditions for tradi-
tional wastewater treatment systems.
SEC. 761. (a) Section 313(b) of the Rural
Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7
U.S.C. 940c(b)), shall be applied for fiscal
year 2020 and each fiscal year thereafter
until the specified funding has been expended
as if the following were inserted after the
final period in subsection (b)(2): ‘‘In addition,
the Secretary shall use $425,000,000 of funds
available in this subaccount in fiscal year
2019 for an additional amount for the same
purpose and under the same terms and condi-
tions as funds appropriated by Sec. 779 of
Public Law 115–141 and shall use $128,000,000
of funds available in this subaccount in fis-
cal year 2020 for an additional amount for
the same purpose and under the same terms
and conditions as funds appropriated for
water and waste disposal grants under sec-
tion 306(a)(2) of the Consolidated Farm and
Rural Development Act.’’: Provided, That
any use of such funds shall be treated as a re-
programming of funds under section 716 of
this Act.
(b) Section 762(b) of division B of Public
Law 116-6 shall no longer apply.
SEC. 762. In addition to amounts otherwise
made available by this or any other Act,
there is hereby appropriated $9,500,000, to re-
main available until expended, under the
heading ‘‘National Institute of Food and Ag-
riculture—Research and Education Activi-
ties’’ and $15,500,000, to remain available
until expended, under the heading ‘‘Eco-
nomic Research Service’’ for salaries and ex-
penses, including for relocation expenses, the
costs of alteration and repair of leased build-
ings and improvements pursuant to 7 U.S.C.
2250, and other transition costs, for the relo-
cation of employees and certain operations
to the Kansas City metropolitan area, as di-
rected by the decision of the Secretary of
Agriculture dated June 13, 2019.
SEC. 763. No food containing genetically
engineered salmon shall be permitted to be
introduced, or delivered for introduction,
into interstate commerce until the conclu-
sion and transmittal to Congress of a con-
sumer study of the efficacy of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture’s National Bioengi-
neered Food Disclosure Standard for inform-
ing consumers of the genetically engineered
content of salmon products, as set forth in 21
CFR 528.1092: Provided, That the study shall
be performed by a commission constituted
jointly by the United States Department of
Agriculture and the Food and Drug Adminis-
tration under the Federal Advisory Com-
mittee Act and shall commence no later
than 180 days after the enactment of this
Act.
SEC. 764. (a) Title I of the Additional Sup-
plemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief
Act, 2019 (Public Law 116–20) is amended in
the matter under the heading ‘‘Department
of Agriculture—Office of the Secretary’’ by
inserting ‘‘to cooperative processors for re-
duced quantity and quality sugar beets,’’
after ‘‘planting in 2019,’’: Provided, That
amounts repurposed under this section that
were previously designated by the Congress
as an emergency requirement pursuant to
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985 are designated by the
Congress as an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985 and shall be available only if the
President subsequently so designates all
such amounts and transmits such designa-
tions to the Congress.
(b) This section shall become effective im-
mediately upon enactment of this Act.
SEC. 765. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to pay the salaries
or expenses of personnel—
(1) to inspect horses under section 3 of the
Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 603);
(2) to inspect horses under section 903 of
the Federal Agriculture Improvement and
Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 1901 note; Public
Law 104–127); or
(3) to implement or enforce section 352.19
of title 9, Code of Federal Regulations (or a
successor regulation).
SEC. 766. Section 9(i)(2) of the Food and Nu-
trition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2018(i)(2)) is
amended by striking ‘‘for a period’’ and all
that follows through ‘‘2018’’ and inserting
‘‘prior to December 31, 2020’’.
SEC. 767. Not later than 60 days after enact-
ment of this Act, the Commissioner of the
Food and Drug Administration shall issue a
request for information to determine the
next steps that will address the recent pul-
monary illnesses reported to be associated
with the use of e-cigarettes and vaping prod-
ucts. As part of such request for information,
the Commissioner shall request public com-
ment on product design and how to prevent
consumers from modifying or adding any
substances to these products that are not in-
tended by the manufacturer: Provided, That
the Food and Drug Administration shall pro-
vide an update to the Committee on Appro-
priations on a quarterly basis.
This division may be cited as the ‘‘Agri-
culture, Rural Development, Food and Drug
Administration, and Related Agencies Ap-
propriations Act, 2020’’.
DIVISION C—DEPARTMENT OF THE INTE-
RIOR, ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED
AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2020
The following sums are appropriated, out
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise
appropriated, for the Department of the Inte-
rior, environment, and related agencies for
the fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, and
for other purposes, namely:
TITLE I
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT
MANAGEMENT OF LANDS AND RESOURCES
For necessary expenses for protection, use,
improvement, development, disposal, cadas-
tral surveying, classification, acquisition of
easements and other interests in lands, and
performance of other functions, including
maintenance of facilities, as authorized by
law, in the management of lands and their
resources under the jurisdiction of the Bu-
reau of Land Management, including the
general administration of the Bureau, and
assessment of mineral potential of public
lands pursuant to section 1010(a) of Public
Law 96–487 (16 U.S.C. 3150(a)), $1,250,274,000, to
remain available until expended: Provided,
That amounts in the fee account of the BLM
Permit Processing Improvement Fund may
be used for any bureau-related expenses asso-
ciated with the processing of oil and gas ap-
plications for permits to drill and related use
authorizations.
In addition, $40,696,000 is for Mining Law
Administration program operations, includ-
ing the cost of administering the mining
claim fee program, to remain available until
expended, to be reduced by amounts col-
lected by the Bureau and credited to this ap-
propriation from mining claim maintenance
fees and location fees that are hereby au-
thorized for fiscal year 2020, so as to result in
a final appropriation estimated at not more
than $1,250,274,000, and $2,000,000, to remain
available until expended, from communica-
tion site rental fees established by the Bu-
reau for the cost of administering commu-
nication site activities.
LAND ACQUISITION
(INCLUDING RESCISSION OF FUNDS)
For expenses necessary to carry out sec-
tions 205, 206, and 318(d) of Public Law 94–579,
including administrative expenses and acqui-
sition of lands or waters, or interests there-
in, $28,800,000, to be derived from the Land
and Water Conservation Fund and to remain
available until expended.
Of the unobligated balances from amounts
made available for Land Acquisition and de-
rived from the Land and Water Conservation
Fund, $2,367,000 is hereby permanently re-
scinded from projects with cost savings or
failed or partially failed projects: Provided,
That no amounts may be rescinded from
amounts that were designated by the Con-
gress as an emergency requirement pursuant
to the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget
or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
OREGON AND CALIFORNIA GRANT LANDS
For expenses necessary for management,
protection, and development of resources and
for construction, operation, and mainte-
nance of access roads, reforestation, and
other improvements on the revested Oregon
and California Railroad grant lands, on other
Federal lands in the Oregon and California
land-grant counties of Oregon, and on adja-
cent rights-of-way; and acquisition of lands
or interests therein, including existing con-
necting roads on or adjacent to such grant
lands; $106,985,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That 25 percent of the
aggregate of all receipts during the current
fiscal year from the revested Oregon and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00073 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6004 October 22, 2019
California Railroad grant lands is hereby
made a charge against the Oregon and Cali-
fornia land-grant fund and shall be trans-
ferred to the General Fund in the Treasury
in accordance with the second paragraph of
subsection (b) of title II of the Act of August
28, 1937 (43 U.S.C. 2605).
RANGE IMPROVEMENTS
For rehabilitation, protection, and acquisi-
tion of lands and interests therein, and im-
provement of Federal rangelands pursuant to
section 401 of the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1751), not-
withstanding any other Act, sums equal to 50
percent of all moneys received during the
prior fiscal year under sections 3 and 15 of
the Taylor Grazing Act (43 U.S.C. 315b, 315m)
and the amount designated for range im-
provements from grazing fees and mineral
leasing receipts from Bankhead-Jones lands
transferred to the Department of the Inte-
rior pursuant to law, but not less than
$10,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That not to exceed $600,000
shall be available for administrative ex-
penses.
SERVICE CHARGES, DEPOSITS, AND FORFEITURES
For administrative expenses and other
costs related to processing application docu-
ments and other authorizations for use and
disposal of public lands and resources, for
costs of providing copies of official public
land documents, for monitoring construc-
tion, operation, and termination of facilities
in conjunction with use authorizations, and
for rehabilitation of damaged property, such
amounts as may be collected under Public
Law 94–579 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), and under
section 28 of the Mineral Leasing Act (30
U.S.C. 185), to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That notwithstanding any
provision to the contrary of section 305(a) of
Public Law 94–579 (43 U.S.C. 1735(a)), any
moneys that have been or will be received
pursuant to that section, whether as a result
of forfeiture, compromise, or settlement, if
not appropriate for refund pursuant to sec-
tion 305(c) of that Act (43 U.S.C. 1735(c)),
shall be available and may be expended
under the authority of this Act by the Sec-
retary to improve, protect, or rehabilitate
any public lands administered through the
Bureau of Land Management which have
been damaged by the action of a resource de-
veloper, purchaser, permittee, or any unau-
thorized person, without regard to whether
all moneys collected from each such action
are used on the exact lands damaged which
led to the action: Provided further, That any
such moneys that are in excess of amounts
needed to repair damage to the exact land
for which funds were collected may be used
to repair other damaged public lands.
MISCELLANEOUS TRUST FUNDS
In addition to amounts authorized to be
expended under existing laws, there is hereby
appropriated such amounts as may be con-
tributed under section 307 of Public Law 94–
579 (43 U.S.C. 1737), and such amounts as may
be advanced for administrative costs, sur-
veys, appraisals, and costs of making con-
veyances of omitted lands under section
211(b) of that Act (43 U.S.C. 1721(b)), to re-
main available until expended.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
The Bureau of Land Management may
carry out the operations funded under this
Act by direct expenditure, contracts, grants,
cooperative agreements and reimbursable
agreements with public and private entities,
including with States. Appropriations for the
Bureau shall be available for purchase, erec-
tion, and dismantlement of temporary struc-
tures, and alteration and maintenance of
necessary buildings and appurtenant facili-
ties to which the United States has title; up
to $100,000 for payments, at the discretion of
the Secretary, for information or evidence
concerning violations of laws administered
by the Bureau; miscellaneous and emergency
expenses of enforcement activities author-
ized or approved by the Secretary and to be
accounted for solely on the Secretary’s cer-
tificate, not to exceed $10,000: Provided, That
notwithstanding Public Law 90–620 (44 U.S.C.
501), the Bureau may, under cooperative
cost-sharing and partnership arrangements
authorized by law, procure printing services
from cooperators in connection with jointly
produced publications for which the coopera-
tors share the cost of printing either in cash
or in services, and the Bureau determines
the cooperator is capable of meeting accept-
ed quality standards: Provided further, That
projects to be funded pursuant to a written
commitment by a State government to pro-
vide an identified amount of money in sup-
port of the project may be carried out by the
Bureau on a reimbursable basis. Appropria-
tions herein made shall not be available for
the destruction of healthy, unadopted, wild
horses and burros in the care of the Bureau
or its contractors or for the sale of wild
horses and burros that results in their de-
struction for processing into commercial
products.
UNITED STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
For necessary expenses of the United
States Fish and Wildlife Service, as author-
ized by law, and for scientific and economic
studies, general administration, and for the
performance of other authorized functions
related to such resources, $1,357,182,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2021: Pro-
vided, That not to exceed $18,318,000 shall be
used for implementing subsections (a), (b),
(c), and (e) of section 4 of the Endangered
Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533) (except for
processing petitions, developing and issuing
proposed and final regulations, and taking
any other steps to implement actions de-
scribed in subsection (c)(2)(A), (c)(2)(B)(i), or
(c)(2)(B)(ii)).
CONSTRUCTION
For construction, improvement, acquisi-
tion, or removal of buildings and other fa-
cilities required in the conservation, man-
agement, investigation, protection, and uti-
lization of fish and wildlife resources, and
the acquisition of lands and interests there-
in; $43,226,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
LAND ACQUISITION
(INCLUDING RESCISSION OF FUNDS)
For expenses necessary to carry out chap-
ter 2003 of title 54, United States Code, in-
cluding administrative expenses, and for ac-
quisition of land or waters, or interest there-
in, in accordance with statutory authority
applicable to the United States Fish and
Wildlife Service, $58,770,000, to be derived
from the Land and Water Conservation Fund
and to remain available until expended: Pro-
vided, That none of the funds appropriated
for specific land acquisition projects may be
used to pay for any administrative overhead,
planning or other management costs.
Of the unobligated balances from amounts
made available for the Fish and Wildlife
Service and derived from the Land and Water
Conservation Fund, $3,628,000 is hereby per-
manently rescinded from projects with cost
savings or failed or partially failed projects:
Provided further, That no amounts may be re-
scinded from amounts that were designated
by the Congress as an emergency require-
ment pursuant to the Concurrent Resolution
on the Budget or the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
COOPERATIVE ENDANGERED SPECIES
CONSERVATION FUND
(INCLUDING RESCISSION OF FUNDS)
For expenses necessary to carry out sec-
tion 6 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973
(16 U.S.C. 1535), $53,495,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, of which $22,695,000 is to
be derived from the Cooperative Endangered
Species Conservation Fund; and of which
$30,800,000 is to be derived from the Land and
Water Conservation Fund.
Of the unobligated balances made available
from the Cooperative Endangered Species
Conservation Fund, $18,771,000 is perma-
nently rescinded from projects or from other
grant programs with an unobligated carry
over balance: Provided, That no amounts
may be rescinded from amounts that were
designated by the Congress as an emergency
requirement pursuant to the Concurrent
Resolution on the Budget or the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE FUND
For expenses necessary to implement the
Act of October 17, 1978 (16 U.S.C. 715s),
$13,228,000.
NORTH AMERICAN WETLANDS CONSERVATION
FUND
For expenses necessary to carry out the
provisions of the North American Wetlands
Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4401 et seq.),
$44,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
NEOTROPICAL MIGRATORY BIRD CONSERVATION
For expenses necessary to carry out the
Neotropical Migratory Bird Conservation
Act (16 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.), $4,910,000, to re-
main available until expended.
MULTINATIONAL SPECIES CONSERVATION FUND
For expenses necessary to carry out the
African Elephant Conservation Act (16 U.S.C.
4201 et seq.), the Asian Elephant Conserva-
tion Act of 1997 (16 U.S.C. 4261 et seq.), the
Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Act of
1994 (16 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), the Great Ape
Conservation Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 6301 et
seq.), and the Marine Turtle Conservation
Act of 2004 (16 U.S.C. 6601 et seq.), $12,800,000,
to remain available until expended.
STATE AND TRIBAL WILDLIFE GRANTS
For wildlife conservation grants to States
and to the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico,
Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, the
Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa,
and Indian tribes under the provisions of the
Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956 and the Fish
and Wildlife Coordination Act, for the devel-
opment and implementation of programs for
the benefit of wildlife and their habitat, in-
cluding species that are not hunted or fished,
$65,171,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That of the amount pro-
vided herein, $4,809,000 is for a competitive
grant program for Indian tribes not subject
to the remaining provisions of this appro-
priation: Provided further, That $6,362,000 is
for a competitive grant program to imple-
ment approved plans for States, territories,
and other jurisdictions and at the discretion
of affected States, the regional Associations
of fish and wildlife agencies, not subject to
the remaining provisions of this appropria-
tion: Provided further, That the Secretary
shall, after deducting $10,571,000 and adminis-
trative expenses, apportion the amount pro-
vided herein in the following manner: (1) to
the District of Columbia and to the Com-
monwealth of Puerto Rico, each a sum equal
to not more than one-half of 1 percent there-
of; and (2) to Guam, American Samoa, the
United States Virgin Islands, and the Com-
monwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands,
each a sum equal to not more than one-
fourth of 1 percent thereof: Provided further,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00074 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6005
October 22, 2019
That the Secretary shall apportion the re-
maining amount in the following manner: (1)
one-third of which is based on the ratio to
which the land area of such State bears to
the total land area of all such States; and (2)
two-thirds of which is based on the ratio to
which the population of such State bears to
the total population of all such States: Pro-
vided further, That the amounts apportioned
under this paragraph shall be adjusted equi-
tably so that no State shall be apportioned a
sum which is less than 1 percent of the
amount available for apportionment under
this paragraph for any fiscal year or more
than 5 percent of such amount: Provided fur-
ther, That the Federal share of planning
grants shall not exceed 75 percent of the
total costs of such projects and the Federal
share of implementation grants shall not ex-
ceed 65 percent of the total costs of such
projects: Provided further, That the non-Fed-
eral share of such projects may not be de-
rived from Federal grant programs: Provided
further, That any amount apportioned in 2020
to any State, territory, or other jurisdiction
that remains unobligated as of September 30,
2021, shall be reapportioned, together with
funds appropriated in 2022, in the manner
provided herein.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
(INCLUDING RESCISSION OF FUNDS)
The United States Fish and Wildlife Serv-
ice may carry out the operations of Service
programs by direct expenditure, contracts,
grants, cooperative agreements and reim-
bursable agreements with public and private
entities. Appropriations and funds available
to the United States Fish and Wildlife Serv-
ice shall be available for repair of damage to
public roads within and adjacent to reserva-
tion areas caused by operations of the Serv-
ice; options for the purchase of land at not to
exceed $1 for each option; facilities incident
to such public recreational uses on conserva-
tion areas as are consistent with their pri-
mary purpose; and the maintenance and im-
provement of aquaria, buildings, and other
facilities under the jurisdiction of the Serv-
ice and to which the United States has title,
and which are used pursuant to law in con-
nection with management, and investigation
of fish and wildlife resources: Provided, That
notwithstanding 44 U.S.C. 501, the Service
may, under cooperative cost sharing and
partnership arrangements authorized by law,
procure printing services from cooperators
in connection with jointly produced publica-
tions for which the cooperators share at
least one-half the cost of printing either in
cash or services and the Service determines
the cooperator is capable of meeting accept-
ed quality standards: Provided further, That
the Service may accept donated aircraft as
replacements for existing aircraft: Provided
further, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302,
all fees collected for non-toxic shot review
and approval shall be deposited under the
heading ‘‘United States Fish and Wildlife
Service—Resource Management’’ and shall
be available to the Secretary, without fur-
ther appropriation, to be used for expenses of
processing of such non-toxic shot type or
coating applications and revising regulations
as necessary, and shall remain available
until expended.
NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
OPERATION OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
For expenses necessary for the manage-
ment, operation, and maintenance of areas
and facilities administered by the National
Park Service and for the general administra-
tion of the National Park Service,
$2,564,597,000, of which $10,032,000 shall be for
planning and interagency coordination in
support of Everglades restoration and
$135,980,000 shall be for maintenance, repair,
or rehabilitation projects for constructed as-
sets and $153,575,000 for cyclic maintenance
projects for constructed assets and cultural
resources shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021: Provided, That funds appro-
priated under this heading in this Act are
available for the purposes of section 5 of
Public Law 95–348: Provided further, That not-
withstanding section 9(a) of the United
States Semiquincentennial Commission Act
of 2016 (Public Law 114–196; 130 Stat. 691),
$3,300,000 of the funds made available under
this heading shall be provided to the organi-
zation selected under section 9(b) of that Act
for expenditure by the United States
Semiquincentennial Commission in accord-
ance with that Act.
NATIONAL RECREATION AND PRESERVATION
For expenses necessary to carry out recre-
ation programs, natural programs, cultural
programs, heritage partnership programs,
environmental compliance and review, inter-
national park affairs, and grant administra-
tion, not otherwise provided for, $68,084,000.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION FUND
For expenses necessary in carrying out the
National Historic Preservation Act (division
A of subtitle III of title 54, United States
Code), $113,160,000, to be derived from the
Historic Preservation Fund and to remain
available until September 30, 2020, of which
$14,000,000 shall be for Save America’s Treas-
ures grants for preservation of national sig-
nificant sites, structures and artifacts as au-
thorized by section 7303 of the Omnibus Pub-
lic Land Management Act of 2009 (54 U.S.C.
3089): Provided, That an individual Save
America’s Treasures grant shall be matched
by non-Federal funds: Provided further, That
individual projects shall only be eligible for
one grant: Provided further, That all projects
to be funded shall be approved by the Sec-
retary of the Interior in consultation with
the House and Senate Committees on Appro-
priations: Provided further, That of the funds
provided for the Historic Preservation Fund,
$750,000 is for competitive grants for the sur-
vey and nomination of properties to the Na-
tional Register of Historic Places and as Na-
tional Historic Landmarks associated with
communities currently under-represented, as
determined by the Secretary, $16,250,000 is
for competitive grants to preserve the sites
and stories of the Civil Rights movement,
$9,000,000 is for grants to Historically Black
Colleges and Universities, and $7,500,000 is for
competitive grants for the restoration of his-
toric properties of national, State and local
significance listed on or eligible for inclusion
on the National Register of Historic Places,
to be made without imposing the usage or di-
rect grant restrictions of section 101(e)(3) (54
U.S.C. 302904) of the National Historical
Preservation Act: Provided further, That such
competitive grants shall be made without
imposing the matching requirements in sec-
tion 302902(b)(3) of title 54, United States
Code, to States and Indian tribes as defined
in chapter 3003 of such title, Native Hawaiian
organizations, local governments, including
Certified Local Governments, and non-profit
organizations.
CONSTRUCTION
For construction, improvements, repair, or
replacement of physical facilities, and com-
pliance and planning for programs and areas
administered by the National Park Service,
$392,185,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That notwithstanding any
other provision of law, for any project ini-
tially funded in fiscal year 2020 with a future
phase indicated in the National Park Service
5-Year Line Item Construction Plan, a single
procurement may be issued which includes
the full scope of the project: Provided further,
That the solicitation and contract shall con-
tain the clause availability of funds found at
48 CFR 52.232–18: Provided further, That Na-
tional Park Service Donations, Park Conces-
sions Franchise Fees, and Recreation Fees
may be made available for the cost of adjust-
ments and changes within the original scope
of effort for projects funded by the National
Park Service Construction appropriation:
Provided further, That the Secretary of the
Interior shall consult with the Committees
on Appropriations, in accordance with cur-
rent reprogramming thresholds, prior to
making any charges authorized by this sec-
tion.
LAND ACQUISITION AND STATE ASSISTANCE
(INCLUDING RESCISSION OF FUNDS)
For expenses necessary to carry out chap-
ter 2003 of title 54, United States Code, in-
cluding administrative expenses, and for ac-
quisition of lands or waters, or interest
therein, in accordance with the statutory au-
thority applicable to the National Park
Service, $199,899,000, to be derived from the
Land and Water Conservation Fund and to
remain available until expended, of which
$140,000,000 is for the State assistance pro-
gram and of which $10,000,000 shall be for the
American Battlefield Protection Program
grants as authorized by chapter 3081 of title
54, United States Code.
Of the unobligated balances from amounts
made available for the National Park Serv-
ice and derived from the Land and Water
Conservation Fund, $2,279,000 is hereby per-
manently rescinded from projects or from
other grant programs with an unobligated
carry over balance: Provided, That no
amounts may be rescinded from amounts
that were designed by the Congress as an
emergency requirement pursuant to the Con-
current Resolution on the Budget or the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
CENTENNIAL CHALLENGE
For expenses necessary to carry out the
provisions of section 101701 of title 54, United
States Code, relating to challenge cost share
agreements, $20,000,000, to remain available
until expended, for Centennial Challenge
projects and programs: Provided, That not
less than 50 percent of the total cost of each
project or program shall be derived from
non-Federal sources in the form of donated
cash, assets, or a pledge of donation guaran-
teed by an irrevocable letter of credit.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
In addition to other uses set forth in sec-
tion 101917(c)(2) of title 54, United States
Code, franchise fees credited to a sub-ac-
count shall be available for expenditure by
the Secretary, without further appropria-
tion, for use at any unit within the National
Park System to extinguish or reduce liabil-
ity for Possessory Interest or leasehold sur-
render interest. Such funds may only be used
for this purpose to the extent that the bene-
fitting unit anticipated franchise fee receipts
over the term of the contract at that unit
exceed the amount of funds used to extin-
guish or reduce liability. Franchise fees at
the benefitting unit shall be credited to the
sub-account of the originating unit over a
period not to exceed the term of a single con-
tract at the benefitting unit, in the amount
of funds so expended to extinguish or reduce
liability.
For the costs of administration of the
Land and Water Conservation Fund grants
authorized by section 105(a)(2)(B) of the Gulf
of Mexico Energy Security Act of 2006 (Pub-
lic Law 109–432), the National Park Service
may retain up to 3 percent of the amounts
which are authorized to be disbursed under
such section, such retained amounts to re-
main available until expended.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00075 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6006 October 22, 2019
National Park Service funds may be trans-
ferred to the Federal Highway Administra-
tion (FHWA), Department of Transportation,
for purposes authorized under 23 U.S.C. 204.
Transfers may include a reasonable amount
for FHWA administrative support costs.
UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
SURVEYS, INVESTIGATIONS, AND RESEARCH
For expenses necessary for the United
States Geological Survey to perform sur-
veys, investigations, and research covering
topography, geology, hydrology, biology, and
the mineral and water resources of the
United States, its territories and posses-
sions, and other areas as authorized by 43
U.S.C. 31, 1332, and 1340; classify lands as to
their mineral and water resources; give engi-
neering supervision to power permittees and
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission li-
censees; administer the minerals exploration
program (30 U.S.C. 641); conduct inquiries
into the economic conditions affecting min-
ing and materials processing industries (30
U.S.C. 3, 21a, and 1603; 50 U.S.C. 98g(1)) and
related purposes as authorized by law; and to
publish and disseminate data relative to the
foregoing activities; $1,209,601,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2021; of which
$79,337,000 shall remain available until ex-
pended for satellite operations; and of which
$71,164,000 shall be available until expended
for deferred maintenance and capital im-
provement projects that exceed $100,000 in
cost: Provided, That none of the funds pro-
vided for the ecosystem research activity
shall be used to conduct new surveys on pri-
vate property, unless specifically authorized
in writing by the property owner: Provided
further, That no part of this appropriation
shall be used to pay more than one-half the
cost of topographic mapping or water re-
sources data collection and investigations
carried on in cooperation with States and
municipalities.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
From within the amount appropriated for
activities of the United States Geological
Survey such sums as are necessary shall be
available for contracting for the furnishing
of topographic maps and for the making of
geophysical or other specialized surveys
when it is administratively determined that
such procedures are in the public interest;
construction and maintenance of necessary
buildings and appurtenant facilities; acquisi-
tion of lands for gauging stations, observa-
tion wells, and seismic equipment; expenses
of the United States National Committee for
Geological Sciences; and payment of com-
pensation and expenses of persons employed
by the Survey duly appointed to represent
the United States in the negotiation and ad-
ministration of interstate compacts: Pro-
vided, That activities funded by appropria-
tions herein made may be accomplished
through the use of contracts, grants, or coop-
erative agreements as defined in section 6302
of title 31, United States Code: Provided fur-
ther, That the United States Geological Sur-
vey may enter into contracts or cooperative
agreements directly with individuals or indi-
rectly with institutions or nonprofit organi-
zations, without regard to 41 U.S.C. 6101, for
the temporary or intermittent services of
students or recent graduates, who shall be
considered employees for the purpose of
chapters 57 and 81 of title 5, United States
Code, relating to compensation for travel
and work injuries, and chapter 171 of title 28,
United States Code, relating to tort claims,
but shall not be considered to be Federal em-
ployees for any other purposes.
BUREAU OF OCEAN ENERGY MANAGEMENT
OCEAN ENERGY MANAGEMENT
For expenses necessary for granting and
administering leases, easements, rights-of-
way and agreements for use for oil and gas,
other minerals, energy, and marine-related
purposes on the Outer Continental Shelf and
approving operations related thereto, as au-
thorized by law; for environmental studies,
as authorized by law; for implementing other
laws and to the extent provided by Presi-
dential or Secretarial delegation; and for
matching grants or cooperative agreements,
$193,426,000, of which $133,426,000 is to remain
available until September 30, 2021, and of
which $60,000,000 is to remain available until
expended: Provided, That this total appro-
priation shall be reduced by amounts col-
lected by the Secretary and credited to this
appropriation from additions to receipts re-
sulting from increases to lease rental rates
in effect on August 5, 1993, and from cost re-
covery fees from activities conducted by the
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management pursu-
ant to the Outer Continental Shelf Lands
Act, including studies, assessments, anal-
ysis, and miscellaneous administrative ac-
tivities: Provided further, That the sum here-
in appropriated shall be reduced as such col-
lections are received during the fiscal year,
so as to result in a final fiscal year 2020 ap-
propriation estimated at not more than
$133,426,000: Provided further, That not to ex-
ceed $3,000 shall be available for reasonable
expenses related to promoting volunteer
beach and marine cleanup activities.
BUREAU OF SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL
ENFORCEMENT
OFFSHORE SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL
ENFORCEMENT
For expenses necessary for the regulation
of operations related to leases, easements,
rights-of-way and agreements for use for oil
and gas, other minerals, energy, and marine-
related purposes on the Outer Continental
Shelf, as authorized by law; for enforcing and
implementing laws and regulations as au-
thorized by law and to the extent provided
by Presidential or Secretarial delegation;
and for matching grants or cooperative
agreements, $146,341,000, of which $120,341,000
is to remain available until September 30,
2021, and of which $26,000,000 is to remain
available until expended: Provided, That this
total appropriation shall be reduced by
amounts collected by the Secretary and
credited to this appropriation from additions
to receipts resulting from increases to lease
rental rates in effect on August 5, 1993, and
from cost recovery fees from activities con-
ducted by the Bureau of Safety and Environ-
mental Enforcement pursuant to the Outer
Continental Shelf Lands Act, including stud-
ies, assessments, analysis, and miscellaneous
administrative activities: Provided further,
That the sum herein appropriated shall be
reduced as such collections are received dur-
ing the fiscal year, so as to result in a final
fiscal year 2020 appropriation estimated at
not more than $120,341,000.
For an additional amount, $41,000,000, to
remain available until expended, to be re-
duced by amounts collected by the Secretary
and credited to this appropriation, which
shall be derived from non-refundable inspec-
tion fees collected in fiscal year 2020, as pro-
vided in this Act: Provided, That to the ex-
tent that amounts realized from such inspec-
tion fees exceed $41,000,000, the amounts real-
ized in excess of $41,000,000 shall be credited
to this appropriation and remain available
until expended: Provided further, That for fis-
cal year 2020, not less than 50 percent of the
inspection fees expended by the Bureau of
Safety and Environmental Enforcement will
be used to fund personnel and mission-re-
lated costs to expand capacity and expedite
the orderly development, subject to environ-
mental safeguards, of the Outer Continental
Shelf pursuant to the Outer Continental
Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq.), in-
cluding the review of applications for per-
mits to drill.
OIL SPILL RESEARCH
For necessary expenses to carry out title I,
section 1016, title IV, sections 4202 and 4303,
title VII, and title VIII, section 8201 of the
Oil Pollution Act of 1990, $14,899,000, which
shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability
Trust Fund, to remain available until ex-
pended.
OFFICE OF SURFACE MINING RECLAMATION AND
ENFORCEMENT
REGULATION AND TECHNOLOGY
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of the Surface Mining Control and
Reclamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95–87,
$117,768,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021: Provided, That appropria-
tions for the Office of Surface Mining Rec-
lamation and Enforcement may provide for
the travel and per diem expenses of State
and tribal personnel attending Office of Sur-
face Mining Reclamation and Enforcement
sponsored training.
In addition, for costs to review, admin-
ister, and enforce permits issued by the Of-
fice pursuant to section 507 of Public Law 95–
87 (30 U.S.C. 1257), $40,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That fees as-
sessed and collected by the Office pursuant
to such section 507 shall be credited to this
account as discretionary offsetting collec-
tions, to remain available until expended:
Provided further, That the sum herein appro-
priated from the general fund shall be re-
duced as collections are received during the
fiscal year, so as to result in a fiscal year
2020 appropriation estimated at not more
than $117,678,000.
ABANDONED MINE RECLAMATION FUND
For necessary expenses to carry out title
IV of the Surface Mining Control and Rec-
lamation Act of 1977, Public Law 95–87,
$24,713,000, to be derived from receipts of the
Abandoned Mine Reclamation Fund and to
remain available until expended: Provided,
That pursuant to Public Law 97–365, the De-
partment of the Interior is authorized to use
up to 20 percent from the recovery of the de-
linquent debt owed to the United States Gov-
ernment to pay for contracts to collect these
debts: Provided further, That funds made
available under title IV of Public Law 95–87
may be used for any required non-Federal
share of the cost of projects funded by the
Federal Government for the purpose of envi-
ronmental restoration related to treatment
or abatement of acid mine drainage from
abandoned mines: Provided further, That such
projects must be consistent with the pur-
poses and priorities of the Surface Mining
Control and Reclamation Act: Provided fur-
ther, That amounts provided under this head-
ing may be used for the travel and per diem
expenses of State and tribal personnel at-
tending Office of Surface Mining Reclama-
tion and Enforcement sponsored training.
In addition, $115,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, for grants to States and
federally recognized Indian Tribes for rec-
lamation of abandoned mine lands and other
related activities in accordance with the
terms and conditions described in the report
accompanying this Act: Provided, That such
additional amount shall be used for eco-
nomic and community development in con-
junction with the priorities in section 403(a)
of the Surface Mining Control and Reclama-
tion Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 1233(a)): Provided
further, That of such additional amount,
$75,000,000 shall be distributed in equal
amounts to the 3 Appalachian States with
the greatest amount of unfunded needs to
meet the priorities described in paragraphs
(1) and (2) of such section, $30,000,000 shall be
distributed in equal amounts to the 3 Appa-
lachian States with the subsequent greatest
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00076 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6007
October 22, 2019
amount of unfunded needs to meet such pri-
orities, and $10,000,000 shall be for grants to
federally recognized Indian Tribes without
regard to their status as certified or
uncertified under the Surface Mining Con-
trol and Reclamation Act of 1977 (30 U.S.C.
1233(a)), for reclamation of abandoned mine
lands and other related activities in accord-
ance with the terms and conditions described
in the report accompanying this Act and
shall be used for economic and community
development in conjunction with the prior-
ities in section 403(a) of the Surface Mining
Control and Reclamation Act of 1977: Pro-
vided further, That such additional amount
shall be allocated to States and Indian
Tribes within 60 days after the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
INDIAN AFFAIRS
BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS
OPERATION OF INDIAN PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For expenses necessary for the operation of
Indian programs, as authorized by law, in-
cluding the Snyder Act of November 2, 1921
(25 U.S.C. 13), the Indian Self-Determination
and Education Assistance Act of 1975 (25
U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), $1,533,461,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2021, except as
otherwise provided herein; of which not to
exceed $8,500 may be for official reception
and representation expenses; of which not to
exceed $74,734,000 shall be for welfare assist-
ance payments: Provided, That in cases of
designated Federal disasters, the Secretary
may exceed such cap, for welfare payments
from the amounts provided herein, to pro-
vide for disaster relief to Indian commu-
nities affected by the disaster: Provided fur-
ther, That federally recognized Indian tribes
and tribal organizations of federally recog-
nized Indian tribes may use their tribal pri-
ority allocations for unmet welfare assist-
ance costs: Provided further, That not to ex-
ceed $57,424,000 shall remain available until
expended for housing improvement, road
maintenance, attorney fees, litigation sup-
port, land records improvement, and the
Navajo-Hopi Settlement Program: Provided
further, That any forestry funds allocated to
a federally recognized tribe which remain
unobligated as of September 30, 2021, may be
transferred during fiscal year 2022 to an In-
dian forest land assistance account estab-
lished for the benefit of the holder of the
funds within the holder’s trust fund account:
Provided further, That any such unobligated
balances not so transferred shall expire on
September 30, 2022: Provided further, That in
order to enhance the safety of Bureau field
employees, the Bureau may use funds to pur-
chase uniforms or other identifying articles
of clothing for personnel: Provided further,
That the Bureau of Indian Affairs may ac-
cept transfers of funds from U.S. Customs
and Border Protection to supplement any
other funding available for reconstruction or
repair of roads owned by the Bureau of In-
dian Affairs as identified on the National
Tribal Transportation Facility Inventory, 23
U.S.C. 202(b)(1).
CONTRACT SUPPORT COSTS
For payments to tribes and tribal organi-
zations for contract support costs associated
with Indian Self-Determination and Edu-
cation Assistance Act agreements with the
Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Bureau of
Indian Education for fiscal year 2020, such
sums as may be necessary, which shall be
available for obligation through September
30, 2021: Provided, That notwithstanding any
other provision of law, no amounts made
available under this heading shall be avail-
able for transfer to another budget account.
CONSTRUCTION
(INCLUDING TRANSFER AND RESCISSION OF
FUNDS)
For construction, repair, improvement,
and maintenance of irrigation and power sys-
tems, buildings, utilities, and other facili-
ties, including architectural and engineering
services by contract; acquisition of lands,
and interests in lands; and preparation of
lands for farming, and for construction of
the Navajo Indian Irrigation Project pursu-
ant to Public Law 87–483; $128,723,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That such amounts as may be available for
the construction of the Navajo Indian Irriga-
tion Project may be transferred to the Bu-
reau of Reclamation: Provided further, That
any funds provided for the Safety of Dams
program pursuant to the Act of November 2,
1921 (25 U.S.C. 13), shall be made available on
a nonreimbursable basis: Provided further,
That in order to ensure timely completion of
construction projects, the Secretary may as-
sume control of a project and all funds re-
lated to the project, if, within 18 months of
the date of enactment of this Act, any Public
Law 93–638 contractor receiving funds appro-
priated in this Act or in any prior Act, has
not completed the planning and design phase
of the project and commenced construction:
Provided further, That this appropriation
may be reimbursed from the Office of the
Special Trustee for American Indians appro-
priation for the appropriate share of con-
struction costs for space expansion needed in
agency offices to meet trust reform imple-
mentation: Provided further, That of the
funds made available under this heading,
$10,000,000 shall be derived from the Indian
Irrigation Fund established by section 3211 of
the WIIN Act (Public Law 114–322; 130 Stat.
1749).
Of the unobligated balances made available
for the ‘‘Construction, Resources Manage-
ment’’ account, $2,000,000 is permanently re-
scinded: Provided, That no amounts may be
rescinded from amounts that were des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to the Concurrent Reso-
lution on the Budget or the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
INDIAN LAND AND WATER CLAIM SETTLEMENTS
AND MISCELLANEOUS PAYMENTS TO INDIANS
For payments and necessary administra-
tive expenses for implementation of Indian
land and water claim settlements pursuant
to Public Laws 99–264, 100–580, 101–618, 111–11,
111–291, and 114–322, and for implementation
of other land and water rights settlements,
$45,644,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
INDIAN GUARANTEED LOAN PROGRAM ACCOUNT
For the cost of guaranteed loans and in-
sured loans, $10,779,000, of which $1,455,000 is
for administrative expenses, as authorized by
the Indian Financing Act of 1974: Provided,
That such costs, including the cost of modi-
fying such loans, shall be as defined in sec-
tion 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of
1974: Provided further, That these funds are
available to subsidize total loan principal,
any part of which is to be guaranteed or in-
sured, not to exceed $174,616,164.
BUREAU OF INDIAN EDUCATION
OPERATION OF INDIAN EDUCATION PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For expenses necessary for the operation of
Indian education programs, as authorized by
law, including the Snyder Act of November 2,
1921 (25 U.S.C. 13), the Indian Self-Deter-
mination and Education Assistance Act of
1975 (25 U.S.C.5301 et seq.), the Education
Amendments of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 2001–2019), and
the Tribally Controlled Schools Act of 1988
(25 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.), $905,841,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2021, except as
otherwise provided herein: Provided, That
Federally recognized Indian tribes and tribal
organizations of Federally recognized Indian
tribes may use their tribal priority alloca-
tions for unmet welfare assistance costs: Pro-
vided further, That not to exceed $685,223,000
for school operations costs of Bureau-funded
schools and other education programs shall
become available on July 1, 2020, and shall
remain available until September 30, 2021:
Provided further, That notwithstanding any
other provision of law, including but not lim-
ited to the Indian Self–Determination Act of
1975 (25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) and section 1128 of
the Education Amendments of 1978 (25
U.S.C.), not to exceed $83,407,000 within and
only from such amounts made available for
school operations shall be available for ad-
ministrative cost grants associated with
grants approved prior to July 1, 2020: Pro-
vided further, That in order to enhance safety
of Bureau field employees, the Bureau may
use funds to purchase uniforms or other
identifying articles of clothing for personnel.
EDUCATION CONSTRUCTION
For construction, repair, improvements,
and maintenance of buildings, utilities and
other facilities necessary for the operation
of Indian education programs, including ar-
chitectural and engineering services by con-
tract; acquisition of lands, and interests in
lands: $238,250,000, to remain available until
expended; Provided, That in order to ensure
timely completion of construction projects,
the Secretary may assume control of a
project and all funds related to the project,
if, within 18 months of the date of enactment
of this Act, any Public Law 100–297 (25 U.S.C.
2501 et seq.) grantee or Public Law 93–638 (25
U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) contractor receiving
funds appropriated in this Act or in any
prior Act, has not completed the planning
and design phase of the project and com-
menced construction.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
The Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Bu-
reau of Indian Education may carry out the
operation of Indian programs by direct ex-
penditure, contracts, cooperative agree-
ments, compacts, and grants, either directly
or in cooperation with States and other or-
ganizations.
Notwithstanding Public Law 87–279 (25
U.S.C. 15), the Bureau of Indian Affairs may
contract for services in support of the man-
agement, operation, and maintenance of the
Power Division of the San Carlos Irrigation
Project.
Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, no funds available to the Bureau of In-
dian Affairs or the Bureau of Indian Edu-
cation for central office oversight, Education
Management, and Executive Direction and
Administrative Services (except executive
direction and administrative services fund-
ing for Tribal Priority Allocations, regional
offices, and facilities operations and mainte-
nance) shall be available for contracts,
grants, compacts, or cooperative agreements
with the Bureau of Indian Affairs or the Bu-
reau of Indian Education under the provi-
sions of the Indian Self-Determination Act
or the Tribal Self-Governance Act as amend-
ed.
In the event any tribe returns appropria-
tions made available by this Act to the Bu-
reau of Indian Affairs or the Bureau of In-
dian Education, this action shall not dimin-
ish the Federal Government’s trust responsi-
bility to that tribe, or the government-to-
government relationship between the United
States and that tribe, or that tribe’s ability
to access future appropriations.
Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, no funds available to the Bureau of In-
dian Education, other than the amounts pro-
vided herein for assistance to public schools
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00077 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6008 October 22, 2019
under 25 U.S.C. 452 et seq., shall be available
to support the operation of any elementary
or secondary school in the State of Alaska.
No funds available to the Bureau of Indian
Education shall be used to support expanded
grades for any school or dormitory beyond
the grade structure in place or approved by
the Secretary of the Interior at each school
in the Bureau of Indian Education school
system as of October 1, 1995, except that the
Secretary of the Interior may waive this pro-
hibition to support expansion of up to one
additional grade when the Secretary deter-
mines such waiver is needed to support ac-
complishment of the mission of the Bureau
of Indian Education, or more than one grade
to expand the elementary grade structure for
the Bureau-funded schools with a K–2 grade
structure on October 1, 1996. Appropriations
made available in this or any prior Act for
schools funded by the Bureau shall be avail-
able, in accordance with the Bureau’s fund-
ing formula, only to the schools in the Bu-
reau school system as of September 1, 1996,
and to any school or school program that
was reinstated in fiscal year 2012. Funds
made available under this Act may not be
used to establish a charter school at a Bu-
reau-funded school (as that term is defined
in section 1141 of the Education Amendments
of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 2021)), except that a charter
school that is in existence on the date of the
enactment of this Act and that has operated
at a Bureau-funded school before September
1, 1999, may continue to operate during that
period, but only if the charter school pays to
the Bureau a pro rata share of funds to reim-
burse the Bureau for the use of the real and
personal property (including buses and vans),
the funds of the charter school are kept sepa-
rate and apart from Bureau funds, and the
Bureau does not assume any obligation for
charter school programs of the State in
which the school is located if the charter
school loses such funding. Employees of Bu-
reau-funded schools sharing a campus with a
charter school and performing functions re-
lated to the charter school’s operation and
employees of a charter school shall not be
treated as Federal employees for purposes of
chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code.
Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, including section 113 of title I of appen-
dix C of Public Law 106–113, if in fiscal year
2003 or 2004 a grantee received indirect and
administrative costs pursuant to a distribu-
tion formula based on section 5(f) of Public
Law 101–301, the Secretary shall continue to
distribute indirect and administrative cost
funds to such grantee using the section 5(f)
distribution formula.
Funds available under this Act may not be
used to establish satellite locations of
schools in the Bureau school system as of
September 1, 1996, except that the Secretary
may waive this prohibition in order for an
Indian tribe to provide language and cultural
immersion educational programs for non-
public schools located within the jurisdic-
tional area of the tribal government which
exclusively serve tribal members, do not in-
clude grades beyond those currently served
at the existing Bureau-funded school, pro-
vide an educational environment with educa-
tor presence and academic facilities com-
parable to the Bureau-funded school, comply
with all applicable Tribal, Federal, or State
health and safety standards, and the Ameri-
cans with Disabilities Act, and demonstrate
the benefits of establishing operations at a
satellite location in lieu of incurring ex-
traordinary costs, such as for transportation
or other impacts to students such as those
caused by busing students extended dis-
tances: Provided, That no funds available
under this Act may be used to fund oper-
ations, maintenance, rehabilitation, con-
struction or other facilities-related costs for
such assets that are not owned by the Bu-
reau: Provided further, That the term ‘‘sat-
ellite school’’ means a school location phys-
ically separated from the existing Bureau
school by more than 50 miles but that forms
part of the existing school in all other re-
spects.
Funds made available within Operation of
Indian Programs, Operation of Indian Edu-
cation Programs, Construction, and Edu-
cation Construction may be used to execute
requested adjustments in tribal priority allo-
cations.
DEPARTMENTAL OFFICES
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
DEPARTMENTAL OPERATIONS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses for management of
the Department of the Interior and for
grants and cooperative agreements, as au-
thorized by law, $136,244,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2021; of which not to
exceed $15,000 may be for official reception
and representation expenses; and of which up
to $1,000,000 shall be available for workers
compensation payments and unemployment
compensation payments associated with the
orderly closure of the United States Bureau
of Mines; and of which $9,000,000 for the Ap-
praisal and Valuation Service Office is to be
derived from the Land and Water Conserva-
tion Fund and shall remain available until
expended; and of which $11,061,000 for Indian
land, mineral, and resource valuation activi-
ties shall remain available until expended:
Provided, That funds for Indian land, min-
eral, and resource valuation activities may,
as needed, be transferred to and merged with
the Bureau of Indian Affairs ‘‘Operation of
Indian Programs’’ account, and the Bureau
of Indian Education ‘‘Operation of Indian
Education Programs’’ account and the Office
of the Special Trustee for American Indians
‘‘Federal Trust Programs’’ account: Provided
further, That funds made available through
contracts or grants obligated during fiscal
year 2019, as authorized by the Indian Self-
Determination Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 5301 et
seq.), shall remain available until expended
by the contractor or grantee.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
For fiscal year 2020, up to $400,000 of the
payments authorized by chapter 69 of title
31, United States Code, may be retained for
administrative expenses of the Payments in
Lieu of Taxes Program: Provided, That the
amounts provided under this Act specifically
for the Payments in Lieu of Taxes program
are the only amounts available for payments
authorized under chapter 69 of title 31,
United States Code: Provided further, That in
the event the sums appropriated for any fis-
cal year for payments pursuant to this chap-
ter are insufficient to make the full pay-
ments authorized by that chapter to all
units of local government, then the payment
to each local government shall be made pro-
portionally: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary may make adjustments to payment to
individual units of local government to cor-
rect for prior overpayments or underpay-
ments: Provided further, That no payment
shall be made pursuant to that chapter to
otherwise eligible units of local government
if the computed amount of the payment is
less than $100.
INSULAR AFFAIRS
ASSISTANCE TO TERRITORIES
For expenses necessary for assistance to
territories under the jurisdiction of the De-
partment of the Interior and other jurisdic-
tions identified in section 104(e) of Public
Law 108–188, $102,131,000, of which: (1)
$92,640,000 shall remain available until ex-
pended for territorial assistance, including
general technical assistance, maintenance
assistance, disaster assistance, coral reef ini-
tiative activities, and brown tree snake con-
trol and research; grants to the judiciary in
American Samoa for compensation and ex-
penses, as authorized by law (48 U.S.C.
1661(c)); grants to the Government of Amer-
ican Samoa, in addition to current local rev-
enues, for construction and support of gov-
ernmental functions; grants to the Govern-
ment of the Virgin Islands, as authorized by
law; grants to the Government of Guam, as
authorized by law; and grants to the Govern-
ment of the Northern Mariana Islands , as
authorized by law (Public Law 94–241; 90
Stat. 272); and (2) $9,491,000 shall be available
until September 30, 2021, for salaries and ex-
penses of the Office of Insular Affairs: Pro-
vided, That all financial transactions of the
territorial and local governments herein pro-
vided for, including such transactions of all
agencies or instrumentalities established or
used by such governments, may be audited
by the Government Accountability Office, at
its discretion, in accordance with chapter 35
of title 31, United States Code: Provided fur-
ther, That Northern Mariana Islands Cov-
enant grant funding shall be provided ac-
cording to those terms of the Agreement of
the Special Representatives on Future
United States Financial Assistance for the
Northern Mariana Islands approved by Pub-
lic Law 104–134: Provided further, That the
funds for the program of operations and
maintenance improvement are appropriated
to institutionalize routine operations and
maintenance improvement of capital infra-
structure with territorial participation and
cost sharing to be determined by the Sec-
retary based on the grantee’s commitment
to timely maintenance of its capital assets:
Provided further, That any appropriation for
disaster assistance under this heading in this
Act or previous appropriations Acts may be
used as non–Federal matching funds for the
purpose of hazard mitigation grants provided
pursuant to section 404 of the Robert T. Staf-
ford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assist-
ance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170c).
COMPACT OF FREE ASSOCIATION
For grants and necessary expenses,
$8,463,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, as provided for in sections 221(a)(2)
and 233 of the Compact of Free Association
for the Republic of Palau; and section
221(a)(2) of the Compacts of Free Association
for the Government of the Republic of the
Marshall Islands and the Federated States of
Micronesia, as authorized by Public Law 99–
658 and Public Law 108–188: Provided, That of
the funds appropriated under this heading,
$5,000,000 is for deposit into the Compact
Trust Fund of the Republic of the Marshall
Islands as compensation authorized by Pub-
lic Law 108–188 for adverse financial and eco-
nomic impacts.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
At the request of the Governor of Guam,
the Secretary may transfer discretionary
funds or mandatory funds provided under
section 104(e) of Public Law 108–188 and Pub-
lic Law 104–134, that are allocated for Guam,
to the Secretary of Agriculture for the sub-
sidy cost of direct or guaranteed loans, plus
not to exceed three percent of the amount of
the subsidy transferred for the cost of loan
administration, for the purposes authorized
by the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 and
section 306(a)(1) of the Consolidated Farm
and Rural Development Act for construction
and repair projects in Guam, and such funds
shall remain available until expended: Pro-
vided, That such costs, including the cost of
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00078 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6009
October 22, 2019
of 1974: Provided further, That such loans or
loan guarantees may be made without regard
to the population of the area, credit else-
where requirements, and restrictions on the
types of eligible entities under the Rural
Electrification Act of 1936 and section
306(a)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural
Development Act: Provided further, That any
funds transferred to the Secretary of Agri-
culture shall be in addition to funds other-
wise made available to make or guarantee
loans under such authorities.
OFFICE OF THE SOLICITOR
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Solicitor, $66,816,000.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General, $53,000,000.
OFFICE OF THE SPECIAL TRUSTEE FOR
AMERICAN INDIANS
FEDERAL TRUST PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For the operation of trust programs for In-
dians by direct expenditure, contracts, coop-
erative agreements, compacts, and grants,
$111,540,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, of which not to exceed $19,016,000
from this or any other Act, may be available
for historical accounting: Provided, That
funds for trust management improvements
and litigation support may, as needed, be
transferred to or merged with the Bureau of
Indian Affairs ‘‘Operation of Indian Pro-
grams’’ account, the Bureau of Indian Edu-
cation, ‘‘Operation of Indian Education Pro-
grams’’ account, the Office of the Solicitor,
‘‘Salaries and Expenses’’ account, and the
Office of the Secretary, ‘‘Departmental Oper-
ations’’ account: Provided further, That funds
made available through contracts or grants
obligated during fiscal year 2020, as author-
ized by the Indian Self-Determination Act of
1975 (25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), shall remain
available until expended by the contractor or
grantee: Provided further, That notwith-
standing any other provision of law, the Sec-
retary shall not be required to provide a
quarterly statement of performance for any
Indian trust account that has not had activ-
ity for at least 15 months and has a balance
of $15 or less: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary shall issue an annual account state-
ment and maintain a record of any such ac-
counts and shall permit the balance in each
such account to be withdrawn upon the ex-
press written request of the account holder:
Provided further, That not to exceed $50,000 is
available for the Secretary to make pay-
ments to correct administrative errors of ei-
ther disbursements from or deposits to Indi-
vidual Indian Money or Tribal accounts after
September 30, 2002: Provided further, That er-
roneous payments that are recovered shall
be credited to and remain available in this
account for this purpose: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall not be required to
reconcile Special Deposit Accounts with a
balance of less than $500 unless the Office of
the Special Trustee receives proof of owner-
ship from a Special Deposit Accounts claim-
ant: Provided further, That notwithstanding
section 102 of the American Indian Trust
Fund Management Reform Act of 1994 (Pub-
lic Law 103–412) or any other provision of
law, the Secretary may aggregate the trust
accounts of individuals whose whereabouts
are unknown for a continuous period of at
least five years and shall not be required to
generate periodic statements of performance
for the individual accounts: Provided further,
That with respect to the eighth proviso, the
Secretary shall continue to maintain suffi-
cient records to determine the balance of the
individual accounts, including any accrued
interest and income, and such funds shall re-
main available to the individual account
holders.
DEPARTMENT-WIDE PROGRAMS
WILDLAND FIRE MANAGEMENT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses for fire prepared-
ness, fire suppression operations, fire science
and research, emergency rehabilitation,
fuels management activities, and rural fire
assistance by the Department of the Inte-
rior, $952,338,000, to remain available until
expended, of which not to exceed $18,427,000
shall be for the renovation or construction of
fire facilities: Provided, That such funds are
also available for repayment of advances to
other appropriation accounts from which
funds were previously transferred for such
purposes: Provided further, That of the funds
provided $194,000,000 is for fuels management
activities: Provided further, That of the funds
provided $20,470,000 is for burned area reha-
bilitation: Provided further, That persons
hired pursuant to 43 U.S.C. 1469 may be fur-
nished subsistence and lodging without cost
from funds available from this appropria-
tion: Provided further, That notwithstanding
42 U.S.C. 1856d, sums received by a bureau or
office of the Department of the Interior for
fire protection rendered pursuant to 42
U.S.C. 1856 et seq., protection of United
States property, may be credited to the ap-
propriation from which funds were expended
to provide that protection, and are available
without fiscal year limitation: Provided fur-
ther, That using the amounts designated
under this title of this Act, the Secretary of
the Interior may enter into procurement
contracts, grants, or cooperative agree-
ments, for fuels management activities, and
for training and monitoring associated with
such fuels management activities on Federal
land, or on adjacent non-Federal land for ac-
tivities that benefit resources on Federal
land: Provided further, That the costs of im-
plementing any cooperative agreement be-
tween the Federal Government and any non-
Federal entity may be shared, as mutually
agreed on by the affected parties: Provided
further, That notwithstanding requirements
of the Competition in Contracting Act, the
Secretary, for purposes of fuels management
activities, may obtain maximum practicable
competition among: (1) local private, non-
profit, or cooperative entities; (2) Youth Con-
servation Corps crews, Public Lands Corps
(Public Law 109–154), or related partnerships
with State, local, or nonprofit youth groups;
(3) small or micro-businesses; or (4) other en-
tities that will hire or train locally a signifi-
cant percentage, defined as 50 percent or
more, of the project workforce to complete
such contracts: Provided further, That in im-
plementing this section, the Secretary shall
develop written guidance to field units to en-
sure accountability and consistent applica-
tion of the authorities provided herein: Pro-
vided further, That funds appropriated under
this heading may be used to reimburse the
United States Fish and Wildlife Service and
the National Marine Fisheries Service for
the costs of carrying out their responsibil-
ities under the Endangered Species Act of
1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) to consult and
conference, as required by section 7 of such
Act, in connection with wildland fire man-
agement activities: Provided further, That
the Secretary of the Interior may use
wildland fire appropriations to enter into
leases of real property with local govern-
ments, at or below fair market value, to con-
struct capitalized improvements for fire fa-
cilities on such leased properties, including
but not limited to fire guard stations, re-
tardant stations, and other initial attack
and fire support facilities, and to make ad-
vance payments for any such lease or for
construction activity associated with the
lease: Provided further, That the Secretary of
the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture
may authorize the transfer of funds appro-
priated for wildland fire management, in an
aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000,000,
between the Departments when such trans-
fers would facilitate and expedite wildland
fire management programs and projects: Pro-
vided further, That funds provided for wildfire
suppression shall be available for support of
Federal emergency response actions: Pro-
vided further, That funds appropriated under
this heading shall be available for assistance
to or through the Department of State in
connection with forest and rangeland re-
search, technical information, and assist-
ance in foreign countries, and, with the con-
currence of the Secretary of State, shall be
available to support forestry, wildland fire
management, and related natural resource
activities outside the United States and its
territories and possessions, including tech-
nical assistance, education and training, and
cooperation with United States and inter-
national organizations: Provided further,
That of the funds provided under this head-
ing $383,657,000 is provided to meet the terms
of section 251(b)(2)(F)(ii)(I) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985, as amended.
In addition to the amounts provided under
this heading for wildfire suppression oper-
ations, $300,000,000, to remain available until
expended, is additional new budget authority
as specified for purposes of section
251(b)(2)(F) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided, That the Secretary of the Department
of the Interior may transfer such amounts to
the Department of Agriculture for wildfire
suppression operations.
CENTRAL HAZARDOUS MATERIALS FUND
For necessary expenses of the Department
of the Interior and any of its component of-
fices and bureaus for the response action, in-
cluding associated activities, performed pur-
suant to the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act
(42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.), $10,010,000, to remain
available until expended.
NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENT
AND RESTORATION
NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE ASSESSMENT FUND
To conduct natural resource damage as-
sessment, restoration activities, and onshore
oil spill preparedness by the Department of
the Interior necessary to carry out the provi-
sions of the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act
(42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.), the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.),
the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 2701 et
seq.), and 54 U.S.C. 100721 et seq., $7,767,000,
to remain available until expended.
WORKING CAPITAL FUND
For the operation and maintenance of a de-
partmental financial and business manage-
ment system, information technology im-
provements of general benefit to the Depart-
ment, cybersecurity, and the consolidation
of facilities and operations throughout the
Department, $68,235,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That none of the
funds appropriated in this Act or any other
Act may be used to establish reserves in the
Working Capital Fund account other than
for accrued annual leave and depreciation of
equipment without prior approval of the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate: Provided
further, That the Secretary may assess rea-
sonable charges to State, local and tribal
government employees for training services
provided by the National Indian Program
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00079 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6010 October 22, 2019
Training Center, other than training related
to Public Law 93–638: Provided further, That
the Secretary may lease or otherwise provide
space and related facilities, equipment or
professional services of the National Indian
Program Training Center to State, local and
tribal government employees or persons or
organizations engaged in cultural, edu-
cational, or recreational activities (as de-
fined in section 3306(a) of title 40, United
States Code) at the prevailing rate for simi-
lar space, facilities, equipment, or services
in the vicinity of the National Indian Pro-
gram Training Center: Provided further, That
all funds received pursuant to the two pre-
ceding provisos shall be credited to this ac-
count, shall be available until expended, and
shall be used by the Secretary for necessary
expenses of the National Indian Program
Training Center: Provided further, That the
Secretary may enter into grants and cooper-
ative agreements to support the Office of
Natural Resource Revenue’s collection and
disbursement of royalties, fees, and other
mineral revenue proceeds, as authorized by
law.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISION
There is hereby authorized for acquisition
from available resources within the Working
Capital Fund, aircraft which may be ob-
tained by donation, purchase or through
available excess surplus property: Provided,
That existing aircraft being replaced may be
sold, with proceeds derived or trade-in value
used to offset the purchase price for the re-
placement aircraft.
OFFICE OF NATURAL RESOURCES REVENUE
For necessary expenses for management of
the collection and disbursement of royalties,
fees, and other mineral revenue proceeds,
and for grants and cooperative agreements,
as authorized by law, $147,330,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2021; of which
$50,651,000 shall remain available until ex-
pended for the purpose of mineral revenue
management activities: Provided, That not-
withstanding any other provision of law,
$15,000 shall be available for refunds of over-
payments in connection with certain Indian
leases in which the Secretary concurred with
the claimed refund due, to pay amounts owed
to Indian allottees or tribes, or to correct
prior unrecoverable erroneous payments.
GENERAL PROVISIONS, DEPARTMENT OF THE
INTERIOR
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
EMERGENCY TRANSFER AUTHORITY—INTRA-
BUREAU
SEC. 101. Appropriations made in this title
shall be available for expenditure or transfer
(within each bureau or office), with the ap-
proval of the Secretary, for the emergency
reconstruction, replacement, or repair of air-
craft, buildings, utilities, or other facilities
or equipment damaged or destroyed by fire,
flood, storm, or other unavoidable causes:
Provided, That no funds shall be made avail-
able under this authority until funds specifi-
cally made available to the Department of
the Interior for emergencies shall have been
exhausted: Provided further, That all funds
used pursuant to this section must be replen-
ished by a supplemental appropriation,
which must be requested as promptly as pos-
sible.
EMERGENCY TRANSFER AUTHORITY—
DEPARTMENT-WIDE
SEC. 102. The Secretary may authorize the
expenditure or transfer of any no year appro-
priation in this title, in addition to the
amounts included in the budget programs of
the several agencies, for the suppression or
emergency prevention of wildland fires on or
threatening lands under the jurisdiction of
the Department of the Interior; for the emer-
gency rehabilitation of burned-over lands
under its jurisdiction; for emergency actions
related to potential or actual earthquakes,
floods, volcanoes, storms, or other unavoid-
able causes; for contingency planning subse-
quent to actual oil spills; for response and
natural resource damage assessment activi-
ties related to actual oil spills or releases of
hazardous substances into the environment;
for the prevention, suppression, and control
of actual or potential grasshopper and Mor-
mon cricket outbreaks on lands under the ju-
risdiction of the Secretary, pursuant to the
authority in section 417(b) of Public Law 106–
224 (7 U.S.C. 7717(b)); for emergency reclama-
tion projects under section 410 of Public Law
95–87; and shall transfer, from any no year
funds available to the Office of Surface Min-
ing Reclamation and Enforcement, such
funds as may be necessary to permit assump-
tion of regulatory authority in the event a
primacy State is not carrying out the regu-
latory provisions of the Surface Mining Act:
Provided, That appropriations made in this
title for wildland fire operations shall be
available for the payment of obligations in-
curred during the preceding fiscal year, and
for reimbursement to other Federal agencies
for destruction of vehicles, aircraft, or other
equipment in connection with their use for
wildland fire operations, with such reim-
bursement to be credited to appropriations
currently available at the time of receipt
thereof: Provided further, That for wildland
fire operations, no funds shall be made avail-
able under this authority until the Secretary
determines that funds appropriated for
‘‘wildland fire suppression’’ shall be ex-
hausted within 30 days: Provided further,
That all funds used pursuant to this section
must be replenished by a supplemental ap-
propriation, which must be requested as
promptly as possible: Provided further, That
such replenishment funds shall be used to re-
imburse, on a pro rata basis, accounts from
which emergency funds were transferred.
AUTHORIZED USE OF FUNDS
SEC. 103. Appropriations made to the De-
partment of the Interior in this title shall be
available for services as authorized by sec-
tion 3109 of title 5, United States Code, when
authorized by the Secretary, in total amount
not to exceed $500,000; purchase and replace-
ment of motor vehicles, including specially
equipped law enforcement vehicles; hire,
maintenance, and operation of aircraft; hire
of passenger motor vehicles; purchase of re-
prints; payment for telephone service in pri-
vate residences in the field, when authorized
under regulations approved by the Secretary;
and the payment of dues, when authorized by
the Secretary, for library membership in so-
cieties or associations which issue publica-
tions to members only or at a price to mem-
bers lower than to subscribers who are not
members.
AUTHORIZED USE OF FUNDS, INDIAN TRUST
MANAGEMENT
SEC. 104. Appropriations made in this Act
under the headings Bureau of Indian Affairs
and Bureau of Indian Education, and Office
of the Special Trustee for American Indians
and any unobligated balances from prior ap-
propriations Acts made under the same head-
ings shall be available for expenditure or
transfer for Indian trust management and re-
form activities. Total funding for historical
accounting activities shall not exceed
amounts specifically designated in this Act
for such purpose.
REDISTRIBUTION OF FUNDS, BUREAU OF INDIAN
AFFAIRS
SEC. 105. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, the Secretary of the Interior is
authorized to redistribute any Tribal Pri-
ority Allocation funds, including tribal base
funds, to alleviate tribal funding inequities
by transferring funds to address identified,
unmet needs, dual enrollment, overlapping
service areas or inaccurate distribution
methodologies. No tribe shall receive a re-
duction in Tribal Priority Allocation funds
of more than 10 percent in fiscal year 2020.
Under circumstances of dual enrollment,
overlapping service areas or inaccurate dis-
tribution methodologies, the 10 percent limi-
tation does not apply.
ELLIS, GOVERNORS, AND LIBERTY ISLANDS
SEC. 106. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, the Secretary of the Interior is
authorized to acquire lands, waters, or inter-
ests therein including the use of all or part
of any pier, dock, or landing within the
State of New York and the State of New Jer-
sey, for the purpose of operating and main-
taining facilities in the support of transpor-
tation and accommodation of visitors to
Ellis, Governors, and Liberty Islands, and of
other program and administrative activities,
by donation or with appropriated funds, in-
cluding franchise fees (and other monetary
consideration), or by exchange; and the Sec-
retary is authorized to negotiate and enter
into leases, subleases, concession contracts
or other agreements for the use of such fa-
cilities on such terms and conditions as the
Secretary may determine reasonable.
OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF INSPECTION FEES
SEC. 107. (a) In fiscal year 2020, the Sec-
retary shall collect a nonrefundable inspec-
tion fee, which shall be deposited in the ‘‘Off-
shore Safety and Environmental Enforce-
ment’’ account, from the designated operator
for facilities subject to inspection under 43
U.S.C. 1348(c).
(b) Annual fees shall be collected for facili-
ties that are above the waterline, excluding
drilling rigs, and are in place at the start of
the fiscal year. Fees for fiscal year 2020 shall
be:
(1) $10,500 for facilities with no wells, but
with processing equipment or gathering
lines;
(2) $17,000 for facilities with 1 to 10 wells,
with any combination of active or inactive
wells; and
(3) $31,500 for facilities with more than 10
wells, with any combination of active or in-
active wells.
(c) Fees for drilling rigs shall be assessed
for all inspections completed in fiscal year
2020. Fees for fiscal year 2020 shall be:
(1) $30,500 per inspection for rigs operating
in water depths of 500 feet or more; and
(2) $16,700 per inspection for rigs operating
in water depths of less than 500 feet.
(d) The Secretary shall bill designated op-
erators under subsection (b) within 60 days,
with payment required within 30 days of bill-
ing. The Secretary shall bill designated oper-
ators under subsection (c) within 30 days of
the end of the month in which the inspection
occurred, with payment required within 30
days of billing.
CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS FOR WILD HORSE
AND BURRO HOLDING FACILITIES
SEC. 108. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior
may enter into multiyear cooperative agree-
ments with nonprofit organizations and
other appropriate entities, and may enter
into multiyear contracts in accordance with
the provisions of section 3903 of title 41,
United States Code (except that the 5-year
term restriction in subsection (a) shall not
apply), for the long-term care and mainte-
nance of excess wild free roaming horses and
burros by such organizations or entities on
private land. Such cooperative agreements
and contracts may not exceed 10 years, sub-
ject to renewal at the discretion of the Sec-
retary.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00080 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6011
October 22, 2019
MASS MARKING OF SALMONIDS
SEC. 109. The United States Fish and Wild-
life Service shall, in carrying out its respon-
sibilities to protect threatened and endan-
gered species of salmon, implement a system
of mass marking of salmonid stocks, in-
tended for harvest, that are released from
federally operated or federally financed
hatcheries including but not limited to fish
releases of coho, chinook, and steelhead spe-
cies. Marked fish must have a visible mark
that can be readily identified by commercial
and recreational fishers.
CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS WITH INDIAN
AFFAIRS
SEC. 110. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, during fiscal year 2020, in car-
rying out work involving cooperation with
State, local, and tribal governments or any
political subdivision thereof, Indian Affairs
may record obligations against accounts re-
ceivable from any such entities, except that
total obligations at the end of the fiscal year
shall not exceed total budgetary resources
available at the end of the fiscal year.
HUMANE TRANSFER OF EXCESS ANIMALS
SEC. 111. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, the Secretary of the Interior
may transfer excess wild horses or burros
that have been removed from the public
lands to other Federal, State, and local gov-
ernment agencies for use as work animals:
Provided, That the Secretary may make any
such transfer immediately upon request of
such Federal, State, or local government
agency: Provided further, That any excess
animal transferred under this provision shall
lose its status as a wild free-roaming horse
or burro as defined in the Wild Free-Roaming
Horses and Burros Act: Provided further, That
any Federal, State, or local government
agency receiving excess wild horses or burros
as authorized in this section shall not: de-
stroy the horses or burros in a way that re-
sults in their destruction into commercial
products; sell or otherwise transfer the
horses or burros in a way that results in
their destruction for processing into com-
mercial products; or euthanize the horses or
burros except upon the recommendation of a
licensed veterinarian, in cases of severe in-
jury, illness, or advanced age.
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR EXPERIENCED
SERVICES PROGRAM
SEC. 112. (a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of law relating to Federal grants
and cooperative agreements, the Secretary
of the Interior is authorized to make grants
to, or enter into cooperative agreements
with, private nonprofit organizations des-
ignated by the Secretary of Labor under title
V of the Older Americans Act of 1965 to uti-
lize the talents of older Americans in pro-
grams authorized by other provisions of law
administered by the Secretary and con-
sistent with such provisions of law.
(b) Prior to awarding any grant or agree-
ment under subsection (a), the Secretary
shall ensure that the agreement would not—
(1) result in the displacement of individ-
uals currently employed by the Department,
including partial displacement through re-
duction of non-overtime hours, wages, or em-
ployment benefits;
(2) result in the use of an individual under
the Department of the Interior Experienced
Services Program for a job or function in a
case in which a Federal employee is in a lay-
off status from the same or substantially
equivalent job within the Department; or
(3) affect existing contracts for services.
PAYMENTS IN LIEU OF TAXES (PILT)
SEC. 113. Section 6906 of title 31, United
States Code, is amended by striking ‘‘fiscal
year 2019’’ and inserting ‘‘fiscal year 2020’’.
OBLIGATION OF FUNDS
SEC. 114. Amounts appropriated by this Act
to the Department of the Interior shall be
available for obligation and expenditure not
later than 60 days after the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
SAGE-GROUSE
SEC. 115. None of the funds made available
by this or any other Act may be used by the
Secretary of the Interior to write or issue
pursuant to section 4 of the Endangered Spe-
cies Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533)—
(1) a proposed rule for greater sage-grouse
(Centrocercus urophasianus);
(2) a proposed rule for the Columbia basin
distinct population segment of greater sage-
grouse.
BUREAU OF OCEAN ENERGY MANAGEMENT, REG-
ULATION AND ENFORCEMENT REORGANIZATION
SEC. 116. The Secretary of the Interior, in
order to implement a reorganization of the
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regu-
lation and Enforcement, may transfer funds
among and between the successor offices and
bureaus affected by the reorganization only
in conformance with the reprogramming
guidelines described in the report accom-
panying this Act.
TITLE II
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
For science and technology, including re-
search and development activities, which
shall include research and development ac-
tivities under the Comprehensive Environ-
mental Response, Compensation, and Liabil-
ity Act of 1980; necessary expenses for per-
sonnel and related costs and travel expenses;
procurement of laboratory equipment and
supplies; and other operating expenses in
support of research and development,
$713,259,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021: Provided, That of the funds
included under this heading, $6,000,000 shall
be for Research: National Priorities as speci-
fied in the report accompanying this Act.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMS AND MANAGEMENT
For environmental programs and manage-
ment, including necessary expenses, not oth-
erwise provided for, for personnel and related
costs and travel expenses; hire of passenger
motor vehicles; hire, maintenance, and oper-
ation of aircraft; purchase of reprints; li-
brary memberships in societies or associa-
tions which issue publications to members
only or at a price to members lower than to
subscribers who are not members; adminis-
trative costs of the brownfields program
under the Small Business Liability Relief
and Brownfields Revitalization Act of 2002;
implementation of a coal combustion resid-
ual permit program under section 2301 of the
Water and Waste Act of 2016; and not to ex-
ceed $31,000 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses, $2,623,582,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2021: Pro-
vided, That of the funds included under this
heading, $17,700,000 shall be for Environ-
mental Protection: National Priorities as
specified in the report accompanying this
Act: Provided further, That of the funds in-
cluded under this heading, $471,741,000 shall
be for Geographic Programs specified in the
report accompanying this Act.
In addition, $5,000,000 to remain available
until expended, for necessary expenses of ac-
tivities described in section 26(b)(1) of the
Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C.
2625(b)(1)): Provided, That fees collected pur-
suant to that section of that Act and depos-
ited in the ‘‘TSCA Service Fee Fund’’ as dis-
cretionary offsetting receipts in fiscal year
2020 shall be retained and used for necessary
salaries and expenses in this appropriation
and shall remain available until expended:
Provided further, That the sum herein appro-
priated in this paragraph from the general
fund for fiscal year 2020 shall be reduced by
the amount of discretionary offsetting re-
ceipts received during fiscal year 2020, so as
to result in a final fiscal year 2020 appropria-
tion from the general fund estimated at not
more than $0: Provided further, That to the
extent that amounts realized from such re-
ceipts exceed $5,000,000, those amount in ex-
cess of $5,000,000 shall be deposited in the
‘‘TSCA Service Fee Fund’’ as discretionary
offsetting receipts in fiscal year 2020, shall be
retained and used for necessary salaries and
expenses in this account, and shall remain
available until expended: Provided further,
That of the funds included in the first para-
graph under this heading, the Chemical Risk
Review and Reduction program project shall
be allocated for this fiscal year, excluding
the amount of any fees appropriated, not less
than the amount of appropriations for that
program project for fiscal year 2014.
HAZARDOUS WASTE ELECTRONIC MANIFEST
SYSTEM FUND
For necessary expenses to carry out sec-
tion 3024 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42
U.S.C. 6939g), including the development, op-
eration, maintenance, and upgrading of the
hazardous waste electronic manifest system
established by such section, $8,000,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That the sum herein appropriated from the
general fund shall be reduced as offsetting
collections under such section 3024 are re-
ceived during fiscal year 2020, which shall re-
main available until expended and be used
for necessary expenses in this appropriation,
so as to result in a final fiscal year 2020 ap-
propriation from the general fund estimated
at not more than $0: Provided further, That to
the extent such offsetting collections re-
ceived in fiscal year 2020 exceed $8,000,000,
those excess amounts shall remain available
until expended and be used for necessary ex-
penses in this appropriation.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Inspector General Act of 1978,
$41,489,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021.
BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
For construction, repair, improvement, ex-
tension, alteration, and purchase of fixed
equipment or facilities of, or for use by, the
Environmental Protection Agency,
$34,467,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE SUPERFUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses to carry out the
Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980
(CERCLA), including sections 111(c)(3), (c)(5),
(c)(6), and (e)(4) (42 U.S.C. 9611) $1,167,783,000,
to remain available until expended, con-
sisting of such sums as are available in the
Trust Fund on September 30, 2019, as author-
ized by section 517(a) of the Superfund
Amendments and Reauthorization Act of
1986 (SARA) and up to $1,167,783,000 as a pay-
ment from general revenues to the Haz-
ardous Substance Superfund for purposes as
authorized by section 517(b) of SARA: Pro-
vided, That funds appropriated under this
heading may be allocated to other Federal
agencies in accordance with section 111(a) of
CERCLA: Provided further, That of the funds
appropriated under this heading, $9,586,000
shall be paid to the ‘‘Office of Inspector Gen-
eral’’ appropriation to remain available until
September 30, 2021, and $17,775,000 shall be
paid to the ‘‘Science and Technology’’ appro-
priation to remain available until September
30, 2021.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00081 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6012 October 22, 2019
LEAKING UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK TRUST
FUND PROGRAM
For necessary expenses to carry out leak-
ing underground storage tank cleanup activi-
ties authorized by subtitle I of the Solid
Waste Disposal Act, $91,941,000, to remain
available until expended, of which $66,572,000
shall be for carrying out leaking under-
ground storage tank cleanup activities au-
thorized by section 9003(h) of the Solid Waste
Disposal Act; $25,369,000 shall be for carrying
out the other provisions of the Solid Waste
Disposal Act specified in section 9508(c) of
the Internal Revenue Code: Provided, That
the Administrator is authorized to use ap-
propriations made available under this head-
ing to implement section 9013 of the Solid
Waste Disposal Act to provide financial as-
sistance to federally recognized Indian tribes
for the development and implementation of
programs to manage underground storage
tanks.
INLAND OIL SPILL PROGRAMS
For expenses necessary to carry out the
Environmental Protection Agency’s respon-
sibilities under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990,
$18,290,000, to be derived from the Oil Spill
Liability trust fund, to remain available
until expended.
STATE AND TRIBAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS
For environmental programs and infra-
structure assistance, including capitaliza-
tion grants for State revolving funds and
performance partnership grants,
$4,247,028,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, of which—
(1) $1,638,826,000 shall be for making cap-
italization grants for the Clean Water State
Revolving Funds under title VI of the Fed-
eral Water Pollution Control Act; and of
which $1,126,088,000 shall be for making cap-
italization grants for the Drinking Water
State Revolving Funds under section 1452 of
the Safe Drinking Water Act: Provided, That
for fiscal year 2020, to the extent there are
sufficient eligible project applications and
projects are consistent with State Intended
Use Plans, not less than 10 percent of the
funds made available under this title to each
State for Clean Water State Revolving Fund
capitalization grants shall be used by the
State for projects to address green infra-
structure, water or energy efficiency im-
provements, or other environmentally inno-
vative activities: Provided further, That for
fiscal year 2020, funds made available under
this title to each State for Drinking Water
State Revolving Fund capitalization grants
may, at the discretion of each State, be used
for projects to address green infrastructure,
water or energy efficiency improvements, or
other environmentally innovative activities:
Provided further, That notwithstanding sec-
tion 603(d)(7) of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act, the limitation on the amounts
in a State water pollution control revolving
fund that may be used by a State to admin-
ister the fund shall not apply to amounts in-
cluded as principal in loans made by such
fund in fiscal year 2020 and prior years where
such amounts represent costs of admin-
istering the fund to the extent that such
amounts are or were deemed reasonable by
the Administrator, accounted for separately
from other assets in the fund, and used for
eligible purposes of the fund, including ad-
ministration: Provided further, That for fiscal
year 2020, notwithstanding the provisions of
subsections (g)(1), (h), and (l) of section 201 of
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act,
grants made under title II of such Act for
American Samoa, Guam, the commonwealth
of the Northern Marianas, the United States
Virgin Islands, and the District of Columbia
may also be made for the purpose of pro-
viding assistance: (1) solely for facility
plans, design activities, or plans, specifica-
tions, and estimates for any proposed project
for the construction of treatment works; and
(2) for the construction, repair, or replace-
ment of privately owned treatment works
serving one or more principal residences or
small commercial establishments: Provided
further, That for fiscal year 2020, notwith-
standing the provisions of such subsections
(g)(1), (h), and (l) of section 201 and section
518(c) of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act, funds reserved by the Administrator for
grants under section 518(c) of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act may also be
used to provide assistance: (1) solely for fa-
cility plans, design activities, or plans, spec-
ifications, and estimates for any proposed
project for the construction of treatment
works; and (2) for the construction, repair, or
replacement of privately owned treatment
works serving one or more principal resi-
dences or small commercial establishments:
Provided further, That for fiscal year 2020,
notwithstanding any provision of the Fed-
eral Water Pollution Control Act and regula-
tions issued pursuant thereof, up to a total
of $2,000,000 of the funds reserved by the Ad-
ministrator for grants under section 518(c) of
such Act may also be used for grants for
training, technical assistance, and edu-
cational programs relating to the operation
and management of the treatment works
specified in section 518(c) of such Act: Pro-
vided further, That for fiscal year 2020, funds
reserved under section 518(c) of such Act
shall be available for grants only to Indian
tribes, as defined in section 518(h) of such
Act and former Indian reservations in Okla-
homa (as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior) and Native Villages as defined in
Public Law 92–203: Provided further, That for
fiscal year 2020, notwithstanding the limita-
tion on amounts in section 518(c) of the Fed-
eral Water Pollution Control Act, up to a
total of 2 percent of the funds appropriated,
or $30,000,000, whichever is greater, and not-
withstanding the limitation on amounts in
section 1452(i) of the Safe Drinking Water
Act, up to a total of 2 percent of the funds
appropriated, or $20,000,000, whichever is
greater, for State Revolving Funds under
such Acts may be reserved by the Adminis-
trator for grants under section 518(c) and
section 1452(i) of such Acts: Provided further,
That for fiscal year 2020, notwithstanding
the amounts specified in section 205(c) of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act, up to
1.5 percent of the aggregate funds appro-
priated for the Clean Water State Revolving
Fund program under the Act less any sums
reserved under section 518(c) of the Act, may
be reserved by the Administrator for grants
made under title II of the Federal Water Pol-
lution Control Act for American Samoa,
Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern
Marianas, and United States Virgin Islands:
Provided further, That for fiscal year 2020,
notwithstanding the limitations on amounts
specified in section 1452(j) of the Safe Drink-
ing Water Act, up to 1.5 percent of the funds
appropriated for the Drinking Water State
Revolving Fund programs under the Safe
Drinking Water Act may be reserved by the
Administrator for grants made under section
1452(j) of the Safe Drinking Water Act: Pro-
vided further, That 10 percent of the funds
made available under this title to each State
for Clean Water State Revolving Fund cap-
italization grants and 20 percent of the funds
made available under this title to each State
for Drinking Water State Revolving Fund
capitalization grants shall be used by the
State to provide additional subsidy to eligi-
ble recipients in the form of forgiveness of
principal, negative interest loans, or grants
(or any combination of these), and shall be
so used by the State only where such funds
are provided as initial financing for an eligi-
ble recipient or to buy, refinance, or restruc-
ture the debt obligations of eligible recipi-
ents only where such debt was incurred on or
after the date of enactment of this Act, or
where such debt was incurred prior to the
date of enactment of this Act if the State,
with concurrence from the Administrator,
determines that such funds could be used to
help address a threat to public health from
heightened exposure to lead in drinking
water or if a Federal or State emergency
declaration has been issued due to a threat
to public health from heightened exposure to
lead in a municipal drinking water supply
before the date of enactment of this Act: Pro-
vided further, That in a State in which such
an emergency declaration has been issued,
the State may use more than 20 percent of
the funds made available under this title to
the State for Drinking Water State Revolv-
ing Fund capitalization grants to provide ad-
ditional subsidy to eligible recipients;
(2) $19,511,000 shall be for architectural, en-
gineering, planning, design, construction and
related activities in connection with the
construction of high priority water and
wastewater facilities in the area of the
United States-Mexico Border, after consulta-
tion with the appropriate border commis-
sion: Provided, That no funds provided by
this appropriations Act to address the water,
wastewater and other critical infrastructure
needs of the colonias in the United States
along the United States-Mexico border shall
be made available to a county or municipal
government unless that government has es-
tablished an enforceable local ordinance, or
other zoning rule, which prevents in that ju-
risdiction the development or construction
of any additional colonia areas, or the devel-
opment within an existing colonia the con-
struction of any new home, business, or
other structure which lacks water, waste-
water, or other necessary infrastructure;
(3) $29,186,000 shall be for grants to the
State of Alaska to address drinking water
and wastewater infrastructure needs of rural
and Alaska Native Villages: Provided, That of
these funds: (A) the State of Alaska shall
provide a match of 25 percent; (B) no more
than 5 percent of the funds may be used for
administrative and overhead expenses; and
(C) the State of Alaska shall make awards
consistent with the Statewide priority list
established in conjunction with the Agency
and the U.S. Department of Agriculture for
all water, sewer, waste disposal, and similar
projects carried out by the State of Alaska
that are funded under section 221 of the Fed-
eral Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C.
1301) or the Consolidated Farm and Rural De-
velopment Act (7 U.S.C. 1921 et seq.) which
shall allocate not less than 25 percent of the
funds provided for projects in regional hub
communities;
(4) $85,166,000 shall be to carry out section
104(k) of the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act
of 1980 (CERCLA), including grants, inter-
agency agreements, and associated program
support costs: Provided, That at least 10 per-
cent shall be allocated for assistance in per-
sistent poverty counties: Provided further,
That for purposes of this section, the term
‘‘persistent poverty counties’’ means any
county that has had 20 percent or more of its
population living in poverty over the past 30
years, as measured by the 1990 and 2000 de-
cennial censuses and the most recent Small
Area Income and Poverty Estimates;
(5) $85,166,000 shall be for grants under title
VII, subtitle G of the Energy Policy Act of
2005;
(6) $56,306,000 shall be for targeted airshed
grants in accordance with the terms and con-
ditions in the report accompanying this Act;
(7) $4,000,000 shall be to carry out the water
quality program authorized in section 5004(d)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00082 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6013
October 22, 2019
of the Water Infrastructure Improvements
for the Nation Act (Public Law 114–322);
(8) $25,816,000 shall be for grants for small
and disadvantaged communities authorized
in section 2104 of the Water Infrastructure
Improvements for the Nation Act (Public
Law 114–322);
(9) $19,511,000 shall be for grants for reduc-
ing lead in drinking water authorized in sec-
tion 2105 of the Water Infrastructure Im-
provements for the Nation Act (Public Law
114–322);
(10) $2,000,000 shall be for grants under sec-
tion 1459A(l) of the Safe Drinking Water Act
(42 U.S.C. 300j–19a(l)), as amended by section
2005 of the America’s Water Infrastructure
Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–270);
(11) $29,186,000 shall be for grants under sec-
tion 1464(d) of the Safe Drinking Water Act
(42 U.S.C. 300j–24(d)), as amended by section
2107 of the Water Infrastructure Improve-
ments for the Nation Act (Public Law 114–
322) and section 2006(a) of the America’s
Water Infrastructure Act of 2018 (Public Law
115–270);
(12) $5,000,000 shall be for grants under sec-
tion 1465 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42
U.S.C. 300j–25), as added by section 2006(b) of
the America’s Water Infrastructure Act of
2018 (Public Law 115–270);
(13) $13,000,000 shall be for grants under sec-
tion 104(b)(8) of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1254(b)(8)), as added by
section 4103 of the America’s Water Infra-
structure Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–270);
(14) $20,497,000 shall be for grants under sec-
tion 221 of the Federal Water Pollution Con-
trol Act (33 U.S.C. 1301), as amended by sec-
tion 4106 of the America’s Water Infrastruc-
ture Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–270);
(15) $1,000,000 shall be for grants authorized
in section 4304 of the America’s Water Infra-
structure Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–270);
and
(16) $1,086,769,000 shall be for grants, includ-
ing associated program support costs, to
States, federally recognized tribes, inter-
state agencies, tribal consortia, and air pol-
lution control agencies for multi-media or
single media pollution prevention, control
and abatement and related activities, includ-
ing activities pursuant to the provisions set
forth under this heading in Public Law 104–
134, and for making grants under section 103
of the Clean Air Act for particulate matter
monitoring and data collection activities
subject to terms and conditions specified by
the Administrator, of which: $46,190,000 shall
be for carrying out section 128 of CERCLA;
$9,332,000 shall be for Environmental Infor-
mation Exchange Network grants, including
associated program support costs; $1,449,000
shall be for grants to States under section
2007(f)(2) of the Solid Waste Disposal Act,
which shall be in addition to funds appro-
priated under the heading ‘‘Leaking Under-
ground Storage Tank Trust Fund Program’’
to carry out the provisions of the Solid
Waste Disposal Act specified in section
9508(c) of the Internal Revenue Code other
than section 9003(h) of the Solid Waste Dis-
posal Act; $17,848,000 of the funds available
for grants under section 106 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act shall be for
State participation in national- and State-
level statistical surveys of water resources
and enhancements to State monitoring pro-
grams; $24,000,000 shall be for multipurpose
grants, including interagency agreements.
WATER INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE AND
INNOVATION PROGRAM ACCOUNT
For the cost of direct loans and for the cost
of guaranteed loans, as authorized by the
Water Infrastructure Finance and Innova-
tion Act of 2014, $65,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That such
costs, including the cost of modifying such
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided
further, That these funds are available to
subsidize gross obligations for the principal
amount of direct loans, including capitalized
interest, and total loan principal, including
capitalized interest, any part of which is to
be guaranteed, not to exceed $13,500,000,000:
Provided further, That of the funds made
available under this heading, $5,000,000 shall
be used solely for the cost of direct loans and
for the cost of guaranteed loans for projects
described in section 5026(9) of the Water In-
frastructure Finance and Innovation Act of
2014 to State infrastructure financing au-
thorities, as authorized by section 5033(e) of
such Act.
In addition, fees authorized to be collected
pursuant to sections 5029 and 5030 of the
Water Infrastructure Finance and Innova-
tion Act of 2014 shall be deposited in this ac-
count, to remain available until expended.
In addition, for administrative expenses to
carry out the direct and guaranteed loan
programs, notwithstanding section 5033 of
the Water Infrastructure Finance and Inno-
vation Act of 2014, $8,000,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2021.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS)
For fiscal year 2020, notwithstanding 31
U.S.C. 6303(1) and 6305(1), the Administrator
of the Environmental Protection Agency, in
carrying out the Agency’s function to imple-
ment directly Federal environmental pro-
grams required or authorized by law in the
absence of an acceptable tribal program,
may award cooperative agreements to feder-
ally recognized Indian tribes or Intertribal
consortia, if authorized by their member
tribes, to assist the Administrator in imple-
menting Federal environmental programs
for Indian tribes required or authorized by
law, except that no such cooperative agree-
ments may be awarded from funds des-
ignated for State financial assistance agree-
ments.
The Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency is authorized to collect
and obligate pesticide registration service
fees in accordance with section 33 of the Fed-
eral Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide
Act, as amended by Public Law 116–8, the
Pesticide Registration Improvement Exten-
sion Act of 2018.
Notwithstanding section 33(d)(2) of the
Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and
Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) (7 U.S.C. 136w–
8(d)(2)), the Administrator of the Environ-
mental Protection Agency may assess fees
under section 33 of FIFRA (7 U.S.C. 136w–8)
for fiscal year 2020.
The Administrator is authorized to trans-
fer up to $301,000,000 of the funds appro-
priated for the Great Lakes Restoration Ini-
tiative under the heading ‘‘Environmental
Programs and Management’’ to the head of
any Federal department or agency, with the
concurrence of such head, to carry out ac-
tivities that would support the Great Lakes
Restoration Initiative and Great Lakes
Water Quality Agreement programs,
projects, or activities; to enter into an inter-
agency agreement with the head of such Fed-
eral department or agency to carry out these
activities; and to make grants to govern-
mental entities, nonprofit organizations, in-
stitutions, and individuals for planning, re-
search, monitoring, outreach, and implemen-
tation in furtherance of the Great Lakes
Restoration Initiative and the Great Lakes
Water Quality Agreement.
The Science and Technology, Environ-
mental Programs and Management, Office of
Inspector General, Hazardous Substance
Superfund, and Leaking Underground Stor-
age Tank Trust Fund Program Accounts, are
available for the construction, alteration, re-
pair, rehabilitation, and renovation of facili-
ties, provided that the cost does not exceed
$150,000 per project.
For fiscal year 2020, and notwithstanding
section 518(f) of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1377(f)), the Adminis-
trator is authorized to use the amounts ap-
propriated for any fiscal year under section
319 of the Act to make grants to Indian
tribes pursuant to sections 319(h) and 518(e)
of that Act.
The Administrator is authorized to use the
amounts appropriated under the heading
‘‘Environmental Programs and Manage-
ment’’ for fiscal year 2020 to provide grants
to implement the Southeastern New England
Watershed Restoration Program.
Notwithstanding the limitations on
amounts in section 320(i)(2)(B) of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act, not less than
$1,000,000 of the funds made available under
this title for the National Estuary Program
shall be for making competitive awards de-
scribed in section 320(g)(4).
TITLE III
RELATED AGENCIES
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR
NATURAL RESOURCES AND ENVIRONMENT
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Under Secretary for Natural Resources and
Environment, $875,000: Provided, That funds
made available by this Act to any agency in
the Natural Resources and Environment mis-
sion area for salaries and expenses are avail-
able to fund up to one administrative sup-
port staff for the office.
FOREST SERVICE
FOREST SERVICE OPERATIONS
For necessary expenses of the Forest Serv-
ice, not otherwise provided for, $953,750,000,
to remain available through September 30,
2023: (1) for the base salary and expenses of
permanent employees carrying out adminis-
trative and general management support
functions, in an amount not to exceed
$257,050,000; (2) for the costs of facility main-
tenance, repairs, and leases for buildings and
sites where these support functions take
place; (3) for the costs of: (A) all utility and
telecommunication expenses of the Forest
Service, and (B) business services; and (4) for
information technology including cyber se-
curity requirements: Provided, That funds
provided under this heading may be used for
necessary administrative support function
expenses of the Forest Service not otherwise
provided for and necessary for its operation.
FOREST AND RANGELAND RESEARCH
For necessary expenses of forest and range-
land research as authorized by law,
$257,640,000, to remain available through Sep-
tember 30, 2023: Provided, That of the funds
provided, $14,810,000 is for the forest inven-
tory and analysis program: Provided further,
That all authorities for the use of funds, in-
cluding the use of contracts, grants, and co-
operative agreements, available to execute
the Forest and Rangeland Research appro-
priation, are also available in the utilization
of these funds for Fire Science Research.
STATE AND PRIVATE FORESTRY
For necessary expenses of cooperating with
and providing technical and financial assist-
ance to States, territories, possessions, and
others, and for forest health management,
and conducting an international program as
authorized, $317,964,000, to remain available
through September 30, 2023, as authorized by
law; of which $63,990,000 is to be derived from
the Land and Water Conservation Fund to be
used for the Forest Legacy Program, to re-
main available until expended.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00083 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6014 October 22, 2019
NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM
For necessary expenses of the Forest Serv-
ice, not otherwise provided for, for manage-
ment, protection, improvement, and utiliza-
tion of the National Forest System, and for
hazardous fuels management on or adjacent
to such lands, $1,857,280,000, to remain avail-
able through September 30, 2023: Provided,
That of the funds provided, $40,000,000 shall
be deposited in the Collaborative Forest
Landscape Restoration Fund for ecological
restoration treatments as authorized by 16
U.S.C. 7303(f): Provided further, That of the
funds provided, $24,330,000 shall be for forest
products: Provided further, That of the funds
provided, $149,990,000 shall be for hazardous
fuels management activities, of which not to
exceed $15,000,000 may be used to make
grants, using any authorities available to
the Forest Service under the ‘‘State and Pri-
vate Forestry’’ appropriation, for the pur-
pose of creating incentives for increased use
of biomass from National Forest System
lands: Provided further, That $20,000,000 may
be used by the Secretary of Agriculture to
enter into procurement contracts or coopera-
tive agreements or to issue grants for haz-
ardous fuels management activities, and for
training or monitoring associated with such
hazardous fuels management activities on
Federal land, or on non-Federal land if the
Secretary determines such activities benefit
resources on Federal land: Provided further,
That funds made available to implement the
Community Forestry Restoration Act, Pub-
lic Law 106–393, title VI, shall be available
for use on non-Federal lands in accordance
with authorities made available to the For-
est Service under the ‘‘State and Private
Forestry’’ appropriations: Provided further,
That notwithstanding section 33 of the
Bankhead Jones Farm Tenant Act (7 U.S.C.
1012), the Secretary of Agriculture, in calcu-
lating a fee for grazing on a National Grass-
land, may provide a credit of up to 50 percent
of the calculated fee to a Grazing Associa-
tion or direct permittee for a conservation
practice approved by the Secretary in ad-
vance of the fiscal year in which the cost of
the conservation practice is incurred. And,
that the amount credited shall remain avail-
able to the Grazing Association or the direct
permittee, as appropriate, in the fiscal year
in which the credit is made and each fiscal
year thereafter for use on the project for
conservation practices approved by the Sec-
retary.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Forest Serv-
ice, not otherwise provided for, $107,940,000,
to remain available through September 30,
2023, for construction, capital improvement,
maintenance and acquisition of buildings
and other facilities and infrastructure; and
for construction, reconstruction, decommis-
sioning of roads that are no longer needed,
including unauthorized roads that are not
part of the transportation system, and main-
tenance of forest roads and trails by the For-
est Service as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 532–538
and 23 U.S.C. 101 and 205: Provided, That
funds becoming available in fiscal year 2019
under the Act of March 4, 1913 (16 U.S.C. 501)
shall be transferred to the General Fund of
the Treasury and shall not be available for
transfer or obligation for any other purpose
unless the funds are appropriated.
LAND ACQUISITION
(INCLUDING RESCISSION OF FUNDS)
For expenses necessary to carry out the
provisions of chapter 2003 of title 54, United
States Code, including administrative ex-
penses, and for acquisition of land or waters,
or interest therein, in accordance with statu-
tory authority applicable to the Forest Serv-
ice, $73,741,000, to be derived from the Land
and Water Conservation Fund and to remain
available until expended.
Of the unobligated balances from amounts
made available for Forest Service and de-
rived from the Land and Water Conservation
Fund, $2,000,000 is hereby permanently re-
scinded from projects with cost savings or
failed projects or partially failed that had
funds returned: Provided, That no amounts
may be rescinded from amounts that were
designated by the Congress as an emergency
requirement pursuant to the Concurrent
Resolution on the Budget or the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
ACQUISITION OF LANDS FOR NATIONAL FORESTS
SPECIAL ACTS
For acquisition of lands within the exte-
rior boundaries of the Cache, Uinta, and
Wasatch National Forests, Utah; the Toiyabe
National Forest, Nevada; and the Angeles,
San Bernardino, Sequoia, and Cleveland Na-
tional Forests, California; and the Ozark-St.
Francis and Ouachita National Forests, Ar-
kansas; as authorized by law, $700,000, to be
derived from forest receipts.
ACQUISITION OF LANDS TO COMPLETE LAND
EXCHANGES
For acquisition of lands, such sums, to be
derived from funds deposited by State, coun-
ty, or municipal governments, public school
districts, or other public school authorities,
and for authorized expenditures from funds
deposited by non-Federal parties pursuant to
Land Sale and Exchange Acts, pursuant to
the Act of December 4, 1967 (16 U.S.C. 484a),
to remain available through September 30,
2023, (16 U.S.C. 516–617a, 555a; Public Law 96–
586; Public Law 76–589, 76–591; and Public Law
78–310).
RANGE BETTERMENT FUND
For necessary expenses of range rehabilita-
tion, protection, and improvement, 50 per-
cent of all moneys received during the prior
fiscal year, as fees for grazing domestic live-
stock on lands in National Forests in the 16
Western States, pursuant to section 401(b)(1)
of Public Law 94–579, to remain available
through September 30, 2023, of which not to
exceed 6 percent shall be available for ad-
ministrative expenses associated with on-
the-ground range rehabilitation, protection,
and improvements.
GIFTS, DONATIONS AND BEQUESTS FOR FOREST
AND RANGELAND RESEARCH
For expenses authorized by 16 U.S.C.
1643(b), $45,000, to remain available through
September 30, 2023, to be derived from the
fund established pursuant to the above Act.
MANAGEMENT OF NATIONAL FOREST LANDS FOR
SUBSISTENCE USES
For necessary expenses of the Forest Serv-
ice to manage Federal lands in Alaska for
subsistence uses under title VIII of the Alas-
ka National Interest Lands Conservation Act
(16 U.S.C. 3111 et seq.), $2,500,000, to remain
available through September 30, 2023.
WILDLAND FIRE MANAGEMENT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses for forest fire
presuppression activities on National Forest
System lands, for emergency wildland fire
suppression on or adjacent to such lands or
other lands under fire protection agreement,
and for emergency rehabilitation of burned-
over National Forest System lands and
water, $1,964,730,000, to remain available
through September 30, 2023: Provided, That
such funds including unobligated balances
under this heading, are available for repay-
ment of advances from other appropriations
accounts previously transferred for such pur-
poses: Provided further, That any unobligated
funds appropriated in a previous fiscal year
for hazardous fuels management may be
transferred to the ‘‘National Forest System’’
account: Provided further, That such funds
shall be available to reimburse State and
other cooperating entities for services pro-
vided in response to wildfire and other emer-
gencies or disasters to the extent such reim-
bursements by the Forest Service for non-
fire emergencies are fully repaid by the re-
sponsible emergency management agency:
Provided further, That funds provided shall be
available for support to Federal emergency
response: Provided further, That the costs of
implementing any cooperative agreement be-
tween the Federal Government and any non-
Federal entity may be shared, as mutually
agreed on by the affected parties: Provided
further, That of the funds provided under this
heading,$1,011,000,000 shall be available for
wildfire suppression operations, and is pro-
vided to the meet the terms of section
251(b)(2)(F)(ii)(I) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as
amended.
In addition to the amounts provided under
this heading for wildfire suppression oper-
ations, $1,950,000,000, to remain available
until expended, is additional new budget au-
thority as specified for purposes of section
251(b)(2)(F) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided, That the Secretary of Agriculture may
transfer such amounts to the Department of
Interior for wildfire suppression operations.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—FOREST SERVICE
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
Appropriations to the Forest Service for
the current fiscal year shall be available for:
(1) purchase of passenger motor vehicles; ac-
quisition of passenger motor vehicles from
excess sources, and hire of such vehicles;
purchase, lease, operation, maintenance, and
acquisition of aircraft to maintain the oper-
able fleet for use in Forest Service wildland
fire programs and other Forest Service pro-
grams; notwithstanding other provisions of
law, existing aircraft being replaced may be
sold, with proceeds derived or trade-in value
used to offset the purchase price for the re-
placement aircraft; (2) services pursuant to 7
U.S.C. 2225, and not to exceed $100,000 for em-
ployment under 5 U.S.C. 3109; (3) purchase,
erection, and alteration of buildings and
other public improvements (7 U.S.C. 2250); (4)
acquisition of land, waters, and interests
therein pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 428a; (5) for ex-
penses pursuant to the Volunteers in the Na-
tional Forest Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 558a, 558d,
and 558a note); (6) the cost of uniforms as au-
thorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901–5902; and (7) for debt
collection contracts in accordance with 31
U.S.C. 3718(c).
Any appropriations or funds available to
the Forest Service may be transferred to the
Wildland Fire Management appropriation for
forest firefighting, emergency rehabilitation
of burned-over or damaged lands or waters
under its jurisdiction, and fire preparedness
due to severe burning conditions upon the
Secretary’s notification of the House and
Senate Committees on Appropriations that
all fire suppression funds appropriated under
the heading ‘‘Wildland Fire Management’’
will be obligated within 30 days: Provided,
That all funds used pursuant to this para-
graph must be replenished by a supplemental
appropriation which must be requested as
promptly as possible.
Not more than $50,000,000 of funds appro-
priated to the Forest Service shall be avail-
able for expenditure or transfer to the De-
partment of the Interior for wildland fire
management, hazardous fuels management,
and State fire assistance when such transfers
would facilitate and expedite wildland fire
management programs and projects.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00084 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6015
October 22, 2019
Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Act, the Forest Service may transfer un-
obligated balances of discretionary funds ap-
propriated to the Forest Service by this Act
to or within the National Forest System Ac-
count, or reprogram funds to be used for the
purposes of hazardous fuels management and
urgent rehabilitation of burned-over Na-
tional Forest System lands and water, such
transferred funds shall remain available
through September 30, 2023: Provided, That
none of the funds transferred pursuant to
this section shall be available for obligation
without written notification to and the prior
approval of the Committees on Appropria-
tions of both Houses of Congress: Provided
further, That this section does not apply to
funds derived from the Land and Water Con-
servation Fund.
Funds appropriated to the Forest Service
shall be available for assistance to or
through the Agency for International Devel-
opment in connection with forest and range-
land research, technical information, and as-
sistance in foreign countries, and shall be
available to support forestry and related nat-
ural resource activities outside the United
States and its territories and possessions, in-
cluding technical assistance, education and
training, and cooperation with U.S., private,
and international organizations. The Forest
Service, acting for the International Pro-
gram, may sign direct funding agreements
with foreign governments and institutions as
well as other domestic agencies (including
the U.S. Agency for International Develop-
ment, the Department of State, and the Mil-
lennium Challenge Corporation), U.S. pri-
vate sector firms, institutions and organiza-
tions to provide technical assistance and
training programs overseas on forestry and
rangeland management.
Funds appropriated to the Forest Service
shall be available for expenditure or transfer
to the Department of the Interior, Bureau of
Land Management, for removal, preparation,
and adoption of excess wild horses and bur-
ros from National Forest System lands, and
for the performance of cadastral surveys to
designate the boundaries of such lands.
None of the funds made available to the
Forest Service in this Act or any other Act
with respect to any fiscal year shall be sub-
ject to transfer under the provisions of sec-
tion 702(b) of the Department of Agriculture
Organic Act of 1944 (7 U.S.C. 2257), section 442
of Public Law 106–224 (7 U.S.C. 7772), or sec-
tion 10417(b) of Public Law 107–171 (7 U.S.C.
8316(b)).
None of the funds available to the Forest
Service may be reprogrammed without the
advance approval of the House and Senate
Committees on Appropriations in accordance
with the reprogramming procedures con-
tained in the report accompanying this Act.
Not more than $82,000,000 of funds available
to the Forest Service shall be transferred to
the Working Capital Fund of the Department
of Agriculture and not more than $14,500,000
of funds available to the Forest Service shall
be transferred to the Department of Agri-
culture for Department Reimbursable Pro-
grams, commonly referred to as Greenbook
charges. Nothing in this paragraph shall pro-
hibit or limit the use of reimbursable agree-
ments requested by the Forest Service in
order to obtain services from the Depart-
ment of Agriculture’s National Information
Technology Center and the Department of
Agriculture’s International Technology
Service.
Of the funds available to the Forest Serv-
ice, up to $5,000,000 shall be available for pri-
ority projects within the scope of the ap-
proved budget, which shall be carried out by
the Youth Conservation Corps and shall be
carried out under the authority of the Public
Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1721 et
seq.).
Of the funds available to the Forest Serv-
ice, $4,000 is available to the Chief of the For-
est Service for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses.
Pursuant to sections 405(b) and 410(b) of
Public Law 101–593, of the funds available to
the Forest Service, up to $3,000,000 may be
advanced in a lump sum to the National For-
est Foundation to aid conservation partner-
ship projects in support of the Forest Service
mission, without regard to when the Founda-
tion incurs expenses, for projects on or bene-
fitting National Forest System lands or re-
lated to Forest Service programs: Provided,
That of the Federal funds made available to
the Foundation, no more than $300,000 shall
be available for administrative expenses:
Provided further, That the Foundation shall
obtain, by the end of the period of Federal fi-
nancial assistance, private contributions to
match funds made available by the Forest
Service on at least a one-for-one basis: Pro-
vided further, That the Foundation may
transfer Federal funds to a Federal or a non-
Federal recipient for a project at the same
rate that the recipient has obtained the non-
Federal matching funds.
Pursuant to section 2(b)(2) of Public Law
98–244, up to $3,000,000 of the funds available
to the Forest Service may be advanced to
the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation in
a lump sum to aid cost-share conservation
projects, without regard to when expenses
are incurred, on or benefitting National For-
est System lands or related to Forest Service
programs: Provided, That such funds shall be
matched on at least a one-for-one basis by
the Foundation or its sub-recipients: Pro-
vided further, That the Foundation may
transfer Federal funds to a Federal or non-
Federal recipient for a project at the same
rate that the recipient has obtained the non-
Federal matching funds.
Funds appropriated to the Forest Service
shall be available for interactions with and
providing technical assistance to rural com-
munities and natural resource-based busi-
nesses for sustainable rural development
purposes.
Funds appropriated to the Forest Service
shall be available for payments to counties
within the Columbia River Gorge National
Scenic Area, pursuant to section 14(c)(1) and
(2), and section 16(a)(2) of Public Law 99–663.
Any funds appropriated to the Forest Serv-
ice may be used to meet the non-Federal
share requirement in section 502(c) of the
Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C.
3056(c)(2)).
The Forest Service shall not assess funds
for the purpose of performing fire, adminis-
trative, and other facilities maintenance and
decommissioning.
Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, of any appropriations or funds available
to the Forest Service, not to exceed $500,000
may be used to reimburse the Office of the
General Counsel (OGC), Department of Agri-
culture, for travel and related expenses in-
curred as a result of OGC assistance or par-
ticipation requested by the Forest Service at
meetings, training sessions, management re-
views, land purchase negotiations and simi-
lar matters unrelated to civil litigation. Fu-
ture budget justifications for both the Forest
Service and the Department of Agriculture
should clearly display the sums previously
transferred and the sums requested for trans-
fer.
An eligible individual who is employed in
any project funded under title V of the Older
Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056 et seq.)
and administered by the Forest Service shall
be considered to be a Federal employee for
purposes of chapter 171 of title 28, United
States Code.
Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Act, through the Office of Budget and
Program Analysis, the Forest Service shall
report no later than 30 business days fol-
lowing the close of each fiscal quarter all
current and prior year unobligated balances,
by fiscal year, budget line item and account,
to the House and Senate Committees on Ap-
propriations.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES
INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE
INDIAN HEALTH SERVICES
For expenses necessary to carry out the
Act of August 5, 1954 (68 Stat. 674), the Indian
Self-Determination and Education Assist-
ance Act, the Indian Health Care Improve-
ment Act, and titles II and III of the Public
Health Service Act with respect to the In-
dian Health Service, $4,318,884,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2021, except as
otherwise provided herein, together with
payments received during the fiscal year
pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 238(b) and 238b, for
services furnished by the Indian Health Serv-
ice: Provided, That funds made available to
tribes and tribal organizations through con-
tracts, grant agreements, or any other agree-
ments or compacts authorized by the Indian
Self-Determination and Education Assist-
ance Act of 1975 (25 U.S.C. 450), shall be
deemed to be obligated at the time of the
grant or contract award and thereafter shall
remain available to the tribe or tribal orga-
nization without fiscal year limitation: Pro-
vided further, That $2,000,000 shall be avail-
able for grants or contracts with public or
private institutions to provide alcohol or
drug treatment services to Indians, including
alcohol detoxification services: Provided fur-
ther, That $967,363,000 for Purchased/Referred
Care, including $53,000,000 for the Indian Cat-
astrophic Health Emergency Fund, shall re-
main available until expended: Provided fur-
ther, That of the funds provided, up to
$44,000,000 shall remain available until ex-
pended for implementation of the loan re-
payment program under section 108 of the In-
dian Health Care Improvement Act: Provided
further, That of the funds provided, $97,000,000
shall remain available until expended to sup-
plement funds available for operational costs
at tribal clinics operated under an Indian
Self-Determination and Education Assist-
ance Act compact or contract where health
care is delivered in space acquired through a
full service lease, which is not eligible for
maintenance and improvement from the In-
dian Health Service, and $58,000,000 shall be
for accreditation emergencies, including
supplementing activities funded under the
heading ‘‘Indian Health Facilities’’, of which
up to $4,000,000 may be used to supplement
amounts otherwise available for Purchased/
Referred Care: Provided further, That the
amounts collected by the Federal Govern-
ment as authorized by sections 104 and 108 of
the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (25
U.S.C. 1613a and 1616a) during the preceding
fiscal year for breach of contracts shall be
deposited in the Fund authorized by section
108A of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1616a–1) and shall
remain available until expended and, not-
withstanding section 108A(c) of the Act (25
U.S.C. 1616a–1(c)), funds shall be available to
make new awards under the loan repayment
and scholarship programs under sections 104
and 108 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1613a and 1616a):
Provided further, That the amounts made
available within this account for the Sub-
stance Abuse and Suicide Prevention Pro-
gram, for Opioid Prevention, Treatment and
Recovery Services, for the Domestic Vio-
lence Prevention Program, for the Zero Sui-
cide Initiative, for the housing subsidy au-
thority for civilian employees, for Aftercare
Pilot Programs at Youth Regional Treat-
ment Centers, for transformation and mod-
ernization costs of the Electronic Health
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00085 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6016 October 22, 2019
Record System, for an initiative to improve
recruitment and retention of healthcare pro-
viders and certain other critical professions,
for national quality and oversight activities,
to improve collections from public and pri-
vate insurance at Indian Health Service and
tribally operated facilities, and for accredi-
tation emergencies shall be allocated at the
discretion of the Director of the Indian
Health Service and shall remain available
until expended: Provided further, That funds
provided in this Act may be used for annual
contracts and grants that fall within 2 fiscal
years, provided the total obligation is re-
corded in the year the funds are appro-
priated: Provided further, That the amounts
collected by the Secretary of Health and
Human Services under the authority of title
IV of the Indian Health Care Improvement
Act shall remain available until expended for
the purpose of achieving compliance with
the applicable conditions and requirements
of titles XVIII and XIX of the Social Secu-
rity Act, except for those related to the plan-
ning, design, or construction of new facili-
ties: Provided further, That funding contained
herein for scholarship programs under the
Indian Health Care Improvement Act (25
U.S.C. 1613) shall remain available until ex-
pended: Provided further, That amounts re-
ceived by tribes and tribal organizations
under title IV of the Indian Health Care Im-
provement Act shall be reported and ac-
counted for and available to the receiving
tribes and tribal organizations until ex-
pended: Provided further, That the Bureau of
Indian Affairs may collect from the Indian
Health Service, tribes and tribal organiza-
tions operating health facilities pursuant to
Public Law 93–638, such individually identifi-
able health information relating to disabled
children as may be necessary for the purpose
of carrying out its functions under the Indi-
viduals with Disabilities Education Act (20
U.S.C. 1400 et seq.): Provided further, That of
the funds provided, $72,280,000 is for the In-
dian Health Care Improvement Fund and
may be used, as needed, to carry out activi-
ties typically funded under the Indian Health
Facilities account.
CONTRACT SUPPORT COSTS
For payments to tribes and tribal organi-
zations for contract support costs associated
with Indian Self-Determination and Edu-
cation Assistance Act agreements with the
Indian Health Service for fiscal year 2020,
such sums as may be necessary: Provided,
That notwithstanding any other provision of
law, no amounts made available under this
heading shall be available for transfer to an-
other budget account.
INDIAN HEALTH FACILITIES
For construction, repair, maintenance, im-
provement, and equipment of health and re-
lated auxiliary facilities, including quarters
for personnel; preparation of plans, specifica-
tions, and drawings; acquisition of sites, pur-
chase and erection of modular buildings, and
purchases of trailers; and for provision of do-
mestic and community sanitation facilities
for Indians, as authorized by section 7 of the
Act of August 5, 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2004a), the In-
dian Self-Determination Act, and the Indian
Health Care Improvement Act, and for ex-
penses necessary to carry out such Acts and
titles II and III of the Public Health Service
Act with respect to environmental health
and facilities support activities of the Indian
Health Service, $902,878,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That notwith-
standing any other provision of law, funds
appropriated for the planning, design, con-
struction, renovation or expansion of health
facilities for the benefit of an Indian tribe or
tribes may be used to purchase land on
which such facilities will be located: Provided
further, That not to exceed $500,000 may be
used by the Indian Health Service to pur-
chase TRANSAM equipment from the De-
partment of Defense for distribution to the
Indian Health Service and tribal facilities:
Provided further, That none of the funds ap-
propriated to the Indian Health Service may
be used for sanitation facilities construction
for new homes funded with grants by the
housing programs of the United States De-
partment of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—INDIAN HEALTH
SERVICE
Appropriations provided in this Act to the
Indian Health Service shall be available for
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 at
rates not to exceed the per diem rate equiva-
lent to the maximum rate payable for senior-
level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376; hire of
passenger motor vehicles and aircraft; pur-
chase of medical equipment; purchase of re-
prints; purchase, renovation and erection of
modular buildings and renovation of existing
facilities; payments for telephone service in
private residences in the field, when author-
ized under regulations approved by the Sec-
retary; uniforms or allowances therefor as
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901–5902; and for ex-
penses of attendance at meetings that relate
to the functions or activities of the Indian
Health Service: Provided, That in accordance
with the provisions of the Indian Health Care
Improvement Act, non-Indian patients may
be extended health care at all tribally ad-
ministered or Indian Health Service facili-
ties, subject to charges, and the proceeds
along with funds recovered under the Federal
Medical Care Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 2651–
2653) shall be credited to the account of the
facility providing the service and shall be
available without fiscal year limitation: Pro-
vided further, That notwithstanding any
other law or regulation, funds transferred
from the Department of Housing and Urban
Development to the Indian Health Service
shall be administered under Public Law 86–
121, the Indian Sanitation Facilities Act and
Public Law 93–638: Provided further, That
funds appropriated to the Indian Health
Service in this Act, except those used for ad-
ministrative and program direction pur-
poses, shall not be subject to limitations di-
rected at curtailing Federal travel and trans-
portation: Provided further, That none of the
funds made available to the Indian Health
Service in this Act shall be used for any as-
sessments or charges by the Department of
Health and Human Services unless identified
in the budget justification and provided in
this Act, or approved by the House and Sen-
ate Committees on Appropriations through
the reprogramming process: Provided further,
That notwithstanding any other provision of
law, funds previously or herein made avail-
able to a tribe or tribal organization through
a contract, grant, or agreement authorized
by title I or title V of the Indian Self-Deter-
mination and Education Assistance Act of
1975 (25 U.S.C. 450), may be deobligated and
reobligated to a self-determination contract
under title I, or a self-governance agreement
under title V of such Act and thereafter shall
remain available to the tribe or tribal orga-
nization without fiscal year limitation: Pro-
vided further, That none of the funds made
available to the Indian Health Service in this
Act shall be used to implement the final rule
published in the Federal Register on Sep-
tember 16, 1987, by the Department of Health
and Human Services, relating to the eligi-
bility for the health care services of the In-
dian Health Service until the Indian Health
Service has submitted a budget request re-
flecting the increased costs associated with
the proposed final rule, and such request has
been included in an appropriations Act and
enacted into law: Provided further, That with
respect to functions transferred by the In-
dian Health Service to tribes or tribal orga-
nizations, the Indian Health Service is au-
thorized to provide goods and services to
those entities on a reimbursable basis, in-
cluding payments in advance with subse-
quent adjustment, and the reimbursements
received therefrom, along with the funds re-
ceived from those entities pursuant to the
Indian Self-Determination Act, may be cred-
ited to the same or subsequent appropriation
account from which the funds were origi-
nally derived, with such amounts to remain
available until expended: Provided further,
That reimbursements for training, technical
assistance, or services provided by the Indian
Health Service will contain total costs, in-
cluding direct, administrative, and overhead
costs associated with the provision of goods,
services, or technical assistance: Provided
further, That the Indian Health Service may
provide to civilian medical personnel serving
in hospitals operated by the Indian Health
Service housing allowances equivalent to
those that would be provided to members of
the Commissioned Corps of the United States
Public Health Service serving in similar po-
sitions at such hospitals: Provided further,
That the appropriation structure for the In-
dian Health Service may not be altered with-
out advance notification to the House and
Senate Committees on Appropriations.
NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ENVIRONMENTAL
HEALTH SCIENCES
For necessary expenses for the National In-
stitute of Environmental Health Sciences in
carrying out activities set forth in section
311(a) of the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act
of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9660(a)) and section 126(g) of
the Superfund Amendments and Reauthor-
ization Act of 1986, $81,000,000.
AGENCY FOR TOXIC SUBSTANCES AND DISEASE
REGISTRY
TOXIC SUBSTANCES AND ENVIRONMENTAL
PUBLIC HEALTH
For necessary expenses for the Agency for
Toxic Substances and Disease Registry
(ATSDR) in carrying out activities set forth
in sections 104(i) and 111(c)(4) of the Com-
prehensive Environmental Response, Com-
pensation, and Liability Act of 1980
(CERCLA) and section 3019 of the Solid
Waste Disposal Act, $76,691,000: Provided,
That notwithstanding any other provision of
law, in lieu of performing a health assess-
ment under section 104(i)(6) of CERCLA, the
Administrator of ATSDR may conduct other
appropriate health studies, evaluations, or
activities, including, without limitation,
biomedical testing, clinical evaluations,
medical monitoring, and referral to accred-
ited healthcare providers: Provided further,
That in performing any such health assess-
ment or health study, evaluation, or activ-
ity, the Administrator of ATSDR shall not
be bound by the deadlines in section
104(i)(6)(A) of CERCLA: Provided further,
That none of the funds appropriated under
this heading shall be available for ATSDR to
issue in excess of 40 toxicological profiles
pursuant to section 104(i) of CERCLA during
fiscal year 2020, and existing profiles may be
updated as necessary.
OTHER RELATED AGENCIES
EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
COUNCIL ON ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY AND
OFFICE OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
For necessary expenses to continue func-
tions assigned to the Council on Environ-
mental Quality and Office of Environmental
Quality pursuant to the National Environ-
mental Policy Act of 1969, the Environ-
mental Quality Improvement Act of 1970, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00086 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6017
October 22, 2019
Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1977, and not to
exceed $750 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses, $2,994,000: Provided,
That notwithstanding section 202 of the Na-
tional Environmental Policy Act of 1970, the
Council shall consist of one member, ap-
pointed by the President, by and with the ad-
vice and consent of the Senate, serving as
chairman and exercising all powers, func-
tions, and duties of the Council.
CHEMICAL SAFETY AND HAZARD INVESTIGATION
BOARD
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses in carrying out ac-
tivities pursuant to section 112(r)(6) of the
Clean Air Act, including hire of passenger
vehicles, uniforms or allowances therefor, as
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901–5902, and for serv-
ices authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 but at rates
for individuals not to exceed the per diem
equivalent to the maximum rate payable for
senior level positions under 5 U.S.C. 5376,
$12,000,000: Provided, That the Chemical Safe-
ty and Hazard Investigation Board (Board)
shall have not more than three career Senior
Executive Service positions: Provided further,
That notwithstanding any other provision of
law, the individual appointed to the position
of Inspector General of the Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) shall, by virtue of
such appointment, also hold the position of
Inspector General of the Board: Provided fur-
ther, That notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, the Inspector General of the
Board shall utilize personnel of the Office of
Inspector General of EPA in performing the
duties of the Inspector General of the Board,
and shall not appoint any individuals to po-
sitions within the Board.
OFFICE OF NAVAJO AND HOPI INDIAN
RELOCATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation as au-
thorized by Public Law 93–531, $7,500,000, to
remain available until expended: Provided,
That funds provided in this or any other ap-
propriations Act are to be used to relocate
eligible individuals and groups including
evictees from District 6, Hopi-partitioned
lands residents, those in significantly sub-
standard housing, and all others certified as
eligible and not included in the preceding
categories: Provided further, That none of the
funds contained in this or any other Act may
be used by the Office of Navajo and Hopi In-
dian Relocation to evict any single Navajo or
Navajo family who, as of November 30, 1985,
was physically domiciled on the lands parti-
tioned to the Hopi Tribe unless a new or re-
placement home is provided for such house-
hold: Provided further, That no relocatee will
be provided with more than one new or re-
placement home: Provided further, That the
Office shall relocate any certified eligible
relocatees who have selected and received an
approved homesite on the Navajo reservation
or selected a replacement residence off the
Navajo reservation or on the land acquired
pursuant to section 11 of Public Law 93–531
(88 Stat. 1716).
INSTITUTE OF AMERICAN INDIAN AND ALASKA
NATIVE CULTURE AND ARTS DEVELOPMENT
PAYMENT TO THE INSTITUTE
For payment to the Institute of American
Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts
Development, as authorized by part A of
title XV of Public Law 99–498 (20 U.S.C. 4411
et seq.), $10,210,000, which shall become avail-
able on July 1, 2019, and shall remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Smithsonian
Institution, as authorized by law, including
research in the fields of art, science, and his-
tory; development, preservation, and docu-
mentation of the National Collections; pres-
entation of public exhibits and perform-
ances; collection, preparation, dissemina-
tion, and exchange of information and publi-
cations; conduct of education, training, and
museum assistance programs; maintenance,
alteration, operation, lease agreements of no
more than 30 years, and protection of build-
ings, facilities, and approaches; not to exceed
$100,000 for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109; and purchase, rental, repair, and clean-
ing of uniforms for employees, $751,110,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2020,
except as otherwise provided herein; of which
not to exceed $6,908,000 for the instrumenta-
tion program, collections acquisition, exhi-
bition reinstallation, and the repatriation of
skeletal remains program shall remain avail-
able until expended; and including such
funds as may be necessary to support Amer-
ican overseas research centers: Provided,
That funds appropriated herein are available
for advance payments to independent con-
tractors performing research services or par-
ticipating in official Smithsonian presen-
tations: Provided, That the Smithsonian In-
stitution may expend Federal appropriations
designated in this Act for lease or rent pay-
ments, as rent payable to the Smithsonian
Institution, and such rent payments may be
deposited into the general trust funds of the
Institution to be available as trust funds for
expenses associated with the purchase of a
portion of the building at 600 Maryland Ave-
nue, S.W., Washington, D.C. to the extent
that Federally supported activities will be
housed there: Provided further, That the use
of such amounts in the general trust funds of
the Institution for such purpose shall not be
construed as Federal debt service for, a Fed-
eral guarantee of, a transfer of risk to, or an
obligation of the Federal Government: Pro-
vided further, That no appropriated funds
may be used directly to service debt which is
incurred to finance the costs of acquiring a
portion of the building at 600 Maryland Ave-
nue, S.W., Washington, D.C., or of planning,
designing, and constructing improvements to
such building: Provided further, That the
Smithsonian Institution may not sell its
ownership interest, or any portion thereof,
in such building without prior written notifi-
cation to the House and Senate Committees
on Appropriations 30 days in advance.
FACILITIES CAPITAL
For necessary expenses of repair, revital-
ization, and alteration of facilities owned or
occupied by the Smithsonian Institution, by
contract or otherwise, as authorized by sec-
tion 2 of the Act of August 22, 1949 (63 Stat.
623), and for construction, including nec-
essary personnel, $296,499,000, to remain
available until expended, of which not to ex-
ceed $10,000 shall be for services as author-
ized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For the upkeep and operations of the Na-
tional Gallery of Art, the protection and
care of the works of art therein, and admin-
istrative expenses incident thereto, as au-
thorized by the Act of March 24, 1937 (50 Stat.
51), as amended by the public resolution of
April 13, 1939 (Public Resolution 9, Seventy-
sixth Congress), including services as author-
ized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; payment in advance
when authorized by the treasurer of the Gal-
lery for membership in library, museum, and
art associations or societies whose publica-
tions or services are available to members
only, or to members at a price lower than to
the general public; purchase, repair, and
cleaning of uniforms for guards, and uni-
forms, or allowances therefor, for other em-
ployees as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901–
5902); purchase or rental of devices and serv-
ices for protecting buildings and contents
thereof, and maintenance, alteration, im-
provement, and repair of buildings, ap-
proaches, and grounds; and purchase of serv-
ices for restoration and repair of works of
art for the National Gallery of Art by con-
tracts made, without advertising, with indi-
viduals, firms, or organizations at such rates
or prices and under such terms and condi-
tions as the Gallery may deem proper,
$147,022,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021, of which not to exceed
$3,640,000 for the special exhibition program
shall remain available until expended.
REPAIR, RESTORATION AND RENOVATION OF
BUILDINGS
For necessary expenses of repair, restora-
tion and renovation of buildings, grounds
and facilities owned or occupied by the Na-
tional Gallery of Art, by contract or other-
wise, for operating lease agreements of no
more than 10 years, with no extensions or re-
newals beyond the 10 years, that address
space needs created by the ongoing renova-
tions in the Master Facilities Plan, as au-
thorized, $25,203,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That of this
amount, $1,000,000 shall be available for de-
sign of an off-site art storage facility in part-
nership with Smithsonian Institution: Pro-
vided further, That contracts awarded for en-
vironmental systems, protection systems,
and exterior repair or renovation of build-
ings of the National Gallery of Art may be
negotiated with selected contractors and
awarded on the basis of contractor qualifica-
tions as well as price.
JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE
PERFORMING ARTS
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE
For necessary expenses for the operation,
maintenance and security of the John F.
Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts,
$25,690,000.
CAPITAL REPAIR AND RESTORATION
For necessary expenses for capital repair
and restoration of the existing features of
the building and site of the John F. Kennedy
Center for the Performing Arts, $17,600,000,
to remain available until expended.
WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR
SCHOLARS
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For expenses necessary in carrying out the
provisions of the Woodrow Wilson Memorial
Act of 1968 (82 Stat. 1356) including hire of
passenger vehicles and services as authorized
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $14,000,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2021.
NATIONAL FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND THE
HUMANITIES
NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS
GRANTS AND ADMINISTRATION
For necessary expenses to carry out the
National Foundation on the Arts and the Hu-
manities Act of 1965, $157,000,000 shall be
available to the National Endowment for the
Arts for the support of projects and produc-
tions in the arts, including arts education
and public outreach activities, through as-
sistance to organizations and individuals
pursuant to section 5 of the Act, for program
support, and for administering the functions
of the Act, to remain available until ex-
pended.
NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES
GRANTS AND ADMINISTRATION
For necessary expenses to carry out the
National Foundation on the Arts and the Hu-
manities Act of 1965, $157,000,000 to remain
available until expended, of which
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00087 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6018 October 22, 2019
$143,850,000 shall be available for support of
activities in the humanities, pursuant to sec-
tion 7(c) of the Act and for administering the
functions of the Act; and $13,150,000 shall be
available to carry out the matching grants
program pursuant to section 10(a)(2) of the
Act, including $11,900,000 for the purposes of
section 7(h): Provided, That appropriations
for carrying out section 10(a)(2) shall be
available for obligation only in such
amounts as may be equal to the total
amounts of gifts, bequests, devises of money,
and other property accepted by the chairman
or by grantees of the National Endowment
for the Humanities under the provisions of
sections 11(a)(2)(B) and 11(a)(3)(B) during the
current and preceding fiscal years for which
equal amounts have not previously been ap-
propriated.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
None of the funds appropriated to the Na-
tional Foundation on the Arts and the Hu-
manities may be used to process any grant
or contract documents which do not include
the text of 18 U.S.C. 1913: Provided, That none
of the funds appropriated to the National
Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
may be used for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses: Provided further, That
funds from nonappropriated sources may be
used as necessary for official reception and
representation expenses: Provided further,
That the Chairperson of the National Endow-
ment for the Arts may approve grants of up
to $10,000, if in the aggregate the amount of
such grants does not exceed 5 percent of the
sums appropriated for grantmaking purposes
per year: Provided further, That such small
grant actions are taken pursuant to the
terms of an expressed and direct delegation
of authority from the National Council on
the Arts to the Chairperson.
COMMISSION OF FINE ARTS
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For expenses of the Commission of Fine
Arts under chapter 91 of title 40, United
States Code, $3,050,000: Provided, That the
Commission is authorized to charge fees to
cover the full costs of its publications, and
such fees shall be credited to this account as
an offsetting collection, to remain available
until expended without further appropria-
tion: Provided further, That the Commission
is authorized to accept gifts, including ob-
jects, papers, artwork, drawings and arti-
facts, that pertain to the history and design
of the Nation’s Capital or the history and ac-
tivities of the Commission of Fine Arts, for
the purpose of artistic display, study, or edu-
cation: Provided further, That one-tenth of
one percent of the funds provided under this
heading may be used for official reception
and representation expenses.
NATIONAL CAPITAL ARTS AND CULTURAL
AFFAIRS
For necessary expenses as authorized by
Public Law 99–190 (20 U.S.C. 956a), $2,750,000.
ADVISORY COUNCIL ON HISTORIC
PRESERVATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Advisory
Council on Historic Preservation (Public
Law 89–665), $7,000,000.
NATIONAL CAPITAL PLANNING COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the National
Capital Planning Commission under chapter
87 of title 40, United States Code, including
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109,
$7,948,000: Provided, That one-quarter of 1
percent of the funds provided under this
heading may be used for official reception
and representational expenses associated
with hosting international visitors engaged
in the planning and physical development of
world capitals.
UNITED STATES HOLOCAUST MEMORIAL
MUSEUM
HOLOCAUST MEMORIAL MUSEUM
For expenses of the Holocaust Memorial
Museum, as authorized by Public Law 106–292
(36 U.S.C. 2301–2310), $59,500,000, of which
$1,715,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2022, for the Museum’s equipment
replacement program; and of which $4,000,000
for the Museum’s repair and rehabilitation
program and $1,264,000 for the Museum’s out-
reach initiatives program shall remain avail-
able until expended.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER MEMORIAL
COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Dwight D.
Eisenhower Memorial Commission, $1,800,000,
to remain available until expended.
WOMEN’S SUFFRAGE CENTENNIAL COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses for the Women’s
Suffrage Centennial Commission, as author-
ized by the Women’s Suffrage Centennial
Commission Act (section 431(a)(3) of division
G of Public Law 115–31), $1,000,000, to remain
available until expended.
WORLD WAR I CENTENNIAL COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
Notwithstanding section 9 of the World
War I Centennial Commission Act, as au-
thorized by the World War I Centennial Com-
mission Act (Public Law 112–272) and the
Carl Levin and Howard P. ‘‘Buck’’ McKeon
National Defense Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2015 (Public Law 113–291), for nec-
essary expenses of the World War I Centen-
nial Commission, $7,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That in addi-
tion to the authority provided by section 6(g)
of such Act, the World War I Commission
may accept money, in-kind personnel serv-
ices, contractual support, or any appropriate
support from any executive branch agency
for activities of the Commission.
ALYCE SPOTTED BEAR AND WALTER SOBOLEFF
COMMISSION ON NATIVE CHILDREN
For necessary expenses of the Alyce Spot-
ted Bear and Walter Soboleff Commission on
Native Children, $500,000, to remain available
until expended.
TITLE IV
GENERAL PROVISIONS
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
RESTRICTION ON USE OF FUNDS
SEC. 401. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this Act shall be available for any
activity or the publication or distribution of
literature that in any way tends to promote
public support or opposition to any legisla-
tive proposal on which Congressional action
is not complete other than to communicate
to Members of Congress as described in 18
U.S.C. 1913.
OBLIGATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
SEC. 402. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this Act shall remain available for
obligation beyond the current fiscal year un-
less expressly so provided herein.
DISCLOSURE OF ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
SEC. 403. The amount and basis of esti-
mated overhead charges, deductions, re-
serves or holdbacks, including working cap-
ital fund and cost pool charges, from pro-
grams, projects, activities and subactivities
to support government-wide, departmental,
agency, or bureau administrative functions
or headquarters, regional, or central oper-
ations shall be presented in annual budget
justifications and subject to approval by the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate. Changes
to such estimates shall be presented to the
Committees on Appropriations for approval.
MINING APPLICATIONS
SEC. 404. (a) LIMITATION OF FUNDS.—None of
the funds appropriated or otherwise made
available pursuant to this Act shall be obli-
gated or expended to accept or process appli-
cations for a patent for any mining or mill
site claim located under the general mining
laws.
(b) EXCEPTIONS.—Subsection (a) shall not
apply if the Secretary of the Interior deter-
mines that, for the claim concerned (1) a pat-
ent application was filed with the Secretary
on or before September 30, 1994; and (2) all re-
quirements established under sections 2325
and 2326 of the Revised Statutes (30 U.S.C. 29
and 30) for vein or lode claims, sections 2329,
2330, 2331, and 2333 of the Revised Statutes (30
U.S.C. 35, 36, and 37) for placer claims, and
section 2337 of the Revised Statutes (30
U.S.C. 42) for mill site claims, as the case
may be, were fully complied with by the ap-
plicant by that date.
(c) REPORT.—On September 30, 2021, the
Secretary of the Interior shall file with the
House and Senate Committees on Appropria-
tions and the Committee on Natural Re-
sources of the House and the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate
a report on actions taken by the Department
under the plan submitted pursuant to sec-
tion 314(c) of the Department of the Interior
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act,
1997 (Public Law 104–208).
(d) MINERAL EXAMINATIONS.—In order to
process patent applications in a timely and
responsible manner, upon the request of a
patent applicant, the Secretary of the Inte-
rior shall allow the applicant to fund a quali-
fied third-party contractor to be selected by
the Director of the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment to conduct a mineral examination of
the mining claims or mill sites contained in
a patent application as set forth in sub-
section (b). The Bureau of Land Management
shall have the sole responsibility to choose
and pay the third-party contractor in ac-
cordance with the standard procedures em-
ployed by the Bureau of Land Management
in the retention of third-party contractors.
CONTRACT SUPPORT COSTS, PRIOR YEAR
LIMITATION
SEC. 405. Sections 405 and 406 of division F
of the Consolidated and Further Continuing
Appropriations Act, 2015 (Public Law 113–235)
shall continue in effect in fiscal year 2020.
CONTRACT SUPPORT COSTS, FISCAL YEAR 2020
LIMITATION
SEC. 406. Amounts provided by this Act for
fiscal year 2020 under the headings ‘‘Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services, Indian
Health Service, Contract Support Costs’’ and
‘‘Department of the Interior, Bureau of In-
dian Affairs and Bureau of Indian Education,
Contract Support Costs’’ are the only
amounts available for contract support costs
arising out of self-determination or self-gov-
ernance contracts, grants, compacts, or an-
nual funding agreements for fiscal year 2020
with the Bureau of Indian Affairs Bureau of
Indian Education or the Indian Health Serv-
ice: Provided, That such amounts provided by
this Act are not available for payment of
claims for contract support costs for prior
years, or for repayments of payments for set-
tlements or judgments awarding contract
support costs for prior years.
FOREST MANAGEMENT PLANS
SEC. 407. The Secretary of Agriculture
shall not be considered to be in violation of
subparagraph 6(f)(5)(A) of the Forest and
Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00088 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6019
October 22, 2019
Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1604(f)(5)(A)) solely be-
cause more than 15 years have passed with-
out revision of the plan for a unit of the Na-
tional Forest System. Nothing in this sec-
tion exempts the Secretary from any other
requirement of the Forest and Rangeland Re-
newable Resources Planning Act (16 U.S.C.
1600 et seq.) or any other law: Provided, That
if the Secretary is not acting expeditiously
and in good faith, within the funding avail-
able, to revise a plan for a unit of the Na-
tional Forest System, this section shall be
void with respect to such plan and a court of
proper jurisdiction may order completion of
the plan on an accelerated basis.
PROHIBITION WITHIN NATIONAL MONUMENTS
SEC. 408. No funds provided in this Act may
be expended to conduct preleasing, leasing
and related activities under either the Min-
eral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) or the
Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C.
1331 et seq.) within the boundaries of a Na-
tional Monument established pursuant to
the Act of June 8, 1906 (16 U.S.C. 431 et seq.)
as such boundary existed on January 20, 2001,
except where such activities are allowed
under the Presidential proclamation estab-
lishing such monument.
LIMITATION ON TAKINGS
SEC. 409. Unless otherwise provided herein,
no funds appropriated in this Act for the ac-
quisition of lands or interests in lands may
be expended for the filing of declarations of
taking or complaints in condemnation with-
out the approval of the House and Senate
Committees on Appropriations: Provided,
That this provision shall not apply to funds
appropriated to implement the Everglades
National Park Protection and Expansion Act
of 1989, or to funds appropriated for Federal
assistance to the State of Florida to acquire
lands for Everglades restoration purposes.
TIMBER SALE REQUIREMENTS
SEC. 410. No timber sale in Alaska’s Region
10 shall be advertised if the indicated rate is
deficit (defined as the value of the timber is
not sufficient to cover all logging and stump-
age costs and provide a normal profit and
risk allowance under the Forest Service’s ap-
praisal process) when appraised using a re-
sidual value appraisal. The western red cedar
timber from those sales which is surplus to
the needs of the domestic processors in Alas-
ka, shall be made available to domestic proc-
essors in the contiguous 48 United States at
prevailing domestic prices. All additional
western red cedar volume not sold to Alaska
or contiguous 48 United States domestic
processors may be exported to foreign mar-
kets at the election of the timber sale hold-
er. All Alaska yellow cedar may be sold at
prevailing export prices at the election of
the timber sale holder.
PROHIBITION ON NO-BID CONTRACTS
SEC. 411. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this Act to ex-
ecutive branch agencies may be used to enter
into any Federal contract unless such con-
tract is entered into in accordance with the
requirements of Chapter 33 of title 41, United
States Code, or Chapter 137 of title 10, United
States Code, and the Federal Acquisition
Regulation, unless—
(1) Federal law specifically authorizes a
contract to be entered into without regard
for these requirements, including formula
grants for States, or federally recognized In-
dian tribes;
(2) such contract is authorized by the In-
dian Self-Determination and Education As-
sistance Act (Public Law 93–638, 25 U.S.C. 450
et seq.) or by any other Federal laws that
specifically authorize a contract within an
Indian tribe as defined in section 4(e) of that
Act (25 U.S.C. 450b(e)); or
(3) such contract was awarded prior to the
date of enactment of this Act.
POSTING OF REPORTS
SEC. 412. (a) Any agency receiving funds
made available in this Act, shall, subject to
subsections (b) and (c), post on the public
website of that agency any report required
to be submitted by the Congress in this or
any other Act, upon the determination by
the head of the agency that it shall serve the
national interest.
(b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a re-
port if—
(1) the public posting of the report com-
promises national security; or
(2) the report contains proprietary infor-
mation.
(c) The head of the agency posting such re-
port shall do so only after such report has
been made available to the requesting Com-
mittee or Committees of Congress for no less
than 45 days.
NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS GRANT
GUIDELINES
SEC. 413. Of the funds provided to the Na-
tional Endowment for the Arts—
(1) The Chairperson shall only award a
grant to an individual if such grant is award-
ed to such individual for a literature fellow-
ship, National Heritage Fellowship, or Amer-
ican Jazz Masters Fellowship.
(2) The Chairperson shall establish proce-
dures to ensure that no funding provided
through a grant, except a grant made to a
State or local arts agency, or regional group,
may be used to make a grant to any other
organization or individual to conduct activ-
ity independent of the direct grant recipient.
Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit
payments made in exchange for goods and
services.
(3) No grant shall be used for seasonal sup-
port to a group, unless the application is spe-
cific to the contents of the season, including
identified programs or projects.
NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS PROGRAM
PRIORITIES
SEC. 414. (a) In providing services or award-
ing financial assistance under the National
Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
Act of 1965 from funds appropriated under
this Act, the Chairperson of the National En-
dowment for the Arts shall ensure that pri-
ority is given to providing services or award-
ing financial assistance for projects, produc-
tions, workshops, or programs that serve un-
derserved populations.
(b) In this section:
(1) The term ‘‘underserved population’’
means a population of individuals, including
urban minorities, who have historically been
outside the purview of arts and humanities
programs due to factors such as a high inci-
dence of income below the poverty line or to
geographic isolation.
(2) The term ‘‘poverty line’’ means the pov-
erty line (as defined by the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, and revised annually in ac-
cordance with section 673(2) of the Commu-
nity Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C.
9902(2))) applicable to a family of the size in-
volved.
(c) In providing services and awarding fi-
nancial assistance under the National Foun-
dation on the Arts and Humanities Act of
1965 with funds appropriated by this Act, the
Chairperson of the National Endowment for
the Arts shall ensure that priority is given
to providing services or awarding financial
assistance for projects, productions, work-
shops, or programs that will encourage pub-
lic knowledge, education, understanding, and
appreciation of the arts.
(d) With funds appropriated by this Act to
carry out section 5 of the National Founda-
tion on the Arts and Humanities Act of
1965—
(1) the Chairperson shall establish a grant
category for projects, productions, work-
shops, or programs that are of national im-
pact or availability or are able to tour sev-
eral States;
(2) the Chairperson shall not make grants
exceeding 15 percent, in the aggregate, of
such funds to any single State, excluding
grants made under the authority of para-
graph (1);
(3) the Chairperson shall report to the Con-
gress annually and by State, on grants
awarded by the Chairperson in each grant
category under section 5 of such Act; and
(4) the Chairperson shall encourage the use
of grants to improve and support commu-
nity-based music performance and edu-
cation.
STATUS OF BALANCES OF APPROPRIATIONS
SEC. 415. The Department of the Interior,
the Environmental Protection Agency, the
Forest Service, and the Indian Health Serv-
ice shall provide the Committees on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives
and Senate quarterly reports on the status of
balances of appropriations including all un-
committed, committed, and unobligated
funds in each program and activity.
PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS
SEC. 416. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, none of the funds made available
in this Act or any other Act may be used to
promulgate or implement any regulation re-
quiring the issuance of permits under title V
of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7661 et seq.)
for carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide, water
vapor, or methane emissions resulting from
biological processes associated with live-
stock production.
GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING RESTRICTIONS
SEC. 417. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, none of the funds made available
in this or any other Act may be used to im-
plement any provision in a rule, if that pro-
vision requires mandatory reporting of
greenhouse gas emissions from manure man-
agement systems.
FUNDING PROHIBITION
SEC. 418. None of the funds made available
by this or any other Act may be used to reg-
ulate the lead content of ammunition, am-
munition components, or fishing tackle
under the Toxic Substances Control Act (15
U.S.C. 2601 et seq.) or any other law.
EXTENSION OF GRAZING PERMITS
SEC. 419. The terms and conditions of sec-
tion 325 of Public Law 108–108 (117 Stat. 1307),
regarding grazing permits issued by the For-
est Service on any lands not subject to ad-
ministration under section 402 of the Federal
Lands Policy and Management Act (43 U.S.C.
1752), shall remain in effect for fiscal year
2020.
FUNDING PROHIBITION
SEC. 420. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be used to maintain or
establish a computer network unless such
network is designed to block access to por-
nography websites.
(b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit
the use of funds necessary for any Federal,
State, tribal, or local law enforcement agen-
cy or any other entity carrying out criminal
investigations, prosecution, or adjudication
activities.
FOREST SERVICE FACILITY REALIGNMENT AND
ENHANCEMENT ACT
SEC. 421. Section 503(f) of the Forest Serv-
ice Facility Realignment and Enhancement
Act of 2005 (16 U.S.C. 580d note; Public Law
109–54) is amended by striking ‘‘2019’’ and in-
serting ‘‘2020’’.
USE OF AMERICAN IRON AND STEEL
SEC. 422. (a)(1) None of the funds made
available by a State water pollution control
revolving fund as authorized by section 1452
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00089 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6020 October 22, 2019
of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C.
300j–12) shall be used for a project for the
construction, alteration, maintenance, or re-
pair of a public water system or treatment
works unless all of the iron and steel prod-
ucts used in the project are produced in the
United States.
(2) In this section, the term ‘‘iron and
steel’’ products means the following products
made primarily of iron or steel: lined or un-
lined pipes and fittings, manhole covers and
other municipal castings, hydrants, tanks,
flanges, pipe clamps and restraints, valves,
structural steel, reinforced precast concrete,
and construction materials.
(b) Subsection (a) shall not apply in any
case or category of cases in which the Ad-
ministrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency (in this section referred to as the
‘‘Administrator’’) finds that—
(1) applying subsection (a) would be incon-
sistent with the public interest;
(2) iron and steel products are not produced
in the United States in sufficient and reason-
ably available quantities and of a satisfac-
tory quality; or
(3) inclusion of iron and steel products pro-
duced in the United States will increase the
cost of the overall project by more than 25
percent.
(c) If the Administrator receives a request
for a waiver under this section, the Adminis-
trator shall make available to the public on
an informal basis a copy of the request and
information available to the Administrator
concerning the request, and shall allow for
informal public input on the request for at
least 15 days prior to making a finding based
on the request. The Administrator shall
make the request and accompanying infor-
mation available by electronic means, in-
cluding on the official public Internet Web
site of the Environmental Protection Agen-
cy.
(d) This section shall be applied in a man-
ner consistent with United States obliga-
tions under international agreements.
(e) The Administrator may retain up to
0.25 percent of the funds appropriated in this
Act for the Clean and Drinking Water State
Revolving Funds for carrying out the provi-
sions described in subsection (a)(1) for man-
agement and oversight of the requirements
of this section.
MIDWAY ISLAND
SEC. 423. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to destroy any
buildings or structures on Midway Island
that have been recommended by the United
States Navy for inclusion in the National
Register of Historic Places (54 U.S.C. 302101).
JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER REAUTHORIZATION
SEC. 424. Section 13 of the John F. Kennedy
Center Act (20 U.S.C. 76r) is amended by
striking subsections (a) and (b) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(a) MAINTENANCE, REPAIR, AND SECU-
RITY.—There is authorized to be appropriated
to the Board to carry out section 4(a)(1)(H),
$25,690,000 for fiscal year 2020.
‘‘(b) CAPITAL PROJECTS.—There is author-
ized to be appropriated to the Board to carry
out subparagraphs (F) and (G) of section
4(a)(1), $17,600,000 for fiscal year 2020.’’.
LOCAL COOPERATOR TRAINING AGREEMENTS AND
TRANSFERS OF EXCESS EQUIPMENT AND SUP-
PLIES FOR WILDFIRES
SEC. 425. The Secretary of the Interior is
authorized to enter into grants and coopera-
tive agreements with volunteer fire depart-
ments, rural fire departments, rangeland fire
protection associations, and similar organi-
zations to provide for wildland fire training
and equipment, including supplies and com-
munication devices. Notwithstanding 121(c)
of title 40, United States Code, or section 521
of title 40, United States Code, the Secretary
is further authorized to transfer title to ex-
cess Department of the Interior firefighting
equipment no longer needed to carry out the
functions of the Department’s wildland fire
management program to such organizations.
RECREATION FEES
SEC. 426. Section 810 of the Federal Lands
Recreation Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 6809)
shall be applied by substituting ‘‘October 1,
2021’’ for ‘‘September 30, 2019’’.
POLICIES RELATING TO BIOMASS ENERGY
SEC. 427. To support the key role that for-
ests in the United States can play in address-
ing the energy needs of the United States,
the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of
Agriculture, and the Administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency shall,
consistent with their missions, jointly—
(1) ensure that Federal policy relating to
forest bioenergy—
(A) is consistent across all Federal depart-
ments and agencies; and
(B) recognizes the full benefits of the use of
forest biomass for energy, conservation, and
responsible forest management; and
(2) establish clear and simple policies for
the use of forest biomass as an energy solu-
tion, including policies that—
(A) reflect the carbon-neutrality of forest
bioenergy and recognize biomass as a renew-
able energy source, provided the use of forest
biomass for energy production does not
cause conversion of forests to non-forest use;
(B) encourage private investment through-
out the forest biomass supply chain, includ-
ing in—
(i) working forests;
(ii) harvesting operations;
(iii) forest improvement operations;
(iv) forest bioenergy production;
(v) wood products manufacturing; or
(vi) paper manufacturing;
(C) encourage forest management to im-
prove forest health; and
(D) recognize State initiatives to produce
and use forest biomass.
SMALL REMOTE INCINERATORS
SEC. 428. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used to implement or en-
force the regulation issued on March 21, 2011
at 40 CFR part 60 subparts CCCC and DDDD
with respect to units in the State of Alaska
that are defined as ‘‘small, remote inciner-
ator’’ units in those regulations and, until a
subsequent regulation is issued, the Admin-
istrator shall implement the law and regula-
tions in effect prior to such date.
CLARIFICATION OF EXEMPTIONS
SEC. 429. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used to require a permit
for the discharge of dredged or fill material
under the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.) for the activities
identified in subparagraphs (A) and (C) of
section 404(f)(1) of the Act (33 U.S.C.
1344(f)(1)(A), (C)).
This division may be cited as the ‘‘Depart-
ment of the Interior, Environment, and Re-
lated Agencies Appropriations Act, 2020’’.
DIVISION D—TRANSPORTATION, AND
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT,
AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIA-
TIONS ACT, 2020
The following sums are appropriated, out
of any money in the Treasury not otherwise
appropriated, for the Departments of Trans-
portation, and Housing and Urban Develop-
ment, and related agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for other pur-
poses, namely:
TITLE I
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Secretary, $113,910,000, of which not to ex-
ceed $3,065,000 shall be available for the im-
mediate Office of the Secretary; not to ex-
ceed $1,000,000 shall be available for the im-
mediate Office of the Deputy Secretary; not
to exceed $20,428,000 shall be available for the
Office of the General Counsel; not to exceed
$10,331,000 shall be available for the Office of
the Under Secretary of Transportation for
Policy; not to exceed $14,300,000 shall be
available for the Office of the Assistant Sec-
retary for Budget and Programs; not to ex-
ceed $2,546,000 shall be available for the Of-
fice of the Assistant Secretary for Govern-
mental Affairs; not to exceed $29,244,000 shall
be available for the Office of the Assistant
Secretary for Administration; not to exceed
$2,142,000 shall be available for the Office of
Public Affairs; not to exceed $1,859,000 shall
be available for the Office of the Executive
Secretariat; not to exceed $12,181,000 shall be
available for the Office of Intelligence, Secu-
rity, and Emergency Response; and not to
exceed $16,814,000 shall be available for the
Office of the Chief Information Officer: Pro-
vided, That the Secretary of Transportation
is authorized to transfer funds appropriated
for any office of the Office of the Secretary
to any other office of the Office of the Sec-
retary: Provided further, That no appropria-
tion for any office shall be increased or de-
creased by more than 7 percent by all such
transfers: Provided further, That notice of
any change in funding greater than 7 percent
shall be submitted for approval to the House
and Senate Committees on Appropriations:
Provided further, That not to exceed $60,000
shall be for allocation within the Depart-
ment for official reception and representa-
tion expenses as the Secretary may deter-
mine: Provided further, That notwithstanding
any other provision of law, excluding fees au-
thorized in Public Law 107–71, there may be
credited to this appropriation up to $2,500,000
in funds received in user fees: Provided fur-
ther, That none of the funds provided in this
Act shall be available for the position of As-
sistant Secretary for Public Affairs.
RESEARCH AND TECHNOLOGY
For necessary expenses related to the Of-
fice of the Assistant Secretary for Research
and Technology, $8,000,000, of which $2,218,000
shall remain available until September 30,
2022: Provided, That there may be credited to
this appropriation, to be available until ex-
pended, funds received from States, counties,
municipalities, other public authorities, and
private sources for expenses incurred for
training: Provided further, That any reference
in law, regulation, judicial proceedings, or
elsewhere to the Research and Innovative
Technology Administration shall continue to
be deemed to be a reference to the Office of
the Assistant Secretary for Research and
Technology of the Department of Transpor-
tation: Provided further, That of the amount
made available under this heading, $1,000,000
shall be to establish an emergency planning
transportation data initiative to conduct re-
search and develop models for data integra-
tion of geo-located weather and roadways in-
formation for emergency and other severe
weather conditions to improve public safety
and emergency evacuation and response ca-
pabilities.
NATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS
For capital investments in surface trans-
portation infrastructure, $1,000,000,000, to re-
main available through September 30, 2022:
Provided, That the Secretary of Transpor-
tation shall distribute funds provided under
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00090 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6021
October 22, 2019
this heading as discretionary grants to be
awarded to a State, local government, tran-
sit agency, port authority, or a collaboration
among such entities on a competitive basis
for projects that will have a significant local
or regional impact: Provided further, That
projects eligible for funding provided under
this heading shall include, but not be limited
to, highway or bridge projects eligible under
title 23, United States Code; public transpor-
tation projects eligible under chapter 53 of
title 49, United States Code; passenger and
freight rail transportation projects; port in-
frastructure investments (including inland
port infrastructure and land ports of entry);
and projects investing in surface transpor-
tation facilities that are located on tribal
land and for which title or maintenance re-
sponsibility is vested in the Federal Govern-
ment: Provided further, That of the amount
made available under this heading, the Sec-
retary may use an amount not to exceed
$15,000,000 for the planning, preparation or
design of projects eligible for funding under
this heading: Provided further, That grants
awarded under the previous proviso shall not
be subject to a minimum grant size: Provided
further, That the Secretary may use up to 20
percent of the funds made available under
this heading for the purpose of paying the
subsidy and administrative costs of projects
eligible for Federal credit assistance under
chapter 6 of title 23, United States Code, or
sections 501 through 504 of the Railroad Revi-
talization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976
(Public Law 94–210), as amended, if the Sec-
retary finds that such use of the funds would
advance the purposes of this paragraph: Pro-
vided further, That in distributing funds pro-
vided under this heading, the Secretary shall
take such measures so as to ensure an equi-
table geographic distribution of funds, an ap-
propriate balance in addressing the needs of
urban and rural areas, and the investment in
a variety of transportation modes: Provided
further, That a grant funded under this head-
ing shall be not less than $5,000,000 and not
greater than $25,000,000: Provided further,
That not more than 10 percent of the funds
made available under this heading may be
awarded to projects in a single State: Pro-
vided further, That the Federal share of the
costs for which an expenditure is made under
this heading shall be, at the option of the re-
cipient, up to 80 percent: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall give priority to
projects that require a contribution of Fed-
eral funds in order to complete an overall fi-
nancing package: Provided further, That not
less than 30 percent of the funds provided
under this heading shall be for projects lo-
cated in rural areas: Provided further, That
for projects located in a rural area, the min-
imum grant size shall be $1,000,000 and the
Secretary may increase the Federal share of
costs above 80 percent: Provided further, That
projects conducted using funds provided
under this heading must comply with the re-
quirements of subchapter IV of chapter 31 of
title 40, United States Code: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall conduct a new com-
petition to select the grants and credit as-
sistance awarded under this heading: Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary may retain
up to three percent of the funds provided
under this heading, and may transfer por-
tions of those funds to the Administrators of
the Federal Highway Administration, the
Federal Transit Administration, the Federal
Railroad Administration, and the Maritime
Administration to fund the award and over-
sight of grants and credit assistance made
under the National Infrastructure Invest-
ments program: Provided further, That none
of the funds provided in the previous proviso
may be used to hire additional personnel:
Provided further, That the Secretary shall
consider and award projects based solely on
the selection criteria from the fiscal year
2017 Notice of Funding Opportunity: Provided
further, That, notwithstanding the previous
proviso, the Secretary shall not use the Fed-
eral share or an applicant’s ability to gen-
erate non-Federal revenue as a selection cri-
teria in awarding projects: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall issue the Notice of
Funding Opportunity no later than 60 days
after enactment of this Act: Provided further,
That such Notice of Funding Opportunity
shall require application submissions 90 days
after the publishing of such Notice: Provided
further, That of the applications submitted
under the previous two provisos, the Sec-
retary shall make grants no later than 270
days after enactment of this Act in such
amounts that the Secretary determines.
NATIONAL SURFACE TRANSPORTATION AND
INNOVATIVE FINANCE BUREAU
For necessary expenses of the National
Surface Transportation and Innovative Fi-
nance Bureau as authorized by 49 U.S.C. 116,
$5,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That the Secretary shall
notify the House and Senate Committees on
Appropriations no less than 15 days prior to
exercising the transfer authority granted
under section 116(h) of title 49, United States
Code.
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT CAPITAL
For necessary expenses for upgrading and
enhancing the Department of Transpor-
tation’s financial systems and re-engineering
business processes, $2,000,000, to remain
available through September 30, 2021.
CYBER SECURITY INITIATIVES
For necessary expenses for cyber security
initiatives, including necessary upgrades to
wide area network and information tech-
nology infrastructure, improvement of net-
work perimeter controls and identity man-
agement, testing and assessment of informa-
tion technology against business, security,
and other requirements, implementation of
Federal cyber security initiatives and infor-
mation infrastructure enhancements, and
implementation of enhanced security con-
trols on network devices, $15,000,000, to re-
main available through September 30, 2021.
OFFICE OF CIVIL RIGHTS
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Civil Rights, $9,470,000.
TRANSPORTATION PLANNING, RESEARCH, AND
DEVELOPMENT
For necessary expenses for conducting
transportation planning, research, systems
development, development activities, and
making grants, $7,879,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That of such
amount, $1,000,000 shall be for necessary ex-
penses of the Interagency Infrastructure Per-
mitting Improvement Center (IIPIC): Pro-
vided further, That there may be transferred
to this appropriation, to remain available
until expended, amounts transferred from
other Federal agencies for expenses incurred
under this heading for IIPIC activities not
related to transportation infrastructure: Pro-
vided further, That the tools and analysis de-
veloped by the IIPIC shall be available to
other Federal agencies for the permitting
and review of major infrastructure projects
not related to transportation only to the ex-
tent that other Federal agencies provide
funding to the Department as provided for
under the previous proviso.
WORKING CAPITAL FUND
For necessary expenses for operating costs
and capital outlays of the Working Capital
Fund, not to exceed $319,793,000, shall be paid
from appropriations made available to the
Department of Transportation: Provided,
That such services shall be provided on a
competitive basis to entities within the De-
partment of Transportation: Provided further,
That the above limitation on operating ex-
penses shall not apply to non-DOT entities:
Provided further, That no funds appropriated
in this Act to an agency of the Department
shall be transferred to the Working Capital
Fund without majority approval of the
Working Capital Fund Steering Committee
and approval of the Secretary: Provided fur-
ther, That no assessments may be levied
against any program, budget activity, sub-
activity or project funded by this Act unless
notice of such assessments and the basis
therefor are presented to the House and Sen-
ate Committees on Appropriations and are
approved by such Committees.
SMALL AND DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS
UTILIZATION AND OUTREACH
For necessary expenses for small and dis-
advantaged business utilization and outreach
activities, $3,488,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2021: Provided, That not-
withstanding 49 U.S.C. 332, these funds may
be used for business opportunities related to
any mode of transportation.
PAYMENTS TO AIR CARRIERS
(AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)
In addition to funds made available from
any other source to carry out the essential
air service program under 49 U.S.C. 41731
through 41742, $162,000,000, to be derived from
the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That in determining between or among car-
riers competing to provide service to a com-
munity, the Secretary may consider the rel-
ative subsidy requirements of the carriers:
Provided further, That basic essential air
service minimum requirements shall not in-
clude the 15-passenger capacity requirement
under section 41732(b)(3) of title 49, United
States Code: Provided further, That none of
the funds in this Act or any other Act shall
be used to enter into a new contract with a
community located less than 40 miles from
the nearest small hub airport before the Sec-
retary has negotiated with the community
over a local cost share: Provided further, That
amounts authorized to be distributed for the
essential air service program under section
41742(b) of title 49, United States Code, shall
be made available immediately from
amounts otherwise provided to the Adminis-
trator of the Federal Aviation Administra-
tion: Provided further, That the Adminis-
trator may reimburse such amounts from
fees credited to the account established
under section 45303 of title 49, United States
Code.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—OFFICE OF THE
SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION
SEC. 101. None of the funds made available
in this Act to the Department of Transpor-
tation may be obligated for the Office of the
Secretary of Transportation to approve as-
sessments or reimbursable agreements per-
taining to funds appropriated to the modal
administrations in this Act, except for ac-
tivities underway on the date of enactment
of this Act, unless such assessments or
agreements have completed the normal re-
programming process for Congressional noti-
fication.
SEC. 102. The Secretary shall post on the
Web site of the Department of Transpor-
tation a schedule of all meetings of the
Council on Credit and Finance, including the
agenda for each meeting, and require the
Council on Credit and Finance to record the
decisions and actions of each meeting.
SEC. 103. In addition to authority provided
by section 327 of title 49, United States Code,
the Department’s Working Capital Fund is
hereby authorized to provide partial or full
payments in advance and accept subsequent
reimbursements from all Federal agencies
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00091 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6022 October 22, 2019
from available funds for transit benefit dis-
tribution services that are necessary to
carry out the Federal transit pass transpor-
tation fringe benefit program under Execu-
tive Order No. 13150 and section 3049 of Pub-
lic Law 109–59: Provided, That the Depart-
ment shall maintain a reasonable operating
reserve in the Working Capital Fund, to be
expended in advance to provide uninter-
rupted transit benefits to Government em-
ployees: Provided further, That such reserve
will not exceed one month of benefits pay-
able and may be used only for the purpose of
providing for the continuation of transit
benefits: Provided further, That the Working
Capital Fund will be fully reimbursed by
each customer agency from available funds
for the actual cost of the transit benefit.
SEC. 104. None of the funds in this Act may
be obligated or expended for retention or
senior executive bonuses for an employee of
the Department of Transportation without
the prior written approval of the Assistant
Secretary for Administration.
FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS
(AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)
For necessary expenses of the Federal
Aviation Administration, not otherwise pro-
vided for, including operations and research
activities related to commercial space trans-
portation, administrative expenses for re-
search and development, establishment of
air navigation facilities, the operation (in-
cluding leasing) and maintenance of aircraft,
subsidizing the cost of aeronautical charts
and maps sold to the public, the lease or pur-
chase of passenger motor vehicles for re-
placement only, in addition to amounts
made available by Public Law 115–254,
$10,540,511,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021, of which $10,540,511,000 shall
be derived from the Airport and Airway
Trust Fund: Provided, That of the sums ap-
propriated under this heading—
(1) $1,359,607,000 shall be available for avia-
tion safety activities;
(2) $7,925,734,000 shall be available for air
traffic organization activities;
(3) $26,040,000 shall be available for com-
mercial space transportation activities;
(4) $800,646,000 shall be available for finance
and management activities;
(5) $61,538,000 shall be available for
NextGen and operations planning activities;
(6) $118,642,000 shall be available for secu-
rity and hazardous materials safety; and
(7) $248,304,000 shall be available for staff
offices:
Provided, That not to exceed 5 percent of any
budget activity, except for aviation safety
budget activity, may be transferred to any
budget activity under this heading: Provided
further, That no transfer may increase or de-
crease any appropriation by more than 5 per-
cent: Provided further, That any transfer in
excess of 5 percent shall be treated as a re-
programming of funds under section 405 of
this Act and shall not be available for obliga-
tion or expenditure except in compliance
with the procedures set forth in that section:
Provided further, That not later than March
31 of each fiscal year hereafter, the Adminis-
trator of the Federal Aviation Administra-
tion shall transmit to Congress an annual
update to the report submitted to Congress
in December 2004 pursuant to section 221 of
Public Law 108–176: Provided further, That the
amount herein appropriated shall be reduced
by $100,000 for each day after March 31 that
such report has not been submitted to the
Congress: Provided further, That not later
than March 31 of each fiscal year hereafter,
the Administrator shall transmit to Con-
gress a companion report that describes a
comprehensive strategy for staffing, hiring,
and training flight standards and aircraft
certification staff in a format similar to the
one utilized for the controller staffing plan,
including stated attrition estimates and nu-
merical hiring goals by fiscal year: Provided
further, That the amount herein appropriated
shall be reduced by $100,000 per day for each
day after March 31 that such report has not
been submitted to Congress: Provided further,
That funds may be used to enter into a grant
agreement with a nonprofit standard-setting
organization to assist in the development of
aviation safety standards: Provided further,
That none of the funds in this Act shall be
available for new applicants for the second
career training program: Provided further,
That none of the funds in this Act shall be
available for the Federal Aviation Adminis-
tration to finalize or implement any regula-
tion that would promulgate new aviation
user fees not specifically authorized by law
after the date of the enactment of this Act:
Provided further, That there may be credited
to this appropriation, as offsetting collec-
tions, funds received from States, counties,
municipalities, foreign authorities, other
public authorities, and private sources for
expenses incurred in the provision of agency
services, including receipts for the mainte-
nance and operation of air navigation facili-
ties, and for issuance, renewal or modifica-
tion of certificates, including airman, air-
craft, and repair station certificates, or for
tests related thereto, or for processing major
repair or alteration forms: Provided further,
That of the funds appropriated under this
heading, not less than $170,000,000 shall be
used to fund direct operations of the current
air traffic control towers in the contract
tower program, including the contract tower
cost share program, and any airport that is
currently qualified or that will qualify for
the program during the fiscal year: Provided
further, That none of the funds in this Act for
aeronautical charting and cartography are
available for activities conducted by, or co-
ordinated through, the Working Capital
Fund: Provided further, That none of the
funds appropriated or otherwise made avail-
able by this Act or any other Act may be
used to eliminate the Contract Weather Ob-
servers program at any airport.
FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT
(AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, for acquisition, establishment,
technical support services, improvement by
contract or purchase, and hire of national
airspace systems and experimental facilities
and equipment, as authorized under part A of
subtitle VII of title 49, United States Code,
including initial acquisition of necessary
sites by lease or grant; engineering and serv-
ice testing, including construction of test fa-
cilities and acquisition of necessary sites by
lease or grant; construction and furnishing
of quarters and related accommodations for
officers and employees of the Federal Avia-
tion Administration stationed at remote lo-
calities where such accommodations are not
available; and the purchase, lease, or trans-
fer of aircraft from funds available under
this heading, including aircraft for aviation
regulation and certification; to be derived
from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund,
$3,153,801,000, of which $514,730,000 shall re-
main available until September 30, 2021,
$2,518,544,000 shall remain available until
September 30, 2022, and $120,527,000 shall re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That there may be credited to this appro-
priation funds received from States, coun-
ties, municipalities, other public authorities,
and private sources, for expenses incurred in
the establishment, improvement, and mod-
ernization of national airspace systems: Pro-
vided further, That no later than March 31,
the Secretary of Transportation shall trans-
mit to the Congress an investment plan for
the Federal Aviation Administration which
includes funding for each budget line item
for fiscal years 2021 through 2025, with total
funding for each year of the plan constrained
to the funding targets for those years as esti-
mated and approved by the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget.
RESEARCH, ENGINEERING, AND DEVELOPMENT
(AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, for research, engineering, and de-
velopment, as authorized under part A of
subtitle VII of title 49, United States Code,
including construction of experimental fa-
cilities and acquisition of necessary sites by
lease or grant, $194,230,000, to be derived from
the Airport and Airway Trust Fund and to
remain available until September 30, 2022:
Provided, That there may be credited to this
appropriation as offsetting collections, funds
received from States, counties, municipali-
ties, other public authorities, and private
sources, which shall be available for ex-
penses incurred for research, engineering,
and development: Provided further, That
funds made available under this heading
shall be used in accordance with the report
accompanying this Act: Provided further,
That not to exceed 10 percent of any funding
level specified under this heading in the re-
port accompanying this Act may be trans-
ferred to any other funding level specified
under this heading in the report accom-
panying this Act: Provided further, That no
transfer may increase or decrease any fund-
ing level by more than 10 percent: Provided
further, That any transfer in excess of 10 per-
cent shall be treated as a reprogramming of
funds under section 405 of this Act and shall
not be available for obligation or expendi-
ture except in compliance with the proce-
dures set forth in that section.
GRANTS-IN-AID FOR AIRPORTS
(LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)
(LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)
(AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For liquidation of obligations incurred for
grants-in-aid for airport planning and devel-
opment, and noise compatibility planning
and programs as authorized under sub-
chapter I of chapter 471 and subchapter I of
chapter 475 of title 49, United States Code,
and under other law authorizing such obliga-
tions; for procurement, installation, and
commissioning of runway incursion preven-
tion devices and systems at airports of such
title; for grants authorized under section
41743 of title 49, United States Code; and for
inspection activities and administration of
airport safety programs, including those re-
lated to airport operating certificates under
section 44706 of title 49, United States Code,
$3,000,000,000, to be derived from the Airport
and Airway Trust Fund and to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That none of
the funds under this heading shall be avail-
able for the planning or execution of pro-
grams the obligations for which are in excess
of $3,350,000,000 in fiscal year 2020, notwith-
standing section 47117(g) of title 49, United
States Code: Provided further, That none of
the funds under this heading shall be avail-
able for the replacement of baggage con-
veyor systems, reconfiguration of terminal
baggage areas, or other airport improve-
ments that are necessary to install bulk ex-
plosive detection systems: Provided further,
That notwithstanding section 47109(a) of
title 49, United States Code, the Govern-
ment’s share of allowable project costs under
paragraph (2) for subgrants or paragraph (3)
of that section shall be 95 percent for a
project at other than a large or medium hub
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00092 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6023
October 22, 2019
airport that is a successive phase of a multi-
phased construction project for which the
project sponsor received a grant in fiscal
year 2011 for the construction project: Pro-
vided further, That notwithstanding any
other provision of law, of funds limited under
this heading, not more than $113,000,000 shall
be available for administration, not less than
$15,000,000 shall be available for the Airport
Cooperative Research Program, not less than
$39,224,000 shall be available for Airport
Technology Research, and $10,000,000, to re-
main available until expended, shall be
available and transferred to ‘‘Office of the
Secretary, Salaries and Expenses’’ to carry
out the Small Community Air Service Devel-
opment Program: Provided further, That in
addition to airports eligible under section
41743 of title 49, United States Code, such
program may include the participation of an
airport that serves a community or consor-
tium that is not larger than a small hub air-
port, according to FAA hub classifications
effective at the time the Office of the Sec-
retary issues a request for proposals.
GRANTS-IN-AID FOR AIRPORTS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Grants-In-
Aid for Airports’’, to enable the Secretary of
Transportation to make grants for projects
as authorized by subchapter 1 of chapter 471
and subchapter 1 of chapter 475 of title 49,
United States Code, $450,000,000, to remain
available through September 30, 2022: Pro-
vided, That amounts made available under
this heading shall be derived from the gen-
eral fund, and such funds shall not be subject
to apportionment formulas, special appor-
tionment categories, or minimum percent-
ages under chapter 471: Provided further, That
the Secretary shall distribute funds provided
under this heading as discretionary grants to
airports: Provided further, That the amount
made available under this heading shall not
be subject to any limitation on obligations
for the Grants-in-Aid for Airports program
set forth in any Act: Provided further, That
the Administrator of the Federal Aviation
Administration may retain up to 0.5 percent
of the funds provided under this heading to
fund the award and oversight by the Admin-
istrator of grants made under this heading.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—FEDERAL
AVIATION ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 110. None of the funds in this Act may
be used to compensate in excess of 600 tech-
nical staff-years under the federally funded
research and development center contract
between the Federal Aviation Administra-
tion and the Center for Advanced Aviation
Systems Development during fiscal year
2020.
SEC. 111. None of the funds in this Act shall
be used to pursue or adopt guidelines or reg-
ulations requiring airport sponsors to pro-
vide to the Federal Aviation Administration
without cost building construction, mainte-
nance, utilities and expenses, or space in air-
port sponsor-owned buildings for services re-
lating to air traffic control, air navigation,
or weather reporting: Provided, That the pro-
hibition of funds in this section does not
apply to negotiations between the agency
and airport sponsors to achieve agreement
on ‘‘below-market’’ rates for these items or
to grant assurances that require airport
sponsors to provide land without cost to the
Federal Aviation Administration for air traf-
fic control facilities.
SEC. 112. The Administrator of the Federal
Aviation Administration may reimburse
amounts made available to satisfy 49 U.S.C.
41742(a)(1) from fees credited under 49 U.S.C.
45303 and any amount remaining in such ac-
count at the close of that fiscal year may be
made available to satisfy section 41742(a)(1)
for the subsequent fiscal year.
SEC. 113. Amounts collected under section
40113(e) of title 49, United States Code, shall
be credited to the appropriation current at
the time of collection, to be merged with and
available for the same purposes of such ap-
propriation.
SEC. 114. None of the funds in this Act shall
be available for paying premium pay under
section 5546(a) of title 5, United States Code,
to any Federal Aviation Administration em-
ployee unless such employee actually per-
formed work during the time corresponding
to such premium pay.
SEC. 115. None of the funds in this Act may
be obligated or expended for an employee of
the Federal Aviation Administration to pur-
chase a store gift card or gift certificate
through use of a Government-issued credit
card.
SEC. 116. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, none of the funds made available
under this Act or any prior Act may be used
to implement or to continue to implement
any limitation on the ability of any owner or
operator of a private aircraft to obtain, upon
a request to the Administrator of the Fed-
eral Aviation Administration, a blocking of
that owner’s or operator’s aircraft registra-
tion number from any display of the Federal
Aviation Administration’s Aircraft Situa-
tional Display to Industry data that is made
available to the public, except data made
available to a Government agency, for the
noncommercial flights of that owner or oper-
ator.
SEC. 117. None of the funds in this Act shall
be available for salaries and expenses of
more than nine political and Presidential ap-
pointees in the Federal Aviation Administra-
tion.
SEC. 118. None of the funds made available
under this Act may be used to increase fees
pursuant to section 44721 of title 49, United
States Code, until the Federal Aviation Ad-
ministration provides to the House and Sen-
ate Committees on Appropriations a report
that justifies all fees related to aeronautical
navigation products and explains how such
fees are consistent with Executive Order
13642.
SEC. 119. None of the funds in this Act may
be used to close a regional operations center
of the Federal Aviation Administration or
reduce its services unless the Administrator
notifies the House and Senate Committees
on Appropriations not less than 90 full busi-
ness days in advance.
SEC. 119A. None of the funds appropriated
or limited by this Act may be used to change
weight restrictions or prior permission rules
at Teterboro airport in Teterboro, New Jer-
sey.
SEC. 119B. None of the funds provided under
this Act may be used by the Administrator
of the Federal Aviation Administration to
withhold from consideration and approval
any new application for participation in the
Contract Tower Program, or for reevaluation
of Cost-share Program participants as long
as the Federal Aviation Administration has
received an application from the airport, and
as long as the Administrator determines
such tower is eligible using the factors set
forth in Federal Aviation Administration
published establishment criteria.
SEC. 119C. None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act may be used to close, con-
solidate, or re-designate any field or regional
airports division office unless the Adminis-
trator submits a request for the reprogram-
ming of funds under section 405 of this Act.
FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
Not to exceed $453,549,689, together with
advances and reimbursements received by
the Federal Highway Administration, shall
be obligated for necessary expenses for ad-
ministration and operation of the Federal
Highway Administration. In addition,
$3,248,000 shall be transferred to the Appa-
lachian Regional Commission in accordance
with section 104(a) of title 23, United States
Code.
FEDERAL-AID HIGHWAYS
(LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)
Funds available for the implementation or
execution of Federal-aid highway and high-
way safety construction programs author-
ized under titles 23 and 49, United States
Code, and the provisions of the Fixing Amer-
ica’s Surface Transportation Act shall not
exceed total obligations of $46,365,092,000 for
fiscal year 2020: Provided, That the Secretary
may collect and spend fees, as authorized by
title 23, United States Code, to cover the
costs of services of expert firms, including
counsel, in the field of municipal and project
finance to assist in the underwriting and
servicing of Federal credit instruments and
all or a portion of the costs to the Federal
Government of servicing such credit instru-
ments: Provided further, That such fees are
available until expended to pay for such
costs: Provided further, That such amounts
are in addition to administrative expenses
that are also available for such purpose, and
are not subject to any obligation limitation
or the limitation on administrative expenses
under section 608 of title 23, United States
Code.
(LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)
For the payment of obligations incurred in
carrying out Federal-aid highway and high-
way safety construction programs author-
ized under title 23, United States Code,
$47,104,092,000 derived from the Highway
Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Ac-
count), to remain available until expended.
HIGHWAY INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAMS
There is hereby appropriated to the Sec-
retary of Transportation $2,700,000,000: Pro-
vided, That the amounts made available
under this heading shall be derived from the
general fund, shall be in addition to any
funds provided for fiscal year 2020 in this or
any other Act for: (1) ‘‘Federal-aid High-
ways’’ under chapter 1 of title 23, United
States Code; or (2) the Appalachian Develop-
ment Highway System as authorized under
section 1069(y) of Public Law 102–240, and
shall not affect the distribution or amount of
funds provided in any other Act: Provided
further, That section 1101(b) of Public Law
114–94 shall apply to funds made available
under this heading: Provided further, That of
the funds made available under this heading,
$1,250,000,000 shall be set aside for activities
eligible under section 133(b)(1)(A) of title 23,
United States Code, and for the elimination
of hazards and the installation of protective
devices at railway-highway crossings,
$100,000,000 shall be set aside for the nation-
ally significant Federal lands and tribal
projects program under section 1123 of the
Fixing America’s Surface Transportation
(FAST) Act (Public Law 114–94), $1,250,000,000
shall be set aside for a bridge replacement
and rehabilitation program for qualifying
States, and $100,000,000 shall be set aside for
necessary expenses for construction of the
Appalachian Development Highway System
as authorized under section 1069(y) of Public
Law 102–240: Provided further, That for the
purposes of funds made available under this
heading for activities eligible under section
133(b)(1)(A) of title 23, United States Code,
and for the elimination of hazards and the
installation of protective devices at railway-
highway crossings, the term ‘‘State’’ means
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00093 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6024 October 22, 2019
any of the 50 States or the District of Colum-
bia: Provided further, That for the purposes of
funds made available under this heading for
construction of the Appalachian Develop-
ment Highway System, the term ‘‘Appa-
lachian State’’ means a State that contains
1 or more counties (including any political
subdivision located within the area) in the
Appalachian region as defined in section
14102(a) of title 40, United States Code: Pro-
vided further, That the funds made available
under this heading for activities eligible
under section 133(b)(1)(A) of title 23, United
States Code, and for the elimination of haz-
ards and the installation of protective de-
vices at railway-highway crossings, shall be
suballocated in the manner described in sec-
tion 133(d) of such title, except that the set-
aside described in section 133(h) of such title
shall not apply to funds made available
under this heading: Provided further, That
the funds made available under this heading
for (1) activities eligible under section
133(b)(1)(A) of such title and for the elimi-
nation of hazards and the installation of pro-
tective devices at railway-highway cross-
ings, and (2) a bridge replacement and reha-
bilitation program shall be administered as
if apportioned under chapter 1 of such title
and shall remain available through Sep-
tember 30, 2023: Provided further, That the
funds made available under this heading for
activities eligible under section 133(b)(1)(A)
of title 23, United States Code, and for the
elimination of hazards and the installation
of protective devices at railway-highway
crossings, shall be apportioned to the States
in the same ratio as the obligation limita-
tion for fiscal year 2020 is distributed among
the States in section 120(a)(5) of this Act:
Provided further, That the funds made avail-
able under this heading for the nationally
significant Federal lands and tribal projects
program under section 1123 of the FAST Act
shall remain available through September
30, 2023: Provided further, That for the pur-
poses of funds made available under this
heading for a bridge replacement and reha-
bilitation program, the term ‘‘qualifying
State’’ means any of the 50 States with a
population of less than 5,000,000 and in which
less than 65 percent of National Highway
System bridges are classified as in good con-
dition: Provided further, That the Secretary
shall distribute funds made available under
this heading for a bridge replacement and re-
habilitation program to each qualifying
State by the proportion that the percentage
of National Highway System bridges not
classified as in good condition in such quali-
fying State bears to the sum of the percent-
ages of National Highway System bridges
not classified as in good condition in all
qualifying States: Provided further, That the
funds made available under this heading for
a bridge replacement and rehabilitation pro-
gram shall be used for highway bridge re-
placement or rehabilitation projects on pub-
lic roads: Provided further, That for purposes
of this heading for the bridge replacement
and rehabilitation program, the Secretary
shall (1) calculate population based on the
latest available data from the decennial cen-
sus conducted under section 141(a) of title 13,
United States Code, and (2) calculate the per-
centages of bridges not classified as in good
condition based on the National Bridge In-
ventory as of December 31, 2018: Provided fur-
ther, That funds made available under this
heading for construction of the Appalachian
Development Highway System shall remain
available until expended: Provided further,
That a project carried out with funds made
available under this heading for construction
of the Appalachian Development Highway
System shall be carried out in the same
manner as a project under section 14501 of
title 40, United States Code: Provided further,
That subject to the following proviso, funds
made available under this heading for con-
struction of the Appalachian Development
Highway System shall be apportioned to Ap-
palachian States according to the percent-
ages derived from the 2012 Appalachian De-
velopment Highway System Cost-to-Com-
plete Estimate, adopted in Appalachian Re-
gional Commission Resolution Number 736,
and confirmed as each Appalachian State’s
relative share of the estimated remaining
need to complete the Appalachian Develop-
ment Highway System, adjusted to exclude
those corridors that such States have no cur-
rent plans to complete, as reported in the
2013 Appalachian Development Highway Sys-
tem Completion Report: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall adjust apportion-
ments made under the preceding proviso so
that no Appalachian State shall be appor-
tioned an amount in excess of 30 percent of
the amount made available for construction
of the Appalachian Development Highway
System under this heading: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall consult with the
Appalachian Regional Commission in mak-
ing adjustments under the preceding two
provisos: Provided further, That the Federal
share of the costs for which an expenditure is
made for construction of the Appalachian
Development Highway System under this
heading shall be up to 100 percent.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—FEDERAL
HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 120. (a) For fiscal year 2020, the Sec-
retary of Transportation shall—
(1) not distribute from the obligation limi-
tation for Federal-aid highways—
(A) amounts authorized for administrative
expenses and programs by section 104(a) of
title 23, United States Code; and
(B) amounts authorized for the Bureau of
Transportation Statistics;
(2) not distribute an amount from the obli-
gation limitation for Federal-aid highways
that is equal to the unobligated balance of
amounts—
(A) made available from the Highway
Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Ac-
count) for Federal-aid highway and highway
safety construction programs for previous
fiscal years the funds for which are allocated
by the Secretary (or apportioned by the Sec-
retary under sections 202 or 204 of title 23,
United States Code); and
(B) for which obligation limitation was
provided in a previous fiscal year;
(3) determine the proportion that—
(A) the obligation limitation for Federal-
aid highways, less the aggregate of amounts
not distributed under paragraphs (1) and (2)
of this subsection; bears to
(B) the total of the sums authorized to be
appropriated for the Federal-aid highway
and highway safety construction programs
(other than sums authorized to be appro-
priated for provisions of law described in
paragraphs (1) through (11) of subsection (b)
and sums authorized to be appropriated for
section 119 of title 23, United States Code,
equal to the amount referred to in sub-
section (b)(12) for such fiscal year), less the
aggregate of the amounts not distributed
under paragraphs (1) and (2) of this sub-
section;
(4) distribute the obligation limitation for
Federal-aid highways, less the aggregate
amounts not distributed under paragraphs
(1) and (2), for each of the programs (other
than programs to which paragraph (1) ap-
plies) that are allocated by the Secretary
under the Fixing America’s Surface Trans-
portation Act and title 23, United States
Code, or apportioned by the Secretary under
sections 202 or 204 of that title, by multi-
plying—
(A) the proportion determined under para-
graph (3); by
(B) the amounts authorized to be appro-
priated for each such program for such fiscal
year; and
(5) distribute the obligation limitation for
Federal-aid highways, less the aggregate
amounts not distributed under paragraphs
(1) and (2) and the amounts distributed under
paragraph (4), for Federal-aid highway and
highway safety construction programs that
are apportioned by the Secretary under title
23, United States Code (other than the
amounts apportioned for the National High-
way Performance Program in section 119 of
title 23, United States Code, that are exempt
from the limitation under subsection (b)(12)
and the amounts apportioned under sections
202 and 204 of that title) in the proportion
that—
(A) amounts authorized to be appropriated
for the programs that are apportioned under
title 23, United States Code, to each State
for such fiscal year; bears to
(B) the total of the amounts authorized to
be appropriated for the programs that are
apportioned under title 23, United States
Code, to all States for such fiscal year.
(b) EXCEPTIONS FROM OBLIGATION LIMITA-
TION.—The obligation limitation for Federal-
aid highways shall not apply to obligations
under or for—
(1) section 125 of title 23, United States
Code;
(2) section 147 of the Surface Transpor-
tation Assistance Act of 1978 (23 U.S.C. 144
note; 92 Stat. 2714);
(3) section 9 of the Federal-Aid Highway
Act of 1981 (95 Stat. 1701);
(4) subsections (b) and (j) of section 131 of
the Surface Transportation Assistance Act
of 1982 (96 Stat. 2119);
(5) subsections (b) and (c) of section 149 of
the Surface Transportation and Uniform Re-
location Assistance Act of 1987 (101 Stat. 198);
(6) sections 1103 through 1108 of the Inter-
modal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act
of 1991 (105 Stat. 2027);
(7) section 157 of title 23, United States
Code (as in effect on June 8, 1998);
(8) section 105 of title 23, United States
Code (as in effect for fiscal years 1998
through 2004, but only in an amount equal to
$639,000,000 for each of those fiscal years);
(9) Federal-aid highway programs for
which obligation authority was made avail-
able under the Transportation Equity Act
for the 21st Century (112 Stat. 107) or subse-
quent Acts for multiple years or to remain
available until expended, but only to the ex-
tent that the obligation authority has not
lapsed or been used;
(10) section 105 of title 23, United States
Code (as in effect for fiscal years 2005
through 2012, but only in an amount equal to
$639,000,000 for each of those fiscal years);
(11) section 1603 of SAFETEA–LU (23 U.S.C.
118 note; 119 Stat. 1248), to the extent that
funds obligated in accordance with that sec-
tion were not subject to a limitation on obli-
gations at the time at which the funds were
initially made available for obligation; and
(12) section 119 of title 23, United States
Code (but, for each of fiscal years 2013
through 2020, only in an amount equal to
$639,000,000).
(c) REDISTRIBUTION OF UNUSED OBLIGATION
AUTHORITY.—Notwithstanding subsection (a),
the Secretary shall, after August 1 of such
fiscal year—
(1) revise a distribution of the obligation
limitation made available under subsection
(a) if an amount distributed cannot be obli-
gated during that fiscal year; and
(2) redistribute sufficient amounts to those
States able to obligate amounts in addition
to those previously distributed during that
fiscal year, giving priority to those States
having large unobligated balances of funds
apportioned under sections 144 (as in effect
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00094 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6025
October 22, 2019
on the day before the date of enactment of
Public Law 112–141) and 104 of title 23, United
States Code.
(d) APPLICABILITY OF OBLIGATION LIMITA-
TIONS TO TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH PRO-
GRAMS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), the obligation limitation for
Federal-aid highways shall apply to contract
authority for transportation research pro-
grams carried out under—
(A) chapter 5 of title 23, United States
Code; and
(B) title VI of the Fixing America’s Sur-
face Transportation Act.
(2) EXCEPTION.—Obligation authority made
available under paragraph (1) shall—
(A) remain available for a period of 4 fiscal
years; and
(B) be in addition to the amount of any
limitation imposed on obligations for Fed-
eral-aid highway and highway safety con-
struction programs for future fiscal years.
(e) REDISTRIBUTION OF CERTAIN AUTHORIZED
FUNDS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the date of distribution of obligation
limitation under subsection (a), the Sec-
retary shall distribute to the States any
funds (excluding funds authorized for the
program under section 202 of title 23, United
States Code) that—
(A) are authorized to be appropriated for
such fiscal year for Federal-aid highway pro-
grams; and
(B) the Secretary determines will not be
allocated to the States (or will not be appor-
tioned to the States under section 204 of title
23, United States Code), and will not be
available for obligation, for such fiscal year
because of the imposition of any obligation
limitation for such fiscal year.
(2) RATIO.—Funds shall be distributed
under paragraph (1) in the same proportion
as the distribution of obligation authority
under subsection (a)(5).
(3) AVAILABILITY.—Funds distributed to
each State under paragraph (1) shall be
available for any purpose described in sec-
tion 133(b) of title 23, United States Code.
SEC. 121. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302,
funds received by the Bureau of Transpor-
tation Statistics from the sale of data prod-
ucts, for necessary expenses incurred pursu-
ant to chapter 63 of title 49, United States
Code, may be credited to the Federal-aid
highways account for the purpose of reim-
bursing the Bureau for such expenses: Pro-
vided, That such funds shall be subject to the
obligation limitation for Federal-aid high-
way and highway safety construction pro-
grams.
SEC. 122. Not less than 15 days prior to
waiving, under his or her statutory author-
ity, any Buy America requirement for Fed-
eral-aid highways projects, the Secretary of
Transportation shall make an informal pub-
lic notice and comment opportunity on the
intent to issue such waiver and the reasons
therefor: Provided, That the Secretary shall
provide an annual report to the House and
Senate Committees on Appropriations on
any waivers granted under the Buy America
requirements.
SEC. 123. None of the funds provided in this
Act to the Department of Transportation
may be used to provide credit assistance un-
less not less than 3 days before any applica-
tion approval to provide credit assistance
under sections 603 and 604 of title 23, United
States Code, the Secretary of Transportation
provides notification in writing to the fol-
lowing committees: the House and Senate
Committees on Appropriations; the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works
and the Committee on Banking, Housing and
Urban Affairs of the Senate; and the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastructure
of the House of Representatives: Provided,
That such notification shall include, but not
be limited to, the name of the project spon-
sor; a description of the project; whether
credit assistance will be provided as a direct
loan, loan guarantee, or line of credit; and
the amount of credit assistance.
SEC. 124. None of the funds provided in this
Act may be used to make a grant for a
project under section 117 of title 23, United
States Code, unless the Secretary, at least 60
days before making a grant under that sec-
tion, provides written notification to the
House and Senate Committees on Appropria-
tions of the proposed grant, including an
evaluation and justification for the project
and the amount of the proposed grant award:
Provided, That the written notification re-
quired in the previous proviso shall be made
no later than 180 days after enactment of
this Act.
SEC. 125. (a) A State or territory, as defined
in section 165 of title 23, United States Code,
may use for any project eligible under sec-
tion 133(b) of title 23 or section 165 of title 23
and located within the boundary of the State
or territory any earmarked amount, and any
associated obligation limitation: Provided,
That the Department of Transportation for
the State or territory for which the ear-
marked amount was originally designated or
directed notifies the Secretary of Transpor-
tation of its intent to use its authority under
this section and submits a quarterly report
to the Secretary identifying the projects to
which the funding would be applied: Provided
further, That notwithstanding the original
period of availability of funds to be obligated
under this section, such funds and associated
obligation limitation shall remain available
for obligation for a period of 3 fiscal years
after the fiscal year in which the Secretary
of Transportation is notified: Provided fur-
ther, That the Federal share of the cost of a
project carried out with funds made avail-
able under this section shall be the same as
associated with the earmark.
(b) In this section, the term ‘‘earmarked
amount’’ means—
(1) congressionally directed spending, as
defined in rule XLIV of the Standing Rules
of the Senate, identified in a prior law, re-
port, or joint explanatory statement, which
was authorized to be appropriated or appro-
priated more than 10 fiscal years prior to the
current fiscal year, and administered by the
Federal Highway Administration; or
(2) a congressional earmark, as defined in
rule XXI of the Rules of the House of Rep-
resentatives, identified in a prior law, report,
or joint explanatory statement, which was
authorized to be appropriated or appro-
priated more than 10 fiscal years prior to the
current fiscal year, and administered by the
Federal Highway Administration.
(c) The authority under subsection (a) may
be exercised only for those projects or activi-
ties that have obligated less than 10 percent
of the amount made available for obligation
as of October 1 of the current fiscal year, and
shall be applied to projects within the same
general geographic area within 100 miles for
which the funding was designated, except
that a State or territory may apply such au-
thority to unexpended balances of funds from
projects or activities the State or territory
certifies have been closed and for which pay-
ments have been made under a final voucher.
(d) The Secretary shall submit consoli-
dated reports of the information provided by
the States and territories each quarter to
the House and Senate Committees on Appro-
priations.
FEDERAL MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY
ADMINISTRATION
MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY OPERATIONS AND
PROGRAMS
(LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)
(LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)
For payment of obligations incurred in the
implementation, execution and administra-
tion of motor carrier safety operations and
programs pursuant to section 31110 of title
49, United States Code, as amended by the
Fixing America’s Surface Transportation
Act, $288,000,000, to be derived from the High-
way Trust Fund (other than the Mass Tran-
sit Account), together with advances and re-
imbursements received by the Federal Motor
Carrier Safety Administration, the sum of
which shall remain available until expended:
Provided, That funds available for implemen-
tation, execution or administration of motor
carrier safety operations and programs au-
thorized under title 49, United States Code,
shall not exceed total obligations of
$288,000,000 for ‘‘Motor Carrier Safety Oper-
ations and Programs’’ for fiscal year 2020, of
which $9,073,000, to remain available for obli-
gation until September 30, 2022, is for the re-
search and technology program, and of which
$35,334,000, to remain available for obligation
until September 30, 2022, is for information
management.
MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY GRANTS
(LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)
(LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For payment of obligations incurred in
carrying out sections 31102, 31103, 31104, and
31313 of title 49, United States Code, as
amended by the Fixing America’s Surface
Transportation Act, $391,135,561, to be de-
rived from the Highway Trust Fund (other
than the Mass Transit Account) and to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That funds available for the implementation
or execution of motor carrier safety pro-
grams shall not exceed total obligations of
$391,135,561 in fiscal year 2020 for ‘‘Motor Car-
rier Safety Grants’’: Provided further, That of
the sums appropriated under this heading:
(1) $308,700,000 shall be available for the
motor carrier safety assistance program;
(2) $33,200,000 shall be available for the
commercial driver’s license program imple-
mentation program;
(3) $45,900,000 shall be available for the high
priority activities program, of which
$1,000,000 is to be made available from prior
year unobligated contract authority pro-
vided for Motor Carrier Safety in the Trans-
portation Equity Act for the 21st Century
(Public Law 105–178), SAFETEA–LU (Public
Law 109–59), or other appropriations or au-
thorization Acts; and
(4) $3,335,561 shall be made available for
commercial motor vehicle operators grants,
of which $2,335,561 is to be made available
from prior year unobligated contract author-
ity provided for Motor Carrier Safety in the
Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Cen-
tury (Public Law 105–178), SAFETEA–LU
(Public Law 109–59), or other appropriations
or authorization Acts.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—FEDERAL MOTOR
CARRIER SAFETY ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 130. The Federal Motor Carrier Safety
Administration shall send notice of 49 CFR
section 385.308 violations by certified mail,
registered mail, or another manner of deliv-
ery, which records the receipt of the notice
by the persons responsible for the violations.
SEC. 131. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available to the Department
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00095 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6026 October 22, 2019
of Transportation by this Act or any other
Act may be obligated or expended to imple-
ment, administer, or enforce the require-
ments of section 31137 of title 49, United
States Code, or any regulation issued by the
Secretary pursuant to such section, with re-
spect to the use of electronic logging devices
by operators of commercial motor vehicles,
as defined in section 31132(1) of such title,
transporting livestock as defined in section
602 of the Emergency Livestock Feed Assist-
ance Act of 1988 (7 U.S.C. 1471) or insects.
SEC. 132. The Federal Motor Carrier Safety
Administration shall update annual inspec-
tion regulations under Appendix G to sub-
chapter B of chapter III of title 49, Code of
Federal Regulations, as recommended by
GAO–19–264.
NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY
ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS AND RESEARCH
For expenses necessary to discharge the
functions of the Secretary, $194,000,000: Pro-
vided, That $178,501,000 shall be for traffic
and highway safety activities authorized
under chapter 301 and part C of subtitle VI of
title 49, United States Code: Provided further,
That $499,000 shall be for in-vehicle alcohol
detection device research: Provided further,
That $15,000,000 shall be for behavioral safety
activities under section 403 of title 23, United
States Code, of which $6,000,000 shall be for
behavioral research on Automated Driving
Systems and Advanced Driver Assistance
Systems and improving consumer responses
to safety recalls; $4,000,000 shall be for
grants, pilot program activities, and innova-
tive solutions to reduce impaired-driving fa-
talities in collaboration with eligible enti-
ties; and $5,000,000 shall be for grants, pilot
program activities, and innovative solutions
to evaluate driver behavior to technologies
that protect law enforcement, first respond-
ers, roadside crews, and others while on the
job: Provided further, That the amounts in
the previous proviso shall be in addition to
any amounts made available under the head-
ing, ‘‘Operations and Research (Liquidation
of Contraction Authorization) (Limitation
on Obligations)’’ for carrying out the provi-
sions of section 403 of title 23, United States
Code: Provided further, That of the amounts
made available under this heading, $40,000,000
shall remain available through September
30, 2021.
OPERATIONS AND RESEARCH
(LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)
(LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)
For payment of obligations incurred in
carrying out the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 403,
section 4011 of the Fixing America’s Surface
Transportation Act (Public Law 114–94), and
chapter 303 of title 49, United States Code,
$155,300,000, to be derived from the Highway
Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Ac-
count) and to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That none of the funds in
this Act shall be available for the planning
or execution of programs for which the total
obligations in fiscal year 2020 are in excess of
$155,300,000: Provided further, That of the
sums appropriated under this heading:
(1) $149,800,000 shall be for programs au-
thorized under 23 U.S.C. 403 and section 4011
of the Fixing America’s Surface Transpor-
tation Act (Public Law 114–94); and
(2) $5,500,000 shall be for the National Driv-
er Register authorized under chapter 303 of
title 49, United States Code:
Provided further, That within the $155,300,000
obligation limitation for operations and re-
search, $20,000,000 shall remain available
until September 30, 2021, and shall be in addi-
tion to the amount of any limitation im-
posed on obligations for future years.
HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY GRANTS
(LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)
(LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)
For payment of obligations incurred in
carrying out provisions of 23 U.S.C. 402, 404,
and 405, and section 4001(a)(6) of the Fixing
America’s Surface Transportation Act, to re-
main available until expended, $623,017,000,
to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund
(other than the Mass Transit Account): Pro-
vided, That none of the funds in this Act
shall be available for the planning or execu-
tion of programs for which the total obliga-
tions in fiscal year 2020 are in excess of
$623,017,000 for programs authorized under 23
U.S.C. 402, 404, and 405, and section 4001(a)(6)
of the Fixing America’s Surface Transpor-
tation Act: Provided further, That of the
sums appropriated under this heading:
(1) $279,800,000 shall be for ‘‘Highway Safety
Programs’’ under 23 U.S.C. 402;
(2) $285,900,000 shall be for ‘‘National Pri-
ority Safety Programs’’ under 23 U.S.C. 405;
(3) $30,500,000 shall be for the ‘‘High Visi-
bility Enforcement Program’’ under 23
U.S.C. 404; and
(4) $26,817,000 shall be for ‘‘Administrative
Expenses’’ under section 4001(a)(6) of the Fix-
ing America’s Surface Transportation Act:
Provided further, That none of these funds
shall be used for construction, rehabilita-
tion, or remodeling costs, or for office fur-
nishings and fixtures for State, local, or pri-
vate buildings or structures: Provided further,
That not to exceed $500,000 of the funds made
available for ‘‘National Priority Safety Pro-
grams’’ under 23 U.S.C. 405 for ‘‘Impaired
Driving Countermeasures’’ (as described in
subsection (d) of that section) shall be avail-
able for technical assistance to the States:
Provided further, That with respect to the
‘‘Transfers’’ provision under 23 U.S.C.
405(a)(8), any amounts transferred to in-
crease the amounts made available under
section 402 shall include the obligation au-
thority for such amounts: Provided further,
That the Administrator shall notify the
House and Senate Committees on Appropria-
tions of any exercise of the authority grant-
ed under the previous proviso or under 23
U.S.C. 405(a)(8) within 5 days.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—NATIONAL
HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 140. An additional $130,000 shall be
made available to the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration, out of the
amount limited for section 402 of title 23,
United States Code, to pay for travel and re-
lated expenses for State management re-
views and to pay for core competency devel-
opment training and related expenses for
highway safety staff.
SEC. 141. The limitations on obligations for
the programs of the National Highway Traf-
fic Safety Administration set in this Act
shall not apply to obligations for which obli-
gation authority was made available in pre-
vious public laws but only to the extent that
the obligation authority has not lapsed or
been used.
FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION
SAFETY AND OPERATIONS
For necessary expenses of the Federal Rail-
road Administration, not otherwise provided
for, $221,698,000, of which $18,000,000 shall re-
main available until expended.
RAILROAD RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
For necessary expenses for railroad re-
search and development, $40,600,000, to re-
main available until expended.
RAILROAD REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT
FINANCING PROGRAM
The Secretary of Transportation is author-
ized to issue direct loans and loan guaran-
tees pursuant to sections 501 through 504 of
the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory
Reform Act of 1976 (Public Law 94–210), as
amended, such authority shall exist as long
as any such direct loan or loan guarantee is
outstanding.
FEDERAL-STATE PARTNERSHIP FOR STATE OF
GOOD REPAIR
For necessary expenses related to Federal-
State Partnership for State of Good Repair
Grants as authorized by section 24911 of title
49, United States Code, $300,000,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That the
Secretary may withhold up to one percent of
the amount provided under this heading for
the costs of award and project management
oversight of grants carried out under section
24911 of title 49, United States Code: Provided
further, That the Secretary shall issue the
Notice of Funding Opportunity that encom-
passes previously unawarded funds provided
under this heading in fiscal year 2019 by Pub-
lic Law 116–6 no later than 30 days after en-
actment of this Act and announce the selec-
tion of projects to receive awards for such
funds no later than 210 days after the enact-
ment of this Act: Provided further, That the
Secretary shall issue the Notice of Funding
Opportunity that encompasses funds pro-
vided under this heading in this Act no later
than 270 days after enactment of this Act
and announce the selection of projects to re-
ceive awards for such funds no later than 450
days after the enactment of this Act.
CONSOLIDATED RAIL INFRASTRUCTURE AND
SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS
For necessary expenses related to Consoli-
dated Rail Infrastructure and Safety Im-
provements Grants, as authorized by section
22907 of title 49, United States Code,
$255,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That section 22905(f) of
title 49, United States Code, shall not apply
to projects for the implementation of posi-
tive train control systems otherwise eligible
under section 24407(c)(1) of title 49, United
States Code: Provided further, That amounts
available under this heading for projects se-
lected for commuter rail passenger transpor-
tation may be transferred by the Secretary,
after selection, to the appropriate agencies
to be administered in accordance with chap-
ter 53 of title 49, United States Code: Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary shall not
limit eligible projects from consideration for
funding for planning, engineering, environ-
mental, construction, and design elements of
the same project in the same application:
Provided further, That unobligated balances
remaining after 4 years from the date of en-
actment may be used for any eligible project
under section 22907(c) of title 49, United
States Code: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary may withhold up to one percent of the
amount provided under this heading for the
costs of award and project management over-
sight of grants carried out under section
22907 of title 49, United States Code: Provided
further, That the Secretary shall announce
the selection of projects to receive awards
for funds provided under this heading in fis-
cal year 2019 by Public Law 116–6 no later
than 210 days after the enactment of this
Act: Provided further, That the Secretary
shall issue the Notice of Funding Oppor-
tunity that encompasses funds provided
under this heading in this Act no later than
270 days after enactment of this Act and an-
nounce the selection of projects to receive
awards for such funds no later than 450 days
after the enactment of this Act.
RESTORATION AND ENHANCEMENT
For necessary expenses related to Restora-
tion and Enhancement Grants, as authorized
by section 24408 of title 49, United States
Code, $2,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That the Secretary may
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00096 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6027
October 22, 2019
withhold up to one percent of the funds pro-
vided under this heading to fund the costs of
award and project management and over-
sight.
NORTHEAST CORRIDOR GRANTS TO THE
NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION
To enable the Secretary of Transportation
to make grants to the National Railroad
Passenger Corporation for activities associ-
ated with the Northeast Corridor as author-
ized by section 11101(a) of the Fixing Amer-
ica’s Surface Transportation Act (division A
of Public Law 114–94), $680,000,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That the
Secretary may retain up to one-half of 1 per-
cent of the funds provided under both this
heading and the ‘‘National Network Grants
to the National Railroad Passenger Corpora-
tion’’ heading to fund the costs of project
management and oversight of activities au-
thorized by section 11101(c) of division A of
Public Law 114–94: Provided further, That in
addition to the project management over-
sight funds authorized under section 11101(c)
of division A of Public Law 114–94, the Sec-
retary may retain up to an additional
$5,000,000 of the funds provided under this
heading to fund expenses associated with the
Northeast Corridor Commission established
under section 24905 of title 49, United States
Code: Provided further, That of the amounts
made available under this heading and the
‘‘National Network Grants to the National
Railroad Passenger Corporation’’ heading,
not less than $50,000,000 shall be made avail-
able to bring Amtrak-served facilities and
stations into compliance with the Americans
with Disabilities Act: Provided further, That
of the amounts made available under this
heading and the ‘‘National Network Grants
to the National Railroad Passenger Corpora-
tion’’ heading, $100,000,000 shall be made
available to fund the replacement of the sin-
gle-level passenger cars used on Northeast
Corridor and State Supported Corridor
routes.
NATIONAL NETWORK GRANTS TO THE NATIONAL
RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION
To enable the Secretary of Transportation
to make grants to the National Railroad
Passenger Corporation for activities associ-
ated with the National Network as author-
ized by section 11101(b) of the Fixing Amer-
ica’s Surface Transportation Act (division A
of Public Law 114–94), $1,320,000,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That the Secretary may retain up to an addi-
tional $2,000,000 of the funds provided under
this heading to fund expenses associated
with the State-Supported Route Committee
established under section 24712 of title 49,
United States Code: Provided further, That at
least $50,000,000 of the amount provided
under this heading shall be available for the
development, installation and operation of
railroad safety technology, including the im-
plementation of a positive train control sys-
tem, on State-supported routes as defined
under section 24102(13) of title 49, United
States Code, on which positive train control
systems are not required by law or regula-
tion: Provided further, That none of the funds
provided under this heading shall be used by
Amtrak to give notice under subsection (a)
or (b) of section 24706 of title 49, United
States Code, with respect to long-distance
routes (as defined in section 24102 of title 49,
United States Code) on which Amtrak is the
sole operator on a host railroad’s line and a
positive train control system is not required
by law or regulation, or, except in an emer-
gency or during maintenance or construction
outages impacting such routes, to otherwise
discontinue, reduce the frequency of, sus-
pend, or substantially alter the route of rail
service on any portion of such route operated
in fiscal year 2018, including implementation
of service permitted by section 24305(a)(3)(A)
of title 49, United States Code, in lieu of rail
service.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—FEDERAL
RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 150. None of the funds provided to the
National Railroad Passenger Corporation
may be used to fund any overtime costs in
excess of $35,000 for any individual employee:
Provided, That the President of Amtrak may
waive the cap set in the previous proviso for
specific employees when the President of
Amtrak determines such a cap poses a risk
to the safety and operational efficiency of
the system: Provided further, That the Presi-
dent of Amtrak shall report to the House and
Senate Committees on Appropriations with-
in 60 days of enactment of this Act, a sum-
mary of all overtime payments incurred by
the Corporation for 2019 and the three prior
calendar years: Provided further, That such
summary shall include the total number of
employees that received waivers and the
total overtime payments the Corporation
paid to those employees receiving waivers
for each month for 2019 and for the three
prior calendar years.
SEC. 151. It is the sense of Congress that—
(1) long-distance passenger rail routes pro-
vide much-needed transportation access for
4,700,000 riders in 325 communities in 40
States and are particularly important in
rural areas; and
(2) long-distance passenger rail routes and
services should be sustained to ensure
connectivity throughout the National Net-
work (as defined in section 24102 of title 49,
United States Code).
FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
For necessary administrative expenses of
the Federal Transit Administration’s pro-
grams authorized by chapter 53 of title 49,
United States Code, $113,165,000: Provided,
That none of the funds provided or limited in
this Act may be used to create a permanent
office of transit security under this heading:
Provided further, That upon submission to
the Congress of the fiscal year 2021 Presi-
dent’s budget, the Secretary of Transpor-
tation shall transmit to Congress the annual
report on New Starts, including proposed al-
locations for fiscal year 2021.
TRANSIT FORMULA GRANTS
(LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)
(LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)
For payment of obligations incurred in the
Federal Public Transportation Assistance
Program in this account, and for payment of
obligations incurred in carrying out the pro-
visions of 49 U.S.C. 5305, 5307, 5310, 5311, 5312,
5314, 5318, 5329(e)(6), 5335, 5337, 5339, and 5340,
as amended by the Fixing America’s Surface
Transportation Act, section 20005(b) of Pub-
lic Law 112–141, and section 3006(b) of the
Fixing America’s Surface Transportation
Act $10,800,000,000, to be derived from the
Mass Transit Account of the Highway Trust
Fund and to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That funds available for
the implementation or execution of pro-
grams authorized under 49 U.S.C. 5305, 5307,
5310, 5311, 5312, 5314, 5318, 5329(e)(6), 5335, 5337,
5339, and 5340, as amended by the Fixing
America’s Surface Transportation Act, sec-
tion 20005(b) of Public Law 112–141, and sec-
tion 3006(b) of the Fixing America’s Surface
Transportation Act, shall not exceed total
obligations of $10,150,348,462 in fiscal year
2020: Provided further, That the Federal share
of the cost of activities carried out under 49
U.S.C. section 5312 shall not exceed 80 per-
cent, except that if there is substantial pub-
lic interest or benefit, the Secretary may ap-
prove a greater Federal share.
TRANSIT INFRASTRUCTURE GRANTS
For an additional amount for buses and bus
facilities grants under section 5339 of title 49,
United States Code, state of good repair
grants under section 5337 of such title, for-
mula grants for rural areas under section
5311 of such title, high density state appor-
tionments under section 5340(d) of such title,
and the bus testing facilities under sections
5312 and 5318 of such title, $560,000,000 to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That $390,000,000 shall be available for grants
as authorized under section 5339 of such title,
of which $195,000,000 shall be available for the
buses and bus facilities formula grants as au-
thorized under section 5339(a) of such title,
and $195,000,000 shall be available for the
buses and bus facilities competitive grants
as authorized under section 5339(b) of such
title: Provided further, That $40,000,000 shall
be available for the low or no emission
grants as authorized under section 5339(c) of
such title: Provided further, That $40,000,000
shall be available for the state of good repair
grants as authorized under section 5337 of
such title: Provided further, That $40,000,000
shall be available for formula grants for
rural areas as authorized under section 5311
of such title: Provided further, That
$40,000,000 shall be available for the high den-
sity state apportionments as authorized
under section 5340(d) of such title: Provided
further, That notwithstanding section 5318(a)
of such title, $3,000,000 shall be available for
the operation and maintenance of bus test-
ing facilities by institutions of higher edu-
cation selected pursuant to section 5312(h) of
such title: Provided further, That $7,000,000
shall be available for demonstration and de-
ployment of innovative mobility solutions as
authorized under section 5312 of such title:
Provided further, That the Secretary shall
enter into a contract or cooperative agree-
ment with, or make a grant to, each institu-
tion of higher education selected pursuant to
section 5312(h) of such title, to operate and
maintain a facility to conduct the testing of
low or no emission vehicle new bus models
using the standards established pursuant to
section 5318(e)(2) of such title: Provided fur-
ther, That the term ‘‘low or no emission ve-
hicle’’ has the meaning given the term in
section 5312(e)(6) of such title: Provided fur-
ther, That the Secretary shall pay 80 percent
of the cost of testing a low or no emission
vehicle new bus model at each selected insti-
tution of higher education: Provided further,
That the entity having the vehicle tested
shall pay 20 percent of the cost of testing:
Provided further, That a low or no emission
vehicle new bus model tested that receives a
passing aggregate test score in accordance
with the standards established under section
5318(e)(2) of such title, shall be deemed to be
in compliance with the requirements of sec-
tion 5318(e) of such title: Provided further,
That amounts made available by this head-
ing shall be derived from the general fund:
Provided further, That the amounts made
available under this heading shall not be
subject to any limitation on obligations for
transit programs set forth in any Act.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
For necessary expenses to carry out 49
U.S.C. 5314, $5,000,000: Provided, That the as-
sistance provided under this heading not du-
plicate the activities of 49 U.S.C. 5311(b) or 49
U.S.C. 5312.
CAPITAL INVESTMENT GRANTS
For necessary expenses to carry out fixed
guideway capital investment grants under
section 5309 of title 49, United States Code,
and section 3005(b) of the Fixing America’s
Surface Transportation Act, $1,978,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2023:
Provided further, That of the amounts made
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00097 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6028 October 22, 2019
available under this heading, $1,500,000,000
shall be available for projects authorized
under section 5309(d) of title 49, United
States Code, $300,000,000 shall be available for
projects authorized under section 5309(e) of
title 49, United States Code, $78,000,000 shall
be available for projects authorized under
section 5309(h) of title 49, United States
Code, and $100,000,000 shall be available for
projects authorized under section 3005(b) of
the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation
Act: Provided further, That the Secretary
shall continue to administer the capital in-
vestment grants program in accordance with
the procedural and substantive requirements
of section 5309 of title 49, United States Code,
and of section 3005(b) of the Fixing America’s
Surface Transportation Act.
GRANTS TO THE WASHINGTON METROPOLITAN
AREA TRANSIT AUTHORITY
For grants to the Washington Metropoli-
tan Area Transit Authority as authorized
under section 601 of division B of Public Law
110–432, $150,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That the Secretary of
Transportation shall approve grants for cap-
ital and preventive maintenance expendi-
tures for the Washington Metropolitan Area
Transit Authority only after receiving and
reviewing a request for each specific project:
Provided further, That the Secretary shall de-
termine that the Washington Metropolitan
Area Transit Authority has placed the high-
est priority on those investments that will
improve the safety of the system before ap-
proving such grants: Provided further, That
the Secretary, in order to ensure safety
throughout the rail system, may waive the
requirements of section 601(e)(1) of division B
of Public Law 110–432.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—FEDERAL
TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 160. The limitations on obligations for
the programs of the Federal Transit Admin-
istration shall not apply to any authority
under 49 U.S.C. 5338, previously made avail-
able for obligation, or to any other authority
previously made available for obligation.
SEC. 161. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, funds appropriated or limited by
this Act under the heading ‘‘Fixed Guideway
Capital Investment’’ of the Federal Transit
Administration for projects specified in this
Act or identified in reports accompanying
this Act not obligated by September 30, 2023,
and other recoveries, shall be directed to
projects eligible to use the funds for the pur-
poses for which they were originally pro-
vided.
SEC. 162. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, any funds appropriated before
October 1, 2019, under any section of chapter
53 of title 49, United States Code, that re-
main available for expenditure, may be
transferred to and administered under the
most recent appropriation heading for any
such section.
SEC. 163. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, none of the funds made available
in this Act shall be used to enter into a full
funding grant agreement for a project with a
New Starts share greater than 51 percent:
Provided, That the Secretary shall not im-
pede or hinder project advancement or ap-
proval for any project seeking a Federal con-
tribution from the capital investment grant
program of greater than 40 percent of
projects costs as authorized under section
5309.
SEC. 164. None of the funds made available
under this Act may be used for the imple-
mentation or furtherance of new policies de-
tailed in the ‘‘Dear Colleague’’ letter distrib-
uted by the Federal Transit Administration
to capital investment grant program project
sponsors on June 29, 2018.
SAINT LAWRENCE SEAWAY DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION
The Saint Lawrence Seaway Development
Corporation is hereby authorized to make
such expenditures, within the limits of funds
and borrowing authority available to the
Corporation, and in accord with law, and to
make such contracts and commitments with-
out regard to fiscal year limitations, as pro-
vided by section 104 of the Government Cor-
poration Control Act, as amended, as may be
necessary in carrying out the programs set
forth in the Corporation’s budget for the cur-
rent fiscal year.
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE
(HARBOR MAINTENANCE TRUST FUND)
For necessary expenses to conduct the op-
erations, maintenance, and capital asset re-
newal activities on those portions of the
Saint Lawrence Seaway owned, operated,
and maintained by the Saint Lawrence Sea-
way Development Corporation, $36,000,000, to
be derived from the Harbor Maintenance
Trust Fund, pursuant to Public Law 99–662:
Provided, That of the amounts made avail-
able under this heading, not less than
$16,000,000 shall be used on capital asset re-
newal activities.
MARITIME ADMINISTRATION
MARITIME SECURITY PROGRAM
For necessary expenses to maintain and
preserve a U.S.-flag merchant fleet to serve
the national security needs of the United
States, $300,000,000, to remain available until
expended.
OPERATIONS AND TRAINING
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of operations and
training activities authorized by law,
$142,619,000: Provided, That of the sums appro-
priated under this heading—
(1) $73,351,000 shall remain available until
September 30, 2021 for the operations of the
United States Merchant Marine Academy;
(2) $8,000,000 shall remain available until
expended for the maintenance and repair,
equipment, and capital improvements at the
United States Merchant Marine Academy;
(3) $3,000,000 shall remain available until
September 30, 2021 for the Maritime Environ-
ment and Technology Assistance program
authorized under section 50307 of title 46,
United States Code; and
(4) $7,000,000 shall remain available until
expended for the Short Sea Transportation
Program (America’s Marine Highways) to
make grants for the purposes authorized
under sections 55601(b)(1) and (3) of title 46,
United States Code:
Provided further, That not later than January
12, 2020, the Administrator of the Maritime
Administration shall transmit to the House
and Senate Committees on Appropriations
the annual report on sexual assault and sex-
ual harassment at the United States Mer-
chant Marine Academy as required pursuant
to section 3507 of Public Law 110–417: Pro-
vided further, That available balances under
this heading for the Short Sea Transpor-
tation Program (America’s Marine High-
ways) from prior year recoveries shall be
available to carry out activities authorized
under sections 55601(b)(1) and (3) of title 46,
United States Code: Provided further, That
from funds provided under the previous two
provisos, the Secretary of Transportation
shall make grants no later than 180 days
after enactment of this Act in such amounts
as the Secretary determines: Provided fur-
ther, That any available unobligated bal-
ances and obligated balances not yet ex-
pended from previous appropriations under
this heading for programs and activities sup-
porting State Maritime Academies shall be
transferred to and merged with the appro-
priations for ‘‘Maritime Administration,
State Maritime Academy Operations’’ and
shall be made available for the same pur-
poses as the appropriations for ‘‘Maritime
Administration, State Maritime Academy
Operations’’.
STATE MARITIME ACADEMY OPERATIONS
For necessary expenses of operations, sup-
port and training activities for State Mari-
time Academies, $342,280,000: Provided, That
of the sums appropriated under this head-
ing—
(1) $30,080,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, shall be for maintenance, repair, life
extension, marine insurance, and capacity
improvement of National Defense Reserve
Fleet training ships in support of State Mar-
itime Academies, of which $8,080,000, to re-
main available until expended, shall be for
expenses related to training mariners for
costs associated with training vessel sharing
pursuant to 46 U.S.C. 51504(g)(3) for costs as-
sociated with mobilizing, operating and de-
mobilizing the vessel, including travel costs
for students, faculty and crew, the costs of
the general agent, crew costs, fuel, insur-
ance, operational fees, and vessel hire costs,
as determined by the Secretary;
(2) $300,000,000, to remain available until
expended, shall be for the National Security
Multi-Mission Vessel Program, including
funds for construction, planning, administra-
tion, and design of school ships;
(3) $2,400,000 shall remain available through
September 30, 2021, for the Student Incentive
Program;
(4) $3,800,000 shall remain available until
expended for training ship fuel assistance;
and
(5) $6,000,000 shall remain available until
September 30, 2021, for direct payments for
State Maritime Academies.
ASSISTANCE TO SMALL SHIPYARDS
To make grants to qualified shipyards as
authorized under section 54101 of title 46,
United States Code, as amended by Public
Law 113–281, $20,000,000, to remain available
until expended.
SHIP DISPOSAL
For necessary expenses related to the dis-
posal of obsolete vessels in the National De-
fense Reserve Fleet of the Maritime Admin-
istration, $5,000,000, to remain available until
expended.
MARITIME GUARANTEED LOAN (TITLE XI)
PROGRAM ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For administrative expenses to carry out
the guaranteed loan program, $3,000,000,
which shall be transferred to and merged
with the appropriations for ‘‘Operations and
Training’’, Maritime Administration.
PORT INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAM
To make grants to improve port facilities
as authorized under section 50302 of title 46,
United States Code, $91,600,000 to remain
available until expended: Provided, That
projects eligible for funding provided under
this heading shall be projects for coastal sea-
ports and inland waterways ports: Provided
further, That the Maritime Administration
shall distribute funds provided under this
heading as discretionary grants to port au-
thorities or commissions or their subdivi-
sions and agents under existing authority, as
well as to a State or political subdivision of
a State or local government, a tribal govern-
ment, a public agency or publicly chartered
authority established by one or more States,
a special purpose district with a transpor-
tation function, a multistate or multijuris-
dictional group of entities, or a lead entity
described above jointly with a private entity
or group of private entities: Provided further,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00098 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6029
October 22, 2019
That projects eligible for funding provided
under this heading shall be either within the
boundary of a port, or outside the boundary
of a port, and directly related to port oper-
ations or to an intermodal connection to a
port that will improve the safety, efficiency,
or reliability of the movement of goods into,
out of, around, or within a port, as well as
the unloading and loading of cargo at a port:
Provided further, That the Federal share of
the costs for which an expenditure is made
under this heading shall be up to 80 percent:
Provided further, That for grants awarded
under this heading, the minimum grant size
shall be $1,000,000: Provided further, That for
projects located in rural areas, the Secretary
may increase the Federal share of costs
above 80 percent: Provided further, That not
to exceed 2 percent of the funds appropriated
under this heading shall be available for nec-
essary costs of grant administration.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—MARITIME
ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 170. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of this Act, in addition to any existing
authority, the Maritime Administration is
authorized to furnish utilities and services
and make necessary repairs in connection
with any lease, contract, or occupancy in-
volving Government property under control
of the Maritime Administration: Provided,
That payments received therefor shall be
credited to the appropriation charged with
the cost thereof and shall remain available
until expended: Provided further, That rental
payments under any such lease, contract, or
occupancy for items other than such utili-
ties, services, or repairs shall be covered into
the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.
PIPELINE AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS SAFETY
ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONAL EXPENSES
For necessary operational expenses of the
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Ad-
ministration, $24,215,000, of which $2,000,000
shall remain available until September 30,
2022.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS SAFETY
For expenses necessary to discharge the
hazardous materials safety functions of the
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Ad-
ministration, $60,000,000, of which $7,600,000
shall remain available until September 30,
2022: Provided, That up to $800,000 in fees col-
lected under 49 U.S.C. 5108(g) shall be depos-
ited in the general fund of the Treasury as
offsetting receipts: Provided further, That
there may be credited to this appropriation,
to be available until expended, funds re-
ceived from States, counties, municipalities,
other public authorities, and private sources
for expenses incurred for training, for re-
ports publication and dissemination, and for
travel expenses incurred in performance of
hazardous materials exemptions and approv-
als functions.
PIPELINE SAFETY
(PIPELINE SAFETY FUND)
(OIL SPILL LIABILITY TRUST FUND)
For expenses necessary to carry out a pipe-
line safety program, as authorized by 49
U.S.C. 60107, and to discharge the pipeline
program responsibilities of the Oil Pollution
Act of 1990, $165,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2022, of which $23,000,000
shall be derived from the Oil Spill Liability
Trust Fund; of which $134,000,000 shall be de-
rived from the Pipeline Safety Fund; and of
which $8,000,000 shall be derived from fees
collected under 49 U.S.C. 60302 and deposited
in the Underground Natural Gas Storage Fa-
cility Safety Account for the purpose of car-
rying out 49 U.S.C. 60141: Provided, That not
less than $1,058,000 of the funds provided
under this heading shall be for the One-Call
State grant program.
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS GRANTS
(EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS FUND)
For expenses necessary to carry out the
Emergency Preparedness Grants program,
not more than $28,318,000 shall remain avail-
able until September 30, 2022, from amounts
made available by 49 U.S.C. 5116(h), and
5128(b) and (c): Provided, That notwith-
standing 49 U.S.C. 5116(h)(4), not more than 4
percent of the amounts made available from
this account shall be available to pay admin-
istrative costs: Provided further, That not-
withstanding 49 U.S.C. 5128(b) and (c) and the
current year obligation limitation, prior
year recoveries recognized in the current
year shall be available to develop a haz-
ardous materials response training cur-
riculum for emergency responders, including
response activities for the transportation of
crude oil, ethanol and other flammable liq-
uids by rail, consistent with National Fire
Protection Association standards, and to
make such training available through an
electronic format: Provided further, That the
prior year recoveries made available under
this heading shall also be available to carry
out 49 U.S.C. 5116(a)(1)(C) and 5116(i).
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General to carry out the provisions
of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as
amended, $92,600,000: Provided, That the In-
spector General shall have all necessary au-
thority, in carrying out the duties specified
in the Inspector General Act, as amended (5
U.S.C. App. 3), to investigate allegations of
fraud, including false statements to the gov-
ernment (18 U.S.C. 1001), by any person or en-
tity that is subject to regulation by the De-
partment of Transportation.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—DEPARTMENT OF
TRANSPORTATION
SEC. 180. (a) During the current fiscal year,
applicable appropriations to the Department
of Transportation shall be available for
maintenance and operation of aircraft; hire
of passenger motor vehicles and aircraft;
purchase of liability insurance for motor ve-
hicles operating in foreign countries on offi-
cial department business; and uniforms or al-
lowances therefor, as authorized by law (5
U.S.C. 5901–5902).
(b) During the current fiscal year, applica-
ble appropriations to the Department and its
operating administrations shall be available
for the purchase, maintenance, operation,
and deployment of unmanned aircraft sys-
tems that advance the Department’s, or its
operating administrations’, missions.
(c) Any unmanned aircraft system pur-
chased or procured by the Department prior
to the enactment of this Act shall be deemed
authorized.
SEC. 181. Appropriations contained in this
Act for the Department of Transportation
shall be available for services as authorized
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals
not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to
the rate for an Executive Level IV.
SEC. 182. (a) No recipient of funds made
available in this Act shall disseminate per-
sonal information (as defined in 18 U.S.C.
2725(3)) obtained by a State department of
motor vehicles in connection with a motor
vehicle record as defined in 18 U.S.C. 2725(1),
except as provided in 18 U.S.C. 2721 for a use
permitted under 18 U.S.C. 2721.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the
Secretary shall not withhold funds provided
in this Act for any grantee if a State is in
noncompliance with this provision.
SEC. 183. None of the funds in this Act shall
be available for salaries and expenses of
more than 125 political and Presidential ap-
pointees in the Department of Transpor-
tation: Provided, That none of the personnel
covered by this provision may be assigned on
temporary detail outside the Department of
Transportation.
SEC. 184. Funds received by the Federal
Highway Administration and Federal Rail-
road Administration from States, counties,
municipalities, other public authorities, and
private sources for expenses incurred for
training may be credited respectively to the
Federal Highway Administration’s ‘‘Federal-
Aid Highways’’ account and to the Federal
Railroad Administration’s ‘‘Safety and Oper-
ations’’ account, except for State rail safety
inspectors participating in training pursuant
to 49 U.S.C. 20105.
SEC. 185. (a) None of the funds provided in
this Act to the Department of Transpor-
tation may be used to make a loan, loan
guarantee, line of credit, or discretionary
grant unless the Secretary of Transportation
notifies the House and Senate Committees
on Appropriations not less than 3 full busi-
ness days before any project competitively
selected to receive any discretionary grant
award, letter of intent, loan commitment,
loan guarantee commitment, line of credit
commitment, or full funding grant agree-
ment is announced by the Department or its
modal administrations: Provided, That the
Secretary gives concurrent notification to
the House and Senate Committees on Appro-
priations for any ‘‘quick release’’ of funds
from the emergency relief program: Provided
further, That no notification shall involve
funds that are not available for obligation.
(b) In addition to the notification required
in subsection (a), none of the funds made
available in this Act to the Department of
Transportation may be used to make a loan,
loan guarantee, line of credit, cooperative
agreement or discretionary grant unless the
Secretary of Transportation provides the
House and Senate Committees on Appropria-
tions a comprehensive list of all such loans,
loan guarantees, lines of credit, cooperative
agreement or discretionary grants that will
be announced not less the 3 full business
days before such announcement: Provided,
That the requirement to provide a list in
this subsection does not apply to any ‘‘quick
release’’ of funds from the emergency relief
program: Provided further, That no list shall
involve funds that are not available for obli-
gation.
SEC. 186. Rebates, refunds, incentive pay-
ments, minor fees and other funds received
by the Department of Transportation from
travel management centers, charge card pro-
grams, the subleasing of building space, and
miscellaneous sources are to be credited to
appropriations of the Department of Trans-
portation and allocated to elements of the
Department of Transportation using fair and
equitable criteria and such funds shall be
available until expended.
SEC. 187. Amounts made available in this
or any prior Act that the Secretary deter-
mines represent improper payments by the
Department of Transportation to a third-
party contractor under a financial assistance
award, which are recovered pursuant to law,
shall be available—
(1) to reimburse the actual expenses in-
curred by the Department of Transportation
in recovering improper payments: Provided,
That amounts made available in this Act
shall be available until expended; and
(2) to pay contractors for services provided
in recovering improper payments or con-
tractor support in the implementation of the
Improper Payments Information Act of 2002,
as amended by the Improper Payments
Elimination and Recovery Act of 2010 and
Improper Payments Elimination and Recov-
ery Improvement Act of 2012, and Fraud Re-
duction and Data Analytics Act of 2015: Pro-
vided, That amounts in excess of that re-
quired for paragraphs (1) and (2)—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00099 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6030 October 22, 2019
(A) shall be credited to and merged with
the appropriation from which the improper
payments were made, and shall be available
for the purposes and period for which such
appropriations are available: Provided fur-
ther, That where specific project or account-
ing information associated with the im-
proper payment or payments is not readily
available, the Secretary may credit an ap-
propriate account, which shall be available
for the purposes and period associated with
the account so credited; or
(B) if no such appropriation remains avail-
able, shall be deposited in the Treasury as
miscellaneous receipts: Provided further,
That prior to depositing such recovery in the
Treasury, the Secretary shall notify the
House and Senate Committees on Appropria-
tions of the amount and reasons for such
transfer: Provided further, That for purposes
of this section, the term ‘‘improper pay-
ments’’ has the same meaning as that pro-
vided in section 2(e)(2) of Public Law 111–204.
SEC. 188. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, if any funds provided in or lim-
ited by this Act are subject to a reprogram-
ming action that requires notice to be pro-
vided to the House and Senate Committees
on Appropriations, transmission of said re-
programming notice shall be provided solely
to the House and Senate Committees on Ap-
propriations, and said reprogramming action
shall be approved or denied solely by the
House and Senate Committees on Appropria-
tions: Provided, That the Secretary of Trans-
portation may provide notice to other con-
gressional committees of the action of the
House and Senate Committees on Appropria-
tions on such reprogramming but not sooner
than 30 days following the date on which the
reprogramming action has been approved or
denied by the House and Senate Committees
on Appropriations.
SEC. 189. Funds appropriated in this Act to
the modal administrations may be obligated
for the Office of the Secretary for the costs
related to assessments or reimbursable
agreements only when such amounts are for
the costs of goods and services that are pur-
chased to provide a direct benefit to the ap-
plicable modal administration or adminis-
trations.
SEC. 190. The Secretary of Transportation
is authorized to carry out a program that es-
tablishes uniform standards for developing
and supporting agency transit pass and tran-
sit benefits authorized under section 7905 of
title 5, United States Code, including dis-
tribution of transit benefits by various paper
and electronic media.
SEC. 191. The Department of Transpor-
tation may use funds provided by this Act, or
any other Act, to assist a contract under
title 49 U.S.C. or title 23 U.S.C. utilizing geo-
graphic, economic, or any other hiring pref-
erence not otherwise authorized by law, or to
amend a rule, regulation, policy or other
measure that forbids a recipient of a Federal
Highway Administration or Federal Transit
Administration grant from imposing such
hiring preference on a contract or construc-
tion project with which the Department of
Transportation is assisting, only if the grant
recipient certifies the following:
(1) that except with respect to apprentices
or trainees, a pool of readily available but
unemployed individuals possessing the
knowledge, skill, and ability to perform the
work that the contract requires resides in
the jurisdiction;
(2) that the grant recipient will include ap-
propriate provisions in its bid document en-
suring that the contractor does not displace
any of its existing employees in order to sat-
isfy such hiring preference; and
(3) that any increase in the cost of labor,
training, or delays resulting from the use of
such hiring preference does not delay or dis-
place any transportation project in the ap-
plicable Statewide Transportation Improve-
ment Program or Transportation Improve-
ment Program.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Department
of Transportation Appropriations Act, 2020’’.
TITLE II
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT
MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
EXECUTIVE OFFICES
For necessary salaries and expenses for Ex-
ecutive Offices, which shall be comprised of
the offices of the Secretary, Deputy Sec-
retary, Adjudicatory Services, Congressional
and Intergovernmental Relations, Public Af-
fairs, Small and Disadvantaged Business Uti-
lization, and the Center for Faith-Based and
Neighborhood Partnerships, $14,217,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2021: Pro-
vided, That not to exceed $25,000 of the
amount made available under this heading
shall be available to the Secretary for offi-
cial reception and representation expenses as
the Secretary may determine.
ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT OFFICES
For necessary salaries and expenses for Ad-
ministrative Support Offices, $563,378,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2021:
Provided, That of the sums appropriated
under this heading—
(1) $73,562,000 shall be available for the Of-
fice of the Chief Financial Officer;
(2) $103,916,000 shall be available for the Of-
fice of the General Counsel, of which not less
than $20,000,000 shall be for the Departmental
Enforcement Center;
(3) $206,849,000 shall be available for the Of-
fice of Administration;
(4) $39,827,000 shall be available for the Of-
fice of the Chief Human Capital Officer;
(5) $57,861,000 shall be available for the Of-
fice of Field Policy and Management;
(6) $19,445,000 shall be available for the Of-
fice of the Chief Procurement Officer;
(7) $4,242,000 shall be available for the Of-
fice of Departmental Equal Employment Op-
portunity; and
(8) $57,676,000 shall be available for the Of-
fice of the Chief Information Officer:
Provided further, That funds provided under
this heading may be used for necessary ad-
ministrative and non-administrative ex-
penses of the Department of Housing and
Urban Development, not otherwise provided
for, including purchase of uniforms, or allow-
ances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
5901–5902; hire of passenger motor vehicles;
and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109:
Provided further, That notwithstanding any
other provision of law, funds appropriated
under this heading may be used for adver-
tising and promotional activities that di-
rectly support program activities funded in
this title: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary shall provide the House and Senate
Committees on Appropriations quarterly
written notification regarding the status of
pending congressional reports: Provided fur-
ther, That the Secretary shall provide in
electronic form all signed reports required
by Congress: Provided further, That none of
the funds made available under this heading
for the Office of the Chief Financial Officer
for the financial transformation initiative
shall be available for obligation until after
the Secretary has published all mitigation
allocations made available under the head-
ing ‘‘Department of Housing and Urban De-
velopment—Community Planning and Devel-
opment—Community Development Fund’’ in
Public Law 115–123 and the necessary admin-
istrative requirements pursuant to section
1102 of Public Law 116–20: Provided further,
That only after the terms and conditions of
the previous proviso have been met, not
more than 10 percent of the funds made
available under this heading for the Office of
the Chief Financial Officer for the financial
transformation initiative may be obligated
until the Secretary submits to the House and
Senate Committees on Appropriations, for
approval, a plan for expenditure that in-
cludes the financial and internal control ca-
pabilities to be delivered and the mission
benefits to be realized, key milestones to be
met, and the relationship between the pro-
posed use of funds made available under this
heading and the projected total cost and
scope of the initiative.
PROGRAM OFFICES
For necessary salaries and expenses for
Program Offices, $844,000,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2021: Provided,
That of the sums appropriated under this
heading—
(1) $225,000,000 shall be available for the Of-
fice of Public and Indian Housing;
(2) $123,000,000 shall be available for the Of-
fice of Community Planning and Develop-
ment;
(3) $387,000,000 shall be available for the Of-
fice of Housing, of which not less than
$13,200,000 shall be for the Office of Recapi-
talization;
(4) $28,000,000 shall be available for the Of-
fice of Policy Development and Research;
(5) $72,000,000 shall be available for the Of-
fice of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity;
and
(6) $9,000,000 shall be available for the Of-
fice of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy
Homes.
WORKING CAPITAL FUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For the working capital fund for the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Development
(referred to in this paragraph as the
‘‘Fund’’), pursuant, in part, to section 7(f) of
the Department of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment Act (42 U.S.C. 3535(f)), amounts
transferred, including reimbursements pur-
suant to section 7(f), to the Fund under this
heading shall be available only for Federal
shared services used by offices and agencies
of the Department, and for any such portion
of any office or agency’s printing, records
management, space renovation, furniture, or
supply services the Secretary has deter-
mined shall be provided through the Fund:
Provided, That amounts within the Fund
shall not be available to provide services not
specifically authorized under this heading:
Provided further, That the Fund shall be re-
imbursed from available funds of agencies
and offices in the Department for which such
services are performed at rates which will re-
turn in full all expenses of such services, but
shall not be reimbursed for, and amounts
within the Fund shall not be available for,
the operational expenses of the Fund (includ-
ing staffing, contracts, systems, and soft-
ware): Provided further, That upon a deter-
mination by the Secretary that any other
service (or portion thereof) authorized under
this heading shall be provided through the
Fund, amounts made available in this title
for salaries and expenses under the headings
‘‘Executive Offices’’, ‘‘Administrative Sup-
port Offices’’, ‘‘Program Offices’’, and ‘‘Gov-
ernment National Mortgage Association’’,
for such services shall be transferred to the
Fund, to remain available until expended:
Provided further, That the Secretary shall no-
tify the House and Senate Committees on
Appropriations of its plans for executing
such transfers at least fifteen (15) days in ad-
vance of such transfers: Provided further,
That the Secretary may transfer not to ex-
ceed an additional $5,000,000, in aggregate,
from all such appropriations, to be merged
with the Fund and to remain available until
expended for any purpose under this heading.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00100 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6031
October 22, 2019
PUBLIC AND INDIAN HOUSING
TENANT-BASED RENTAL ASSISTANCE
For activities and assistance for the provi-
sion of tenant-based rental assistance au-
thorized under the United States Housing
Act of 1937, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1437 et
seq.) (‘‘the Act’’ herein), not otherwise pro-
vided for, $19,833,000,000, to remain available
until expended, shall be available on October
1, 2019 (in addition to the $4,000,000,000 pre-
viously appropriated under this heading that
shall be available on October 1, 2019), and
$4,000,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, shall be available on October 1, 2020:
Provided, That the amounts made available
under this heading are provided as follows:
(1) $21,502,000,000 shall be available for re-
newals of expiring section 8 tenant-based an-
nual contributions contracts (including re-
newals of enhanced vouchers under any pro-
vision of law authorizing such assistance
under section 8(t) of the Act) and including
renewal of other special purpose incremental
vouchers: Provided, That notwithstanding
any other provision of law, from amounts
provided under this paragraph and any car-
ryover, the Secretary for the calendar year
2020 funding cycle shall provide renewal
funding for each public housing agency based
on validated voucher management system
(VMS) leasing and cost data for the prior cal-
endar year and by applying an inflation fac-
tor as established by the Secretary, by no-
tice published in the Federal Register, and
by making any necessary adjustments for
the costs associated with the first-time re-
newal of vouchers under this paragraph in-
cluding tenant protection and Choice Neigh-
borhoods vouchers: Provided further, That
none of the funds provided under this para-
graph may be used to fund a total number of
unit months under lease which exceeds a
public housing agency’s authorized level of
units under contract, except for public hous-
ing agencies participating in the MTW dem-
onstration, which are instead governed by
the terms and conditions of their MTW
agreements: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary shall, to the extent necessary to stay
within the amount specified under this para-
graph (except as otherwise modified under
this paragraph), prorate each public housing
agency’s allocation otherwise established
pursuant to this paragraph: Provided further,
That except as provided in the following pro-
visos, the entire amount specified under this
paragraph (except as otherwise modified
under this paragraph) shall be obligated to
the public housing agencies based on the al-
location and pro rata method described
above, and the Secretary shall notify public
housing agencies of their annual budget by
the latter of 60 days after enactment of this
Act or March 1, 2020: Provided further, That
the Secretary may extend the notification
period with the prior written approval of the
House and Senate Committees on Appropria-
tions: Provided further, That public housing
agencies participating in the MTW dem-
onstration shall be funded pursuant to their
MTW agreements and shall be subject to the
same pro rata adjustments under the pre-
vious provisos: Provided further, That the
Secretary may offset public housing agen-
cies’ calendar year 2020 allocations based on
the excess amounts of public housing agen-
cies’ net restricted assets accounts, includ-
ing HUD-held programmatic reserves (in ac-
cordance with VMS data in calendar year
2019 that is verifiable and complete), as de-
termined by the Secretary: Provided further,
That public housing agencies participating
in the MTW demonstration shall also be sub-
ject to the offset, as determined by the Sec-
retary, excluding amounts subject to the sin-
gle fund budget authority provisions of their
MTW agreements, from the agencies’ cal-
endar year 2020 MTW funding allocation: Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary shall use
any offset referred to in the previous two
provisos throughout the calendar year to
prevent the termination of rental assistance
for families as the result of insufficient fund-
ing, as determined by the Secretary, and to
avoid or reduce the proration of renewal
funding allocations: Provided further, That up
to $100,000,000 shall be available only: (1) for
adjustments in the allocations for public
housing agencies, after application for an ad-
justment by a public housing agency that ex-
perienced a significant increase, as deter-
mined by the Secretary, in renewal costs of
vouchers resulting from unforeseen cir-
cumstances or from portability under sec-
tion 8(r) of the Act; (2) for vouchers that
were not in use during the previous 12-month
period in order to be available to meet a
commitment pursuant to section 8(o)(13) of
the Act; (3) for adjustments for costs associ-
ated with HUD–Veterans Affairs Supportive
Housing (HUD–VASH) vouchers; and (4) for
public housing agencies that despite taking
reasonable cost savings measures, as deter-
mined by the Secretary, would otherwise be
required to terminate rental assistance for
families as a result of insufficient funding:
Provided further, That the Secretary shall al-
locate amounts under the previous proviso
based on need, as determined by the Sec-
retary;
(2) $75,000,000 shall be for section 8 rental
assistance for relocation and replacement of
housing units that are demolished or dis-
posed of pursuant to section 18 of the Act,
conversion of section 23 projects to assist-
ance under section 8, relocation of witnesses
in connection with efforts to combat crime
in public and assisted housing pursuant to a
request from a law enforcement or prosecu-
tion agency, enhanced vouchers under any
provision of law authorizing such assistance
under section 8(t) of the Act, Choice Neigh-
borhood vouchers, mandatory and voluntary
conversions, and tenant protection assist-
ance including replacement and relocation
assistance or for project-based assistance to
prevent the displacement of unassisted elder-
ly tenants currently residing in section 202
properties financed between 1959 and 1974
that are refinanced pursuant to Public Law
106–569, as amended, or under the authority
as provided under this Act: Provided, That
when a public housing development is sub-
mitted for demolition or disposition under
section 18 of the Act, the Secretary may pro-
vide section 8 rental assistance when the
units pose an imminent health and safety
risk to residents: Provided further, That the
Secretary may only provide replacement
vouchers for units that were occupied within
the previous 24 months that cease to be
available as assisted housing, subject only to
the availability of funds: Provided further,
That of the amounts made available under
this paragraph, up to $3,000,000 may be avail-
able to provide tenant protection assistance,
not otherwise provided under this paragraph,
to residents residing in low vacancy areas
and who may have to pay rents greater than
30 percent of household income, as the result
of: (A) the maturity of a HUD-insured, HUD-
held or section 202 loan that requires the per-
mission of the Secretary prior to loan pre-
payment; (B) the expiration of a rental as-
sistance contract for which the tenants are
not eligible for enhanced voucher or tenant
protection assistance under existing law; or
(C) the expiration of affordability restric-
tions accompanying a mortgage or preserva-
tion program administered by the Secretary:
Provided further, That such tenant protection
assistance made available under the previous
proviso may be provided under the authority
of section 8(t) or section 8(o)(13) of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.
1437f(t)): Provided further, That the Secretary
shall issue guidance to implement the pre-
vious provisos, including, but not limited to,
requirements for defining eligible at-risk
households within 60 days of the enactment
of this Act: Provided further, That any tenant
protection voucher made available from
amounts under this paragraph shall not be
reissued by any public housing agency, ex-
cept the replacement vouchers as defined by
the Secretary by notice, when the initial
family that received any such voucher no
longer receives such voucher, and the au-
thority for any public housing agency to
issue any such voucher shall cease to exist:
Provided further, That the Secretary may
provide section 8 rental assistance from
amounts made available under this para-
graph for units assisted under a project-
based subsidy contract funded under the
‘‘Project-Based Rental Assistance’’ heading
under this title where the owner has received
a Notice of Default and the units pose an im-
minent health and safety risk to residents:
Provided further, That to the extent that the
Secretary determines that such units are not
feasible for continued rental assistance pay-
ments or transfer of the subsidy contract as-
sociated with such units to another project
or projects and owner or owners, any remain-
ing amounts associated with such units
under such contract shall be recaptured and
used to reimburse amounts used under this
paragraph for rental assistance under the
preceding proviso;
(3) $1,977,000,000 shall be for administrative
and other expenses of public housing agen-
cies in administering the section 8 tenant-
based rental assistance program, of which up
to $20,000,000 shall be available to the Sec-
retary to allocate to public housing agencies
that need additional funds to administer
their section 8 programs, including fees asso-
ciated with section 8 tenant protection rent-
al assistance, the administration of disaster
related vouchers, HUD–VASH vouchers, and
other special purpose incremental vouchers:
Provided, That no less than $1,957,000,000 of
the amount provided in this paragraph shall
be allocated to public housing agencies for
the calendar year 2020 funding cycle based on
section 8(q) of the Act (and related Appro-
priation Act provisions) as in effect imme-
diately before the enactment of the Quality
Housing and Work Responsibility Act of 1998
(Public Law 105–276): Provided further, That if
the amounts made available under this para-
graph are insufficient to pay the amounts de-
termined under the previous proviso, the
Secretary may decrease the amounts allo-
cated to agencies by a uniform percentage
applicable to all agencies receiving funding
under this paragraph or may, to the extent
necessary to provide full payment of
amounts determined under the previous pro-
viso, utilize unobligated balances, including
recaptures and carryovers, remaining from
funds appropriated to the Department of
Housing and Urban Development under this
heading from prior fiscal years, excluding
special purpose vouchers, notwithstanding
the purposes for which such amounts were
appropriated: Provided further, That all pub-
lic housing agencies participating in the
MTW demonstration shall be funded pursu-
ant to their MTW agreements, and shall be
subject to the same uniform percentage de-
crease as under the previous proviso: Pro-
vided further, That amounts provided under
this paragraph shall be only for activities re-
lated to the provision of tenant-based rental
assistance authorized under section 8, in-
cluding related development activities;
(4) $218,000,000 for the renewal of tenant-
based assistance contracts under section 811
of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Afford-
able Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013), including
necessary administrative expenses: Provided,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00101 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6032 October 22, 2019
That administrative and other expenses of
public housing agencies in administering the
special purpose vouchers in this paragraph
shall be funded under the same terms and be
subject to the same pro rata reduction as the
percent decrease for administrative and
other expenses to public housing agencies
under paragraph (3) of this heading: Provided
further, That upon turnover, section 811 spe-
cial purpose vouchers funded under this
heading in this or prior Acts, or under any
other heading in prior Acts, shall be provided
to non-elderly persons with disabilities;
(5) $1,000,000 shall be for rental assistance
and associated administrative fees for Tribal
HUD–VASH to serve Native American vet-
erans that are homeless or at-risk of home-
lessness living on or near a reservation or
other Indian areas: Provided, That such
amount shall be made available for renewal
grants to recipients that received assistance
under prior Acts under the Tribal HUD–
VASH program: Provided further, That the
Secretary shall be authorized to specify cri-
teria for renewal grants, including data on
the utilization of assistance reported by
grant recipients: Provided further, That such
assistance shall be administered in accord-
ance with program requirements under the
Native American Housing Assistance and
Self-Determination Act of 1996 and modeled
after the HUD–VASH program: Provided fur-
ther, That the Secretary shall be authorized
to waive, or specify alternative requirements
for any provision of any statute or regula-
tion that the Secretary administers in con-
nection with the use of funds made available
under this paragraph (except for require-
ments related to fair housing, non-
discrimination, labor standards, and the en-
vironment), upon a finding by the Secretary
that any such waivers or alternative require-
ments are necessary for the effective deliv-
ery and administration of such assistance:
Provided further, That grant recipients shall
report to the Secretary on utilization of such
rental assistance and other program data, as
prescribed by the Secretary: Provided further,
That the Secretary may reallocate, as deter-
mined by the Secretary, amounts returned
or recaptured from awards under prior Acts;
(6) $40,000,000 for incremental rental vouch-
er assistance for use through a supported
housing program administered in conjunc-
tion with the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs as authorized under section 8(o)(19) of
the United States Housing Act of 1937: Pro-
vided, That the Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development shall make such funding
available, notwithstanding section 203 (com-
petition provision) of this title, to public
housing agencies that partner with eligible
VA Medical Centers or other entities as des-
ignated by the Secretary of the Department
of Veterans Affairs, based on geographical
need for such assistance as identified by the
Secretary of the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs, public housing agency administrative
performance, and other factors as specified
by the Secretary of Housing and Urban De-
velopment in consultation with the Sec-
retary of the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs: Provided further, That the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development may waive,
or specify alternative requirements for (in
consultation with the Secretary of the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs), any provision
of any statute or regulation that the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development
administers in connection with the use of
funds made available under this paragraph
(except for requirements related to fair hous-
ing, nondiscrimination, labor standards, and
the environment), upon a finding by the Sec-
retary that any such waivers or alternative
requirements are necessary for the effective
delivery and administration of such voucher
assistance: Provided further, That assistance
made available under this paragraph shall
continue to remain available for homeless
veterans upon turn-over;
(7) $20,000,000 shall be made available for
the family unification program as authorized
under section 8(x) of the Act for new incre-
mental voucher assistance to assist eligible
youth as defined by such section 8(x)(2)(B):
Provided, That assistance made available
under this paragraph shall continue to re-
main available for such eligible youth upon
turnover: Provided further, That of the total
amount made available under this para-
graph, up to $10,000,000 shall be available on
a noncompetitive basis to public housing
agencies that partner with public child wel-
fare agencies to identify such eligible youth,
that request such assistance to timely assist
such eligible youth, and that meet any other
criteria as specified by the Secretary: Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary shall review
utilization of the assistance made available
under the previous proviso, at an interval to
be determined by the Secretary, and unuti-
lized voucher assistance that is no longer
needed shall be recaptured by the Secretary
and reallocated pursuant to the previous pro-
viso: Provided further, That for any public
housing agency administering voucher as-
sistance appropriated in a prior Act under
the family unification program, or made
available and competitively selected under
this paragraph for eligible youth, that deter-
mines that it no longer has an identified
need for such assistance upon turnover, such
agency shall notify the Secretary, and the
Secretary shall recapture such assistance
from the agency and reallocate it to any
other public housing agency or agencies
based on need for voucher assistance in con-
nection with such specified program or eligi-
ble youth, as applicable; and
(8) the Secretary shall separately track all
special purpose vouchers funded under this
heading.
HOUSING CERTIFICATE FUND
(INCLUDING RESCISSIONS)
Unobligated balances, including recaptures
and carryover, remaining from funds appro-
priated to the Department of Housing and
Urban Development under this heading, the
heading ‘‘Annual Contributions for Assisted
Housing’’ and the heading ‘‘Project-Based
Rental Assistance’’, for fiscal year 2020 and
prior years may be used for renewal of or
amendments to section 8 project-based con-
tracts and for performance-based contract
administrators, notwithstanding the pur-
poses for which such funds were appro-
priated: Provided, That any obligated bal-
ances of contract authority from fiscal year
1974 and prior that have been terminated
shall be rescinded: Provided further, That
amounts heretofore recaptured, or recap-
tured during the current fiscal year, from
section 8 project-based contracts from source
years fiscal year 1975 through fiscal year 1987
are hereby rescinded, and an amount of addi-
tional new budget authority, equivalent to
the amount rescinded is hereby appropriated,
to remain available until expended, for the
purposes set forth under this heading, in ad-
dition to amounts otherwise available.
PUBLIC HOUSING CAPITAL FUND
For the Public Housing Capital Fund Pro-
gram to carry out capital and management
activities for public housing agencies, as au-
thorized under section 9 of the United States
Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g) (the
‘‘Act’’) $2,855,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2023: Provided, That not-
withstanding any other provision of law or
regulation, during fiscal year 2020, the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development
may not delegate to any Department official
other than the Deputy Secretary and the As-
sistant Secretary for Public and Indian
Housing any authority under paragraph (2)
of section 9(j) regarding the extension of the
time periods under such section: Provided
further, That for purposes of such section
9(j), the term ‘‘obligate’’ means, with respect
to amounts, that the amounts are subject to
a binding agreement that will result in out-
lays, immediately or in the future: Provided
further, That of the total amount made avail-
able under this heading, up to $14,000,000
shall be to support ongoing public housing fi-
nancial and physical assessment activities:
Provided further, That of the total amount
made available under this heading, up to
$1,000,000 shall be to support the costs of ad-
ministrative and judicial receiverships: Pro-
vided further, That of the total amount pro-
vided under this heading, not to exceed
$50,000,000 shall be available for the Sec-
retary to make grants, notwithstanding sec-
tion 203 of this Act, to public housing agen-
cies for emergency capital needs including
safety and security measures necessary to
address crime and drug-related activity as
well as needs resulting from unforeseen or
unpreventable emergencies and natural dis-
asters excluding Presidentially declared
emergencies and natural disasters under the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) occurring in
fiscal year 2020, of which $20,000,000 shall be
available for public housing agencies under
administrative and judicial receiverships or
under the control of a Federal monitor: Pro-
vided further, That of the amount made avail-
able under the previous proviso, not less
than $10,000,000 shall be for safety and secu-
rity measures: Provided further, That in addi-
tion to the amount in the previous proviso
for such safety and security measures, any
amounts that remain available, after all ap-
plications received on or before September
30, 2021, for emergency capital needs have
been processed, shall be allocated to public
housing agencies for such safety and security
measures: Provided further, That for funds
provided under this heading, the limitation
in section 9(g)(1) of the Act shall be 25 per-
cent: Provided further, That the Secretary
may waive the limitation in the previous
proviso to allow public housing agencies to
fund activities authorized under section
9(e)(1)(C) of the Act: Provided further, That
the Secretary shall notify public housing
agencies requesting waivers under the pre-
vious proviso if the request is approved or
denied within 14 days of submitting the re-
quest: Provided further, That from the funds
made available under this heading, the Sec-
retary shall provide bonus awards in fiscal
year 2020 to public housing agencies that are
designated high performers: Provided further,
That the Department shall notify public
housing agencies of their formula allocation
within 60 days of enactment of this Act: Pro-
vided further, That of the total amount pro-
vided under this heading, $40,000,000 shall be
available for competitive grants to public
housing agencies to evaluate and reduce
lead-based paint hazards and other housing-
related hazards including mold in public
housing: Provided further, That of the
amounts available under the previous pro-
viso, no less than $25,000,000 shall be for com-
petitive grants to public housing agencies to
evaluate and reduce lead-based paint hazards
in public housing by carrying out the activi-
ties of risk assessments, abatement, and in-
terim controls (as those terms are defined in
section 1004 of the Residential Lead-Based
Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C.
4851b)): Provided further, That for purposes of
environmental review, a grant under the pre-
vious two provisos shall be considered funds
for projects or activities under title I of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.
1437 et seq.) for purposes of section 26 of such
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00102 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6033
October 22, 2019
Act (42 U.S.C. 1437x) and shall be subject to
the regulations implementing such section:
Provided further, That for funds made avail-
able under the previous three provisos, the
Secretary shall allow a PHA to apply for up
to 20 percent of the funds made available
under the first two provisos and prioritize
need when awarding grants.
PUBLIC HOUSING OPERATING FUND
For 2020 payments to public housing agen-
cies for the operation and management of
public housing, as authorized by section 9(e)
of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42
U.S.C. 1437g(e)), $4,650,000,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2021: Provided,
That of the total amount available under
this heading, $25,000,000 shall be available to
the Secretary to allocate pursuant to a need-
based application process notwithstanding
section 203 of this title and not subject to
the Operating Fund formula at part 990 of
title 24, Code of Federal Regulations to pub-
lic housing agencies that experience finan-
cial insolvency, as determined by the Sec-
retary: Provided further, That after all such
insolvency needs are met, the Secretary may
distribute any remaining funds to all public
housing agencies on a pro-rata basis pursu-
ant to the Operating Fund formula at part
990 of title 24, Code of Federal Regulations.
CHOICE NEIGHBORHOODS INITIATIVE
For competitive grants under the Choice
Neighborhoods Initiative (subject to section
24 of the United States Housing Act of 1937
(42 U.S.C. 1437v), unless otherwise specified
under this heading), for transformation, re-
habilitation, and replacement housing needs
of both public and HUD-assisted housing and
to transform neighborhoods of poverty into
functioning, sustainable mixed income
neighborhoods with appropriate services,
schools, public assets, transportation and ac-
cess to jobs, $100,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2022: Provided, That
grant funds may be used for resident and
community services, community develop-
ment, and affordable housing needs in the
community, and for conversion of vacant or
foreclosed properties to affordable housing:
Provided further, That the use of funds made
available under this heading shall not be
deemed to be public housing notwithstanding
section 3(b)(1) of such Act: Provided further,
That grantees shall commit to an additional
period of affordability determined by the
Secretary of not fewer than 20 years: Pro-
vided further, That grantees shall provide a
match in State, local, other Federal or pri-
vate funds: Provided further, That grantees
may include local governments, tribal enti-
ties, public housing authorities, and non-
profits: Provided further, That for-profit de-
velopers may apply jointly with a public en-
tity: Provided further, That for purposes of
environmental review, a grantee shall be
treated as a public housing agency under sec-
tion 26 of the United States Housing Act of
1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437x), and grants under this
heading shall be subject to the regulations
issued by the Secretary to implement such
section: Provided further, That of the amount
provided, not less than $50,000,000 shall be
awarded to public housing agencies: Provided
further, That such grantees shall create part-
nerships with other local organizations in-
cluding assisted housing owners, service
agencies, and resident organizations: Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary shall con-
sult with the Secretaries of Education,
Labor, Transportation, Health and Human
Services, Agriculture, and Commerce, the
Attorney General, and the Administrator of
the Environmental Protection Agency to co-
ordinate and leverage other appropriate Fed-
eral resources: Provided further, That no
more than $5,000,000 of funds made available
under this heading may be provided as
grants to undertake comprehensive local
planning with input from residents and the
community: Provided further, That unobli-
gated balances, including recaptures, re-
maining from funds appropriated under the
heading ‘‘Revitalization of Severely Dis-
tressed Public Housing (HOPE VI)’’ in fiscal
year 2011 and prior fiscal years may be used
for purposes under this heading, notwith-
standing the purposes for which such
amounts were appropriated: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall issue the Notice of
Funding Availability for funds made avail-
able under this heading no later than 60 days
after enactment of this Act: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall make grant awards
no later than one year from the date of en-
actment of this Act in such amounts that
the Secretary determines: Provided further,
That notwithstanding section 24(o) of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.
1437v(o)), the Secretary may, until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, obligate any available unob-
ligated balances made available under this
heading in this, or any prior Act.
SELF-SUFFICIENCY PROGRAMS
For activities and assistance related to
Self-Sufficiency Programs, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2023, $130,000,000:
Provided, That the amounts made available
under this heading are provided as follows:
(1) $80,000,000 shall be for the Family Self-
Sufficiency program to support family self-
sufficiency coordinators under section 23 of
the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42
U.S.C. 1437u), to promote the development of
local strategies to coordinate the use of as-
sistance under sections 8 and 9 of such Act
with public and private resources, and enable
eligible families to achieve economic inde-
pendence and self-sufficiency: Provided, That
the Secretary may, by Federal Register no-
tice, waive or specify alternative require-
ments under subsections (b)(3), (b)(4), (b)(5),
or (c)(1) of section 23 of such Act in order to
facilitate the operation of a unified self-suf-
ficiency program for individuals receiving
assistance under different provisions of the
Act, as determined by the Secretary: Pro-
vided further, That owners of a privately
owned multifamily property with a section 8
contract may voluntarily make a Family
Self-Sufficiency program available to the as-
sisted tenants of such property in accordance
with procedures established by the Sec-
retary: Provided further, That such proce-
dures established pursuant to the previous
proviso shall permit participating tenants to
accrue escrow funds in accordance with sec-
tion 23(d)(2) and shall allow owners to use
funding from residual receipt accounts to
hire coordinators for their own Family Self-
Sufficiency program;
(2) $35,000,000 shall be for the Resident Op-
portunity and Self-Sufficiency program to
provide for supportive services, service coor-
dinators, and congregate services as author-
ized by section 34 of the United States Hous-
ing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437z–6) and the Na-
tive American Housing Assistance and Self-
Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4101 et
seq.); and
(3) $15,000,000 shall be for a Jobs-Plus ini-
tiative, modeled after the Jobs-Plus dem-
onstration: Provided, That funding provided
under this paragraph shall be available for
competitive grants to partnerships between
public housing authorities, local workforce
investment boards established under section
107 of the Workforce Innovation and Oppor-
tunity Act of 2014 (29 U.S.C. 3122), and other
agencies and organizations that provide sup-
port to help public housing residents obtain
employment and increase earnings: Provided
further, That applicants must demonstrate
the ability to provide services to residents,
partner with workforce investment boards,
and leverage service dollars: Provided further,
That the Secretary may allow public housing
agencies to request exemptions from rent
and income limitation requirements under
sections 3 and 6 of the United States Housing
Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a, 1437d), as nec-
essary to implement the Jobs-Plus program,
on such terms and conditions as the Sec-
retary may approve upon a finding by the
Secretary that any such waivers or alter-
native requirements are necessary for the ef-
fective implementation of the Jobs-Plus ini-
tiative as a voluntary program for residents:
Provided further, That the Secretary shall
publish by notice in the Federal Register any
waivers or alternative requirements pursu-
ant to the preceding proviso no later than 10
days before the effective date of such notice.
NATIVE AMERICAN PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For activities and assistance authorized
under title I of the Native American Housing
Assistance and Self-Determination Act of
1996 (NAHASDA) (25 U.S.C. 4111 et seq.), title
I of the Housing and Community Develop-
ment Act of 1974 with respect to Indian
tribes (42 U.S.C. 5306(a)(1)), and related tech-
nical assistance, $820,000,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2024, unless other-
wise specified: Provided, That the amounts
made available under this heading are pro-
vided as follows:
(1) $646,000,000 shall be available for the Na-
tive American Housing Block Grants pro-
gram, as authorized under title I of
NAHASDA: Provided, That, notwithstanding
NAHASDA, to determine the amount of the
allocation under title I of such Act for each
Indian tribe, the Secretary shall apply the
formula under section 302 of such Act with
the need component based on single-race
census data and with the need component
based on multi-race census data, and the
amount of the allocation for each Indian
tribe shall be the greater of the two result-
ing allocation amounts: Provided further,
That the Department will notify grantees of
their formula allocation within 60 days of
the date of enactment of this Act;
(2) $2,000,000 shall be available for the cost
of guaranteed notes and other obligations, as
authorized by title VI of NAHASDA: Pro-
vided, That such costs, including the costs of
modifying such notes and other obligations,
shall be as defined in section 502 of the Con-
gressional Budget Act of 1974, as amended:
Provided further, That these funds are avail-
able to subsidize the total principal amount
of any notes and other obligations, any part
of which is to be guaranteed, not to exceed
$32,000,000;
(3) $100,000,000 shall be available for com-
petitive grants under the Native American
Housing Block Grants program, as author-
ized under title I of NAHASDA: Provided,
That the Secretary shall obligate this addi-
tional amount for competitive grants to eli-
gible recipients authorized under NAHASDA
that apply for funds: Provided further, That
in awarding this additional amount, the Sec-
retary shall consider need and administra-
tive capacity, and shall give priority to
projects that will spur construction and re-
habilitation: Provided further, That up to 1
percent of this additional amount may be
transferred, in aggregate, to ‘‘Program Of-
fices—Public and Indian Housing’’ for nec-
essary costs of administering and overseeing
the obligation and expenditure of this addi-
tional amount: Provided further, That any
funds transferred pursuant to this paragraph
shall remain available until September 30,
2025;
(4) $65,000,000 shall be available for grants
to Indian tribes for carrying out the Indian
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00103 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6034 October 22, 2019
Community Development Block Grant pro-
gram under title I of the Housing and Com-
munity Development Act of 1974, notwith-
standing section 106(a)(1) of such Act, of
which, notwithstanding any other provision
of law (including section 203 of this Act), up
to $4,000,000 may be used for emergencies
that constitute imminent threats to health
and safety: Provided, That not to exceed 20
percent of any grant made with funds appro-
priated under this paragraph shall be ex-
pended for planning and management devel-
opment and administration: Provided further,
That funds provided under this paragraph
shall remain available until September 30,
2022; and
(5) $7,000,000 shall be available for pro-
viding training and technical assistance to
Indian tribes, Indian housing authorities and
tribally designated housing entities, to sup-
port the inspection of Indian housing units,
contract expertise, and for training and tech-
nical assistance related to funding provided
under this heading and other headings under
this Act for the needs of Native American
families and Indian country: Provided, That
of the funds made available under this para-
graph, not less than $2,000,000 shall be avail-
able for a national organization as author-
ized under section 703 of NAHASDA (25
U.S.C. 4212): Provided further, That amounts
made available under this paragraph may be
used, contracted, or competed as determined
by the Secretary: Provided further, That the
amounts made available under this para-
graph may be used by the Secretary to enter
into cooperative agreements for such pur-
poses with public and private organizations,
agencies, institutions, and other technical
assistance providers to support the adminis-
tration of negotiated rulemaking under sec-
tion 106 of NAHASDA (25 U.S.C. 4116), the ad-
ministration of the allocation formula under
section 302 of NAHASDA (25 U.S.C. 4152), and
the administration of performance tracking
and reporting under section 407 of NAHASDA
(25 U.S.C. 4167), and that in all such coopera-
tive agreements the principal purpose of
such agreements shall be considered to be
the provision of funds to carry out the public
purpose of furthering the purposes of
NAHASDA, regardless of the inclusion of any
services that directly or indirectly benefit
the Department.
INDIAN HOUSING LOAN GUARANTEE FUND
PROGRAM ACCOUNT
For the cost of guaranteed loans, as au-
thorized by section 184 of the Housing and
Community Development Act of 1992 (12
U.S.C. 1715z–13a), $1,100,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That such
costs, including the costs of modifying such
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided
further, That an additional $500,000, to re-
main available until expended, shall be
available for administrative contract ex-
penses including management processes and
systems to carry out the loan guarantee pro-
gram: Provided further, That the Secretary
may subsidize total loan principal, any part
of which is to be guaranteed, up to
$1,000,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided further, That for any unobli-
gated balances (including amounts of uncom-
mitted limitation) remaining from amounts
made available under this heading in Public
Law 115–31, Public Law 115–141, and Public
Law 116–6, and for any recaptures occurring
in fiscal year 2019 or in future fiscal years of
amounts made available under this heading
in prior fiscal years, the second proviso of
each such heading shall be applied as if
‘‘these funds are available to’’ was struck
and ‘‘the Secretary may’’ was inserted in its
place.
NATIVE HAWAIIAN HOUSING BLOCK GRANT
For the Native Hawaiian Housing Block
Grant program, as authorized under title
VIII of the Native American Housing Assist-
ance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25
U.S.C. 4111 et seq.), $1,745,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2024: Provided,
That notwithstanding section 812(b) of such
Act, the Department of Hawaiian Home
Lands may not invest grant amounts pro-
vided under this heading in investment secu-
rities and other obligations: Provided further,
That amounts made available under this
heading in this and prior fiscal years may be
used to provide rental assistance to eligible
Native Hawaiian families both on and off the
Hawaiian Home Lands, notwithstanding any
other provision of law.
COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
HOUSING OPPORTUNITIES FOR PERSONS WITH
AIDS
For carrying out the Housing Opportuni-
ties for Persons with AIDS program, as au-
thorized by the AIDS Housing Opportunity
Act (42 U.S.C. 12901 et seq.), $330,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2021,
except that amounts allocated pursuant to
section 854(c)(5) of such Act shall remain
available until September 30, 2022: Provided,
That the Secretary shall renew all expiring
contracts for permanent supportive housing
that initially were funded under section
854(c)(5) of such Act from funds made avail-
able under this heading in fiscal year 2010
and prior fiscal years that meet all program
requirements before awarding funds for new
contracts under such section: Provided fur-
ther, That the Department shall notify
grantees of their formula allocation within
60 days of enactment of this Act.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND
For carrying out the community develop-
ment block grant program under title I of
the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1974, as amended (42 U.S.C. 5301 et
seq.) (‘‘the Act’’ herein), $3,325,000,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2022, un-
less otherwise specified: Provided, That un-
less explicitly provided for under this head-
ing, not to exceed 20 percent of any grant
made with funds appropriated under this
heading shall be expended for planning and
management development and administra-
tion: Provided further, That a metropolitan
city, urban county, unit of general local gov-
ernment, Indian tribe, or insular area that
directly or indirectly receives funds under
this heading may not sell, trade, or other-
wise transfer all or any portion of such funds
to another such entity in exchange for any
other funds, credits or non-Federal consider-
ations, but must use such funds for activities
eligible under title I of the Act: Provided fur-
ther, That notwithstanding section 105(e)(1)
of the Act, no funds provided under this
heading may be provided to a for-profit enti-
ty for an economic development project
under section 105(a)(17) unless such project
has been evaluated and selected in accord-
ance with guidelines required under sub-
section (e)(2): Provided further, That of the
total amount provided under this heading,
$25,000,000 shall be for activities authorized
under section 8071 of the SUPPORT for Pa-
tients and Communities Act (Public Law 115–
271): Provided further, That the funds allo-
cated pursuant to the previous proviso shall
not adversely affect the amount of any for-
mula assistance received by a State under
this heading: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary shall allocate the funds for such ac-
tivities based on the percentages shown in
Table 1 of the Notice establishing the fund-
ing formula published in 84 FR 16027 (April
17, 2019): Provided further, That the Depart-
ment shall notify grantees of their formula
allocation within 60 days of enactment of
this Act.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LOAN GUARANTEES
PROGRAM ACCOUNT
Subject to section 502 of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974, during fiscal year 2020,
commitments to guarantee loans under sec-
tion 108 of the Housing and Community De-
velopment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5308), any
part of which is guaranteed, shall not exceed
a total principal amount of $300,000,000, not-
withstanding any aggregate limitation on
outstanding obligations guaranteed in sub-
section (k) of such section 108: Provided, That
the Secretary shall collect fees from bor-
rowers, notwithstanding subsection (m) of
such section 108, to result in a credit subsidy
cost of zero for guaranteeing such loans, and
any such fees shall be collected in accord-
ance with section 502(7) of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974: Provided further, That
such commitment authority funded by fees
may be used to guarantee, or make commit-
ments to guarantee, notes or other obliga-
tions issued by any State on behalf of non-
entitlement communities in the State in ac-
cordance with the requirements of such sec-
tion 108: Provided further, That any State re-
ceiving such a guarantee or commitment
under the previous proviso shall distribute
all funds subject to such guarantee to the
units of general local government in non-
entitlement areas that received the commit-
ment.
HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM
For the HOME Investment Partnerships
program, as authorized under title II of the
Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable
Housing Act, as amended, $1,250,000,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2023: Pro-
vided, That notwithstanding the amount
made available under this heading, the
threshold reduction requirements in sections
216(10) and 217(b)(4) of such Act shall not
apply to allocations of such amount: Pro-
vided further, That the Department shall no-
tify grantees of their formula allocation
within 60 days of enactment of this Act: Pro-
vided further, That section 218(g) of such Act
(42 U.S.C. 12748(g)) shall not apply with re-
spect to the right of a jurisdiction to draw
funds from its HOME Investment Trust Fund
that otherwise expired or would expire in
2020, 2021, or 2022 under that section: Provided
further, That section 231(b) of such Act (42
U.S.C. 12771(b)) shall not apply to any
uninvested funds that otherwise were de-
ducted or would be deducted from the line of
credit in the participating jurisdictions
HOME Investment Trust Fund in 2018, 2019,
2020, 2021 or 2022 under that section.
SELF-HELP AND ASSISTED HOMEOWNERSHIP
OPPORTUNITY PROGRAM
For the Self-Help and Assisted Homeown-
ership Opportunity Program, as authorized
under section 11 of the Housing Opportunity
Program Extension Act of 1996, as amended,
$54,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2022: Provided, That of the total
amount provided under this heading,
$10,000,000 shall be made available to the
Self-Help Homeownership Opportunity Pro-
gram as authorized under section 11 of the
Housing Opportunity Program Extension Act
of 1996, as amended: Provided further, That of
the total amount provided under this head-
ing, $35,000,000 shall be made available for
the second, third, and fourth capacity build-
ing activities authorized under section 4(a)
of the HUD Demonstration Act of 1993 (42
U.S.C. 9816 note), of which not less than
$5,000,000 shall be made available for rural
capacity building activities: Provided further,
That of the total amount provided under this
heading, $5,000,000 shall be made available for
capacity building by national rural housing
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00104 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6035
October 22, 2019
organizations with experience assessing na-
tional rural conditions and providing financ-
ing, training, technical assistance, informa-
tion, and research to local nonprofits, local
governments, and Indian Tribes serving high
need rural communities: Provided further,
That of the total amount provided under this
heading, $4,000,000, shall be made available
for a program to rehabilitate and modify the
homes of disabled or low-income veterans, as
authorized under section 1079 of Public Law
113–291: Provided further, That funds provided
under the previous proviso shall be awarded
within 180 days of enactment of this Act.
HOMELESS ASSISTANCE GRANTS
For the Emergency Solutions Grants pro-
gram as authorized under subtitle B of title
IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assist-
ance Act, as amended; the Continuum of
Care program as authorized under subtitle C
of title IV of such Act; and the Rural Hous-
ing Stability Assistance program as author-
ized under subtitle D of title IV of such Act,
$2,761,00,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2022: Provided, That any rental as-
sistance amounts that are recaptured under
such Continuum of Care program shall re-
main available until expended and may be
used for any purpose under such program:
Provided further, That not less than
$280,000,000 of the funds appropriated under
this heading shall be available for such
Emergency Solutions Grants program: Pro-
vided further, That not less than $2,344,000,000
of the funds appropriated under this heading
shall be available for such Continuum of
Care and Rural Housing Stability Assistance
programs: Provided further, That of the
amounts made available under this heading,
up to $50,000,000 shall be made available for
grants for rapid re-housing projects and sup-
portive service projects providing coordi-
nated entry, and for eligible activities the
Secretary determines to be critical in order
to assist survivors of domestic violence, dat-
ing violence, sexual assault, or stalking: Pro-
vided further, That such projects shall be eli-
gible for renewal under the continuum of
care program subject to the same terms and
conditions as other renewal applicants: Pro-
vided further, That up to $7,000,000 of the
funds appropriated under this heading shall
be available for the national homeless data
analysis project: Provided further, That for
all match requirements applicable to funds
made available under this heading for this
fiscal year and prior fiscal years, a grantee
may use (or could have used) as a source of
match funds other funds administered by the
Secretary and other Federal agencies unless
there is (or was) a specific statutory prohibi-
tion on any such use of any such funds: Pro-
vided further, That none of the funds provided
under this heading shall be available to pro-
vide funding for new projects, except for
projects created through reallocation, unless
the Secretary determines that the con-
tinuum of care has demonstrated that
projects are evaluated and ranked based on
the degree to which they improve the con-
tinuum of care’s system performance: Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary shall
prioritize funding under the Continuum of
Care program to continuums of care that
have demonstrated a capacity to reallocate
funding from lower performing projects to
higher performing projects: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall provide incentives
to create projects that coordinate with hous-
ing providers and healthcare organizations
to provide permanent supportive housing and
rapid rehousing services: Provided further,
That any unobligated amounts remaining
from funds appropriated under this heading
in fiscal year 2012 and prior years for project-
based rental assistance for rehabilitation
projects with 10-year grant terms may be
used for purposes under this heading, not-
withstanding the purposes for which such
funds were appropriated: Provided further,
That all balances for Shelter Plus Care re-
newals previously funded from the Shelter
Plus Care Renewal account and transferred
to this account shall be available, if recap-
tured, for Continuum of Care renewals in fis-
cal year 2020: Provided further, That the De-
partment shall notify grantees of their for-
mula allocation from amounts allocated
(which may represent initial or final
amounts allocated) for the Emergency Solu-
tions Grant program within 60 days of enact-
ment of this Act: Provided further, That up to
$80,000,000 of the funds appropriated under
this heading shall be to implement projects
to demonstrate how a comprehensive ap-
proach to serving homeless youth, age 24 and
under, in up to 25 communities with a pri-
ority for communities with substantial rural
populations in up to eight locations, can dra-
matically reduce youth homelessness: Pro-
vided further, That of the amount made avail-
able under the previous proviso, up to
$5,000,000 shall be available to provide tech-
nical assistance on youth homelessness, and
collection, analysis, and reporting of data
and performance measures under the com-
prehensive approaches to serve homeless
youth, in addition to and in coordination
with other technical assistance funds pro-
vided under this title: Provided further, That
amounts made available for the Continuum
of Care program under this heading in this
and prior Acts may be used to competitively
or non-competitively renew or replace grants
for youth homeless demonstration projects
under the Continuum of Care program, not-
withstanding any conflict with the require-
ments of the Continuum of Care program:
Provided further, That youth aged 24 and
under seeking assistance under this heading
shall not be required to provide third party
documentation to establish their eligibility
under 42 U.S.C. 11302(a) or (b) to receive serv-
ices: Provided further, That unaccompanied
youth aged 24 and under or families headed
by youth aged 24 and under who are living in
unsafe situations may be served by youth-
serving providers funded under this heading:
Provided further, That persons eligible under
section 103(a)(5) of the McKinney-Vento
Homeless Assistance Act may be served by
any project funded under this heading to pro-
vide both transitional housing and rapid re-
housing: Provided further, That when award-
ing funds under the Continuum of Care pro-
gram, the Secretary shall not deviate from
the FY 2018 Notice of Funding Availability
with respect to the tier 2 funding process,
the Continuum of Care application scoring,
and for new projects, the project quality
threshold requirements, except as otherwise
provided under this Act or as necessary to
award all available funds or consider the
most recent data from each Continuum of
Care.
HOUSING PROGRAMS
PROJECT-BASED RENTAL ASSISTANCE
For activities and assistance for the provi-
sion of project-based subsidy contracts under
the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42
U.S.C. 1437 et seq.) (‘‘the Act’’), not other-
wise provided for, $12,160,000,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be available
on October 1, 2019 (in addition to the
$400,000,000 previously appropriated under
this heading that became available October
1, 2019), and $400,000,000, to remain available
until expended, shall be available on October
1, 2020: Provided, That the amounts made
available under this heading shall be avail-
able for expiring or terminating section 8
project-based subsidy contracts (including
section 8 moderate rehabilitation contracts),
for amendments to section 8 project-based
subsidy contracts (including section 8 mod-
erate rehabilitation contracts), for contracts
entered into pursuant to section 441 of the
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act
(42 U.S.C. 11401), for renewal of section 8 con-
tracts for units in projects that are subject
to approved plans of action under the Emer-
gency Low Income Housing Preservation Act
of 1987 or the Low-Income Housing Preserva-
tion and Resident Homeownership Act of
1990, and for administrative and other ex-
penses associated with project-based activi-
ties and assistance funded under this para-
graph: Provided further, That of the total
amounts provided under this heading, not to
exceed $345,000,000 shall be available for per-
formance-based contract administrators for
section 8 project-based assistance, for car-
rying out 42 U.S.C. 1437(f): Provided further,
That the Secretary may also use such
amounts in the previous proviso for perform-
ance-based contract administrators for the
administration of: interest reduction pay-
ments pursuant to section 236(a) of the Na-
tional Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z–1(a)); rent
supplement payments pursuant to section
101 of the Housing and Urban Development
Act of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 1701s); section 236(f)(2)
rental assistance payments (12 U.S.C. 1715z–
1(f)(2)); project rental assistance contracts
for the elderly under section 202(c)(2) of the
Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q); project
rental assistance contracts for supportive
housing for persons with disabilities under
section 811(d)(2) of the Cranston-Gonzalez
National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C.
8013(d)(2)); project assistance contracts pur-
suant to section 202(h) of the Housing Act of
1959 (Public Law 86–372; 73 Stat. 667); and
loans under section 202 of the Housing Act of
1959 (Public Law 86–372; 73 Stat. 667): Provided
further, That amounts recaptured under this
heading, the heading ‘‘Annual Contributions
for Assisted Housing’’, or the heading ‘‘Hous-
ing Certificate Fund’’, may be used for re-
newals of or amendments to section 8
project-based contracts or for performance-
based contract administrators, notwith-
standing the purposes for which such
amounts were appropriated: Provided further,
That, notwithstanding any other provision
of law, upon the request of the Secretary,
project funds that are held in residual re-
ceipts accounts for any project subject to a
section 8 project-based Housing Assistance
Payments contract that authorizes HUD or a
Housing Finance Agency to require that sur-
plus project funds be deposited in an inter-
est-bearing residual receipts account and
that are in excess of an amount to be deter-
mined by the Secretary, shall be remitted to
the Department and deposited in this ac-
count, to be available until expended: Pro-
vided further, That amounts deposited pursu-
ant to the previous proviso shall be available
in addition to the amount otherwise pro-
vided by this heading for uses authorized
under this heading.
HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY
For capital advances, including amend-
ments to capital advance contracts, for hous-
ing for the elderly, as authorized by section
202 of the Housing Act of 1959, as amended,
for project rental assistance for the elderly
under section 202(c)(2) of such Act, including
amendments to contracts for such assistance
and renewal of expiring contracts for such
assistance for up to a 1-year term, for senior
preservation rental assistance contracts, in-
cluding renewals, as authorized by section
811(e) of the American Housing and Eco-
nomic Opportunity Act of 2000, as amended,
and for supportive services associated with
the housing, $696,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2023: Provided, That of
the amount provided under this heading, up
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00105 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6036 October 22, 2019
to $107,000,000 shall be for service coordina-
tors and the continuation of existing con-
gregate service grants for residents of as-
sisted housing projects: Provided further,
That amounts under this heading shall be
available for Real Estate Assessment Center
inspections and inspection-related activities
associated with section 202 projects: Provided
further, That the Secretary may waive the
provisions of section 202 governing the terms
and conditions of project rental assistance,
except that the initial contract term for
such assistance shall not exceed 5 years in
duration: Provided further, That upon request
of the Secretary, project funds that are held
in residual receipts accounts for any project
subject to a section 202 project rental assist-
ance contract, and that upon termination of
such contract are in excess of an amount to
be determined by the Secretary, shall be re-
mitted to the Department and deposited in
this account, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2023: Provided further, That
amounts deposited in this account pursuant
to the previous proviso shall be available, in
addition to the amounts otherwise provided
by this heading, for the purposes authorized
under this heading: Provided further, That
unobligated balances, including recaptures
and carryover, remaining from funds trans-
ferred to or appropriated under this heading
shall be available for the current purposes
authorized under this heading in addition to
the purposes for which such funds originally
were appropriated: Provided further, That of
the total amount provided under this head-
ing, $10,000,000 shall be for a program to be
established by the Secretary to make grants
to experienced non-profit organizations,
States, local governments, or public housing
agencies for safety and functional home
modification repairs to meet the needs of
low-income elderly homeowners to enable
them to remain in their primary residence:
Provided further, That of the total amount
made available under the previous proviso,
no less than $5,000,000 shall be available to
meet such needs in communities with sub-
stantial rural populations: Provided further,
That beneficiaries of the grant assistance
provided in the previous two provisos under
this heading in the Department of Housing
and Urban Development Appropriations Act,
2019 (Public Law 116–6) shall be homeowners.
HOUSING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
For capital advances, including amend-
ments to capital advance contracts, for sup-
portive housing for persons with disabilities,
as authorized by section 811 of the Cranston-
Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act
(42 U.S.C. 8013), as amended, for project rent-
al assistance for supportive housing for per-
sons with disabilities under section 811(d)(2)
of such Act, for project assistance contracts
pursuant to section 202(h) of the Housing Act
of 1959 (Public Law 86–372; 73 Stat. 667), in-
cluding amendments to contracts for such
assistance and renewal of expiring contracts
for such assistance for up to a 1-year term,
for project rental assistance to State hous-
ing finance agencies and other appropriate
entities as authorized under section 811(b)(3)
of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Housing
Act, and for supportive services associated
with the housing for persons with disabilities
as authorized by section 811(b)(1) of such Act,
$184,155,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2023: Provided, That amounts
made available under this heading shall be
available for Real Estate Assessment Center
inspections and inspection-related activities
associated with section 811 projects: Provided
further, That, upon the request of the Sec-
retary, project funds that are held in resid-
ual receipts accounts for any project subject
to a section 811 project rental assistance con-
tract, and that upon termination of such
contract are in excess of an amount to be de-
termined by the Secretary, shall be remitted
to the Department and deposited in this ac-
count, to remain available until September
30, 2023: Provided further, That amounts de-
posited in this account pursuant to the pre-
vious proviso shall be available in addition
to the amounts otherwise provided by this
heading for the purposes authorized under
this heading: Provided further, That unobli-
gated balances, including recaptures and car-
ryover, remaining from funds transferred to
or appropriated under this heading shall be
used for the current purposes authorized
under this heading in addition to the pur-
poses for which such funds originally were
appropriated.
HOUSING COUNSELING ASSISTANCE
For contracts, grants, and other assistance
excluding loans, as authorized under section
106 of the Housing and Urban Development
Act of 1968, as amended, $45,000,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2021, including
up to $4,500,000 for administrative contract
services and not less than $3,000,000 for the
certification of housing counselors as re-
quired under 12 U.S.C. 1701x: Provided, That
grants made available from amounts pro-
vided under this heading shall be awarded
within 180 days of enactment of this Act:
Provided further, That funds shall be used for
providing counseling and advice to tenants
and homeowners, both current and prospec-
tive, with respect to property maintenance,
financial management or literacy, and such
other matters as may be appropriate to as-
sist them in improving their housing condi-
tions, meeting their financial needs, and ful-
filling the responsibilities of tenancy or
homeownership; for program administration;
and for housing counselor training: Provided
further, That for purposes of providing such
grants from amounts provided under this
heading, the Secretary may enter into
multiyear agreements, as appropriate, sub-
ject to the availability of annual appropria-
tions.
RENTAL HOUSING ASSISTANCE
For amendments to contracts under sec-
tion 236(f)(2) of the National Housing Act (12
U.S.C. 1715z–1) in State-aided, noninsured
rental housing projects, $3,000,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That such
amount, together with unobligated balances
from recaptured amounts appropriated prior
to fiscal year 2006 from terminated contracts
under such section of law, and any unobli-
gated balances, including recaptures and car-
ryover, remaining from funds appropriated
under this heading after fiscal year 2005,
shall also be available for extensions of up to
one year for expiring contracts under such
section of law.
PAYMENT TO MANUFACTURED HOUSING FEES
TRUST FUND
For necessary expenses as authorized by
the National Manufactured Housing Con-
struction and Safety Standards Act of 1974
(42 U.S.C. 5401 et seq.), up to $13,000,000, to re-
main available until expended, of which
$13,000,000 is to be derived from the Manufac-
tured Housing Fees Trust Fund: Provided,
That not to exceed the total amount appro-
priated under this heading shall be available
from the general fund of the Treasury to the
extent necessary to incur obligations and
make expenditures pending the receipt of
collections to the Fund pursuant to section
620 of such Act: Provided further, That the
amount made available under this heading
from the general fund shall be reduced as
such collections are received during fiscal
year 2020 so as to result in a final fiscal year
2020 appropriation from the general fund es-
timated at zero, and fees pursuant to such
section 620 shall be modified as necessary to
ensure such a final fiscal year 2020 appropria-
tion: Provided further, That the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development shall issue
a final rule to complete rulemaking initiated
by the proposed rule entitled ‘‘Manufactured
Housing Program: Minimum Payments to
the States’’ published in the Federal Reg-
ister on December 16, 2016 (81 Fed. Reg.
91083): Provided further, That for the dispute
resolution and installation programs, the
Secretary may assess and collect fees from
any program participant: Provided further,
That such collections shall be deposited into
the Fund, and the Secretary, as provided
herein, may use such collections, as well as
fees collected under section 620, for nec-
essary expenses of such Act: Provided further,
That, notwithstanding the requirements of
section 620 of such Act, the Secretary may
carry out responsibilities of the Secretary
under such Act through the use of approved
service providers that are paid directly by
the recipients of their services.
FEDERAL HOUSING ADMINISTRATION
MUTUAL MORTGAGE INSURANCE PROGRAM
ACCOUNT
New commitments to guarantee single
family loans insured under the Mutual Mort-
gage Insurance Fund shall not exceed
$400,000,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2021: Provided, That during fis-
cal year 2020, obligations to make direct
loans to carry out the purposes of section
204(g) of the National Housing Act, as
amended, shall not exceed $1,000,000: Provided
further, That the foregoing amount in the
previous proviso shall be for loans to non-
profit and governmental entities in connec-
tion with sales of single family real prop-
erties owned by the Secretary and formerly
insured under the Mutual Mortgage Insur-
ance Fund: Provided further, That for admin-
istrative contract expenses of the Federal
Housing Administration, $130,000,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2021: Pro-
vided further, That to the extent guaranteed
loan commitments exceed $200,000,000,000 on
or before April 1, 2020, an additional $1,400 for
administrative contract expenses shall be
available for each $1,000,000 in additional
guaranteed loan commitments (including a
pro rata amount for any amount below
$1,000,000), but in no case shall funds made
available by this proviso exceed $30,000,000:
Provided further, That notwithstanding the
limitation in the first sentence of section
255(g) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C.
1715z–20(g)), during fiscal year 2020 the Sec-
retary may insure and enter into new com-
mitments to insure mortgages under section
255 of the National Housing Act only to the
extent that the net credit subsidy cost for
such insurance does not exceed zero: Provided
further, That for fiscal year 2020, the Sec-
retary shall not take any action against a
lender solely on the basis of compare ratios
that have been adversely affected by defaults
on mortgages secured by properties in areas
where a major disaster was declared in 2017
or 2018 pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.).
GENERAL AND SPECIAL RISK PROGRAM ACCOUNT
New commitments to guarantee loans in-
sured under the General and Special Risk In-
surance Funds, as authorized by sections 238
and 519 of the National Housing Act (12
U.S.C. 1715z–3 and 1735c), shall not exceed
$30,000,000,000 in total loan principal, any
part of which is to be guaranteed, to remain
available until September 30, 2020: Provided,
That during fiscal year 2020, gross obliga-
tions for the principal amount of direct
loans, as authorized by sections 204(g), 207(l),
238, and 519(a) of the National Housing Act,
shall not exceed $1,000,000, which shall be for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00106 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6037
October 22, 2019
loans to nonprofit and governmental entities
in connection with the sale of single family
real properties owned by the Secretary and
formerly insured under such Act.
GOVERNMENT NATIONAL MORTGAGE
ASSOCIATION
GUARANTEES OF MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES
LOAN GUARANTEE PROGRAM ACCOUNT
New commitments to issue guarantees to
carry out the purposes of section 306 of the
National Housing Act, as amended (12 U.S.C.
1721(g)), shall not exceed $550,000,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2021:
Provided, That $29,626,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2021, shall be for
necessary salaries and expenses of the Office
of Government National Mortgage Associa-
tion: Provided further, That to the extent
that guaranteed loan commitments exceed
$155,000,000,000 on or before April 1, 2020, an
additional $100 for necessary salaries and ex-
penses shall be available until expended for
each $1,000,000 in additional guaranteed loan
commitments (including a pro rata amount
for any amount below $1,000,000), but in no
case shall funds made available by this pro-
viso exceed $3,000,000: Provided further, That
receipts from Commitment and Multiclass
fees collected pursuant to title III of the Na-
tional Housing Act, as amended, shall be
credited as offsetting collections to this ac-
count.
POLICY DEVELOPMENT AND RESEARCH
RESEARCH AND TECHNOLOGY
For contracts, grants, and necessary ex-
penses of programs of research and studies
relating to housing and urban problems, not
otherwise provided for, as authorized by title
V of the Housing and Urban Development
Act of 1970 (12 U.S.C. 1701z–1 et seq.), includ-
ing carrying out the functions of the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development
under section 1(a)(1)(i) of Reorganization
Plan No. 2 of 1968, and for technical assist-
ance, $96,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2021: Provided, That with re-
spect to amounts made available under this
heading, notwithstanding section 203 of this
title, the Secretary may enter into coopera-
tive agreements with philanthropic entities,
other Federal agencies, State or local gov-
ernments and their agencies, Indian tribes,
tribally designated housing entities, or col-
leges or universities for research projects:
Provided further, That with respect to the
previous proviso, such partners to the coop-
erative agreements must contribute at least
a 50 percent match toward the cost of the
project: Provided further, That for non-com-
petitive agreements entered into in accord-
ance with the previous two provisos, the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development
shall comply with section 2(b) of the Federal
Funding Accountability and Transparency
Act of 2006 (Public Law 109–282, 31 U.S.C.
note) in lieu of compliance with section
102(a)(4)(C) with respect to documentation of
award decisions: Provided further, That prior
to obligation of technical assistance funding,
the Secretary shall submit a plan to the
House and Senate Committees on Appropria-
tions on how it will allocate funding for this
activity at least 30 days prior to obligation:
Provided further, That none of the funds pro-
vided under this heading may be available
for the doctoral dissertation research grant
program.
FAIR HOUSING AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
FAIR HOUSING ACTIVITIES
For contracts, grants, and other assist-
ance, not otherwise provided for, as author-
ized by title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of
1968, as amended by the Fair Housing
Amendments Act of 1988, and section 561 of
the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1987, as amended, $65,300,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2021: Provided,
That grants made available from amounts
provided under this heading shall be awarded
within one year of enactment of this Act:
Provided further, That notwithstanding 31
U.S.C. 3302, the Secretary may assess and
collect fees to cover the costs of the Fair
Housing Training Academy, and may use
such funds to develop on-line courses and
provide such training: Provided further, That
no funds made available under this heading
shall be used to lobby the executive or legis-
lative branches of the Federal Government
in connection with a specific contract, grant,
or loan: Provided further, That of the funds
made available under this heading, $300,000
shall be available to the Secretary of Hous-
ing and Urban Development for the creation
and promotion of translated materials and
other programs that support the assistance
of persons with limited English proficiency
in utilizing the services provided by the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment.
OFFICE OF LEAD HAZARD CONTROL AND
HEALTHY HOMES
LEAD HAZARD REDUCTION
For the Lead Hazard Reduction Program,
as authorized by section 1011 of the Residen-
tial Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act
of 1992, $290,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2022, of which $45,000,000 shall
be for the Healthy Homes Initiative, pursu-
ant to sections 501 and 502 of the Housing and
Urban Development Act of 1970, which shall
include research, studies, testing, and dem-
onstration efforts, including education and
outreach concerning lead-based paint poi-
soning and other housing-related diseases
and hazards: Provided, That for purposes of
environmental review pursuant to the Na-
tional Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42
U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and other provisions of
law that further the purposes of such Act, a
grant under the Healthy Homes Initiative, or
the Lead Technical Studies program under
this heading or under prior appropriations
Acts for such purposes under this heading,
shall be considered to be funds for a special
project for purposes of section 305(c) of the
Multifamily Housing Property Disposition
Reform Act of 1994: Provided further, That
not less than $100,000,000 of the amounts
made available under this heading for the
award of grants pursuant to section 1011 of
the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Re-
duction Act of 1992 shall be provided to areas
with the highest lead-based paint abatement
needs: Provided further, That $64,000,000 of the
funds appropriated under this heading shall
be for the implementation of projects in not
more than ten communities to demonstrate
how intensive, extended, multi-year inter-
ventions can dramatically reduce the pres-
ence of lead-based paint hazards in those
communities: Provided further, That each
project shall serve no more than four contig-
uous census tracts in which there are high
concentrations of housing stock built before
1940, in which low-income families with chil-
dren make up a significantly higher propor-
tion of the population as compared to the
State average, and that are located in juris-
dictions in which instances of elevated blood
lead levels reported to the State are signifi-
cantly higher than the State average: Pro-
vided further, That such projects shall be
awarded not less than $6,000,000 and not more
than $9,000,000: Provided further, That funding
awarded for such projects shall be made
available for draw down contingent upon the
grantee meeting cost-savings, productivity,
and grant compliance benchmarks estab-
lished by the Secretary: Provided further,
That each recipient of funds for such
projects shall contribute an amount not less
than 10 percent of the total award, and that
the Secretary shall give priority to appli-
cants that secure commitments for addi-
tional contributions from public and private
sources: Provided further, That grantees cur-
rently receiving grants made under this
heading shall be eligible to apply for such
projects, provided that they are deemed to be
in compliance with program requirements
established by the Secretary: Provided fur-
ther, That each applicant shall certify ade-
quate capacity that is acceptable to the Sec-
retary to carry out the proposed use of funds
pursuant to a notice of funding availability:
Provided further, That amounts made avail-
able under this heading in this or prior ap-
propriations Acts, still remaining available,
may be used for any purpose under this head-
ing notwithstanding the purpose for which
such amounts were appropriated if a pro-
gram competition is undersubscribed and
there are other program competitions under
this heading that are oversubscribed.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY FUND
For the development, modernization, and
enhancement of, modifications to, and infra-
structure for Department-wide and program-
specific information technology systems, for
the continuing operation and maintenance of
both Department-wide and program-specific
information systems, and for program-re-
lated maintenance activities, $280,000,000, of
which $260,000,000 shall remain available
until September 30, 2021, and of which
$20,000,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2022: Provided, That any amounts
transferred to this Fund under this Act shall
remain available until expended: Provided
further, That any amounts transferred to
this Fund from amounts appropriated by pre-
viously enacted appropriations Acts may be
used for the purposes specified under this
Fund, in addition to any other information
technology purposes for which such amounts
were appropriated: Provided further, That not
more than 10 percent of the funds made
available under this heading for develop-
ment, modernization and enhancement may
be obligated until the Secretary submits to
the House and Senate Committees on Appro-
priations, for approval, a plan for expendi-
ture that—(A) identifies for each moderniza-
tion project: (i) the functional and perform-
ance capabilities to be delivered and the mis-
sion benefits to be realized, (ii) the esti-
mated life-cycle cost, and (iii) key mile-
stones to be met; and (B) demonstrates that
each modernization project is: (i) compliant
with the Department’s enterprise architec-
ture, (ii) being managed in accordance with
applicable life-cycle management policies
and guidance, (iii) subject to the Depart-
ment’s capital planning and investment con-
trol requirements, and (iv) supported by an
adequately staffed project office.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary salaries and expenses of the
Office of Inspector General in carrying out
the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amend-
ed, $132,489,000: Provided, That the Inspector
General shall have independent authority
over all personnel issues within this office:
Provided further, That the Office of Inspector
General shall procure and rely upon the serv-
ices of an independent external auditor to
audit the fiscal year 2020 and subsequent fi-
nancial statements of the Department of
Housing and Urban Development including
the financial statements of the Federal
Housing Administration and the Government
National Mortgage Association.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—DEPARTMENT OF
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
(INCLUDING RESCISSIONS)
SEC. 201. Fifty percent of the amounts of
budget authority, or in lieu thereof 50 per-
cent of the cash amounts associated with
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00107 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6038 October 22, 2019
such budget authority, that are recaptured
from projects described in section 1012(a) of
the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assist-
ance Amendments Act of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 1437f
note) shall be rescinded or in the case of
cash, shall be remitted to the Treasury, and
such amounts of budget authority or cash re-
captured and not rescinded or remitted to
the Treasury shall be used by State housing
finance agencies or local governments or
local housing agencies with projects ap-
proved by the Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development for which settlement oc-
curred after January 1, 1992, in accordance
with such section. Notwithstanding the pre-
vious sentence, the Secretary may award up
to 15 percent of the budget authority or cash
recaptured and not rescinded or remitted to
the Treasury to provide project owners with
incentives to refinance their project at a
lower interest rate.
SEC. 202. None of the amounts made avail-
able under this Act may be used during fiscal
year 2020 to investigate or prosecute under
the Fair Housing Act any otherwise lawful
activity engaged in by one or more persons,
including the filing or maintaining of a non-
frivolous legal action, that is engaged in
solely for the purpose of achieving or pre-
venting action by a Government official or
entity, or a court of competent jurisdiction.
SEC. 203. Except as explicitly provided in
law, any grant, cooperative agreement or
other assistance made pursuant to title II of
this Act shall be made on a competitive basis
and in accordance with section 102 of the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Development
Reform Act of 1989 (42 U.S.C. 3545).
SEC. 204. Funds of the Department of Hous-
ing and Urban Development subject to the
Government Corporation Control Act or sec-
tion 402 of the Housing Act of 1950 shall be
available, without regard to the limitations
on administrative expenses, for legal serv-
ices on a contract or fee basis, and for uti-
lizing and making payment for services and
facilities of the Federal National Mortgage
Association, Government National Mortgage
Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage
Corporation, Federal Financing Bank, Fed-
eral Reserve banks or any member thereof,
Federal Home Loan banks, and any insured
bank within the meaning of the Federal De-
posit Insurance Corporation Act, as amended
(12 U.S.C. 1811–1).
SEC. 205. Unless otherwise provided for in
this Act or through a reprogramming of
funds, no part of any appropriation for the
Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment shall be available for any program,
project or activity in excess of amounts set
forth in the budget estimates submitted to
Congress.
SEC. 206. Corporations and agencies of the
Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment which are subject to the Government
Corporation Control Act are hereby author-
ized to make such expenditures, within the
limits of funds and borrowing authority
available to each such corporation or agency
and in accordance with law, and to make
such contracts and commitments without re-
gard to fiscal year limitations as provided by
section 104 of such Act as may be necessary
in carrying out the programs set forth in the
budget for 2020 for such corporation or agen-
cy except as hereinafter provided: Provided,
That collections of these corporations and
agencies may be used for new loan or mort-
gage purchase commitments only to the ex-
tent expressly provided for in this Act (un-
less such loans are in support of other forms
of assistance provided for in this or prior ap-
propriations Acts), except that this proviso
shall not apply to the mortgage insurance or
guaranty operations of these corporations,
or where loans or mortgage purchases are
necessary to protect the financial interest of
the United States Government.
SEC. 207. The Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development shall provide quarterly
reports to the House and Senate Committees
on Appropriations regarding all uncommit-
ted, unobligated, recaptured and excess funds
in each program and activity within the ju-
risdiction of the Department and shall sub-
mit additional, updated budget information
to these Committees upon request.
SEC. 208. No funds provided under this title
may be used for an audit of the Government
National Mortgage Association that makes
applicable requirements under the Federal
Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661 et
seq.).
SEC. 209. (a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, subject to the conditions
listed under this section, for fiscal years 2020
and 2021, the Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development may authorize the transfer of
some or all project-based assistance, debt
held or insured by the Secretary and statu-
torily required low-income and very low-in-
come use restrictions if any, associated with
one or more multifamily housing project or
projects to another multifamily housing
project or projects.
(b) PHASED TRANSFERS.—Transfers of
project-based assistance under this section
may be done in phases to accommodate the
financing and other requirements related to
rehabilitating or constructing the project or
projects to which the assistance is trans-
ferred, to ensure that such project or
projects meet the standards under subsection
(c).
(c) The transfer authorized in subsection
(a) is subject to the following conditions:
(1) NUMBER AND BEDROOM SIZE OF UNITS.—
(A) For occupied units in the transferring
project: The number of low-income and very
low-income units and the configuration (i.e.,
bedroom size) provided by the transferring
project shall be no less than when trans-
ferred to the receiving project or projects
and the net dollar amount of Federal assist-
ance provided to the transferring project
shall remain the same in the receiving
project or projects.
(B) For unoccupied units in the transfer-
ring project: The Secretary may authorize a
reduction in the number of dwelling units in
the receiving project or projects to allow for
a reconfiguration of bedroom sizes to meet
current market demands, as determined by
the Secretary and provided there is no in-
crease in the project-based assistance budget
authority.
(2) The transferring project shall, as deter-
mined by the Secretary, be either physically
obsolete or economically nonviable.
(3) The receiving project or projects shall
meet or exceed applicable physical standards
established by the Secretary.
(4) The owner or mortgagor of the transfer-
ring project shall notify and consult with the
tenants residing in the transferring project
and provide a certification of approval by all
appropriate local governmental officials.
(5) The tenants of the transferring project
who remain eligible for assistance to be pro-
vided by the receiving project or projects
shall not be required to vacate their units in
the transferring project or projects until new
units in the receiving project are available
for occupancy.
(6) The Secretary determines that this
transfer is in the best interest of the tenants.
(7) If either the transferring project or the
receiving project or projects meets the con-
dition specified in subsection (d)(2)(A), any
lien on the receiving project resulting from
additional financing obtained by the owner
shall be subordinate to any FHA-insured
mortgage lien transferred to, or placed on,
such project by the Secretary, except that
the Secretary may waive this requirement
upon determination that such a waiver is
necessary to facilitate the financing of ac-
quisition, construction, and/or rehabilitation
of the receiving project or projects.
(8) If the transferring project meets the re-
quirements of subsection (d)(2), the owner or
mortgagor of the receiving project or
projects shall execute and record either a
continuation of the existing use agreement
or a new use agreement for the project
where, in either case, any use restrictions in
such agreement are of no lesser duration
than the existing use restrictions.
(9) The transfer does not increase the cost
(as defined in section 502 of the Congres-
sional Budget Act of 1974(2 U.S.C. 661a)) of
any FHA-insured mortgage, except to the ex-
tent that appropriations are provided in ad-
vance for the amount of any such increased
cost.
(d) For purposes of this section—
(1) the terms ‘‘low-income’’ and ‘‘very low-
income’’ shall have the meanings provided
by the statute and/or regulations governing
the program under which the project is in-
sured or assisted;
(2) the term ‘‘multifamily housing project’’
means housing that meets one of the fol-
lowing conditions—
(A) housing that is subject to a mortgage
insured under the National Housing Act;
(B) housing that has project-based assist-
ance attached to the structure including
projects undergoing mark to market debt re-
structuring under the Multifamily Assisted
Housing Reform and Affordability Housing
Act;
(C) housing that is assisted under section
202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C.
1701q);
(D) housing that is assisted under section
202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C.
1701q), as such section existed before the en-
actment of the Cranston-Gonzales National
Affordable Housing Act;
(E) housing that is assisted under section
811 of the Cranston-Gonzales National Af-
fordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013); or
(F) housing or vacant land that is subject
to a use agreement;
(3) the term ‘‘project-based assistance’’
means—
(A) assistance provided under section 8(b)
of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42
U.S.C. 1437f(b));
(B) assistance for housing constructed or
substantially rehabilitated pursuant to as-
sistance provided under section 8(b)(2) of
such Act (as such section existed imme-
diately before October 1, 1983);
(C) rent supplement payments under sec-
tion 101 of the Housing and Urban Develop-
ment Act of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 1701s);
(D) interest reduction payments under sec-
tion 236 and/or additional assistance pay-
ments under section 236(f)(2) of the National
Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z–1);
(E) assistance payments made under sec-
tion 202(c)(2) of the Housing Act of 1959 (12
U.S.C. 1701q(c)(2)); and
(F) assistance payments made under sec-
tion 811(d)(2) of the Cranston-Gonzalez Na-
tional Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C.
8013(d)(2));
(4) the term ‘‘receiving project or projects’’
means the multifamily housing project or
projects to which some or all of the project-
based assistance, debt, and statutorily re-
quired low-income and very low-income use
restrictions are to be transferred;
(5) the term ‘‘transferring project’’ means
the multifamily housing project which is
transferring some or all of the project-based
assistance, debt, and the statutorily required
low-income and very low-income use restric-
tions to the receiving project or projects;
and
(6) the term ‘‘Secretary’’ means the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00108 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6039
October 22, 2019
(e) RESEARCH REPORT.—The Secretary
shall conduct an evaluation of the transfer
authority under this section, including the
effect of such transfers on the operational ef-
ficiency, contract rents, physical and finan-
cial conditions, and long-term preservation
of the affected properties.
SEC. 210. (a) No assistance shall be provided
under section 8 of the United States Housing
Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f) to any individual
who—
(1) is enrolled as a student at an institu-
tion of higher education (as defined under
section 102 of the Higher Education Act of
1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002));
(2) is under 24 years of age;
(3) is not a veteran;
(4) is unmarried;
(5) does not have a dependent child;
(6) is not a person with disabilities, as such
term is defined in section 3(b)(3)(E) of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.
1437a(b)(3)(E)) and was not receiving assist-
ance under such section 8 as of November 30,
2005;
(7) is not a youth who left foster care at
age 14 or older and is at risk of becoming
homeless; and
(8) is not otherwise individually eligible, or
has parents who, individually or jointly, are
not eligible, to receive assistance under sec-
tion 8 of the United States Housing Act of
1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f).
(b) For purposes of determining the eligi-
bility of a person to receive assistance under
section 8 of the United States Housing Act of
1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f), any financial assistance
(in excess of amounts received for tuition
and any other required fees and charges)
that an individual receives under the Higher
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.),
from private sources, or an institution of
higher education (as defined under section
102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20
U.S.C. 1002)), shall be considered income to
that individual, except for a person over the
age of 23 with dependent children.
SEC. 211. The funds made available for Na-
tive Alaskans under the heading ‘‘Native
American Housing Block Grants’’ in title II
of this Act shall be allocated to the same Na-
tive Alaskan housing block grant recipients
that received funds in fiscal year 2005.
SEC. 212. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, in fiscal year 2020, in managing
and disposing of any multifamily property
that is owned or has a mortgage held by the
Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment, and during the process of foreclosure
on any property with a contract for rental
assistance payments under section 8 of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.
1437f) or other Federal programs, the Sec-
retary shall maintain any rental assistance
payments under section 8 of the United
States Housing Act of 1937 and other pro-
grams that are attached to any dwelling
units in the property. To the extent the Sec-
retary determines, in consultation with the
tenants and the local government, that such
a multifamily property owned or held by the
Secretary is not feasible for continued rental
assistance payments under such section 8 or
other programs, based on consideration of (1)
the costs of rehabilitating and operating the
property and all available Federal, State,
and local resources, including rent adjust-
ments under section 524 of the Multifamily
Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability
Act of 1997 (‘‘MAHRAA’’) (42 U.S.C. 1437f
note) and (2) environmental conditions that
cannot be remedied in a cost-effective fash-
ion, the Secretary may, in consultation with
the tenants of that property, contract for
project-based rental assistance payments
with an owner or owners of other existing
housing properties, or provide other rental
assistance. The Secretary shall also take ap-
propriate steps to ensure that project-based
contracts remain in effect prior to fore-
closure, subject to the exercise of contrac-
tual abatement remedies to assist relocation
of tenants for imminent major threats to
health and safety after written notice to and
informed consent of the affected tenants and
use of other available remedies, such as par-
tial abatements or receivership. After dis-
position of any multifamily property de-
scribed under this section, the contract and
allowable rent levels on such properties shall
be subject to the requirements under section
524 of MAHRAA.
SEC. 213. Public housing agencies that own
and operate 400 or fewer public housing units
may elect to be exempt from any asset man-
agement requirement imposed by the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development in
connection with the operating fund rule: Pro-
vided, That an agency seeking a discontinu-
ance of a reduction of subsidy under the op-
erating fund formula shall not be exempt
from asset management requirements.
SEC. 214. With respect to the use of
amounts provided in this Act and in future
Acts for the operation, capital improvement
and management of public housing as au-
thorized by sections 9(d) and 9(e) of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.
1437g(d) and (e)), the Secretary shall not im-
pose any requirement or guideline relating
to asset management that restricts or limits
in any way the use of capital funds for cen-
tral office costs pursuant to section 9(g)(1) or
9(g)(2) of the United States Housing Act of
1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g(g)(1), (2)): Provided, That
a public housing agency may not use capital
funds authorized under section 9(d) for ac-
tivities that are eligible under section 9(e)
for assistance with amounts from the oper-
ating fund in excess of the amounts per-
mitted under section 9(g)(1) or 9(g)(2).
SEC. 215. No official or employee of the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Development
shall be designated as an allotment holder
unless the Office of the Chief Financial Offi-
cer has determined that such allotment hold-
er has implemented an adequate system of
funds control and has received training in
funds control procedures and directives. The
Chief Financial Officer shall ensure that
there is a trained allotment holder for each
HUD appropriation under the accounts ‘‘Ex-
ecutive Offices’’, ‘‘Administrative Support
Offices’’, ‘‘Program Offices’’, ‘‘Government
National Mortgage Association—Guarantees
of Mortgage-Backed Securities Loan Guar-
antee Program Account’’, and ‘‘Office of In-
spector General’’ within the Department of
Housing and Urban Development.
SEC. 216. The Secretary of the Department
of Housing and Urban Development shall, for
fiscal year 2020, notify the public through
the Federal Register and other means, as de-
termined appropriate, of the issuance of a
notice of the availability of assistance or no-
tice of funding availability (NOFA) for any
program or discretionary fund administered
by the Secretary that is to be competitively
awarded. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, for fiscal year 2020, the Secretary
may make the NOFA available only on the
Internet at the appropriate Government web
site or through other electronic media, as de-
termined by the Secretary.
SEC. 217. Payment of attorney fees in pro-
gram-related litigation shall be paid from
the individual program office and Office of
General Counsel salaries and expenses appro-
priations. The annual budget submission for
the program offices and the Office of General
Counsel shall include any such projected liti-
gation costs for attorney fees as a separate
line item request. No funds provided in this
title may be used to pay any such litigation
costs for attorney fees until the Department
submits for review a spending plan for such
costs to the House and Senate Committees
on Appropriations.
SEC. 218. The Secretary is authorized to
transfer up to 10 percent or $5,000,000, which-
ever is less, of funds appropriated for any of-
fice under the headings ‘‘Administrative
Support Offices’’ or ‘‘Program Offices’’ to
any other such office or account: Provided,
That no appropriation for any such office or
account shall be increased or decreased by
more than 10 percent or $5,000,000, whichever
is less, without prior written approval of the
House and Senate Committees on Appropria-
tions: Provided further, That the Secretary
shall provide notification to such Commit-
tees 3 business days in advance of any such
transfers under this section up to 10 percent
or $5,000,000, whichever is less.
SEC. 219. (a) Any entity receiving housing
assistance payments shall maintain decent,
safe, and sanitary conditions, as determined
by the Secretary of Housing and Urban De-
velopment (in this section referred to as the
‘‘Secretary’’), and comply with any stand-
ards under applicable State or local laws,
rules, ordinances, or regulations relating to
the physical condition of any property cov-
ered under a housing assistance payment
contract.
(b) The Secretary shall take action under
subsection (c) when a multifamily housing
project with a section 8 contract or contract
for similar project-based assistance—
(1) receives a Uniform Physical Condition
Standards (UPCS) score of 60 or less; or
(2) fails to certify in writing to the Sec-
retary within 3 days that all Exigent Health
and Safety deficiencies identified by the in-
spector at the project have been corrected.
Such requirements shall apply to insured
and noninsured projects with assistance at-
tached to the units under section 8 of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.
1437f), but do not apply to such units assisted
under section 8(o)(13) (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)(13))
or to public housing units assisted with cap-
ital or operating funds under section 9 of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.
1437g).
(c)(1) Within 15 days of the issuance of the
REAC inspection, the Secretary must pro-
vide the owner with a Notice of Default with
a specified timetable, determined by the Sec-
retary, for correcting all deficiencies. The
Secretary must also provide a copy of the
Notice of Default to the tenants, the local
government, any mortgagees, and any con-
tract administrator. If the owner’s appeal re-
sults in a UPCS score of 60 or above, the Sec-
retary may withdraw the Notice of Default.
(2) At the end of the time period for cor-
recting all deficiencies specified in the No-
tice of Default, if the owner fails to fully cor-
rect such deficiencies, the Secretary may—
(A) require immediate replacement of
project management with a management
agent approved by the Secretary;
(B) impose civil money penalties, which
shall be used solely for the purpose of sup-
porting safe and sanitary conditions at appli-
cable properties, as designated by the Sec-
retary, with priority given to the tenants of
the property affected by the penalty;
(C) abate the section 8 contract, including
partial abatement, as determined by the Sec-
retary, until all deficiencies have been cor-
rected;
(D) pursue transfer of the project to an
owner, approved by the Secretary under es-
tablished procedures, which will be obligated
to promptly make all required repairs and to
accept renewal of the assistance contract as
long as such renewal is offered;
(E) transfer the existing section 8 contract
to another project or projects and owner or
owners;
(F) pursue exclusionary sanctions, includ-
ing suspensions or debarments from Federal
programs;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00109 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6040 October 22, 2019
(G) seek judicial appointment of a receiver
to manage the property and cure all project
deficiencies or seek a judicial order of spe-
cific performance requiring the owner to
cure all project deficiencies;
(H) work with the owner, lender, or other
related party to stabilize the property in an
attempt to preserve the property through
compliance, transfer of ownership, or an in-
fusion of capital provided by a third-party
that requires time to effectuate; or
(I) take any other regulatory or contrac-
tual remedies available as deemed necessary
and appropriate by the Secretary.
(d) The Secretary shall also take appro-
priate steps to ensure that project-based con-
tracts remain in effect, subject to the exer-
cise of contractual abatement remedies to
assist relocation of tenants for major threats
to health and safety after written notice to
the affected tenants. To the extent the Sec-
retary determines, in consultation with the
tenants and the local government, that the
property is not feasible for continued rental
assistance payments under such section 8 or
other programs, based on consideration of—
(1) the costs of rehabilitating and oper-
ating the property and all available Federal,
State, and local resources, including rent ad-
justments under section 524 of the Multi-
family Assisted Housing Reform and Afford-
ability Act of 1997 (‘‘MAHRAA’’); and
(2) environmental conditions that cannot
be remedied in a cost-effective fashion, the
Secretary may contract for project-based
rental assistance payments with an owner or
owners of other existing housing properties,
or provide other rental assistance.
(e) The Secretary shall report quarterly on
all properties covered by this section that
are assessed through the Real Estate Assess-
ment Center and have UPCS physical inspec-
tion scores of less than 60 or have received
an unsatisfactory management and occu-
pancy review within the past 36 months. The
report shall include—
(1) the enforcement actions being taken to
address such conditions, including imposi-
tion of civil money penalties and termi-
nation of subsidies, and identify properties
that have such conditions multiple times;
(2) actions that the Department of Housing
and Urban Development is taking to protect
tenants of such identified properties; and
(3) any administrative or legislative rec-
ommendations to further improve the living
conditions at properties covered under a
housing assistance payment contract.
This report shall be due to the Senate and
House Committees on Appropriations no
later than 30 days after the enactment of
this Act, and on the first business day of
each Federal fiscal year quarter thereafter
while this section remains in effect.
SEC. 220. None of the funds made available
by this Act, or any other Act, for purposes
authorized under section 8 (only with respect
to the tenant-based rental assistance pro-
gram) and section 9 of the United States
Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.),
may be used by any public housing agency
for any amount of salary, including bonuses,
for the chief executive officer of which, or
any other official or employee of which, that
exceeds the annual rate of basic pay payable
for a position at level IV of the Executive
Schedule at any time during any public
housing agency fiscal year 2020.
SEC. 221. None of the funds in this Act pro-
vided to the Department of Housing and
Urban Development may be used to make a
grant award unless the Secretary notifies
the House and Senate Committees on Appro-
priations not less than 3 full business days
before any project, State, locality, housing
authority, tribe, nonprofit organization, or
other entity selected to receive a grant
award is announced by the Department or its
offices.
SEC. 222. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to require or enforce
the Physical Needs Assessment (PNA).
SEC. 223. None of the funds made available
in this Act shall be used by the Federal
Housing Administration, the Government
National Mortgage Administration, or the
Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment to insure, securitize, or establish a
Federal guarantee of any mortgage or mort-
gage backed security that refinances or oth-
erwise replaces a mortgage that has been
subject to eminent domain condemnation or
seizure, by a State, municipality, or any
other political subdivision of a State.
SEC. 224. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to terminate the
status of a unit of general local government
as a metropolitan city (as defined in section
102 of the Housing and Community Develop-
ment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302)) with respect
to grants under section 106 of such Act (42
U.S.C. 5306).
SEC. 225. Amounts made available under
this Act which are either appropriated, allo-
cated, advanced on a reimbursable basis, or
transferred to the Office of Policy Develop-
ment and Research in the Department of
Housing and Urban Development and func-
tions thereof, for research, evaluation, or
statistical purposes, and which are unex-
pended at the time of completion of a con-
tract, grant, or cooperative agreement, may
be deobligated and shall immediately be-
come available and may be reobligated in
that fiscal year or the subsequent fiscal year
for the research, evaluation, or statistical
purposes for which the amounts are made
available to that Office subject to re-
programming requirements in section 405 of
this Act.
SEC. 226. None of the funds provided in this
Act or any other act may be used for awards,
including performance, special act, or spot,
for any employee of the Department of Hous-
ing and Urban Development subject to ad-
ministrative discipline (including suspension
from work), in this or the prior fiscal year,
but this prohibition shall not be effective
prior to the effective date of any such admin-
istrative discipline or after any final deci-
sion over-turning such discipline.
SEC. 227. Funds made available in this title
under the heading ‘‘Homeless Assistance
Grants’’ may be used by the Secretary to
participate in Performance Partnership Pi-
lots authorized under section 526 of division
H of Public Law 113–76, section 524 of division
G of Public Law 113–235, section 525 of divi-
sion H of Public Law 114–113, section 525 of
division H of Public Law 115–31, section 525 of
division H of Public Law 115–141, section 524
of division B of Public Law 115–245 and such
authorities as are enacted for Performance
Partnership Pilots in an appropriations Act
for fiscal year 2020: Provided, That such par-
ticipation shall be limited to no more than
10 continuums of care and housing activities
to improve outcomes for disconnected youth.
SEC. 228. With respect to grant amounts
awarded under the heading ‘‘Homeless As-
sistance Grants’’ for fiscal years 2015 through
2020 for the continuum of care (CoC) program
as authorized under subtitle C of title IV of
the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance
Act, costs paid by program income of grant
recipients may count toward meeting the re-
cipient’s matching requirements, provided
the costs are eligible CoC costs that supple-
ment the recipient’s CoC program.
SEC. 229. (a) From amounts made available
under this title under the heading ‘‘Homeless
Assistance Grants’’, the Secretary may
award 1-year transition grants to recipients
of funds for activities under subtitle C of the
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act
(42 U.S.C. 11381 et seq.) to transition from
one Continuum of Care program component
to another.
(b) In order to be eligible to receive a tran-
sition grant, the funding recipient must have
the consent of the Continuum of Care and
meet standards determined by the Secretary.
SEC. 230. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used by the Department
of Housing and Urban Development to direct
a grantee to undertake specific changes to
existing zoning laws as part of carrying out
the final rule entitled ‘‘Affirmatively Fur-
thering Fair Housing’’ (80 Fed. Reg. 42272
(July 16, 2015)) or the notice entitled ‘‘Af-
firmatively Furthering Fair Housing Assess-
ment Tool’’ (79 Fed. Reg. 57949 (September
26, 2014)).
SEC. 231. The Promise Zone designations
and Promise Zone Designation Agreements
entered into pursuant to such designations,
made by the Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development in prior fiscal years, shall re-
main in effect in accordance with the terms
and conditions of such agreements.
SEC. 232. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to establish and
apply review criteria, including rating fac-
tors or preference points, for participation in
or coordination with EnVision Centers, in
the evaluation, selection, and award of any
funds made available and requiring competi-
tive selection under this Act, except with re-
spect to any such funds otherwise authorized
for EnVision Center purposes under this Act.
SEC. 233. None of the funds made available
by this or any prior Act may be used to re-
quire or enforce any changes to the terms
and conditions of the public housing annual
contributions contract between the Sec-
retary and any public housing agency, as
such contract was in effect as of December
31, 2017, unless such changes are mutually
agreed upon by the Secretary and such agen-
cy: Provided, That such agreement by an
agency may be indicated only by a written
amendment to the terms and conditions con-
taining the duly authorized signature of its
chief executive: Provided Further, That the
Secretary may not withhold funds to compel
such agreement by an agency which certifies
to its compliance with its contract.
SEC. 234. None of the amounts made avail-
able in this Act or in the Department of
Housing and Urban Development Appropria-
tions Act, 2019 (Public Law 116–6) may be
used to consider Family Self-Sufficiency per-
formance measures or performance scores in
determining funding awards for programs re-
ceiving Family Self-Sufficiency program co-
ordinator funding provided in this Act or in
the Department of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment Appropriations Act, 2019 (Public Law
116–6).
SEC. 235. (a) All unobligated balances from
funds appropriated under the heading ‘‘De-
partment of Housing and Urban Development
Public and Indian Housing—Tenant Based
Rental Assistance’’ in chapter 10 of title I of
division B of the Consolidated Security, Dis-
aster Assistance, and Continuing Appropria-
tions Act, 2009 (Public Law 110–329) are here-
by rescinded.
(b) All unobligated balances from funds ap-
propriated under the heading ‘‘Department
of Housing and Urban Development Public
and Indian Housing—Project-Based Rental
Assistance’’ in chapter 10 of title I of divi-
sion B of the Consolidated Security, Disaster
Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations
Act, 2009 (Public Law 110–329; 122 Stat. 324)
(as amended by section 1203 of Public Law
111–32; 123 Stat. 1859) are hereby rescinded.
SEC. 236. Any public housing agency des-
ignated as a Moving to Work agency pursu-
ant to section 239 of (Public Law 114–113)
may, upon such designation, use funds (ex-
cept for special purpose funding, including
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00110 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6041
October 22, 2019
special purpose vouchers) previously allo-
cated to any such public housing agency
under section 8 or 9 of the United States
Housing Act of 1937, including any reserve
funds held by the public housing agency or
funds held by the Department of Housing and
Urban Development, pursuant to the author-
ity for use of section 8 or 9 funding provided
under such section and section 204 of title II
of the Departments of Veterans Affairs and
Housing and Urban Development and Inde-
pendent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1996
(Public Law 104–134), notwithstanding the
purposes for which such funds were appro-
priated
SEC. 237. None of the amounts made avail-
able by this Act or by Public Law 116-6 may
be used to prohibit any public housing agen-
cy under receivership or the direction of a
Federal monitor from applying for, receiv-
ing, or using funds made available under the
heading ‘‘Public Housing Capital Fund’’ for
competitive grants to evaluate and reduce
lead-based paint hazards in this Act or that
remain available and not awarded from prior
Acts, or be used to prohibit a public housing
agency from using such funds to carry out
any required work pursuant to a settlement
agreement, consent decree, voluntary agree-
ment, or similar document for a violation of
the Lead Safe Housing or Lead Disclosure
Rules.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Department
of Housing and Urban Development Appro-
priations Act, 2020’’.
TITLE III
RELATED AGENCIES
ACCESS BOARD
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For expenses necessary for the Access
Board, as authorized by section 502 of the Re-
habilitation Act of 1973, as amended,
$9,200,000: Provided, That, notwithstanding
any other provision of law, there may be
credited to this appropriation funds received
for publications and training expenses: Pro-
vided further, That of this amount, $800,000
shall be for activities authorized under sec-
tion 432 of Public Law 115–254.
FEDERAL MARITIME COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Federal Mar-
itime Commission as authorized by section
201(d) of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, as
amended (46 U.S.C. 307), including services as
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger
motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C.
1343(b); and uniforms or allowances there-
fore, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901–5902,
$28,000,000: Provided, That not to exceed $2,000
shall be available for official reception and
representation expenses.
NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General for the National Railroad
Passenger Corporation to carry out the pro-
visions of the Inspector General Act of 1978,
as amended, $23,274,000: Provided, That the
Inspector General shall have all necessary
authority, in carrying out the duties speci-
fied in the Inspector General Act, as amend-
ed (5 U.S.C. App. 3), to investigate allega-
tions of fraud, including false statements to
the government (18 U.S.C. 1001), by any per-
son or entity that is subject to regulation by
the National Railroad Passenger Corpora-
tion: Provided further, That the Inspector
General may enter into contracts and other
arrangements for audits, studies, analyses,
and other services with public agencies and
with private persons, subject to the applica-
ble laws and regulations that govern the ob-
taining of such services within the National
Railroad Passenger Corporation: Provided
further, That the Inspector General may se-
lect, appoint, and employ such officers and
employees as may be necessary for carrying
out the functions, powers, and duties of the
Office of Inspector General, subject to the
applicable laws and regulations that govern
such selections, appointments, and employ-
ment within the Corporation: Provided fur-
ther, That concurrent with the President’s
budget request for fiscal year 2021, the In-
spector General shall submit to the House
and Senate Committees on Appropriations a
budget request for fiscal year 2021 in similar
format and substance to those submitted by
executive agencies of the Federal Govern-
ment.
NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the National
Transportation Safety Board, including hire
of passenger motor vehicles and aircraft;
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at
rates for individuals not to exceed the per
diem rate equivalent to the rate for a GS–15;
uniforms, or allowances therefor, as author-
ized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901–5902), $110,400,000, of
which not to exceed $2,000 may be used for
official reception and representation ex-
penses. The amounts made available to the
National Transportation Safety Board in
this Act include amounts necessary to make
lease payments on an obligation incurred in
fiscal year 2001 for a capital lease.
NEIGHBORHOOD REINVESTMENT CORPORATION
PAYMENT TO THE NEIGHBORHOOD
REINVESTMENT CORPORATION
For payment to the Neighborhood Rein-
vestment Corporation for use in neighbor-
hood reinvestment activities, as authorized
by the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corpora-
tion Act (42 U.S.C. 8101–8107), $151,000,000, of
which $5,000,000 shall be for a multi-family
rental housing program: Provided, That an
additional $1,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2023, shall be for the pro-
motion and development of shared equity
housing models.
SURFACE TRANSPORTATION BOARD
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Surface
Transportation Board, including services au-
thorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $37,100,000: Provided,
That notwithstanding any other provision of
law, not to exceed $1,250,000 from fees estab-
lished by the Chairman of the Surface Trans-
portation Board shall be credited to this ap-
propriation as offsetting collections and used
for necessary and authorized expenses under
this heading: Provided further, That the sum
herein appropriated from the general fund
shall be reduced on a dollar-for-dollar basis
as such offsetting collections are received
during fiscal year 2020, to result in a final ap-
propriation from the general fund estimated
at no more than $35,850,000.
UNITED STATES INTERAGENCY COUNCIL ON
HOMELESSNESS
OPERATING EXPENSES
For necessary expenses (including payment
of salaries, authorized travel, hire of pas-
senger motor vehicles, the rental of con-
ference rooms, and the employment of ex-
perts and consultants under section 3109 of
title 5, United States Code) of the United
States Interagency Council on Homelessness
in carrying out the functions pursuant to
title II of the McKinney-Vento Homeless As-
sistance Act, as amended, $3,700,000.
TITLE IV
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS ACT
SEC. 401. None of the funds in this Act shall
be used for the planning or execution of any
program to pay the expenses of, or otherwise
compensate, non-Federal parties intervening
in regulatory or adjudicatory proceedings
funded in this Act.
SEC. 402. None of the funds appropriated in
this Act shall remain available for obliga-
tion beyond the current fiscal year, nor may
any be transferred to other appropriations,
unless expressly so provided herein.
SEC. 403. The expenditure of any appropria-
tion under this Act for any consulting serv-
ice through a procurement contract pursu-
ant to section 3109 of title 5, United States
Code, shall be limited to those contracts
where such expenditures are a matter of pub-
lic record and available for public inspection,
except where otherwise provided under exist-
ing law, or under existing Executive order
issued pursuant to existing law.
SEC. 404. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be obligated or ex-
pended for any employee training that—
(1) does not meet identified needs for
knowledge, skills, and abilities bearing di-
rectly upon the performance of official du-
ties;
(2) contains elements likely to induce high
levels of emotional response or psychological
stress in some participants;
(3) does not require prior employee notifi-
cation of the content and methods to be used
in the training and written end of course
evaluation;
(4) contains any methods or content associ-
ated with religious or quasi-religious belief
systems or ‘‘new age’’ belief systems as de-
fined in Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission Notice N–915.022, dated Sep-
tember 2, 1988; or
(5) is offensive to, or designed to change,
participants’ personal values or lifestyle out-
side the workplace.
(b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit,
restrict, or otherwise preclude an agency
from conducting training bearing directly
upon the performance of official duties.
SEC. 405. Except as otherwise provided in
this Act, none of the funds provided in this
Act, provided by previous appropriations
Acts to the agencies or entities funded in
this Act that remain available for obligation
or expenditure in fiscal year 2020, or provided
from any accounts in the Treasury derived
by the collection of fees and available to the
agencies funded by this Act, shall be avail-
able for obligation or expenditure through a
reprogramming of funds that—
(1) creates a new program;
(2) eliminates a program, project, or activ-
ity;
(3) increases funds or personnel for any
program, project, or activity for which funds
have been denied or restricted by the Con-
gress;
(4) proposes to use funds directed for a spe-
cific activity by either the House or Senate
Committees on Appropriations for a dif-
ferent purpose;
(5) augments existing programs, projects,
or activities in excess of $5,000,000 or 10 per-
cent, whichever is less;
(6) reduces existing programs, projects, or
activities by $5,000,000 or 10 percent, which-
ever is less; or
(7) creates, reorganizes, or restructures a
branch, division, office, bureau, board, com-
mission, agency, administration, or depart-
ment different from the budget justifications
submitted to the Committees on Appropria-
tions or the table accompanying the report
accompanying this Act, whichever is more
detailed, unless prior approval is received
from the House and Senate Committees on
Appropriations: Provided, That not later
than 60 days after the date of enactment of
this Act, each agency funded by this Act
shall submit a report to the Committees on
Appropriations of the Senate and of the
House of Representatives to establish the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00111 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6042 October 22, 2019
baseline for application of reprogramming
and transfer authorities for the current fis-
cal year: Provided further, That the report
shall include—
(A) a table for each appropriation with a
separate column to display the prior year en-
acted level, the President’s budget request,
adjustments made by Congress, adjustments
due to enacted rescissions, if appropriate,
and the fiscal year enacted level;
(B) a delineation in the table for each ap-
propriation and its respective prior year en-
acted level by object class and program,
project, and activity as detailed in this Act,
the table accompanying the explanatory
statement accompanying this Act, accom-
panying reports of the House and Senate
Committee on Appropriations, or in the
budget appendix for the respective appro-
priations, whichever is more detailed, and
shall apply to all items for which a dollar
amount is specified and to all programs for
which new budget (obligational) authority is
provided, as well as to discretionary grants
and discretionary grant allocations; and
(C) an identification of items of special
congressional interest.
SEC. 406. Except as otherwise specifically
provided by law, not to exceed 50 percent of
unobligated balances remaining available at
the end of fiscal year 2020 from appropria-
tions made available for salaries and ex-
penses for fiscal year 2020 in this Act, shall
remain available through September 30, 2021,
for each such account for the purposes au-
thorized: Provided, That a request shall be
submitted to the House and Senate Commit-
tees on Appropriations for approval prior to
the expenditure of such funds: Provided fur-
ther, That these requests shall be made in
compliance with reprogramming guidelines
under section 405 of this Act.
SEC. 407. No funds in this Act may be used
to support any Federal, State, or local
projects that seek to use the power of emi-
nent domain, unless eminent domain is em-
ployed only for a public use: Provided, That
for purposes of this section, public use shall
not be construed to include economic devel-
opment that primarily benefits private enti-
ties: Provided further, That any use of funds
for mass transit, railroad, airport, seaport or
highway projects, as well as utility projects
which benefit or serve the general public (in-
cluding energy-related, communication-re-
lated, water-related and wastewater-related
infrastructure), other structures designated
for use by the general public or which have
other common-carrier or public-utility func-
tions that serve the general public and are
subject to regulation and oversight by the
government, and projects for the removal of
an immediate threat to public health and
safety or brownfields as defined in the Small
Business Liability Relief and Brownfields
Revitalization Act (Public Law 107–118) shall
be considered a public use for purposes of
eminent domain.
SEC. 408. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be transferred to any depart-
ment, agency, or instrumentality of the
United States Government, except pursuant
to a transfer made by, or transfer authority
provided in, this Act or any other appropria-
tions Act.
SEC. 409. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this Act shall be available to pay
the salary for any person filling a position,
other than a temporary position, formerly
held by an employee who has left to enter
the Armed Forces of the United States and
has satisfactorily completed his or her pe-
riod of active military or naval service, and
has within 90 days after his or her release
from such service or from hospitalization
continuing after discharge for a period of not
more than 1 year, made application for res-
toration to his or her former position and
has been certified by the Office of Personnel
Management as still qualified to perform the
duties of his or her former position and has
not been restored thereto.
SEC. 410. No funds appropriated pursuant to
this Act may be expended by an entity un-
less the entity agrees that in expending the
assistance the entity will comply with sec-
tions 2 through 4 of the Act of March 3, 1933
(41 U.S.C. 8301–8305, popularly known as the
‘‘Buy American Act’’).
SEC. 411. No funds appropriated or other-
wise made available under this Act shall be
made available to any person or entity that
has been convicted of violating the Buy
American Act (41 U.S.C. 8301–8305).
SEC. 412. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used for first-class airline
accommodations in contravention of sec-
tions 301–10.122 and 301–10.123 of title 41, Code
of Federal Regulations.
SEC. 413. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act may be used to approve a
new foreign air carrier permit under sections
41301 through 41305 of title 49, United States
Code, or exemption application under section
40109 of that title of an air carrier already
holding an air operators certificate issued by
a country that is party to the U.S.-E.U.-Ice-
land-Norway Air Transport Agreement
where such approval would contravene
United States law or Article 17 bis of the
U.S.-E.U.-Iceland-Norway Air Transport
Agreement.
(b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit,
restrict or otherwise preclude the Secretary
of Transportation from granting a foreign
air carrier permit or an exemption to such
an air carrier where such authorization is
consistent with the U.S.-E.U.-Iceland-Nor-
way Air Transport Agreement and United
States law.
SEC. 414. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used to send or otherwise
pay for the attendance of more than 50 em-
ployees of a single agency or department of
the United States Government, who are sta-
tioned in the United States, at any single
international conference unless the relevant
Secretary reports to the House and Senate
Committees on Appropriations at least 5
days in advance that such attendance is im-
portant to the national interest: Provided,
That for purposes of this section the term
‘‘international conference’’ shall mean a
conference occurring outside of the United
States attended by representatives of the
United States Government and of foreign
governments, international organizations, or
nongovernmental organizations.
SEC. 415. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available under this Act may
be used by the Surface Transportation Board
to charge or collect any filing fee for rate or
practice complaints filed with the Board in
an amount in excess of the amount author-
ized for district court civil suit filing fees
under section 1914 of title 28, United States
Code.
SEC. 416. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used by the Department
of Transportation, the Department of Hous-
ing and Urban Development, or any other
Federal agency to lease or purchase new
light duty vehicles for any executive fleet, or
for an agency’s fleet inventory, except in ac-
cordance with Presidential Memorandum—
Federal Fleet Performance, dated May 24,
2011.
SEC. 417. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be used to maintain or
establish a computer network unless such
network blocks the viewing, downloading,
and exchanging of pornography.
(b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit
the use of funds necessary for any Federal,
State, tribal, or local law enforcement agen-
cy or any other entity carrying out criminal
investigations, prosecution, or adjudication
activities.
SEC. 418. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be used to deny an In-
spector General funded under this Act timely
access to any records, documents, or other
materials available to the department or
agency over which that Inspector General
has responsibilities under the Inspector Gen-
eral Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), or to prevent
or impede that Inspector General’s access to
such records, documents, or other materials,
under any provision of law, except a provi-
sion of law that expressly refers to the In-
spector General and expressly limits the In-
spector General’s right of access.
(b) A department or agency covered by this
section shall provide its Inspector General
with access to all such records, documents,
and other materials in a timely manner.
(c) Each Inspector General shall ensure
compliance with statutory limitations on
disclosure relevant to the information pro-
vided by the establishment over which that
Inspector General has responsibilities under
the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C.
App.).
(d) Each Inspector General covered by this
section shall report to the Committees on
Appropriations of the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate within 5 calendar days
any failures to comply with this require-
ment.
SEC. 419. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this Act may be
used to pay award or incentive fees for con-
tractors whose performance has been judged
to be below satisfactory, behind schedule,
over budget, or has failed to meet the basic
requirements of a contract, unless the Agen-
cy determines that any such deviations are
due to unforeseeable events, government-
driven scope changes, or are not significant
within the overall scope of the project and/or
program unless such awards or incentive fees
are consistent with 16.401(e)(2) of the FAR.
This division may be cited as the ‘‘Trans-
portation, Housing and Urban Development,
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act,
2020’’.
SA 949. Mr. YOUNG (for himself and
Mr. GARDNER) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title II of divi-
sion D, insert the following:
SEC. 2ll. (a) The purpose of this section is
to establish the Task Force on the Impact of
the Affordable Housing Crisis, which shall—
(1) evaluate and quantify the impact that a
lack of affordable housing has on other areas
of life and life outcomes;
(2) evaluate and quantify the costs in-
curred by other Federal, State, and local
programs due to a lack of affordable housing;
and
(3) make recommendations to Congress on
how to use affordable housing to improve the
effectiveness of other Federal programs and
improve life outcomes.
(b) In this section:
(1)(A) The term ‘‘affordable housing’’
means—
(i) housing for which the household is re-
quired to pay not more than 30 percent of the
household income for gross housing costs, in-
cluding utilities, where such income is less
than or equal to the area median income for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00112 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.028 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6043
October 22, 2019
the municipality in which the housing is lo-
cated, as determined by the Secretary; and
(ii) housing—
(I) for which the household pays more than
30 percent of the household income for gross
housing costs, including utilities, where such
income is less than or equal to the area me-
dian income for the municipality in which
the housing is located, as determined by the
Secretary; and
(II) that is assisted or considered afford-
able by the Department of Housing and
Urban Development, including—
(aa) public housing;
(bb) housing assisted under section 8(o) of
the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42
U.S.C. 1437f(o));
(cc) housing receiving the low-income
housing credit under section 42 of the Inter-
nal Revenue Code; and
(dd) housing assisted under other Federal
or local housing programs serving house-
holds with incomes at or below 80 percent of
the area median income or providing serv-
ices or amenities that will primarily be used
by low-income housing.
(B) The definition in subparagraph (A)
shall apply to Federal, State, and local af-
fordable housing programs.
(2) The terms ‘‘low-income housing’’ and
‘‘public housing’’ have the meanings given
those terms in section 3(b) of the United
States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.
1437a(b)).
(3) The term ‘‘Secretary’’ means the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development.
(4) The term ‘‘Task Force’’ means the Task
Force on the Impact of the Affordable Hous-
ing Crisis established under subsection (c)(1).
(c)(1) There is established a bipartisan task
force to be known as the Task Force on the
Impact of the Affordable Housing Crisis.
(2)(A) The Task Force shall be composed of
18 members, of whom—
(i) 1 member shall be appointed by the Ma-
jority Leader of the Senate and the Speaker
of the House of Representatives, who shall
serve as co-chair of the Task Force;
(ii) 1 member shall be appointed by the Mi-
nority Leader of the Senate and the Minor-
ity Leader of the House of Representatives,
who shall serve as co-chair of the Task
Force;
(iii) 4 members shall be appointed by the
Majority Leader of the Senate;
(iv) 4 members shall be appointed by the
Minority Leader of the Senate;
(v) 4 members shall be appointed by the
Speaker of the House of Representatives; and
(vi) 4 members shall be appointed by the
Minority Leader of the House of Representa-
tives.
(B) Each member of the Task Force shall
be an academic researcher, an expert in a
field or policy area related to the purpose of
the Task Force, or an individual who has ex-
perience with government programs related
to the purpose of the Task Force.
(C) The co-chairs of the Task Force may
appoint and fix the pay of additional staff to
the Task Force.
(D) Any Federal Government employee
may be detailed to the Task Force without
reimbursement from the Task Force, and the
detailee shall retain the rights, status, and
privileges of his or her regular employment
without interruption.
(E) Members of the Task Force may be al-
lowed travel expenses, including per diem in
lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for
employees of agencies under subchapter I of
chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code,
while away from their homes or regular
places of business in the performance of serv-
ices for the Task Force.
(3) Appointments to the Task Force shall
be made not later than 180 days after the
date of enactment of this Act.
(4)(A) A member of the Task Force shall be
appointed for the life of the Task Force.
(B) Any vacancy in the Task Force—
(i) shall not affect the powers of the Task
Force; and
(ii) shall be filled in the same manner as
the original appointment.
(5) The Task Force shall meet not later
than 30 days after the date on which a major-
ity of the members of the Task Force have
been appointed.
(6)(A) The Task Force shall meet at the
call of the co-chairs of the Task Force.
(B) A majority of the members of the Task
Force shall constitute a quorum, but a lesser
number of members may hold hearings.
(d)(1) The Task Force shall utilize avail-
able survey and statistical data related to
the purpose of the Task Force to complete a
comprehensive report to—
(A) evaluate and quantify the impact that
a lack of affordable housing has on other
areas of life and life outcomes for individuals
living in the United States, including—
(i) education;
(ii) employment;
(iii) income level;
(iv) health;
(v) nutrition;
(vi) access to transportation;
(vii) the poverty level of the neighborhood
in which individuals live;
(viii) regional economic growth;
(ix) neighborhood and rural community
stability and revitalization; and
(x) other areas of life and life outcomes re-
lated to the purpose of the Task Force nec-
essary to complete a comprehensive report;
(B) evaluate and quantify the costs in-
curred by other Federal, State, and local
programs due to a lack of affordable housing;
and
(C) make recommendations to Congress on
how to use affordable housing to improve the
effectiveness of other Federal programs and
improve life outcomes for individuals living
in the United States.
(2) The Task Force shall publish in the
Federal Register a notice for a public com-
ment period of 90 days on the purpose and ac-
tivities of the Task Force.
(3) Not later than the date on which the
Task Force terminates, the Task Force shall
submit to the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs and the Committee on
Finance of the Senate and the Committee on
Financial Services and the Committee on
Ways and Means of the House of Representa-
tives and make publicly available a final re-
port that—
(A) contains the information, evaluations,
and recommendations described in paragraph
(1); and
(B) is signed by each member of the Task
Force.
(e)(1) The Task Force may hold such hear-
ings, take such testimony, and receive such
evidence as the Task Force considers advis-
able to carry out this section.
(2)(A) The Task Force may secure directly
from any Federal department or agency such
information as the Task Force considers nec-
essary to carry out this section.
(B) On request of the co-chairs of the Task
Force, the head of a Federal department or
agency described in subparagraph (A) shall
furnish the information to the Task Force.
(3) The Task Force may use the United
States mails in the same manner and under
the same conditions as other Federal depart-
ments and agencies.
(f) The Task Force shall terminate not
later than 2 years after the date on which all
members of the Task Force are appointed
under subsection (c).
(g) There are authorized to be appropriated
such sums as may be necessary to carry out
this section for fiscal years 2020 through 2023.
SA 950. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr.
SHELBY) proposed an amendment to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; as follows:
On page 321, line 14, strike ‘‘$5,000,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$5,250,000’’.
SA 951. Mr. WARNER (for himself,
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. KAINE, and Mr.
VAN HOLLEN) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 3055, making appropriations
for the Departments of Commerce and
Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in division A, in-
sert the following:
SEC. lll. Not later than 30 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney
General shall submit to Congress a report
that—
(1) details the progress of the implementa-
tion of the Ashanti Alert Act of 2018 (Public
Law 115–401; 132 Stat. 5336) and the amend-
ments made by that Act; and
(2) establishes a deadline for full imple-
mentation of that Act and the amendments
made by that Act, which shall be not later
than 90 days after the date of enactment of
this Act.
SA 952. Mr. MERKLEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of division A (before the short
title), insert the following:
SEC. lll. None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act may be used by the National
Telecommunications and Information Ad-
ministration to update a broadband avail-
ability map using only Form 477 data from
the Federal Communications Commission.
SA 953. Mr. TESTER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 129, line 4, strike the period at the
end and insert ‘‘: Provided further, That
amounts made available under this heading
may be used to provide public access to a
river at a research facility of the Agricul-
tural Research Service.’’.
SA 954. Mr. TESTER (for himself and
Mr. DAINES) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 3055, making appropriations
for the Departments of Commerce and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00113 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.048 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6044 October 22, 2019
Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
On page 381, at the end of line 16, insert the
following: ‘‘Provided further, That for pur-
poses of funding direct operations under the
preceding proviso, the term ‘operations’, as
defined in FAA Order JO 7232.5G, shall also
include airport snow removal vehicle move-
ments on active runways/taxiways at any
small hub FAA contract tower airport with
significant snow removal operations and ter-
rain challenges:’’.
SA 955. Ms. BALDWIN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 124, line 14, strike ‘‘$331,114,000’’
and insert ‘‘$324,114,000’’.
On page 131, line 4, strike ‘‘$509,082,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$516,082,000’’.
On page 131, line 8, insert ‘‘That the
amount specified in that table for the Farm
and Ranch Stress Assistance Network shall
be increased by $7,000,000: Provided further,’’
after ‘‘Provided,’’.
SA 956. Ms. HASSAN (for herself and
Mr. VAN HOLLEN) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title II of divi-
sion D, insert the following:
SEC. 2ll. The Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development shall include in the
budget materials submitted to Congress in
support of the budget of the President sub-
mitted under section 1105 of title 31, United
States Code, for fiscal year 2021, rec-
ommendations and any associated costs for
future research on insurance models de-
signed to reduce evictions or expand access
to rental opportunities for tenants, such as
rental payment insurance.
SA 957. Mr. JONES submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 124, line 14, strike ‘‘$331,114,000’’
and insert ‘‘$326,114,000’’.
On page 223, between lines 13 and 14, insert
the following:
SEC. 7ll. There is appropriated $5,000,000
to carry out section 310I of the Consolidated
Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C.
1936c).
SA 958. Mr. JONES submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 124, line 14, strike ‘‘$331,114,000’’
and insert ‘‘$330,114,000’’.
On page 223, between lines 13 and 14, insert
the following:
SEC. 7ll. There is appropriated $1,000,000
to carry out section 12607(b) of the Agri-
culture Improvement Act of 2018 (7 U.S.C.
2204i(b)).
SA 959. Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for him-
self and Mr. MURPHY) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title II of divi-
sion A, insert the following:
SEC. ll. ETHAN’S LAW.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be
cited as ‘‘Ethan’s Law’’.
(b) FINDINGS.—Congress finds the fol-
lowing:
(1) An estimated 4,600,000 minors in the
United States live in homes with at least 1
unsecured firearm.
(2) 73 percent of children under the age of
10 living in homes with firearms reported
knowing the location of their parents’ fire-
arms. 36 percent of those children reported
handling their parents’ unsecured firearms.
(3) The presence of unsecured firearms in
the home increases the risk of unintentional
and intentional shootings. Over 75 percent of
firearms used in youth suicide attempts and
unintentional firearm injuries were stored in
the residence of the victim, a relative, or a
friend.
(4) The United States Secret Service and
the Department of Education report that in
65 percent of deadly school shootings the
attacker obtained the firearm from his or
her own home or that of a relative.
(5) In the last decade nearly 2,000,000 fire-
arms have been reported stolen. In 2016
alone, 238,000 firearms were reported stolen
in the United States. Between 2010 and 2016,
police recovered more than 23,000 stolen fire-
arms across jurisdictions that were used to
commit kidnappings, armed robberies, sex-
ual assaults, murders, and other violent
crimes.
(6) Higher levels of neighborhood gun vio-
lence drive depopulation, discourages com-
mercial activity, and decreases property val-
ues, resulting in fewer business establish-
ments, fewer jobs, lower home values, and
lower home ownership rates.
(7) The negative economic impact of gun
violence in communities is tied directly to
the national economy and interstate com-
merce.
(8) Congress has the power under the inter-
state commerce clause and other provisions
of the Constitution of the United States to
enact measures ensuring firearms are se-
curely stored.
(c) SECURE GUN STORAGE OR SAFETY DE-
VICE.—Section 922(z) of title 18, United
States Code, is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(4) SECURE GUN STORAGE BY OWNERS.—
‘‘(A) OFFENSE.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
clause (ii), it shall be unlawful for a person
to store or keep any firearm that has moved
in, or that has otherwise affected, interstate
or foreign commerce on the premises of a
residence under the control of the person if
the person knows, or reasonably should
know, that—
‘‘(I) a minor is likely to gain access to the
firearm without the permission of the parent
or guardian of the minor; or
‘‘(II) a resident of the residence is ineli-
gible to possess a firearm under Federal,
State, or local law.
‘‘(ii) EXCEPTION.—Clause (i) shall not apply
to a person if the person—
‘‘(I) keeps the firearm—
‘‘(aa) secure using a secure gun storage or
safety device; or
‘‘(bb) in a location which a reasonable per-
son would believe to be secure; or
‘‘(II) carries the firearm on his or her per-
son or within such close proximity thereto
that the person can readily retrieve and use
the firearm as if the person carried the fire-
arm on his or her person.
‘‘(B) PENALTY.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Any person who violates
subparagraph (A) shall be fined $500 per vio-
lation.
‘‘(ii) ENHANCED PENALTY.—If a person vio-
lates subparagraph (A) and a minor or a resi-
dent who is ineligible to possess a firearm
under Federal, State, or local law obtains
the firearm and causes injury or death to
such minor, resident, or any other indi-
vidual, the person shall be fined under this
title, imprisoned for not more than 5 years,
or both.
‘‘(iii) FORFEITURE OF IMPROPERLY STORED
FIREARM.—Any firearm stored in violation of
subparagraph (A) shall be subject to seizure
and forfeiture in accordance with the proce-
dures described in section 924(d).
‘‘(C) MINOR DEFINED.—In this paragraph,
the term ‘minor’ means an individual who is
less than 18 years of age.’’.
(d) FIREARM SAFE STORAGE PROGRAM.—
Title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and
Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C. 10101 et
seq.) is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘PART OO—FIREARM SAFE STORAGE
PROGRAM
‘‘SEC. 3051. FIREARM SAFE STORAGE PROGRAM.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Assistant Attorney
General shall make grants to an eligible
State or Indian Tribe to assist the State or
Indian Tribe in carrying out the provisions
of any State or Tribal law that is function-
ally identical to section 922(z)(4) of title 18,
United States Code.
‘‘(b) ELIGIBLE STATE OR INDIAN TRIBE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), a State or Indian Tribe shall
be eligible to receive grants under this sec-
tion on and after the date on which the State
or Indian Tribe—
‘‘(A) enacts legislation functionally iden-
tical to section 922(z)(4) of title 18, United
States Code; and
‘‘(B) the attorney general of the State (or
comparable Tribal official) submits a written
certification to the Assistant Attorney Gen-
eral stating that the law of the State or In-
dian Tribe reflects the sense of Congress in
section 922(z)(4)(D) of such title 18.
‘‘(2) FIRST YEAR ELIGIBILITY EXCEPTION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A covered State or In-
dian Tribe shall be eligible to receive a grant
under this section during the 1-year period
beginning on the date of enactment of this
part.
‘‘(B) COVERED STATE OR INDIAN TRIBE.—In
this paragraph, the term ‘covered State or
Indian Tribe’ means a State or Indian Tribe
that, before the date of enactment of this
part, enacted legislation—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00114 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.048 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6045
October 22, 2019
‘‘(i) that is functionally identical to sec-
tion 922(z)(4) of title 18, United States Code;
and
‘‘(ii) for which the attorney general of the
State (or comparable Tribal official) submits
a written certification to the Assistant At-
torney General stating that the law of the
State or Indian Tribe reflects the sense of
Congress in section 922(z)(4)(D) of such title
18.
‘‘(c) USE OF FUNDS.—Funds awarded under
this section may be used by a State or Indian
Tribe to assist law enforcement agencies or
the courts of the State or Indian Tribe in en-
forcing and otherwise facilitating compli-
ance with any State law functionally iden-
tical to section 922(z)(4), of title 18, United
States Code.
‘‘(d) APPLICATION.—An eligible State or In-
dian Tribe desiring a grant under this sec-
tion shall submit to the Assistant Attorney
General an application at such time, in such
manner, and containing or accompanied by
such information, as the Assistant Attorney
General may reasonably require.
‘‘(e) INCENTIVES.—For each of fiscal years
2019 through 2023, the Attorney General shall
give affirmative preference to all Bureau of
Justice Assistance discretionary grant appli-
cations of a State or Indian Tribe that has
enacted legislation—
‘‘(1) functionally identical to section
922(z)(4) of title 18, United States Code; and
‘‘(2) for which the attorney general of the
State (or comparable Tribal official) submits
a written certification to the Assistant At-
torney General stating that the law of the
State or Indian Tribe reflects the sense of
Congress in section 922(z)(4)(D) of such title
18.’’.
(e) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—Paragraph (4) of
section 922(z) of title 18, United States Code,
as added by subsection (c), is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(D) SENSE OF CONGRESS RELATING TO LI-
ABILITY.—It is the sense of Congress that—
‘‘(i) failure to comply with subparagraph
(A) constitutes negligence under any rel-
evant statute or common law rule; and
‘‘(ii) when a violation of subparagraph (A)
is the but-for cause of a harm caused by the
discharge of a firearm, such violation should
be deemed to be the legal or proximate cause
of such harm, regardless of whether such
harm was also the result of an intentional
tort.’’.
(f) SEVERABILITY.—If any provision of this
section, or an amendment made by this sec-
tion, or the application of such provision to
any person or circumstance, is held to be in-
valid, the remainder of this section, or an
amendment made by this section, or the ap-
plication of such provision to other persons
or circumstances, shall not be affected.
SA 960. Ms. CORTEZ MASTO sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll. Not later than 90 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of Transportation shall submit to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations and Commerce,
Science, and Transportation of the Senate
and the Committees on Appropriations and
Transportation and Infrastructure of the
House of Representatives a report on efforts
by the Department of Transportation to en-
gage with local communities, metropolitan
planning organizations, and regional trans-
portation commissions on advancing data
and intelligent transportation systems tech-
nologies and other smart cities solutions.
SA 961. Ms. CORTEZ MASTO (for
herself and Mr. LANKFORD) submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
REPORT ON FOOD DISTRIBUTION PROGRAMS
REACHING UNDERSERVED POPULATIONS
SEC. 7ll. The Secretary of Agriculture
shall conduct a study on the challenges that
the food distribution program on Indian res-
ervations established under section 4(b) of
the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C.
2013(b)) and other food distribution programs
administered by the Secretary of Agriculture
face in reaching underserved populations,
with an emphasis on the homebound and the
elderly, to better capture data on the popu-
lation of people unable to physically travel
to a distribution location for food.
SA 962. Ms. CORTEZ MASTO (for
herself and Mr. PORTMAN) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 124, line 14, strike ‘‘$331,114,000’’
and insert ‘‘$330,514,000’’.
On page 223, between lines 13 and 14, insert
the following:
SEC. ll. There is appropriated $600,000 to
support the addition of 4 full-time equivalent
employees and administrative costs associ-
ated with the development by the Council on
Rural Community Innovation and Economic
Development established under section 6306
of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018
(7 U.S.C. 2204b–3) of reports and resource
guides and for the establishment of a Federal
support team for rural jobs accelerators.
SA 963. Mr. GARDNER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title II of divi-
sion A, insert the following:
SEC. ll. (a) There is established in the
Treasury a fund to be known as the ‘‘Bullet-
proof Vest Partnership Program Type III
Body Armor Fund’’.
(b) The Attorney General may, without
further appropriation, use amounts in the
Bulletproof Vest Partnership Program Type
III Body Armor Fund established under sub-
section (a) to award type III body armor
grants to State and local law enforcement
agencies for the purchase of body armor that
meets the standards for type III body armor,
as determined by the National Institute of
Justice, in an amount that is proportionate
to the number of sworn law enforcement offi-
cers employed by the grantee on the date of
the application submitted by the grantee.
(c) Out of any money in the Treasury not
otherwise appropriated, $1,100,000,000 are ap-
propriated to the Bulletproof Vest Partner-
ship Program Type III Body Armor Fund es-
tablished under subsection (a).
SA 964. Mr. GARDNER (for himself
and Mr. BENNET) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in division D, in-
sert the following:
SEC. ll. CREDIT RISK PREMIUMS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be
cited as the ‘‘Railroad Rehabilitation and
Improvement Financing Equity Act’’.
(b) REFUND.—Section 502(f) of the Railroad
Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of
1976 (45 U.S.C. 822(f)) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(5) REFUND OF PREMIUMS.—The Secretary
shall repay the credit risk premium of each
loan, with interest accrued thereon, not
later than 60 days after the date on which all
obligations attached to each such loan have
been satisfied. For each loan for which obli-
gations have already been satisfied, as of the
date of enactment of the Railroad Rehabili-
tation and Improvement Financing Equity
Act, the Secretary shall repay the credit risk
premium of each such loan, with interest ac-
crued thereon, not later than 60 days after
the date of the enactment of such Act.’’.
(c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated such
sums as may be necessary to pay the cost of
any direct loan modification (as defined in
section 502 of the Federal Credit Reform Act
of 1990) to carry out section 502(f)(5) of the
Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Re-
form Act of 1976, as added by subsection (b).
SA 965. Mr. GARDNER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in division A, in-
sert the following:
SEC. lll. ADDITIONAL AMOUNTS FOR CON-
STRUCTION AND RENOVATION OF
ADVANCED LABORATORY FACILI-
TIES FOR QUANTUM INFORMATION
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY.
(a) CONSTRUCTION.—
(1) INCREASE.—The amount appropriated or
otherwise made available under the heading
‘‘CONSTRUCTION OF RESEARCH FACILITIES’’
under the heading ‘‘NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF
STANDARDS AND TECHNOLOGY’’ in division A
is hereby increased by $134,000,000.
(2) AVAILABILITY.—The amount of the in-
crease under paragraph (1) shall be available
for the construction of new advanced labora-
tory facilities to support research, tech-
nology, and advanced training in quantum
information science and technology.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00115 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.049 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6046 October 22, 2019
(3) SUPPLEMENT AND NOT SUPPLANT.—The
amount made available by paragraph (2)
shall supplement, not supplant, other fund-
ing made available for purposes described in
such paragraph.
(b) RENOVATION.—
(1) INCREASE.—The amount appropriated or
otherwise made available under the heading
‘‘CONSTRUCTION OF RESEARCH FACILITIES’’
under the heading ‘‘NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF
STANDARDS AND TECHNOLOGY’’ in division A,
as modified by subsection (a)(1), is hereby in-
creased by an additional $27,000,000.
(2) AVAILABILITY.—The amount of the in-
crease under paragraph (1) shall be available
for the renovation of existing laboratory
space that may be upgraded to accommodate
additional research efforts relating to quan-
tum information science and technology for
technology development, interaction with
industry, new quantum workforce training
opportunities, and other national goals.
(3) SUPPLEMENT AND NOT SUPPLANT.—The
amount made available by paragraph (2)
shall supplement, not supplant, other fund-
ing made available for purposes described in
such paragraph.
SA 966. Mr. GARDNER (for himself
and Mr. BENNET) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title IV of divi-
sion C, insert the following:
ESTABLISHMENT OF SKI AREA FEE RETENTION
ACCOUNT
SEC. 4lll. (a) IN GENERAL.—Section 701
of division I of the Omnibus Parks and Pub-
lic Lands Management Act of 1996 (16 U.S.C.
497c) is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(k) SKI AREA FEE RETENTION ACCOUNT.—
‘‘(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
‘‘(A) ACCOUNT.—The term ‘Account’ means
the Ski Area Fee Retention Account estab-
lished under paragraph (2).
‘‘(B) COVERED UNIT.—The term ‘covered
unit’ means a national forest that collects a
rental charge under this section.
‘‘(C) REGION.—The term ‘Region’ means a
Forest Service region.
‘‘(D) RENTAL CHARGE.—The term ‘rental
charge’ means a permit rental charge that is
charged under subsection (a).
‘‘(E) SECRETARY.—The term ‘Secretary’
means the Secretary of Agriculture.
‘‘(2) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary of the
Treasury shall establish in the Treasury a
special account, to be known as the ‘Ski
Area Fee Retention Account’, into which
there shall be deposited—
‘‘(A) in the case of a covered unit at which
not less than $15,000,000 is collected by the
covered unit from rental charges in a fiscal
year, an amount equal to 50 percent of the
rental charges collected at the covered unit
in the fiscal year; or
‘‘(B) in the case of any other covered unit,
an amount equal to 65 percent of the rental
charges collected at the covered unit in a fis-
cal year.
‘‘(3) AVAILABILITY.—Subject to paragraphs
(4), (5), and (6), any amounts deposited in the
Account under paragraph (2) shall remain
available for expenditure, without further
appropriation, until expended.
‘‘(4) LOCAL DISTRIBUTION OF AMOUNTS IN THE
ACCOUNT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), 100 percent of the amounts
deposited in the Account from a specific cov-
ered unit shall remain available for expendi-
ture at the covered unit at which the rental
charges were collected.
‘‘(B) REDUCTION.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Subject to clause (ii), the
Secretary may reduce the percentage of
amounts available to a covered unit under
subparagraph (A) if the Secretary determines
that the rental charges collected at the cov-
ered unit exceed the reasonable needs of the
covered unit for that fiscal year for author-
ized expenditures described in paragraph
(5)(A).
‘‘(ii) LIMITATION.—The Secretary may not
reduce the percentage of amounts available
under clause (i)—
‘‘(I) in the case of a covered unit described
in paragraph (2)(A), to less than 35 percent of
the amount of rental charges deposited in
the Account from the covered unit in a fiscal
year; or
‘‘(II) in the case of any other covered unit,
to less than 50 percent of the amount of rent-
al charges deposited in the Account from the
covered unit in a fiscal year.
‘‘(C) TRANSFER TO OTHER COVERED UNITS
AND USE FOR NON-SKI AREA PERMITS.—
‘‘(i) DISTRIBUTION.—If the Secretary deter-
mines that the percentage of amounts other-
wise available to a covered unit under sub-
paragraph (A) should be reduced under sub-
paragraph (B), the Secretary may transfer to
other covered units, for allocation in accord-
ance with clause (ii), the percentage of the
amounts withheld from the covered unit
under subparagraph (B), to be expended by
the other covered units in accordance with
paragraph (5).
‘‘(ii) CRITERIA.—In determining the alloca-
tion of amounts to be transferred under
clause (i) among other covered units, the
Secretary shall consider—
‘‘(I) the number of proposals for ski area
improvements in the other covered units;
‘‘(II) any backlog in ski area permit ad-
ministration or the processing of ski area
proposals in the other covered units; and
‘‘(III) any need for services, training, staff-
ing, or the streamlining of programs in the
other covered units or the Region in which
the covered units are located that would im-
prove the administration of the Forest Serv-
ice Ski Area Program.
‘‘(5) AUTHORIZED EXPENDITURES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Amounts distributed
from the Account to a covered unit under
this subsection may be used for—
‘‘(i) ski area special use permit administra-
tion and processing of proposals for ski area
improvement projects in the covered unit,
including staffing and contracting for such
administration or processing or related serv-
ices in the covered unit or the applicable Re-
gion;
‘‘(ii) training programs on processing ski
area applications, administering ski area
permits, or ski area process streamlining in
the covered unit or the Region in which the
covered unit is located;
‘‘(iii) interpretation activities, visitor in-
formation, visitor services, and signage in
the covered unit to enhance—
‘‘(I) the ski area visitor experience on Na-
tional Forest System land; and
‘‘(II) avalanche information and education
activities carried out by the Forest Service;
and
‘‘(iv) the costs of leasing administrative
sites under section 8623 of the Agriculture
Improvement Act of 2018 (16 U.S.C. 580d note;
Public Law 115–334) for ski area-related pur-
poses.
‘‘(B) OTHER USES.—
‘‘(i) AUTHORIZED USES.—Subject to clause
(ii), if any remaining amounts are available
in the Account after all ski area permit-re-
lated expenditures have been made under
subparagraph (A), including amounts trans-
ferred to other covered units under para-
graph (4)(C), the Secretary may use any re-
maining amounts for—
‘‘(I) the costs of administering non-ski area
Forest Service recreation special use per-
mits; and
‘‘(II) the costs of leasing administrative
sites under section 8623 of the Agriculture
Improvement Act of 2018 (16 U.S.C. 580d note;
Public Law 115–334) for purposes not related
to a ski area.
‘‘(ii) REQUIREMENT.—Before making
amounts available from the Account for a
use authorized under clause (i), the Sec-
retary shall make a determination that all
ski area-related permit administration, proc-
essing, and interpretation needs have been
met in all covered units and Regions.
‘‘(C) LIMITATION.—Amounts in the Account
may not be used for—
‘‘(i) the conduct of wildfire suppression or
preparedness activities;
‘‘(ii) the conduct of biological monitoring
on National Forest System land under the
Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C.
1531 et seq.) for listed species or candidate
species, except as required by law for envi-
ronmental review of ski area projects; or
‘‘(iii) the acquisition of land for inclusion
in the National Forest System.
‘‘(6) SAVINGS PROVISIONS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this sub-
section affects the applicability of section 7
of the Act of April 24, 1950 (commonly known
as the ‘Granger-Thye Act’) (16 U.S.C. 580d),
to ski areas on National Forest System land.
‘‘(B) SUPPLEMENTAL FUNDING.—Rental
charges retained and expended under this
subsection shall supplement (and not sup-
plant) appropriated funding for the operation
and maintenance of each covered unit.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—This section (includ-
ing the amendments made by this section)
shall take effect on the date that is 60 days
after the date of enactment of this Act.
(c) IMPLEMENTATION.—The Secretary of Ag-
riculture shall not be required to issue regu-
lations or policy guidance to implement this
section (including the amendments made by
this section).
f
DISCHARGE PETITION (S.J. RES. 50)
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with chapter 8 of title 5, United States
Code, hereby direct that the Senate Com-
mittee on Finance be discharged from fur-
ther consideration of S.J. Res. 50, a joint res-
olution providing for congressional dis-
approval of the rule submitted by the Inter-
nal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury relating to ‘Contributions in Ex-
change for State or Local Tax Credits’ and,
further, that the joint resolution be imme-
diately placed upon the Legislative Calendar
under General Orders.
Charles Schumer, Chris Van Hollen,
Tammy Duckworth, Tammy Baldwin,
Jeanne Shaheen, Ron Wyden, Edward
J. Markey, Sherrod Brown, Jacky
Rosen, Jeff Merkley, Richard
Blumenthal, Patrick J. Leahy, Patty
Murray, Catherine Cortez Masto, Ben
Cardin, Jack Reed, Tim Kaine, Tom
Carper, Cory A. Booker, Richard J.
Durbin, Debbie Stabenow, Maggie Has-
san, Chris Coons, Chris Murphy, Gary
C. Peters, Robert Menendez, Maria
Cantwell, Kirsten Gillibrand, Sheldon
Whitehouse, Dianne Feinstein, Kamala
D. Harris.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00116 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.050 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6047
October 22, 2019
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, I have 7
requests for committees to meet during
today’s session of the Senate. They
have the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND URBAN
AFFAIRS
The Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Tuesday, October 22, 2019, at 10 a.m.,
to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL
RESOURCES
The Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Tuesday, October 22, 2019, at 10 a.m., to
conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
The Committee on Foreign Relations
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Tuesday, October
22, 2019, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a hear-
ing.
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND
GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
The Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs is au-
thorized to meet during the session of
the Senate on Tuesday, October 22,
2019, at 2 p.m., to conduct a hearing on
the following nominations: Joshua A.
Deahl, to be an Associate Judge of the
District of Columbia Court of Appeals,
Deborah J. Israel and Andrea L.
Hertzfeld, both to be an Associate
Judge of the Superior Court of the Dis-
trict of Columbia, and Robert Anthony
Dixon, to be United States Marshal for
the Superior Court of the District of
Columbia, Department of Justice.
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY
The Committee on the Judiciary is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Tuesday, October 22,
2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
The Select Committee on Intel-
ligence is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Tuesday,
October 22, 2019, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct
a closed briefing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON SCIENCE, OCEANS,
FISHERIES, AND WEATHER
The Subcommittee on Science,
Oceans, Fisheries, and Weather of the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Tuesday, October 22, 2019, at 2:15 p.m.,
to conduct a hearing.
f
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that Bob Ross, a
detailee on the Agriculture Sub-
committee, Faisal Amin, a detailee on
the Interior Subcommittee, and Olivia
Matthews, an intern on my Appropria-
tions Committee, be granted floor
privileges for the length of the current
debate on H.R. 3055, the Commerce,
Justice, Science, Agriculture, Rural
Development, Food and Drug Adminis-
tration, Interior, Environment, Mili-
tary Construction, Veterans Affairs,
Transportation, and Housing and
Urban Development Appropriations
Act of 2020.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MERKLEY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent for my intern,
Allie Kirchoff, to have privileges of the
floor for the remainder of the day.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RESCUING ANIMALS WITH
REWARDS ACT OF 2019
Mr. MORAN. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 232, S. 1590.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 1590) to amend the State Depart-
ment Basic Authorities Act of 1956 to au-
thorize rewards for thwarting wildlife traf-
ficking linked to transnational organized
crime, and for other purposes.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill, which
had been reported from the Committee
on Foreign Relations.
Mr. MORAN. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the bill be considered read a
third time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
for a third reading and was read the
third time.
Mr. MORAN. I know of no further de-
bate on the bill.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. If there
is no further debate, the bill having
been read the third time, the question
is, Shall the bill pass?
The bill (S. 1590) was passed as fol-
lows:
S. 1590
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Rescuing
Animals With Rewards Act of 2019’’ or the
‘‘RAWR Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS; SENSE OF CONGRESS.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds the fol-
lowing:
(1) Wildlife trafficking is a major
transnational crime that is estimated to
generate over $10,000,000,000 a year in illegal
profits and which is increasingly perpetrated
by organized, sophisticated criminal enter-
prises, including known terrorist organiza-
tions.
(2) Wildlife trafficking not only threatens
endangered species worldwide, but also jeop-
ardizes local security, spreads disease, under-
mines rule of law, fuels corruption, and dam-
ages economic development.
(3) Combating wildlife trafficking requires
a coordinated and sustained approach at the
global, regional, national, and local levels.
(4) Congress stated in the Eliminate, Neu-
tralize, and Disrupt Wildlife Trafficking Act
of 2016 (Public Law 114–231) that it is the pol-
icy of the United States to take immediate
actions to stop the illegal global trade in
wildlife and wildlife products and associated
transnational organized crime.
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that the Department of State’s re-
wards program is a powerful tool in com-
bating sophisticated international crime and
that the Department of State and Federal
law enforcement should work in concert to
offer rewards that target wildlife traffickers.
SEC. 3. WILDLIFE TRAFFICKING PREVENTION RE-
WARDS PROGRAM.
Subparagraph (B) of section 36(k)(5) of the
State Department Basic Authorities Act of
1956 (22 U.S.C. 2708(k)(5)) is amended by in-
serting ‘‘wildlife trafficking (as defined by
section 2(12) of the Eliminate, Neutralize,
and Disrupt Wildlife Trafficking Act of 2016
(16 U.S.C. 7601(12); Public Law 114–231)) and’’
after ‘‘includes’’.
Mr. MORAN. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the motion to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table with no intervening action or de-
bate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
EXPRESSING SUPPORT FOR THE
DESIGNATION OF SEPTEMBER
2019 AS ‘‘SICKLE CELL DISEASE
AWARENESS MONTH’’
Mr. MORAN. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the consideration of S. Res.
373, submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 373) expressing sup-
port for the designation of September 2019 as
‘‘Sickle Cell Disease Awareness Month’’ in
order to educate communities across the
United States about sickle cell disease and
the need for research, early detection meth-
ods, effective treatments, and preventative
care programs with respect to complications
from sickle cell disease and conditions re-
lated to sickle cell disease.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MORAN. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the resolution be agreed to,
the preamble be agreed to, and the mo-
tions to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table with no inter-
vening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 373) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
MEASURE READ THE FIRST
TIME—S.J. RES. 59
Mr. MORAN. Madam President, I un-
derstand there is a joint resolution at
the desk, and I ask for its first reading.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00117 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC6.052 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6048 October 22, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the title of the joint
resolution for the first time.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
as follows:
A joint resolution (S.J. Res. 59) expressing
the sense of Congress on the precipitous
withdrawal of United States Armed Forces
from Syria and Afghanistan, and Turkey’s
unprovoked incursion into Syria.
Mr. MORAN. I now ask for a second
reading, and in order to place the joint
resolution on the calendar under the
provisions of rule XIV, I object to my
own request.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the joint reso-
lution will be read for a second time on
the next legislative day.
f
ORDERS FOR WEDNESDAY,
OCTOBER 23, 2019
Mr. MORAN. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that when the Sen-
ate completes its business today, it ad-
journ until 9:30 a.m., Wednesday, Octo-
ber 23; further, that following the pray-
er and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, morning business
be closed, and the Senate proceed to re-
sume consideration of S.J. Res. 50. I
further ask the debate time on the
joint resolution expire at 2:45 p.m. to-
morrow and the Senate vote on passage
of S.J. Res. 50; finally, that following
the disposition of S.J. Res. 50, the Sen-
ate resume consideration of H.R. 3055.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, if there
is no further business to come before
the Senate, I ask unanimous consent
that it stand adjourned under the pre-
vious order, following the remarks of
Senators MERKLEY and BENNET.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
TRIBUTE TO KAITLIN GAFFNEY
Mr. MERKLEY. Madam President, I
come to the floor today to recognize
Kaitlin Gaffney, a longtime member of
my Senate team who, after nearly 11
years, is leaving to start a new chapter
in her life.
Kaitlin has been a key part of Team
Merkley since our earliest days. In
fact, she was part of the original team
that built our office and our con-
stituent services operation from
scratch. I don’t know how many folks
here have been part of opening a Sen-
ate office, but it is not easy. It is
daunting. You walk into a completely
empty office. There are no computers,
no phones, not even the basics in terms
of pens and paper, and you know you
have responsibilities, and you need to
start fulfilling them.
In the early days, we didn’t have a
computer system to track our con-
stituents’ thoughts or opinions, so
Kaitlin and the team wrote everything
down on paper before moving to spread-
sheets. There was no training on how
to serve constituents, but from day
one, that is exactly what we were de-
termined to do and she was determined
to do.
So you have to hit the ground run-
ning, learning as you go, and Kaitlin
did hit the ground running like an
Olympic Gold Medalist. She built our
constituent services operation from the
ground up, and I am proud to say that
today, 11 years later, it is an operation
that is second to none and one that Or-
egonians across our State know they
can rely on for help.
It is Oregonians who know that if
they are in a bind, the team they can
call on is my constituent services
team, and often that is Kaitlin, specifi-
cally. In the beginning days, we were in
the middle of the mortgage crisis, and
that crisis was forcing Oregon families
out of their homes—to where they
couldn’t afford the balloon payments
or the doubling of the interest rate at
the expiration of the teaser rate. They
couldn’t pay the high rate on the triple
option loan. They were desperate, and
they called Kaitlin. Kaitlin was the
point person on our team fighting to
keep roofs over their heads. She is the
one who day after day had to consult
with them in that very stressful situa-
tion where often a mortgage company
was simultaneously telling a family
they will be evicted for nonpayment
and simultaneously saying we have
this program in which you can sign up
and don’t worry. She is the one who
brought together advocacy organiza-
tions, housing authorities, and local
elected leaders to help assist a massive
caseload of struggling Oregonians. Her
direct involvement meant that a very
large number of them were able to
solve the challenge and stay in their
homes.
Even today, as I go around the State,
I hold a townhall in every county every
year, and people will come up to me at
those county gatherings and say: By
the way, I just wanted to tell you that
a decade ago a person on your team,
Kaitlin, helped me out and I still have
my home today and it is en route to
being paid off. That meant so much to
families.
There were all kinds of different
challenges that came up over the years
that she was able to assist with. There
was a time when she helped rescue an
Oregon constituent who was stranded
on an island in the Pacific. One day,
she got a call from a woman who was
worried about her son who was on a
trip to Thailand and had gone missing.
His friend said he had told them he was
going to swim across the ocean to a
specific island, and they hadn’t heard
from him. There were strong currents
between the mainland and that island,
and the efforts to find him on that is-
land had turned up nothing. There
wasn’t really any organized effort to
look for him. So Kaitlin did what she
does so well. She picked up the phone,
and she started making calls. Eventu-
ally, she was able to convince an office
in Thailand to send out a search and
rescue helicopter to go looking for this
lost Oregonian. Because she did, he was
eventually found, and he was rescued.
Thus, the currents of the world
changed with him still with us when it
might have turned out quite disas-
trously.
That is the type of team member she
is—always determined to go to any
length necessary. That includes a situ-
ation when the life of a sick baby was
in danger because this baby was being
barred from the United States to re-
ceive a lifesaving medical procedure.
Baby Fatemah was being barred be-
cause of a policy that had been adopted
to block Muslims from coming into the
United States.
It was early 2017, and this baby need-
ed an immediate procedure to save her
life. It was considered by the experts
that there was a very small chance of
her surviving with this procedure in
Iran. The Oregon Health Science Uni-
versity in Oregon said they really un-
derstood this procedure, had very high
odds of it going well, and that was her
best shot.
So we had to work to lobby the ad-
ministration, and, boy, I tell you,
Kaitlin was right at the heart of that,
working to coordinate all the phone
calls. In the end, Baby Fatemah was
granted a waiver, she did come to Or-
egon, and her life was saved.
In case after case, Kaitlin succeeded
because she cared about the individuals
involved, and she worked every avenue
to assist them. She certainly embodied
the spirit of my complete constituent
services team.
I can’t thank her enough for her dedi-
cation, the intensity of her efforts, and
her incredible contributions to solving
challenges for Oregonians. She leaves
extremely large shoes to fill, and we
will dearly miss her. After almost 11
years, she is on to another chapter, and
I know she is just going to be as much
of a phenomenal success in that chap-
ter as she has been on my team, and we
wish her well.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Colorado.
f
TAX LEGISLATION
Mr. BENNET. Madam President, Re-
publican tax legislation in 2017 was
completely misguided. Despite our best
efforts, the bill passed in the middle of
the night. It was completely partisan,
not a single hearing. There wasn’t a
single Democratic amendment, and
this is what that bill looked like.
As I repeatedly pointed out, the Re-
publican taxpayers gave 572,000 tax-
payers, with incomes over $1 million,
more in tax cuts than the 90 million
Americans who had incomes below
$50,000 a year, making income inequal-
ity worse in this country.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:52 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00118 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22OC6.062 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6049
October 22, 2019
In all, 43 percent of the benefits of
the GOP bill went to the top 5 percent,
households with incomes over $319,000
per year. It is why I came down to this
floor repeatedly to oppose that tax bill.
Since 2001, the United States of
America has borrowed $5 trillion from
the Chinese for the privilege of giving
tax cuts mostly to the wealthiest peo-
ple in our country. We never paid for
any of it. We said the tax cuts would
pay for themselves. They never have
paid for themselves.
Instead, we issued bonds, and we
issued debt. The Chinese bought most
of that debt to finance tax cuts for the
wealthiest people in America. Over
that period of time, we actually made
income inequality worse during a time
when income inequality is the highest
it has been since 1928. We have had no
economic mobility for 50 years for the
bottom 90 percent of Americans—for 9
out of 10 Americans.
If I had to summarize my townhall
meetings in Colorado, a place with one
of the strongest economies in this
country, it would be that people come
to the townhalls and they say: MI-
CHAEL, we are working incredibly hard,
and no matter what we do, we can’t af-
ford housing, we can’t afford
healthcare, we can’t afford higher edu-
cation, and we can’t afford early child-
hood education. ‘‘We can’t afford a
middle-class life’’ is what they are say-
ing to me, the vast majority of people.
I have said that in an editorial board
recently, and somebody said: Do you
mean the vast majority? And I said:
Yes, the vast majority. That is what it
looks like when you have an economy
that is not driving growth from the
bottom up, when only the people at the
very top are the ones that are bene-
fiting from it.
There are people who don’t come to
my townhalls because they are too
busy working two and three jobs, like
the people I used to work for when I
was superintendent of the Denver Pub-
lic Schools, a school district where
most of the kids live in poverty and
most of the kids are kids of color. I
know what their parents would say if
they weren’t too busy to come to my
townhalls. This is what they would say:
We are killing ourselves. We are killing
ourselves, and no matter what we do,
we can’t get our kids out of poverty.
That is straining our democracy. It is
straining the whole idea that we are a
land of opportunity, when there is no
economic mobility for 90 percent of
Americans and when people who are in
poverty, no matter how hard they
work, can’t get out of poverty, can’t
get their kids early childhood edu-
cation, and can’t get their kids decent
health care. And most places don’t
have access to early childhood edu-
cation, even if they could afford it.
Notwithstanding this challenge over
the decade, what we have done in Con-
gress is to borrow money from the Chi-
nese to give tax cuts to the wealthiest
people in the country. That is not all
we have done. We borrowed another
$5.6 trillion to pay for 20 years’ worth
of wars in the Middle East. That is $11
trillion, $12 trillion, $13 trillion that
from the vantage point of the people
struggling in this economy, we might
as well have lit on fire.
For that amount of money, we could
have fixed every road and bridge in
America. We could have increased
teacher salaries by 50 percent. We
could have paid for preschool for every
kid in America who needs it—and that
is every kid in America. We could have
made it easier for people to afford col-
lege instead of having to spend 25 years
of their life paying back their college
loans, like some of the pages who are
here tonight are going to have to do
when they graduate from college. We
could have made Social Security sol-
vent for my kids’ generation. We could
have paid down some of our deficits
and our debt, which is now over $1 tril-
lion, thanks to irresponsible policies of
the President with the able assistance
of the majority leader.
Tomorrow—I take no pleasure in say-
ing this—we are being asked to vote on
something that will make the Repub-
lican tax bill much worse, effectively
repealing the cap on the State and
local tax deduction, what is known as
the SALT cap. It is a bad idea.
Before I get into that, I want to ac-
knowledge my colleagues’ very legiti-
mate concerns who are going to be sup-
porting this legislation. First, the
Trump administration designed the
SALT cap to take revenge against peo-
ple who didn’t vote for Donald Trump,
to take revenge against some deep-blue
States and districts. That policy
shouldn’t be designed with political
retribution in mind. Every single pass-
ing day, this guy who is our President
looks more and more like a tyrant or a
dictator who believes that the only
people he serves are the people who
voted for him, and he doesn’t have a re-
sponsibility for the rest of the country.
That is not right, and I can see why
people would want to correct that in-
justice. It is an injustice, and I am not
here to defend that injustice. It is
wrong.
Second, the Treasury rules to imple-
ment the SALT cap are overly broad in
ways that harm existing programs with
legitimate purposes. Nobody should be
surprised at all that the Trump admin-
istration issued another sloppy policy
that makes unnecessary opponents out
of potential allies; that is, after all,
their general approach to government.
But while I agree with the concerns
of the proponents of the resolution, I
believe we can address all of them in a
much more effective and targeted man-
ner than undermining the SALT cap.
Some proponents have said that this
isn’t actually valid—the State and
local tax deduction—and if we wanted
to write a bipartisan bill that isn’t
about SALT, we could deal with the
other tax policy issues affected by the
Treasury rule. But this is about the
State and local tax deduction.
So let me be very clear, the vast ma-
jority of the benefits of repealing the
SALT cap would go to high-income
Americans. Repeal would be extremely
costly, and for that same cost, we
could advance much more worthy ef-
forts to help working and middle-class
families all over the country.
Let’s take a look at what lifting the
SALT cap would do. On this chart,
these are the incomes of Americans,
starting over here with people earning
less than $25,000 and over here with
people earning more than $153,000, and
everybody else in between. The benefit
of this resolution goes to people at the
very top—the top 0.1 percent, who are
people who have $3.3 million of income
on average; the top 1 percent, who have
an average income of $755,000; and the
next 4 percent, who make $319,000. To-
gether, that comprises the top 5 per-
cent in America. Under this resolution,
the top 5 percent will get 83 percent of
the total, and 83 percent of the benefit
will go to people making more than
$319,000; and 56 percent of the benefit
will go to the top 1 percent. So 56 per-
cent of the benefit goes to the top 1
percent, or people making $755,000 a
year.
If we want to help the middle-class
families who are harmed by the SALT
cap, there are much less expensive and
better targeted ways to do it. To put
this in some perspective, SALT cap re-
peal is even worse for inequality than
the Republican tax legislation—far
worse. To summarize, 83 percent of the
benefits of the SALT cap repeal go to
the top 5 percent—83 percent—versus 43
percent in the GOP tax bill.
We can say we are for a progressive
tax bill and for fighting inequality or
we can support the SALT deduction,
but it is really hard to do both of those
things.
I feel strongly about it because of
how irresponsible the other side has
been. I know that is not the objective
of people on my side, but the way we
approach these issues really matters to
the American people so they know
whom we are fighting for.
Instead of repealing the SALT cap,
which gives 83 percent of the benefits
to the richest people and makes income
inequality even worse in America, for
almost exactly the same amount of
money, we could cut childhood poverty
by 40 percent. That sounds like a useful
thing to do for America at a time when
you have the worst income inequality
that we have had since 1928. In 1 year,
we could cut childhood poverty in
America by 40 percent with a simple
change to the Tax Code that SHERROD
BROWN and I have written, called the
American Family Act. It will cost $1
trillion over 10 years, which is about
what the SALT cap costs. That would
be a much more valuable use of our re-
sources than giving the money to the
people who are making more than
$319,000, especially after the Republican
Party passed the irresponsible bill they
passed and we passed $5 trillion of tax
cuts since 2001, almost all of which
went to the wealthiest people in Amer-
ica, making income inequality worse
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00119 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G22OC6.063 S22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6050 October 22, 2019
instead of investing in our country,
vainly waiting for it to trickle down to
everybody else.
As you can see on this chart, these
are almost the same income levels that
are seen on the previous page of who
benefits from the American Family
Act. Thirty-one percent of the benefits
go to the people who are making less
than $24,000—not 54 percent going to
the top 1 percent, but 31 percent going
to the bottom, the lowest income earn-
ers in America. Then, 24 percent goes
to the folks who are a little less poor
than that and, then, 19 percent and 19
percent. And if you are making above
$119,000, you get 2 percent of the ben-
efit of it.
That to me seems like a much more
reasonable approach, at a moment in
the country’s history when income in-
equality has been on the rise, economic
mobility has been stagnant, and when
we have an education system—and I
say this as a former school super-
intendent, with no joy at all—that is
actually reinforcing the income in-
equality we have rather than liberating
people from it, because the best pre-
dictor of the quality of education is
your parents’ income to the point of
savagery. That is the best predictor be-
cause your parents’ income is an excel-
lent predictor of where you will live,
and that is an excellent predictor of
the education you will have.
The American people are desperate
for relief in this economy. Republicans
have made matters much worse by
passing the Trump tax bill. I think
Democrats should be on this floor
fighting for progressive legislation that
supports working people, that gives
people a chance who are living in pov-
erty to lift themselves out of poverty,
and to give kids in this country a fight-
ing chance no matter what the cir-
cumstances are of their birth.
The good news is that all of those
things are available to us if we would
come together in a bipartisan way and
actually invest in our country again
and create a Tax Code that actually
drives economic growth for everybody,
not just the people at the very top; re-
wards work again, ends childhood pov-
erty, and delivers an education system
that liberates people from their eco-
nomic circumstances instead of shack-
ling them to it; and pursuing a climate
change policy that actually drives eco-
nomic opportunity throughout the
United States in rural and urban areas.
We have an incredible opportunity in
front of us as a democracy to change
the way our economy works so that ev-
erybody benefits from it when it grows.
That is how you build a strong democ-
racy.
Donald Trump doesn’t understand
any of that, which is why he has pur-
sued the policies he has pursued. It is
important for us to fight those policies
as well as offer ideas like the American
Family Act, like increasing the earned
income tax credit, like passing paid
family leave, and raising the minimum
wage. These are things we could do
that will make an enormous difference
to working people all over this coun-
try, and I believe that is the agenda we
should be pursuing.
With that, I yield the floor.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL TOMORROW
AT 9:30 A.M.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
adjourned until 9:30 a.m. tomorrow.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 7:11 p.m.,
adjourned until Wednesday, October 23,
2019, at 9:30 a.m.
f
CONFIRMATION
Executive nomination confirmed by
the Senate October 22, 2019:
UNITED NATIONS
ANDREW P. BREMBERG, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE REP-
RESENTATIVE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO
THE OFFICE OF THE UNITED NATIONS AND OTHER INTER-
NATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS IN GENEVA, WITH THE RANK
OF AMBASSADOR.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00120 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\G22OC6.065 S22OCPT1
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1323
October 22, 2019
PAYING TRIBUTE TO CONGRESS-
MAN ELIJAH E. CUMMINGS
SPEECH OF
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my colleague, Congressman HORSFORD of Ne-
vada for anchoring this Special Order in re-
membrance of Chairman Elijah Cummings, the
indefatigable champion of justice and equality,
the Chairman of the House Committee on
Oversight, the Member of Congress from the
Seventh Congressional District of Maryland
since April 16, 1996, and above all, the de-
voted and beloved son of Baltimore.
Chairman Elijah Cummings died Thursday,
October 17, 2019 at Johns Hopkins Hospital in
Baltimore, Maryland; he was 68 years old.
Mr. Speaker, our friend Elijah Cummings
was in every sense of the word a statesman
and a gentleman who believed in bipartisan-
ship and treated everyone equally and re-
spectfully.
Born January 18, 1951 in Baltimore, Mary-
land, to Robert and Ruth Cummings, South
Carolina sharecroppers, who followed the
Great Migration north to factory jobs in Balti-
more, Elijah Eugene Cummings was the third
of seven children.
After graduating from Baltimore City College
High School in 1969, Elijah Cummings at-
tended Howard University in Washington,
D.C., where he was elected President of the
student government and graduated in 1973
with a degree in political science, earning hon-
ors as Phi Beta Kappa.
Mr. Speaker, you may be interested to know
that Elijah Cummings went on to earn a law
degree from the University of Maryland School
of Law.
Elijah Cummings’ matriculation and gradua-
tion from the University of Maryland School of
Law was poetic justice because a generation
before it had denied admission to another son
of Baltimore, the legendary Thurgood Mar-
shall, who then went to the Howard University
School of Law and later became the greatest
social engineer and the architect and instru-
ment of the strategy that defeated Jim Crow
and toppled de jure segregation at the Univer-
sity of Maryland School of Law.
Elijah Cummings practiced law for 14 years
in Baltimore and in 1982 he was elected to the
House of Delegates of the Maryland General
Assembly where he served for 14 years.
In the Maryland General Assembly, he
served as Chairman of the Legislative Black
Caucus of Maryland and was the first African
American in Maryland history to be named
Speaker Pro Tempore, the second highest po-
sition in the House of Delegates, earning a
reputation as a champion of progressive and
liberal causes and constituencies and as a
skilled census-builder.
Mr. Speaker, in 1996 when Congressman
Kweisi Mfume resigned to assume the presi-
dency of the United Negro College Fund, Eli-
jah Cummings ran in and easily won the spe-
cial election created by the vacancy with 80
percent of the popular vote.
Elijah Cummings was re-elected to the
105th Congress and each of the succeeding
Congresses until his untimely death, never
winning with less than 70 percent of the vote.
In Elijah Cumming’s maiden address as a
member of Congress he vowed that he would
make use of his limited time in Congress:
I only have a minute.
Sixty seconds in it.
Forced upon me, I did not choose it,
But I know that I must use it.
Give account if I abuse it.
Suffer, if I lose it.
Only a tiny little minute,
But eternity is in it.
Mr. Speaker, Elijah Cummings made good
on that prophetic promise from the start.
As a Member of Congress, Elijah Cummings
served on the Committees on Transportation
and Infrastructure and on Oversight and Gov-
ernment Reform.
As a freshman member, Elijah Cummings
championed and supported health care and
labor legislation.
In 2003, Elijah Cummings was elected as
Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus.
In the 112th Congress, Elijah Cummings
was elected by his colleagues to be Ranking
Member of what is now known as the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform and in the
115th Congress was appointed by the Demo-
cratic Leader NANCY PELOSI to the Benghazi
Committee.
One of my proudest moments was working
with Elijah Cummings to secure passage of
H.R. 1076, the Fair Chance Act, which would
‘‘ban the box’’ in federal hiring by restricting
federal employers and contractors from asking
about the criminal histories of applicants until
the conditional offer stage.
The Fair Chance Act would give formerly in-
carcerated people a fair chance at a job and
a piece of the American dream.
I was proud to have been able to work with
Chairman Elijah Cummings in support of this
legislation and other legislative goals of mutual
interest and concern like reducing gun vio-
lence and eliminating unfair policing in com-
munities of color.
Mr. Speaker, Elijah Cummings dedicated his
life to serving and uplifting others and empow-
ering the people he was sworn to represent;
he was a man for and of the people, going to
the streets and ensuring that their voices were
heard.
Elijah Cummings received national attention
in 2015 when he walked the streets of Balti-
more, his notable bullhorn in hand, and plead-
ed for calm after riots erupted in his neighbor-
hood after the funeral of Freddie Gray, a
young black man who died in police custody.
Elijah Cummings took the issues of his con-
stituents to heart; many of us recall how he
fought for meaning in the death of young
Deamonte Driver, a 12–year-old Maryland boy
who died from an untreated tooth infection.
Elijah Cummings often said that ‘‘our chil-
dren are the living messages that we send to
a future we will never see’’ and was com-
mitted to ensuring that the next generation
had access to quality healthcare and edu-
cation, clean air and water, and a strong econ-
omy defined by fiscal responsibility.
Elijah Cummings had a servant’s heart and
was imbued with an ethic of service and in-
spired countless numbers of persons fight for
their beliefs.
Unsurpassed was this native of Baltimore’s
love for his hometown.
That could also be seen by his response to
the current President’s belittling Baltimore and
his congressional district as a ‘‘disgusting, rat
and rodent infested mess’’ to which Elijah
Cummings invited the President to join him in
the important work of ensuring that all Ameri-
cans had accessible, affordable, high quality
health care.
Elijah Cummings’ passion was not reserved
for his district and the city of Baltimore; he
also deeply loved his country.
As Ranking Member and the Chairman of
the House Committee on Oversight and Re-
form, Elijah Cummings brought his intellect to
what he called ‘‘the fight for the soul of our de-
mocracy.’’
Elijah Cummings deeply believed in our
democratic system and values and worked
tirelessly to preserve them and exhorted ev-
eryone to the same:
When we’re dancing with the angels, the
question will be asked, in 2019, what did we
do to make sure we kept our democracy in-
tact? Did we stand on the sidelines and say
nothing?’’
In the words of his widow, Dr. Maya
Rockeymoore Cummings, Elijah Cummings
‘‘worked until his last breath because he be-
lieved our democracy was the highest and
best expression of our collective humanity and
that our nation’s diversity was our promise, not
our problem.’’
Mr. Speaker, the life of Elijah Cummings is
a testament to what a person of goodwill can
accomplish with a servant’s heart and the un-
derstanding that in the passion play of life you
only have a minute, but all eternity is in it.
Elijah Cummings did not waste his minute of
eternity.
Elijah Cummings will live forever in the
hearts of the people of his hometown Balti-
more, his state of Maryland, and the United
States.
To his widow Maya, his children, and family
and friends he loved and who loved him so
dearly, my deepest sympathies go out to
them, and I hope they find consolation in the
certain knowledge that our beloved Elijah is
now dancing with the angels.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:45 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC8.001 E22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1324 October 22, 2019
PAYING TRIBUTE TO CONGRESS-
MAN ELIJAH E. CUMMINGS
SPEECH OF
HON. HENRY C. ‘‘HANK’’ JOHNSON, JR.
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I
am deeply saddened by the passing of Rep-
resentative Elijah Cummings—my colleague,
friend, and a true fighter for social justice.
While Representative Cummings may no
longer be with us, he leaves behind a remark-
able legacy of service, leadership and humility.
Notably, he served Maryland’s 7th Congres-
sional District for 23 years and was a strong
force in his role as Chairman of the Oversight
Committee.
He is the realization of the American Dream.
Born to sharecroppers, young Elijah Cum-
mings declared he would become a lawyer at
11-years old. Despite social and economic
challenges before him, he would go on to
achieve that dream and more. Representative
Cummings became the first African-American
Speaker Pro Tempore of the Maryland State
House of Delegates and then continued his
work in this House. He was a dedicated public
servant, devoted husband, and loving father.
Representative Cummings was a maverick
among us all, and I will deeply miss his wise
counsel and presence. May we all aspire to be
a portion of the leader he was for America.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. A. DONALD McEACHIN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 22, 2019
Mr. MCEACHIN. Madam Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained on October 17, 2019 dur-
ing roll call No. 561, On Agreeing to the
Amendment, H.R. 1815, Huizenga of Michigan
Part B Amendment No. 1. Had I been present,
I would have voted ‘‘No.’’ I was also unavoid-
ably detained during roll call No. 562, On
Agreeing to the Amendment, H.R. 1815,
Gottheimer of New Jersey Part B Amendment
No. 2. Had I been present, I would have voted
‘‘aye.’’ I was also unavoidably detained during
roll call No. 563, On Agreeing to the Amend-
ment, H.R. 1815, Wagner of Missouri Part B
Amendment No. 3. Had I been present, I
would have voted ‘‘no.’’ I was also unavoid-
ably detained during roll call No. 564, On Pas-
sage, H.R. 1815, SEC Disclosure Effective-
ness Testing Act. Had I been present, I would
have voted ‘‘yea.’’
f
RECOGNIZING GEORGE FORMAN
HON. RAUL RUIZ
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 22, 2019
Mr. RUIZ. Madam Speaker, I rise to recog-
nize George Forman, who has been a cham-
pion for tribes and tribal sovereignty for more
than 50 years.
I am honored to represent eleven federally
recognized tribes in my district. Each of the
eleven tribes has had to fight for their rights
and their sovereignty at every turn.
Standing with tribes in that fight and leading
with them are the attorneys who represent
them in the court of law.
George was instrumental in securing victory
for tribes in the Cabazon case that set the
groundwork for tribes to transform their on-res-
ervation economies and conduct gaming oper-
ations, which has empowered tribes’ self-suffi-
ciency to provide adequate housing, schools,
and other needed social services for tribal
members.
He has successfully helped several tribes
fight their unjust termination and achieve re-
recognition as federally recognized tribes.
And over the decades, George has served
my constituents, the Morongo Band of Mission
Indians, providing advice and counsel with the
highest of integrity.
I want to thank George for his work and
wish him a long, happy retirement filled with
well-earned family time.
f
HONORING TALLWOOD
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL
HON. ELAINE G. LURIA
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 22, 2019
Mrs. LURIA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
congratulate and honor Tallwood Elementary
School on earning the U.S. Department of
Education Blue Ribbon award.
Tallwood Elementary’s performance cer-
tainly merits this well-earned recognition. Be-
cause of so much hard work, Tallwood Ele-
mentary is now placed in the Exemplary High
Performing Schools Category. I would like to
thank the faculty and staff for providing excep-
tional services to our community as educators,
administrators, and specialists in their field.
Our public school system is an integral part
of preparing the 2nd Congressional District’s
next generation of well-informed critical think-
ers. I thank them for all the valuable work they
do to engage and enrich these young minds.
It is my honor and privilege to recognize
Tallwood Elementary for this achievement. I
am extremely proud to be their representative.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. FRED KELLER
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 22, 2019
Mr. KELLER. Madam Speaker, I had a com-
mitment in Pennsylvania preventing me from
returning in time for votes. Had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall
No. 568 on Motion To Table H. Res. 630;
‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 569, H.R. 4406; and
‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 570, H.R. 4407.
IN HONOR OF 81 AIRBORNE SOL-
DIERS OF THE REPUBLIC OF
VIETNAM ARMED FORCES
HON. ALAN S. LOWENTHAL
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 22, 2019
Mr. LOWENTHAL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in honor of the 81 Airborne Soldiers of
the Republic of Vietnam Armed Forces, whose
remains will finally be laid to rest on Saturday,
October 26th, in Little Saigon, Orange County,
California, part of my 47th Congressional Dis-
trict.
In 1965, an American C–123 carrying four
American crew members and 81 South Viet-
namese Airborne soldiers was shot down in a
remote and contested area during the Vietnam
War, killing all those onboard. In 1974, the
crash site was visited, and the remains were
recovered, however, they were commingled
together. The American crew members were
later identified and were given a proper burial.
The remains of South Vietnamese soldiers
were never identified, and they were believed
to have been members of the 72 Company of
the elite 7 Airborne Battalion of the Republic
of Vietnam Armed Forces. These unknown he-
roes are now ‘‘Men Without a Country,’’ for
that the Republic to which they gave their lives
on behalf of no longer exist. Their remains
have been sitting at the U.S. military’s POW/
MIA lab in Hawaii since 1986 and the current
regime in Vietnam has twice declined to ac-
cept their return.
It was unclear how these 81 unknown sol-
diers could receive proper honor and burial
until the efforts of former Navy Secretary and
Senator Jim Webb, who served as a Marine
infantry officer in Vietnam. Senator Webb has
spent the last two years working intricately
with both diplomatic and legal fronts to suc-
cessfully arranged for the proper honoring and
interment of these heroes. Finally, these Air-
borne soldiers will be laid to rest with full mili-
tary honor and proper protocols of the Repub-
lic of Vietnam Armed Forces. They will be re-
membered and honored with a ceremony at
the Vietnam War Memorial, also known as
Freedom Park in the City of Westminster, Cali-
fornia and interned at the Vietnamese Boat
People Cemetery inside the Westminster Me-
morial Park, one of the largest Vietnamese
American cemeteries in our nation. This marks
an end to an epic journey of soldiers who
fought and died for the ideals of freedom and
democracy to be rested with the people whom
they defended.
I thank Senator Jim Webb, the Lost Soldiers
Foundation, the Republic of Vietnam Airborne
Association’s National and Local Chapter, and
everyone involved for working together to fi-
nally honor these 81 soldiers of the Armed
Forces of the Republic of Vietnam after 54
years of their sacrifices. The United States
honor the sacrifices of our ally, the Republic of
Vietnam Armed Forces.
f
KASHMIRI PANDITS BRIEFING
HON. RO KHANNA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 22, 2019
Mr. KHANNA. Madam Speaker, I was
moved by the stories of loss, displacement,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:45 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A22OC8.002 E22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1325
October 22, 2019
and suffering of the Kashmiri Pandits at a
briefing hosted by my dear friend and mentor,
Congresswoman ANNA ESHOO. I appreciated
the Pandits coming to Capitol Hill to tell their
stories. I want to recognize and thank Jeevan
Zutshi, my constituent, for his leadership in or-
ganizing this forum.
I was encouraged to see other key leaders
of Congress attend like ZOE LOFGREN, ELIOT
ENGEL, and MIKE THOMPSON. As we consider
the complexities of South Asia, we need to
make sure that all Kashmiri stories of loss are
heard and recognized, and be sure to stand
up for human rights of all faiths. India was
founded on the promise of a pluralistic society,
and Madam Speaker, it’s now more important
than ever to stand up for those ideals.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. DOUG COLLINS
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 22, 2019
Mr. COLLINS. Madam Speaker, I was ab-
sent due to a family emergency. Had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall
No. 568; ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 569; and ‘‘yea’’
on rollcall No. 570.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF GRACE QUINN
GOODPASTURE
HON. ROBERT J. WITTMAN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 22, 2019
Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of Grace Quinn
Goodpasture for being selected as a recipient
of a Student-Athlete-Scholarship from the Na-
tional Interscholastic Athletic Administrators
Association.
Grace attends the Steward School in Ash-
land, Virginia, where she played 4 years of
Varsity Soccer, lettering all four years. She
was also a member of the Varsity Cross
Country and Dive team, lettering in those as
well. She says community service is a core
value of her family and has always been a
part of her life. She has earned her Gold
Award in the Girl Scouts and was a Senate
Page for the Virginia Senate. Her spirit of
service should inspire all of us.
I commend her on receiving this recognition
for her distinguished scholastic, leadership,
and sportsmanship attributes and the impor-
tance of high school athletics in her life. Rec-
ognition of her work in the community, in the
classroom, and on the athletic field is a testa-
ment to her commitment to hard work and
service to others. She is an example of the
leaders that we will need to guide our nation
and the Virginia Commonwealth in the future.
Madam Speaker, I ask you to join me in
recognizing Grace Goodpasture for her
achievements in her community. May God
bless Grace and her family.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. TOM COLE
OF OKLAHOMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 22, 2019
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I was not
present for the following vote which took place
on October 21, 2019. However, if I had been
present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on: H.R.
4407—SCORE for Small Business Act.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE 100TH AN-
NIVERSARY OF THE FOUNDING
OF BELL’S SEED STORE
HON. TED BUDD
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 22, 2019
Mr. BUDD. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize Bell’s Seed Store on the 100 year
anniversary of their founding.
ln 1919, Bell’s Seed Store was opened by
William M. Bell. Bell’s Seed Store quickly be-
came a staple in Fayetteville. As the city grew
and rural roads and farms gave way to streets
and industry, Bell’s Seed Store continued to
thrive, adapting to changing consumer de-
mands.
In 1957, the store moved from its original lo-
cation beside the old courthouse on Gillespie
Street to its current home on East Russell
Street, where it occupies an impressive four-
acre campus that houses four separate facili-
ties, two for retail and two for storage. While
mainstay agriculture products such as animal
feed, hay, and fertilizers originally comprised
the majority of Bell’s sales, many customers
today are also interested in a unique selection
of home and garden accents.
At its core, Bell’s Seed Store is a family
business spanning generations. William M.
Bell Jr. took over operations from his father,
managing the store until the late 1980’s. Stew-
art Bell, William Jr.’s son, started working at
Bell’s right after college. Today, he has since
become the third Bell to take the reins of a
business which has expanded and developed
into one of Fayetteville’s oldest and most cher-
ished family-run enterprises. As I extend my
gratitude to Andrew Bell for his service as
Chief of Staff here in Washington, I know he
will be a welcome fourth generation to this
family business.
100 years in business means 100 years of
gaining the trust of the community by pro-
viding excellent service and reliable products.
Bell’s Seed Store has truly ingrained itself
within Fayetteville, as generations of cus-
tomers have walked out of its store satisfied,
continuing a tradition which, like Bell’s Seed
Store, spans a century.
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
honoring Bell’s Seed Store for 100 years of
business.
CONGRATULATING COREY BOBY
ON RECEIVING THE PRESI-
DENTIAL AWARD FOR EXCEL-
LENCE IN MATHEMATICS AND
SCIENCE TEACHING
HON. BRUCE WESTERMAN
OF ARKANSAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 22, 2019
Mr. WESTERMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate Fourth District educator
Corey Boby for receiving the Presidential
Award for Excellence in Mathematics and
Science Teaching.
It is an honor today to recognize his hard
work and dedication to excellence in teaching
mathematics and science. Mr. Boby has long
been a devoted educator to the students of
the Fourth District of Arkansas. After serving
for several years as an educator within the Ar-
kansas school system, Mr. Boby now serves
at the Dawson Education Cooperative in
Arkadelphia, one of the state’s fifteen edu-
cation cooperatives.
The Presidential Award for Excellence in
Mathematics and Science Teaching is one of
the highest honors which is bestowed upon a
kindergarten through 12th grade science, tech-
nology, engineering, mathematics, or com-
puter science teacher. I am pleased to see
one of the Fourth District’s own ranked among
the finest educators our nation has to offer.
I take this time to congratulate Mr. Boby on
this tremendous honor, but also to thank him
for his commitment to advancing the STEM
skills and academic excellence of Arkansas
students.
f
CONGRATULATING RICHARD
APPLE ON RECEIVING THE NA-
TIONAL CITIZEN SCIENTIST
CHAMPION AWARD FROM THE
GLOBAL ALZHEIMER’S PLAT-
FORM FOUNDATION
HON. CHERI BUSTOS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 22, 2019
Mrs. BUSTOS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Richard Apple, the recipient of
the first ever National Citizen Scientist Cham-
pion Award from the Global Alzheimer’s Plat-
form Foundation. This award recognizes Mr.
Apple for his advocacy for Alzheimer’s clinical
trial participation in Illinois.
A resident of Rockford, Illinois, Mr. Apple’s
passion for Alzheimer’s research advocacy
stems from losing both of his grandparents to
Alzheimer’s and having been the primary care-
giver to his uncle and his mother, both of
whom died from the disease. He has since de-
voted his time to aiding in research, enrolling
in his first trial at Great Lakes Clinical Trials in
Chicago, IL immediately after he retired and
has participated in four since then. I want to
thank Mr. Apple for his contributions to
science and furthering the cause to find a cure
for Alzheimer’s.
It is because of community leaders such as
Richard Apple that I am especially proud to
serve Illinois’ 17th Congressional District.
Madam Speaker, I would like to again formally
congratulate Richard Apple on his receipt of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:45 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A22OC8.008 E22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1326 October 22, 2019
the National Citizen Scientist Champion Award
from the Global Alzheimer’s Platform Founda-
tion.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. A. DONALD McEACHIN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 22, 2019
Mr. MCEACHIN. Madam Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained on October 18, 2019 dur-
ing roll call no. 565, On Agreeing to the
Amendment, H.R. 3624, Huizenga of Michigan
Part C Amendment No. 1. Had I been present,
I would have voted ‘‘no.’’ I was also unavoid-
ably detained during roll call no. 566, On
Agreeing to the Amendment, H.R. 3624, Hill of
Arkansas Part C Amendment No. 2. Had I
been present, I would have voted ‘‘no.’’ I was
also unavoidably detained during roll call no.
567, On Passage, H.R. 3624, Outsourcing Ac-
countability Act of 2019. Had I been present,
I would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
f
RECOGNIZING THE LIFE AND MILI-
TARY SERVICE OF LIEUTENANT
COLONEL JOHN DALE FORD
HON. TRENT KELLY
OF MISSISSIPPI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 22, 2019
Mr. KELLY of Mississippi. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to celebrate the life and military
service of Lieutenant Colonel John Dale ‘‘JD’’
Ford, who passed away on October 11 at the
age of 56.
JD was born on October 16, 1962, in Lau-
rel, Mississippi. He was a graduate of Taylors-
ville High School, where he was the second
basemen for the Taylorsville Tartars baseball
team. After graduation, he pursued higher
education at Belhaven University in Jackson,
Mississippi.
JD answered the call to serve our great na-
tion in the Mississippi National Guard and re-
tired as a Lieutenant Colonel in October of
2018. As a Mississippi Guardsman, JD worked
in the United States Property and Fiscal Oper-
ations Department for 36 years and deployed
to Kuwait and Iraq.
Left to cherish his memory is his wife of 29
years, Bobbi Jo Ford of Brandon, Mississippi;
his sons—John Dale Ford, Jr. and William
Robert Ford; his daughter, Maci Ford Whyte of
Brandon, Mississippi; his sisters—Marilyn
Naron of Brandon, Mississippi, Nancy Ford of
Brandon, Mississippi, and Emily Evans of Tay-
lorsville, Mississippi; as well as many nieces
and nephews and extended family members.
Lieutenant Colonel John Dale Ford’s life
was one of service, grace, love for his family,
and community. He will be greatly missed by
all whom he encountered.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF MRS.
GERTRUDE NEWSOME-JACKSON
HON. ERIC A. ‘‘RICK’’ CRAWFORD
OF ARKANSAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 22, 2019
Mr. CRAWFORD. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of Gertrude Newsome-
Jackson of Philips County, who fought for civil
rights throughout her entire life. A mother of
11 children, Mrs. Jackson was known through-
out the Delta area as a leader in the civil-
rights movement. Jackson has received rec-
ognition and honor from president’s and her
community members alike. Her work and leg-
acy will forever continue to impact the great
people of Arkansas.
In the 1960’s, Gertrude Jackson and her
husband Earlis Jackson hosted the Student
Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC),
which was quintessential in the work of deseg-
regation throughout Arkansas and the country.
With some ideas from the SNCC and inspira-
tion from her children, she led a boycott and
law suit for the desegregation and sewage fix-
ing of Turner Elementary schools and all the
surrounding local schools.
Mrs. Jackson’s efforts led the United States
Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit to man-
date the school district ‘‘to fully and effectively
desegregate not only all facilities but the fac-
ulty and classes effective at the beginning of
the 1970–71 school year.’’ Gertrude Jackson’s
spirit to serve her community also led her to
establish the Boys, Girls, Adults Community
development center that continues to facilitate
the community today in Marvell, Arkansas. I
am eternally grateful for Gertrude Jackson
service in our district and state.
f
BASELESS ATTACKS ON
PRESIDENT TRUMP
HON. JOE WILSON
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 22, 2019
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Madam
Speaker, since the day President Donald
Trump was elected, bitter Democrats have
been obsessively scheming for any sign of al-
leged wrongdoing and citing impeachment of
the duly elected President. Every time a new
accusation comes to light, it is contrived by
unsubstantiated evidence and later disproved,
wasting already over $35 million of taxpayers’
hard earned money. It is disappointing that in-
stead of addressing issues for American fami-
lies, House Speaker NANCY PELOSI continues
this divisive, unsubstantiated attack on Presi-
dent Trump.
Instead of addressing issues truly affecting
Americans, such as passing the United
States-Mexico-Canada-Agreement (USMCA)
or repealing the unjust ‘‘Widow’s Tax,’’ House
Democrats continues this attempt to mislead
the American people with baseless attacks on
President Trump. The House Speaker’s re-
fusal to hold a floor vote where all House
members can vote to authorize this inquiry
conceals a public process. Let me be clear,
there is no reason for these accusations aside
from bitter partisan politics.
In conclusion, God Bless our Troops, and
we will never forget September 11th in the
Global War on Terrorism.
CONGRATULATING DAVE
CHAPPELLE
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 22, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to ask the House of Representatives to join
me in congratulating Dave Chappelle for re-
ceiving the Mark Twain Prize for American
Humor this year.
On October 27, 2019, Dave Chappelle will
be the recipient of the 22nd annual Mark
Twain Prize for American Humor. He will be
the first District of Columbia-born recipient of
this award, making D.C. residents exceedingly
proud of his recognition.
Chappelle, who graduated from Duke Elling-
ton School of the Arts (Duke Ellington), the
city’s premier performing arts high school, at-
tributes a great deal of his success to his up-
bringing in the Nation’s Capital and to Duke
Ellington. At Duke Ellington, he was inspired
by his older peers to do better and take risks
in artistic expression.
After graduating from Duke Ellington,
Chappelle committed to standup comedy. He
later went on to produce and star in his own
show, ‘‘the Dave Chappelle Show,’’ and earn
an Emmy for his performance on Saturday
Night Live. His collection of awards now in-
cludes two Emmys and two Grammys.
Chappelle has never forgotten D.C. as his
home. He has gone back to Duke Ellington to
speak and inspire students, often reflecting on
his own time at the school. He graciously gave
the school his Emmy in 2017, impressing on
the students that fighting the odds is possible.
He is an advocate for equal rights for D.C.
residents, and D.C. residents returned the love
in 2017 when Chappelle was painted, along-
side other well-known African American Wash-
ingtonians, on the wall of Ben’s Chili Bowl on
U Street.
The Mark Twain Prize for American Humor
is an annual award given to individuals who
have impacted society in ways similar to 19th-
century novelist and essayist Samuel Clemens
(Mark Twain). Like Mark Twain, Chappelle is
an intense observer of society. I could not
agree more with Kennedy Center President
Deborah F. Rutter when she said, ‘‘Dave is
the embodiment of Mark Twain’s observation
that ‘against the assault of humor, nothing can
stand.’ ’’
As a recipient ofthe Mark Twain Prize,
Chappelle follows in the footsteps of America’s
best comedians, most recently, Julia Louis-
Dreyfus, David Letterman, Bill Murray, Eddie
Murphy and Jay Leno.
Madam Speaker, I ask the House of Rep-
resentatives to honor Dave Chappelle for his
contributions to the art of humor, for his con-
tributions to the District of Columbia through
his comedy and advocacy, and for receiving
the Mark Twain Prize for American Humor.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. BRIAN BABIN
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 22, 2019
Mr. BABIN. Madam Speaker, had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call
No. 569.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:45 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A22OC8.014 E22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1327
October 22, 2019
INTRODUCTION OF THE NEIL ARM-
STRONG TEST FACILITY RENAM-
ING
HON. MARCY KAPTUR
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 22, 2019
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Speaker, today I in-
troduce bipartisan legislation to rename
NASA’s Plum Brook Station in Sandusky, Ohio
in honor of Neil Armstrong. Plum Brook is part
of the NASA John H. Glenn Research Center
and is home to unique world-class facilities
that conduct critical and innovative ground
tests for the international aerospace commu-
nity. Plum Brook Station is testing a new gen-
eration of space exploration hardware for
NASA’s efforts to explore the lunar surface
and to again land humans on the Moon. Simi-
lar legislation has been introduced in the Sen-
ate by Senators BROWN (D–OH) and PORTMAN
(R–OH).
Ohio is not only the birthplace of aviation, it
is also the birthplace of one of human history’s
all-time great explorers and aviators: Neil Arm-
strong, the first man to ever set foot anywhere
other than on our planet Earth. A native Ohi-
oan, Neil Armstrong served as a Navy pilot
and later served the National Advisory Com-
mittee for Aeronautics (NACA) at the Lewis
Flight Propulsion Laboratory, now known as
north east Ohio’s NASA John H. Glenn Re-
search Center, of which NASA Plum Brook is
affiliated.
Armstrong’s ‘small step for man, one giant
leap for mankind’ has gone down as one of
the most significant and memorable events in
human history. Armstrong has inspired count-
less young people to pursue careers in avia-
tion and public service, young people who will
carry on and build upon his immeasurable leg-
acy. It is an honor to introduce this bipartisan
legislation alongside Rep. GONZALEZ in the
House and Senators BROWN and PORTMAN in
the Senate. I urge my colleagues to support
this legislation.
f
RECOGNIZING FALLEN PARA-
TROOPERS OF THE ARMY OF
THE REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
HON. HARLEY ROUDA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 22, 2019
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the 81 paratroopers of the Army
of the Republic of Vietnam whose remains will
find a final resting place in Orange County this
weekend.
These brave soldiers—whose names we
may never know—were killed in 1965 aboard
an American plane and died alongside 4
American crew members. For the last 33
years, the commingled remains of these para-
troopers had remained in Hawaii, their des-
tination unknown. After years of ambiguity,
they will be laid to rest in the heart of the Viet-
namese community in the United States.
This weekend’s service reminds us of Amer-
ica’s enduring commitment to our allies and
partners, to those who stand beside us in the
face of great peril to themselves and their
families. For too long, South Vietnamese sol-
diers who fought and died alongside American
forces have not received the recognition they
earned.
I am proud to represent a community that
remembers those South Vietnamese fighters
who gave the ultimate sacrifice standing
alongside American servicemembers. I join the
Vietnamese-American community—especially
the ARVN veterans not only in Orange County
but across our nation—in remembrance and
appreciation for these paratroopers.
I urge all members to join me in recognizing
the South Vietnamese fighters who fought
alongside United States forces during the Viet-
nam War, especially those 81 who will be laid
to their final resting place in Orange County
this weekend.
f
RECOGNIZING MICHAEL J.
WILLIAMS
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 22, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to ask the House of Representatives to recog-
nize and honor Children’s National Hospital
Board Chair Michael J. Williams for his leader-
ship and dedication to the health and well-
being of children and families in the District of
Columbia and the national capital region.
Mr. Williams’ service to Children’s National
and the children and families of the District of
Columbia, the national capital region and be-
yond has been notable and profound. During
his five years as Chair, Children’s National
has served 22,000 patients in its hospital and
650,000 through its clinics.
Through his leadership, Children’s National
has continued to achieve and improve its
ranking by US News & World Report as one
of the Top 10 Pediatric Hospitals in the coun-
try and for three years in a row it has been
ranked as the country’s No. 1 Neonatal Inten-
sive Care Unit. Further, Children’s National
achieved Magnet designation for Outstanding
Nursing Care during Mr. Williams’ last year as
Chair.
During Mr. Williams’ tenure as Chair, Chil-
dren’s National launched the creation of the
Children’s National Research & Innovation
Campus at the former Walter Reed Medical
Center. This will be the first of its kind in the
nation to focus on pediatric research and inno-
vation. It will also be the home to JLABS @
Washington, DC, a collaboration with Johnson
& Johnson Innovation LLC, providing incuba-
tion space for companies that are seeking to
advance the development of new drugs and
medical devices, including applications in pedi-
atrics. Children’s National also entered into
another key partnership aimed at improving
access to health care for a unique patient pop-
ulation when it integrated with the HSC Health
System.
Even though Mr. Williams retired as Chair of
the Board on October 1, 2019, I am pleased
that he will continue his service to children by
remaining on the Children’s National Board
through June 2020. In addition, he will be a
Director on the board of the HSC Foundation.
As Chair, Mr. Williams has skillfully and suc-
cessfully guided Children’s National through a
period of significant change.
Madam Speaker, I ask the House of Rep-
resentatives to honor Michael J. Williams for
his leadership and service to Children’s Na-
tional, and for the exceptionally valuable con-
tributions he has made to the health and wel-
fare of children and families of the District of
Columbia and the national capital region.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. FRED UPTON
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 22, 2019
Mr. UPTON. Madam Speaker, I was attend-
ing a funeral Monday afternoon and was not
able to get back before the votes concluded.
Had I been present, I would have voted ‘‘nay’’
on Roll Call No. 568; ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No.
569; and ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No. 570.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:45 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A22OC8.021 E22OCPT1
D1141
Tuesday, October 22, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S5931–S6050
Measures Introduced: Fourteen bills and six resolu-
tions were introduced, as follows: S. 2655–2668, S.J.
Res. 59, and S. Res. 369–373. Pages S5965–66
Measures Reported:
Special Report entitled ‘‘Falls Prevention: Na-
tional, State, and Local Solutions to Better Support
Seniors’’. (S. Rept. No. 116–138)
Special Report entitled ‘‘Further Revised Alloca-
tions to Subcommittees of Budget Totals for Fiscal
Year 2020’’. (S. Rept. No. 116–139)
S. 1317, to facilitate the availability, development,
and environmentally responsible production of do-
mestic resources to meet national material or critical
mineral needs, with an amendment in the nature of
a substitute. (S. Rept. No. 116–131)
S. 2071, to repeal certain obsolete laws relating to
Indians. (S. Rept. No. 116–132)
S. 334, to authorize the construction of the
Musselshell-Judith Rural Water System and study of
the Dry-Redwater Regional Water Authority System
in the States of Montana and North Dakota. (S.
Rept. No. 116–133)
S. 607, to amend the Department of Energy Or-
ganization Act to address insufficient compensation
of employees and other personnel of the Federal En-
ergy Regulatory Commission, with an amendment.
(S. Rept. No. 116–134)
S. 1602, to amend the United States Energy Stor-
age Competitiveness Act of 2007 to establish a re-
search, development, and demonstration program for
grid-scale energy storage systems, with an amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute. (S. Rept. No.
116–135)
S. 2094, to amend the Energy Policy and Con-
servation Act to provide Federal financial assistance
to States to implement State energy security plans,
with an amendment in the nature of a substitute. (S.
Rept. No. 116–136)
H.R. 2114, to amend the Energy Policy and Con-
servation Act to provide Federal financial assistance
to States to implement, review, and revise State en-
ergy security plans, with an amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute. (S. Rept. No. 116–137)
Page S5965
Measures Passed:
RAWR Act: Senate passed S. 1590, to amend the
State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 to
authorize rewards for thwarting wildlife trafficking
linked to transnational organized crime. Page S6047
Sickle Cell Disease Awareness Month: Senate
agreed to S. Res. 373, expressing support for the
designation of September 2019 as ‘‘Sickle Cell Dis-
ease Awareness Month’’ in order to educate commu-
nities across the United States about sickle cell dis-
ease and the need for research, early detection meth-
ods, effective treatments, and preventative care pro-
grams with respect to complications from sickle cell
disease and conditions related to sickle cell disease.
Page S6047
Measures Considered:
Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agen-
cies Appropriations Act: Senate began consider-
ation of H.R. 3055, making appropriations for the
Departments of Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, taking action on the following
amendments proposed thereto: Pages S5944–46, S5951
Pending:
Shelby Amendment No. 948, in the nature of a
substitute. Page S5951
McConnell (for Shelby) Amendment No. 950, to
make a technical correction. Page S5951
During consideration of this measure today, Senate
also took the following action:
By 92 yeas to 2 nays (Vote No. 330), three-fifths
of those Senators duly chosen and sworn, having
voted in the affirmative, Senate agreed to the motion
to close further debate on the motion to proceed to
consideration of the bill. Pages S5946–47
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to consid-
eration of the bill. Page S5947
Contributions in Exchange for State or Local Tax
Credits—Agreement: Senate began consideration of
S.J. Res. 50, providing for congressional disapproval
under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:58 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D22OC9.REC D22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1142 October 22, 2019
the rule submitted by the Internal Revenue Service,
Department of the Treasury, relating to ‘‘Contribu-
tions in Exchange for State or Local Tax Credits’’,
after agreeing to the motion to proceed.
Pages S5952–60
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the joint resolu-
tion at approximately 9:30 a.m., on Wednesday, Oc-
tober 23, 2019; that the debate time on the joint
resolution expire at 2:45 p.m., and Senate vote on
passage of the joint resolution; and that following
disposition of the joint resolution, Senate resume
consideration of H.R. 3055, making appropriations
for the Departments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2020. Page S6048
Departments of Labor, Health and Human Serv-
ices, and Education, and Related Agencies Ap-
propriations Act—Agreement: A unanimous-con-
sent agreement was reached providing that the mo-
tion to invoke cloture on the motion to proceed to
H.R. 2740, making appropriations for the Depart-
ments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and
Education, and related agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, ripen at a time to be
determined by the Majority Leader in concurrence
with the Democratic Leader. Page S5951
Message from the President: Senate received the
following message from the President of the United
States:
Transmitting, pursuant to law, a report on the
continuation of the national emergency originally de-
clared in Executive Order 13413 of October 27,
2006, with respect to the situation in or in relation
to the Democratic Republic of the Congo; which was
referred to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs. (PM–33) Page S5961
Treaty Approved: The following treaty having
passed through its various parliamentary stages, up
to and including the presentation of the resolution
of ratification, two-thirds of the Senators present
having voted in the affirmative, the resolution of
ratification was agreed to by a vote of 91 yeas to 2
nays, (Vote No. 327): Protocol to the North Atlantic
Treaty of 1949 on the Accession of the Republic of
North Macedonia (Treaty Doc. 116–1), after taking
action on the following amendments proposed there-
to: Pages S5932–43
Withdrawn:
McConnell Amendment No. 946, to change the
enactment date. Page S5941
McConnell Amendment No. 947 (to Amendment
No. 946), of a perfecting nature. Page S5941
Walker Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Justin Reed Walker,
of Kentucky, to be United States District Judge for
the Western District of Kentucky. Page S5951
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of H.R. 2740, making appropriations for the Depart-
ments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and
Education, and related agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020. Page S5951
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S5951
Nomination Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nomination:
By 50 yeas to 44 nays (Vote No. EX. 329), An-
drew P. Bremberg, of Virginia, to be Representative
of the United States of America to the Office of the
United Nations and Other International Organiza-
tions in Geneva, with the rank of Ambassador.
Pages S5941, S5943–44, S5945
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 50 yeas to 43 nays (Vote No. EX. 328), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Pages S5943–44
Messages from the House: Pages S5961–62
Measures Referred: Page S5962
Measures Read the First Time: Page S5962
Enrolled Bills Presented: Page S5962
Executive Communications: Pages S5962–64
Petitions and Memorials: Pages S5964–65
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S5966–68
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S5968–74
Additional Statements: Page S5961
Amendments Submitted: Pages S5977–S6046
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S6047
Privileges of the Floor: Page S6047
Record Votes: Four record votes were taken today.
(Total—330) Pages S5943–45, S5947
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 7:11 p.m., until 9:30 a.m. on Wednes-
day, October 23, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see
the remarks of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s
Record on page S6050.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:58 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D22OC9.REC D22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1143
October 22, 2019
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
CONSOLIDATED AUDIT TRAIL OVERSIGHT
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs:
Committee concluded an oversight hearing to exam-
ine the status of the Consolidated Audit Trail, after
receiving testimony from Shelly Bohlin, FINRA
CAT, LLC, Rockville, Maryland; Judy McDonald,
Susquehanna International Group, LLP, Bala
Cynwyd, Pennsylvania, on behalf of the CAT NMS
LLC Advisory Committee; and Michael J. Simon,
Consolidated Audit Trail, LLC, New York, New
York.
RESEARCH AND INNOVATION
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: Sub-
committee on Science, Oceans, Fisheries, and Weath-
er concluded a hearing to examine research and inno-
vation, focusing on ensuring America’s economic and
strategic leadership, after receiving testimony from
Diane Souvaine, National Science Board, Alexandria,
Virginia; David Shaw, Mississippi State University,
Mississippi State; Sethuraman Panchanathan, Arizona
State University, Tempe; and Rebecca M. Blank,
University of Wisconsin, Madison.
EFFORTS TO INCREASE ENERGY
EFFICIENCY
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Committee
concluded a hearing to examine international efforts
to increase energy efficiency and opportunities to ad-
vance energy efficiency in the United States, after re-
ceiving testimony from Daniel Bresette, Environ-
mental and Energy Study Institute, and Jennifer
Layke, World Resources Institute, both of Wash-
ington, D.C.; Brian Motherway, International Energy
Agency, Paris, France; and W. Scott Tew, Ingersoll
Rand Center for Energy Efficiency and Sustain-
ability, Davidson, North Carolina.
SYRIA
Committee on Foreign Relations: Committee concluded
a hearing to examine the impact of Turkey’s offen-
sive in northeast Syria, after receiving testimony
from James F. Jeffrey, Special Representative for
Syria Engagement and Special Envoy to the Global
Coalition to Defeat ISIS, and Matthew A. Palmer,
Deputy Assistant Secretary, Bureau of European and
Eurasian Affairs, both of the Department of State.
NOMINATIONS
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs: Committee concluded a hearing to examine the
nominations of Joshua A. Deahl, to be an Associate
Judge of the District of Columbia Court of Appeals,
Deborah J. Israel and Andrea L. Hertzfeld, both to
be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the
District of Columbia, and Robert Anthony Dixon, to
be United States Marshal for the Superior Court of
the District of Columbia, Department of Justice,
after the nominees, who were introduced by Rep-
resentative Holmes Norton, testified and answered
questions in their own behalf.
SANCTUARY JURISDICTIONS
Committee on the Judiciary: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine sanctuary jurisdictions, focusing
on the impact on public safety and victims, after re-
ceiving testimony from Timothy S. Robbins, Acting
Executive Associate Director, Enforcement and Re-
moval Operations, Immigration and Customs En-
forcement, Department of Homeland Security; R.
Andrew Murray, United States Attorney, Western
District of North Carolina, Department of Justice;
Mary Ann Mendoza, Angelfamilies.com, Mesa, Ari-
zona; and Andy Harvey, Palestine Police Depart-
ment, Palestine, Texas.
INTELLIGENCE
Select Committee on Intelligence: Committee held closed
hearings on intelligence matters, receiving testimony
from officials of the intelligence community.
Committee recessed subject to the call.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 23 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 4778–4800; and 1 resolution, H. Res.
651 were introduced. Pages H8386–87
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H8388–89
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:58 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D22OC9.REC D22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1144 October 22, 2019
H.R. 1123, to amend title 28, United States
Code, to modify the composition of the eastern judi-
cial district of Arkansas, and for other purposes (H.
Rept. 116–248);
H.R. 1305, to implement the Agreement on the
Conservation of Albatrosses and Petrels, and for
other purposes (H. Rept. 116–249, Part 1);
H.R. 1225, to establish, fund, and provide for the
use of amounts in a National Park Service and Pub-
lic Lands Legacy Restoration Fund to address the
maintenance backlog of the National Park Service,
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of
Land Management, and Bureau of Indian Education,
with an amendment (H. Rept. 116–250, Part 1);
H.R. 835, to impose criminal sanctions on certain
persons involved in international doping fraud con-
spiracies, to provide restitution for victims of such
conspiracies, and to require sharing of information
with the United States Anti-Doping Agency to assist
its fight against doping, and for other purposes, with
amendments (H. Rept. 116–251, Part 1);
H.R. 2426, to amend title 17, United States
Code, to establish an alternative dispute resolution
program for copyright small claims, and for other
purposes, with an amendment (H. Rept. 116–252);
and
H. Res. 650, providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 4617) to amend the Federal Election
Campaign Act of 1971 to clarify the obligation to
report acts of foreign election influence and require
implementation of compliance and reporting systems
by Federal campaigns to detect and report such acts,
and for other purposes (H. Rept. 116–253).
Page H8386
Recess: The House recessed at 10:33 a.m. and re-
convened at 12 noon. Page H8304
Guest Chaplain: The prayer was offered by the
Guest Chaplain, Reverend Dr. Marilyn Monroe Har-
ris, First Baptist Church of Teaneck, Teaneck, NJ.
Pages H8304–05
Corporate Transparency Act of 2019: The House
passed H.R. 2513, to ensure that persons who form
corporations or limited liability companies in the
United States disclose the beneficial owners of those
corporations or limited liability companies, in order
to prevent wrongdoers from exploiting United States
corporations and limited liability companies for
criminal gain, to assist law enforcement in detecting,
preventing, and punishing terrorism, money laun-
dering, and other misconduct involving United
States corporations and limited liability companies,
by a yea-and-nay vote of 249 yeas to 173 nays, Roll
No. 577. Pages H8307–15, H8316–39, H8365–70
Rejected the Davidson (OH) motion to recommit
the bill to the Committee on Financial Services with
instructions to report the same back to the House
forthwith with an amendment, by a recorded vote of
197 ayes to 224 noes, Roll No. 576. Pages H8368–70
Pursuant to the Rule, the amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute recommended by the Committee
on Financial Services now printed in the bill, modi-
fied by the amendment printed in part A of H.
Rept. 116–247, shall be considered as adopted in
the House and in the Committee of the Whole.
Pages H8325–35
Agreed to:
Hill (AR) amendment (No. 2 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–247) that requires FinCEN to de-
velop a regime by which entities may gain access to
the beneficial ownership database. Amendment also
requires FinCEN to report to Congress annually on:
the number of times law enforcement, banks, or
other third parties have accessed the beneficial own-
ership database; the number of times the database
was inappropriately accessed; and the number of sub-
poenas obtained to gain access to the database;
Pages H8335–36
Brown (MD) amendment (No. 3 printed in part
B of H. Rept. 116–247) that adds refresher training
no less than every 2 years for local, Tribal, State, or
Federal law enforcement agencies who have access to
beneficial ownership information to ensure the pri-
vacy of beneficial owners; Pages H8336–37
Burgess amendment (No. 1 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–247) that requires an annual report to
Congress of anonymized data on the number of ben-
eficial owners per reporting corporation or LLC, the
industry of each reporting corporation or LLC, and
the location of the beneficial owners (by a recorded
vote of 395 ayes to 23 noes, Roll No. 573); and
Pages H8335, H8365–66
Carolyn B. Maloney (NY) amendment (No. 4
printed in part B of H. Rept. 116–247) that ensures
FinCEN may use the information obtained by this
bill to notify industry and the public about criminal
trends, while maintaining safeguards on personal pri-
vacy (by a recorded vote of 235 ayes to 188 noes,
Roll No. 574). Pages H8337–38, H8365–67
Rejected:
Davidson (OH) amendment (No. 5 printed in part
B of H. Rept. 116–247) that sought to strike the
bill’s reporting mandate on small businesses, termi-
nates the Customer Due Diligence Rule, and re-
quires Treasury to conduct a study about all existing
federal information databases available to law en-
forcement to discern the beneficial ownership of
companies (by a recorded vote of 166 ayes to 258
noes, Roll No. 575). Pages H8338–39, H8365–68
H. Res. 646, the rule providing for consideration
of the bill (H.R. 2513) was agreed to by a yea-and-
nay vote of 227 yeas to 195 nays, Roll No. 572,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:58 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D22OC9.REC D22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1145
October 22, 2019
after the previous question was ordered by a yea-and-
nay vote of 228 yeas to 194 nays, Roll No. 571.
Pages H8307–15
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Rodchenkov Anti-Doping Act of 2019: H.R. 835,
amended, to impose criminal sanctions on certain
persons involved in international doping fraud con-
spiracies, to provide restitution for victims of such
conspiracies, and to require sharing of information
with the United States Anti-Doping Agency to assist
its fight against doping; Pages H8339–45
Copyright Alternative in Small-Claims Enforce-
ment Act of 2019: H.R. 2426, amended, to amend
title 17, United States Code, to establish an alter-
native dispute resolution program for copyright
small claims, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of 410 yeas
to 6 nays, Roll No. 578; Pages H8345–53, H8370–71
National POW/MIA Flag Act: S. 693, to amend
title 36, United States Code, to require that the
POW/MIA flag be displayed on all days that the
flag of the United States is displayed on certain Fed-
eral property; Pages H8354–55
Preventing Animal Cruelty and Torture Act:
H.R. 724, amended, to revise section 48 of title 18,
United States Code; Pages H8355–57
Divisional Realignment for the Eastern District
of Arkansas Act of 2019: H.R. 1123, to amend title
28, United States Code, to modify the composition
of the eastern judicial district of Arkansas;
Pages H8357–58
Georgia Support Act: H.R. 598, amended, to
support the independence, sovereignty, and terri-
torial integrity of Georgia; Pages H8358–62
Calling on the Government of the Russian Fed-
eration to provide evidence of wrongdoing or to re-
lease United States citizen Paul Whelan: H. Res.
552, calling on the Government of the Russian Fed-
eration to provide evidence of wrongdoing or to re-
lease United States citizen Paul Whelan; and
Pages H8362–64
Expressing the sense of Congress regarding the
execution-style murders of United States citizens
Ylli, Agron, and Mehmet Bytyqi in the Republic
of Serbia in July 1999: H. Con. Res. 32, expressing
the sense of Congress regarding the execution-style
murders of United States citizens Ylli, Agron, and
Mehmet Bytyqi in the Republic of Serbia in July
1999. Pages H8364–65
Board of Visitors to the United States Coast
Guard Academy—Appointment: The Chair an-
nounced the Speaker’s appointment of the following
Member on the part of the House to the Board of
Visitors to the United States Coast Guard Academy:
Representative Cunningham. Page H8358
Presidential Message: Read a message from the
President wherein he notified Congress that the na-
tional emergency declared with respect to the situa-
tion in or in relation to the Democratic Republic of
the Congo is to continue in effect beyond October
27, 2019—referred to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs and ordered to be printed (H. Doc. 116–75).
Page H8315
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appears on page H8307.
Quorum Calls—Votes: Four yea-and-nay votes and
four recorded votes developed during the proceedings
of today and appear on pages H8314–15, H8315,
H8366, H8366–67, H8367–68, H8369–70, H8370,
and H8370–71. There were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 9:04 p.m.
Committee Meetings
REALIZING THE CONSERVATION BENEFITS
OF PRECISION AGRICULTURE
Committee on Agriculture: Subcommittee on Conserva-
tion and Forestry held a hearing entitled ‘‘Realizing
the Conservation Benefits of Precision Agriculture’’.
Testimony was heard from public witnesses.
SHIP AND SUBMARINE MAINTENANCE:
COST AND SCHEDULE CHALLENGES
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Readi-
ness held a hearing entitled ‘‘Ship and Submarine
Maintenance: Cost and Schedule Challenges’’. Testi-
mony was heard from James F. Geurts, Assistant
Secretary of the Navy for Research, Development and
Acquisition, U.S. Department of the Navy; and Vice
Admiral Thomas J. Moore, Commander, Naval Sea
Systems Command, U.S. Department of the Navy.
LEGISLATIVE MEASURE
Committee on Education and Labor: Subcommittee on
Civil Rights and Human Services held a hearing en-
titled ‘‘Long Over Due: Exploring the Pregnant
Workers’ Fairness Act (H.R. 2694)’’. Testimony was
heard from Chairman Nadler and public witnesses.
THE END OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING? A
REVIEW OF THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION’S PLANS TO CHANGE
HOUSING FINANCE IN AMERICA
Committee on Financial Services: Full Committee held
a hearing entitled ‘‘The End of Affordable Housing?
A Review of the Trump Administration’s Plans to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:58 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D22OC9.REC D22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1146 October 22, 2019
Change Housing Finance in America’’. Testimony
was heard from Steven T. Mnuchin, Secretary, De-
partment of the Treasury; Benjamin S. Carson, Sec-
retary, Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment; and Mark A. Calabria, Director, Federal Hous-
ing Finance Agency.
AN EXAMINATION OF THE DECLINE OF
MINORITY DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS
AND THE IMPACT ON UNDERSERVED
COMMUNITIES
Committee on Financial Services: Subcommittee on Con-
sumer Protection and Financial Institutions held a
hearing entitled ‘‘An Examination of the Decline of
Minority Depository Institutions and the Impact on
Underserved Communities’’. Testimony was heard
from public witnesses.
HUMAN RIGHTS IN SOUTH ASIA: VIEWS
FROM THE STATE DEPARTMENT AND THE
REGION
Committee on Foreign Affairs: Subcommittee on Asia,
the Pacific, and Nonproliferation held a hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Human Rights in South Asia: Views from the
State Department and the Region’’. Testimony was
heard from Alice G. Wells, Acting Assistant Sec-
retary, Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs,
Department of State; Robert A. Destro, Assistant
Secretary, Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and
Labor, Department of State; and public witnesses.
PROTECTING THE GOOD FRIDAY
AGREEMENT FROM BREXIT
Committee on Foreign Affairs: Subcommittee on Eu-
rope, Eurasia, Energy, and the Environment held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Protecting the Good Friday Agree-
ment from Brexit’’. Testimony was heard from pub-
lic witnesses.
PREPARING FOR THE FUTURE: AN
ASSESSMENT OF EMERGING CYBER
THREATS
Committee on Homeland Security: Subcommittee on Cy-
bersecurity, Infrastructure Protection and Innovation
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Preparing for the Future:
An Assessment of Emerging Cyber Threats’’. Testi-
mony was heard from public witnesses.
SECURING AMERICA’S ELECTIONS PART II:
OVERSIGHT OF GOVERNMENT AGENCIES
Committee on the Judiciary: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Securing America’s Elections Part
II: Oversight of Government Agencies’’. Testimony
was heard from Matthew Masterson, Senior Cyberse-
curity Advisor, Department of Homeland Security;
Nikki Floris, Deputy Assistant Director for Counter-
terrorism, Federal Bureau of Investigation; Adam
Hickey, Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Na-
tional Security Division, Department of Justice; and
Ben Hovland, Vice Chair, U.S. Election Assistance
Commission.
LEGISLATIVE MEASURE
Committee on Natural Resources: Full Committee held
a hearing on legislation to amend the Puerto Rico
Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act
or ‘PROMESA,’ and for other purposes. Testimony
was heard from Omar Marrero, Executive Director,
Puerto Rico Fiscal Agency and Financial Advisory
Authority; Natalie Jaresko, Executive Director, Fi-
nancial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto
Rico; Carmelo Rı́os, Majority Leader, Senate of Puer-
to Rico; Eduardo Bhatia Gautier, Minority Leader,
Senate of Puerto Rico; Antonio L. Soto Torres, Mem-
ber, Puerto Rico House of Representatives; Rafael
Hernández, Minority Leader, Puerto Rico House of
Representatives; and Carmen Yulı́n Cruz Soto,
Mayor, San Juan, Puerto Rico.
NO MORE STANDOFFS: PROTECTING
FEDERAL EMPLOYEES AND ENDING THE
CULTURE OF ANTI-GOVERNMENT
ATTACKS AND ABUSE
Committee on Natural Resources: Subcommittee on Na-
tional Parks, Forests, and Public Lands held a hear-
ing entitled ‘‘No More Standoffs: Protecting Federal
Employees and Ending the Culture of Anti-Govern-
ment Attacks and Abuse’’. Testimony was heard
from Anne-Marie Fennell, Director, Natural Re-
sources and Environment Team, Government Ac-
countability Office; and public witnesses.
METRO: REPORT CARD FOR AMERICA’S
SUBWAY
Committee on Oversight and Reform: Subcommittee on
Government Operations held a hearing entitled
‘‘Metro: Report Card for America’s Subway’’. Testi-
mony was heard from David L Mayer, Chief Execu-
tive Officer, Washington Metrorail Safety Commis-
sion, and the following Washington Metropolitan
Area Transit Authority officials: Geoffrey
Cherrington, Inspector General; Paul Smedberg,
Chair, Board of Directors; and Paul Wiedefeld, Gen-
eral Manager and Chief Executive Officer.
STOPPING HARMFUL INTERFERENCE IN
ELECTIONS FOR A LASTING DEMOCRACY
ACT
Committee on Rules: Full Committee held a hearing on
H.R. 4617, the ‘‘Stopping Harmful Interference in
Elections for a Lasting Democracy Act’’. The Com-
mittee granted, by record vote of 9–2, a structured
rule providing for consideration of H.R. 4617, the
‘‘Stopping Harmful Interference in Elections for a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 16:30 Jan 08, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\RECORD19\OCTOBER\D22OC9.REC D22OC9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1147
October 22, 2019
Lasting Democracy Act’’. The rule provides one hour
of general debate on the bill equally divided and
controlled by the chair and ranking minority mem-
ber of the Committee on House Administration. The
rule waives all points of order against consideration
of the bill. The rule makes in order as original text
for the purpose of amendment an amendment in the
nature of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules
Committee Print 116–35, as modified by the
amendment printed in Part A of the Rules Com-
mittee report, and provides that it shall be consid-
ered as read. The rule waives all points of order
against that amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute. The rule makes in order only those amend-
ments printed in Part B of the Rules Committee re-
port accompanying the resolution. Each such amend-
ment may be offered only in the order printed in the
report, may be offered only by a Member designated
in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be
debatable for the time specified in the report equally
divided and controlled by the proponent and an op-
ponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall
not be subject to a demand for division of the ques-
tion. The rule waives all points of order against the
amendments printed in Part B of the report. Finally,
the rule provides one motion to recommit with or
without instructions. Testimony was heard from
Chairman Lofgren and Representative Rodney Davis
of Illinois.
NATIVE 8(A) CONTRACTING: EMERGING
ISSUES
Committee on Small Business: Subcommittee on Inves-
tigations, Oversight, and Regulations held a hearing
entitled ‘‘Native 8(a) Contracting: Emerging Issues’’.
Testimony was heard from Seto Bagdoyan, Director,
Forensic Audits and Investigative Service, Govern-
ment Accountability Office; and public witnesses.
AN ASSESSMENT OF FEDERAL RECOVERY
EFFORTS FROM RECENT DISASTERS
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure: Sub-
committee on Economic Development, Public Build-
ings, and Emergency held a hearing entitled ‘‘An
Assessment of Federal Recovery Efforts from Recent
Disasters’’. Testimony was heard from Jeffrey Byard,
Associate Administrator for Response and Recovery,
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Depart-
ment of Homeland Security; Dennis Alvord, Deputy
Assistant Secretary for Economic Development and
Chief Operating Officer, Economic Development
Administration, Department of Commerce; Chris P.
Currie, Director, Homeland Security and Justice,
Government Accountability Office; Fernando Gil-
Enseñat, Secretary, Departamento de la Vivienda
(Department of Housing), Puerto Rico; Rhonda
Wiley, Emergency Management/911 Director and
Floodplain Manager, Atchison County, Missouri; and
public witnesses.
LEGISLATIVE MEASURES
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: Subcommittee on Dis-
ability Assistance and Memorial Affairs held a hear-
ing on H.R. 4360, the ‘‘VA Overpayment Account-
ability Act’’; H.R. 592, the ‘‘Protect Veterans from
Financial Fraud Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1030, the ‘‘Vet-
eran Spouses Equal Treatment Act’’; H.R. 4165, the
‘‘Improving Benefits for Underserved Veterans Act’’;
H.R. 4183, the ‘‘Identifying Barriers and Best Prac-
tices Study Act’’; H.R. 628, the ‘‘WINGMAN Act’’;
H.R. 1424, the ‘‘Fallen Warrior Battlefield Cross
Memorial Act’’; H.R. 1911, the ‘‘SFC Brian Woods
Gold Star and Military Survivors Act’’; legislation to
extend increased dependency and indemnity com-
pensation paid to surviving spouses of veterans who
die from ALS; and legislation to permit appellants to
appear before the Board of Veterans’ Appeals via pic-
ture and voice transmission from locations outside
the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Testimony
was heard from Representatives Cisneros, Brownley
of California, Delgado, Gonzalez of Ohio, Yoho, and
Waltz; Ronald Burke, Executive Director, Pension
and Fiduciary Service, Veterans Benefits Administra-
tion, Department of Veterans Affairs; Kimberly
McLeod, Deputy Vice Chairman, Board of Veterans’
Appeals, Department of Veterans Affairs; and public
witnesses.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Ways and Means: Full Committee held
a markup on H.R. 3398, the ‘‘Pathways to Health
Careers Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3, the ‘‘Lower Drug
Costs Act Now Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4650, the
‘‘Medicare Dental Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4665, the
‘‘Medicare Vision Act of 2019’’; and H.R. 4618, the
‘‘Medicare Hearing Act of 2019’’. H.R. 3398, H.R.
3, H.R. 4650, H.R. 4665, and H.R. 4618 were or-
dered reported, as amended.
SOLVING THE CLIMATE CRISIS: NATURAL
SOLUTIONS TO CUTTING POLLUTION AND
BUILDING RESILIENCE
Select Committee on the Climate Crisis: Full Committee
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Solving the Climate Crisis:
Natural Solutions to Cutting Pollution and Building
Resilience’’. Testimony was heard from public wit-
nesses.
Joint Meetings
ARMENIA
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: Com-
mission concluded a hearing to examine reform in
Armenia, after receiving testimony from Hamazasp
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:58 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D22OC9.REC D22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1148 October 22, 2019
Danielyan, National Assembly of Armenia, and Dan-
iel Ioannisian, Union of Informed Citizens, both of
Yerevan, Armenia; and Arsen Kharatyan, Aliq
Media, Miriam Lanskoy, National Endowment for
Democracy, and Jonathan D. Katz, German Marshall
Fund, all of Washington, D.C.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR WEDNESDAY,
OCTOBER 23, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on State,
Foreign Operations, and Related Programs, to hold hear-
ings to examine United States policy and assistance in
Syria, 2:30 p.m., SD–124.
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on SeaPower,
to receive a closed briefing on the Navy’s ‘‘Spectrum of
Conflict’’ strategic framework, 10 a.m., SVC–217.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: to
hold hearings to examine the reauthorization of the Sat-
ellite Television Extension and Localism Act, 10 a.m.,
SH–216.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: to hold hear-
ings to examine improving American economic competi-
tiveness through water resources infrastructure, 10 a.m.,
SD–406.
Committee on Foreign Relations: Subcommittee on Europe
and Regional Security Cooperation, to hold hearings to
examine successes and unfinished business in the Western
Balkans, 2:30 p.m., SD–419.
United States Senate Caucus on International Narcotics Con-
trol: to hold hearings to examine marijuana and America’s
health, focusing on questions and issues for policy mak-
ers, 2:30 p.m., SD–215.
House
Committee on Education and Labor, Subcommittee on
Health, Employment, Labor, and Pensions; and Sub-
committee on Workforce Protections, joint hearing enti-
tled ‘‘The Future of Work: Preserving Worker Protec-
tions in the Modern Economy’’, 10:15 a.m., 2175 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on
Oversight and Investigations, hearing entitled ‘‘Sabotage:
The Trump Administration’s Attack on Health Care’’, 10
a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Environment and Climate Change,
hearing entitled ‘‘Building a 100 Percent Clean Economy:
Solutions for Planes, Trains and Everything Beyond Auto-
mobiles’’, 10:30 a.m., 2322 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘An Examination of Facebook and Its Impact on
the Financial Services and Housing Sectors’’, 10 a.m.,
2128 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘The Betrayal of our Syrian Kurdish Partners:
How Will American Foreign Policy and Leadership Re-
cover?’’, 10 a.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, Civilian
Security, and Trade, hearing entitled ‘‘The Trump Ad-
ministration’s FY 2020 Budget and U.S. Policy toward
Latin America and the Caribbean’’, 2 p.m., 2172 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Homeland Security, Full Committee, mark-
up on H.R. 2932, the ‘‘Homeland Security for Children
Act’’; H.R. 3469, the ‘‘Covert Testing and Risk Mitiga-
tion Improvement Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3787, the ‘‘DHS
Countering Unmanned Aircraft Systems Coordinator
Act’’; H.R. 4237, the ‘‘Advancing Cybersecurity
Diagnostics and Mitigation Act’’; H.R. 4402, the ‘‘Inland
Waters Security Review Act’’; H.R. 4713, the ‘‘Depart-
ment of Homeland Security Office of Civil Rights and
Civil Liberties Authorization Act’’; H.R. 4727, the ‘‘De-
partment of Homeland Security Mentor Protégé Program
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4739, the ‘‘Synthetic Opioid Expo-
sure Prevention and Training Act’’; H.R. 4737, the ‘‘De-
partment of Homeland Security Climate Change Research
Act’’; H.R. 4753, the ‘‘Drone Origin Security Enhance-
ment Act’’; H.R. 4761, the ‘‘DHS Opioid Detention Re-
silience Act of 2019’’; and legislation on the National
Commission on Online Platforms and Homeland Security
Act, 10 a.m., 310 Cannon.
Committee on the Judiciary, Full Committee, markup on
H.R. 4, the ‘‘Voting Rights Advancement Act of 2019’’;
and H.R. 565, the ‘‘AMIGOS Act’’, 10 a.m., 2141 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Full Committee, markup
on H.R. 934, the ‘‘Health Benefits for Miners Act of
2019’’; H.R. 935, the ‘‘Miners Pension Protection Act’’;
and H.R. 2579, the ‘‘Hardrock Leasing and Reclamation
Act of 2019’’, 10 a.m., 1324 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, Subcommittee on
Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, hearing entitled ‘‘Exam-
ining the Oil Industry’s Efforts to Suppress the Truth
about Climate Change’’, 10 a.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on National Security, hearing entitled
‘‘The Trump Administration’s Syria Policy: Perspectives
from the Field’’, 2 p.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Subcommittee
on Environment; and Subcommittee on Space and Aero-
nautics, joint hearing entitled ‘‘Space Weather: Advanc-
ing Research, Monitoring, and Forecasting Capabilities’’,
2 p.m., 2318 Rayburn.
Committee on Small Business, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Prison to Proprietorship: Entrepreneurship Op-
portunities for the Formerly Incarcerated’’, 11:30 a.m.,
2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Sub-
committee on Water Resources and Environment, hearing
entitled ‘‘The Pebble Mine Project: Process and Potential
Impacts’’, 10 a.m., 2167 Rayburn.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, Subcommittee on Eco-
nomic Opportunity, hearing entitled ‘‘Protecting Benefits
for All Servicemembers’’, 10 a.m., HVC–210.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:58 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D22OC9.REC D22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1149
October 22, 2019
Committee on Ways and Means, Full Committee, markup
on H.R. 4742, to amend the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 to impose a tax on nicotine used in vaping, etc.;
H.R. 4716, the ‘‘Inhaler Coverage and Access Now Act’’;
H.R. 1922, the ‘‘Restoring Access to Medication Act of
2019’’; and H.R. 3708, the ‘‘Primary Care Enhancement
Act of 2019’’, 1 p.m., 1100 Longworth.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:58 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D22OC9.REC D22OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D1150 October 22, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
9:30 a.m., Wednesday, October 23
Senate Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of S.J. Res. 50, Contributions in Exchange for State
or Local Tax Credits, and vote on passage of the joint res-
olution at 2:45 p.m.
Following disposition of S.J. Res. 50, Senate will con-
tinue consideration of H.R. 3055, Commerce, Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Wednesday, October 23
House Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Consideration of H.R.
4617—Stopping Harmful Interference in Elections for a
Lasting Democracy Act (Subject to a Rule).
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Babin, Brian, Tex., E1326
Budd, Ted, N.C., E1325
Bustos, Cheri, Ill., E1325
Cole, Tom, Okla., E1325
Collins, Doug, Ga., E1325
Crawford, Eric A. ‘‘Rick’’, Ark., E1326
Jackson Lee, Sheila, Tex., E1323
Johnson, Henry C. ‘‘Hank’’, Jr., Ga., E1324
Kaptur, Marcy, Ohio, E1327
Keller, Fred, Pa., E1324
Kelly, Trent, Miss., E1326
Khanna, Ro, Calif., E1324
Lowenthal, Alan S., Calif., E1324
Luria, Elaine G., Va., E1324
McEachin, A. Donald, Va., E1324, E1326
Norton, Eleanor Holmes, The District of Columbia,
E1326, E1327
Rouda, Harley, Calif. E1327
Ruiz, Raul, Calif., E1324
Upton, Fred, Mich., E1327
Westerman, Bruce, Ark., E1325
Wilson, Joe, S.C., E1326
Wittman, Robert J., Va., E1325
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:58 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D22OC9.REC D22OCPT1
