Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H1527
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2019 No. 28
House of Representatives
The House met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. ESPAILLAT).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
February 13, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable ADRIANO
ESPAILLAT to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 11:50 a.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
STAND BESIDE ISRAEL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Kansas (Mr. MARSHALL) for 5 minutes.
Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to call upon all Members of Con-
gress to stand beside Israel and con-
front anti-Semitism, ethnic hatred,
and prejudice-driven boycotts, whether
at home, abroad, and certainly for
Members of this Chamber.
We, as a country, cannot tolerate
this behavior, and certainly this Cham-
ber has no room for bigotry. Further-
more, I must warn the general public
that despite the warranted outcry we
saw in response to the Representative
from Minnesota’s irresponsible com-
ments, this is the new normal for the
liberal base in America.
To be clear, anti-Semitism has be-
come an all-too-common occurrence in
politics among the Democrat base and
the far left who see Israel as nothing
more than an extension of phantom
corruption and colonialism.
Politicians who appeal to this type of
ignorance are simply shoring up a new
Democratic constituency. That is the
ethos that primed the Minnesota Rep-
resentative’s ludicrous and insulting
accusation of ‘‘bought-and-paid-for’’
politicians who stand with Israel.
It is that type of loose, cheap, anti-
Semitic rhetoric that led to the rise of
the Third Reich. It is clear to all of us,
there are a couple of our new col-
leagues across the aisle that need to be
reminded. In fact, they need to admit
that the brutal regime of Iran con-
tinues to be the chief obstacle to peace
and security in the Middle East, and
thus, the root of most all terrorism
that threatens our homeland.
For decades, Iran’s funding of ter-
rorism and extremist groups in the re-
gion has fueled violence, civil war, and
bloodshed. The Iranian Parliament lit-
erally burned the U.S. flag on their
parliament floor and chants, ‘‘death to
Israel,’’ and ‘‘death to America’’ in
their streets.
At home, all Americans must oppose
the radical and xenophobic boycott, di-
vestment, and sanctions movement
which are promulgated by the left.
This BDS campaign is peddled by intel-
lectually dishonest anti-Semites whose
sole purpose is to attack Israel, at-
tempting to delegitimize and isolate it
from the rest of the world.
Any Member of this congressional
body with ties to the BDS movement
should renounce them immediately. We
must hold our elected officials ac-
countable. Whether on Twitter or in
the Halls of Congress, disgusting in-
sinuations and bigotry must be con-
demned in all forms. Those who con-
tinue the use of anti-Semitic rhetoric
should be held accountable for their ac-
tions.
The Democrats should follow the
high standards and the high bar that
the Republican leader has taken when
it comes to committee assignments to
those who make bigoted remarks.
America must continue to stand to-
gether in support of Israel and in sup-
port of peace in the Middle East and
the world. We must build upon our un-
breakable alliance with Israel and
overcome the challenges that come
with building a better, safer world.
f
THE TIME IS ALWAYS RIGHT TO
DO THAT WHICH IS RIGHT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. GREEN) for 5 minutes.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
still I rise, and I rise because I love my
country. I rise because it is Black His-
tory Month, and I am always, during
Black History Month, amazed at what
Dr. King called to our attention in his
letter from the Birmingham jail. It is
one of the great masterpieces of writ-
ten word in the history of our country.
I encourage all people to read his letter
from the Birmingham jail.
But I think that as important as it
is, it is equally as important to read
the letter that Dr. King was responding
to, because if you don’t read the letter
he is responding to in his letter, then
you cannot totally appreciate the let-
ter from the Birmingham jail.
I am not going to read the letter in
its entirety. I will just tell you a little
bit about it. This letter—I hold a copy
of it in my hand—was signed by eight
of the leading citizens in the area,
members of the clergy, all. These lead-
ing citizens were admonishing persons
to proceed with caution.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:28 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE7.000 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1528 February 13, 2019
Dr. King reminds us, however, that
the time is always right to do what is
right.
They said in their letter, ‘‘But we are
convinced that these demonstrations
are unwise and untimely.’’ The time is
always right to do what is right.
And I would also add—this is not in
Dr. King’s retort, but that we should
not allow political expediency to
trump the moral imperative to do what
is right. The time is always right to do
what is right.
People are saying today: We should
wait. We don’t have to move now. Let’s
wait. Let’s let something else happen
before we take any position.
They go on to say in their letter,
‘‘We agree rather with certain local
Negro leadership, which has called for
honest and open negotiation of racial
issues in our area.’’ To the many who
say, let’s have a dialogue, let’s have a
discussion about the race question; we
need to talk about the race question.
I say to my dear brothers and sisters,
dear friends, and dear Members, this
was written April 12, 1963. We have
been talking about the race question
long before this and since this. The
time is always right to do that which is
right.
Dr. King reminded us that injustice
anywhere is a threat to justice every-
where. He said that in his letter. That
means that if we allow injustice to
exist in the White House as it relates
to bigotry, and xenophobia, and
homophobia, and Islamophobia, if we
allow it to exist in the White House, I
say to my dear brothers and sisters, it
is a threat to every house in this coun-
try. Injustice anywhere is still a threat
to justice everywhere.
So I happen to be one who is willing
to accept all of the criticisms, and all
of the slings and arrows. Send them my
way. I will do what is right.
The Constitution allows it, in fact,
my constituents demand it. It is time
for us to take the issue up again. It is
going to happen, I say to my dear
brothers and sisters. I believe that we
cannot allow bigotry and policy ema-
nating from the Presidency to go un-
checked.
So I can only say to you, impeach-
ment is the solution, and the place for
that solution to be properly addressed
is the United States House of Rep-
resentatives. Right here in this well.
Impeachment is not dead.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
CAREER AND TECHNICAL
EDUCATION MONTH
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. THOMPSON) for 5
minutes.
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, February is Career and
Technical Education Month. As co-
chair of the bipartisan Career and
Technical Education Caucus, and a sen-
ior member of the Education and Labor
Committee, I have long been aware of
the importance of CTE programs that
provides learners of all ages with ca-
reer-ready skills.
From agriculture to the arts, from
marketing to manufacturing, CTE pro-
grams work to develop America’s most
valuable resource: its people.
Together with my friend and col-
league, Congressman JIM LANGEVIN, co-
chairman of the Career and Technical
Education Caucus, we introduced a res-
olution officially designating February
as CTE month. I encourage all of my
colleagues to sign on as cosponsors be-
cause CTE truly benefits all Ameri-
cans.
CTE is taught in a range of settings:
from high school and area technical
centers, to technical and 2-year com-
munity colleges. Millions of high
school and college students are en-
rolled in CTE programs across the Na-
tion, bringing CTE to every commu-
nity in the country.
Fortunately, in July 2018, President
Trump signed into law the Strength-
ening Career and Technical Education
for the 21st Century Act. I authored
this bill with Representative RAJA
KRISHNAMOORTHI and it aims to close
the skills gap by modernizing Federal
investment in CTE programs, and con-
necting educators with industry stake-
holders.
It marks the first major overhaul to
the Carl D. Perkins Career and Tech-
nical Education Act since 2006. The
Perkins Act is important for edu-
cational institutions as well as local
businesses. Small business owners rely
upon Perkins programs to increase the
number of skilled candidates in emerg-
ing sectors. Future workers in fields
such as manufacturing, information
technology, healthcare, and agri-
culture also rely on career and tech-
nical education programs to obtain the
skills necessary for high-skill, high-
wage, family-sustaining jobs and ca-
reers.
Essentially, Mr. Speaker, we are pro-
viding the education and tools to equip
a 21st century workforce for this Na-
tion. For students who pursue a career
in technical education, it isn’t some
kind of plan B option. CTE has estab-
lished itself as a path that many high-
achieving students choose in pursuit of
industry certification and hands-on
skills that they can use right away out
of high school in skills-based education
programs or in college.
By modernizing the Federal invest-
ment in CTE programs, we can connect
more educators with industry stake-
holders and close the skills gap in this
country. There are good jobs out there,
but people need to be qualified to get
them. A career in technical education
is a pathway forward for each and
every one of these people.
CTE gives people from all walks of
life an opportunity to succeed. During
CTE month, we celebrate the achieve-
ments of students and spread aware-
ness that there is no one-size-fits-all
plan for success in life. I thank Con-
gressman LANGEVIN for his dedication
to this issue, and urge all of my col-
leagues to support this important reso-
lution.
f
CONFLICT IN YEMEN
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Maryland (Mr. BROWN) for 5 minutes.
Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Mr. Speak-
er, today the House is asserting its
constitutional responsibility by cut-
ting off U.S. involvement with the
Saudi-led coalition in the devastating
conflict in Yemen. I thank Representa-
tive KHANNA for leading on this issue.
This brutal war has caused mass star-
vation and cut off humanitarian aid
from reaching those most in need. The
number of casualties has exceeded half
a million men, women, and children.
We don’t know if this legislation will
reach the President’s desk or whether
he will sign it, but with reporting that
Saudi coalition members have trans-
ferred U.S. weapons to terrorist groups
in Yemen, and the Trump administra-
tion choosing to ignore a deadline last
week to report on whether Saudi
Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman
is responsible for the death of jour-
nalist Khashoggi, we must keep up the
pressure to end U.S. involvement in
hostilities in Yemen.
At the end of the day, U.S. participa-
tion in this war is illegal, having never
been authorized by Congress.
b 1015
When the United States became in-
volved with the Saudi-led war, this ac-
tion was not covered by the Authoriza-
tion for Use of Military Force issued by
Congress in the wake of 9/11. The
Houthis, against whom the Saudi coali-
tion is engaged, are not affiliated with
al-Qaida. But because of the 60-word
2001 AUMF, three Presidents have
warped that limited authorization into
enabling a global-spanning war, broad
enough to cover airstrikes in the Khy-
ber Pass and to boots on the ground in
Niger. This AUMF contains no time
limits, no geographic constraints, and
no need for congressional consent or
oversight.
In the last 17 years, the 2001 AUMF
has been cited as statutory authority
for unclassified military actions in
more than 18 countries, and Congress
has been left in the dark about many of
these operations. Our men and women
in uniform have deployed time and
again, shouldering a heavy burden
while at the same time the public is be-
coming more removed from the con-
flicts in which we are engaged.
Today, less than 20 percent of the
Members of the 116th Congress were
present when this vote was taken in
2001. But after more than a decade of
putting more and more war-making
power in the hands of the President
and greater burden on the shoulders of
our troops, Congress must take a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:28 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.002 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1529
February 13, 2019
stand. We cannot continue to be side-
lined from the decisions critical to our
national security.
The Constitution is clear. Congress,
not the President, has the power to de-
clare war. The President can respond
to an imminent threat to the homeland
or to U.S. personnel abroad, or if we
are attacked, but this is the only situa-
tion in which he may dispense with
congressional approval, because as cur-
rent law dictates, once the President
initiates hostilities against a new
enemy, Congress, not the President,
dictates whether hostilities can con-
tinue.
It would be wrong for Congress to
allow any President solely on his or
her own authority and aside from an
imminent, clear threat to sustain our
involvement in any conflict, especially
one so fraught as the conflict in
Yemen. The United States cannot
enter any conflict in the Middle East,
East Asia, or Africa with no clear
strategy, no clear objectives, and no
authorization from Congress.
The American people need answers,
and our troops and their families de-
serve a public debate over the sac-
rifices we ask them to make. I under-
stand that for many Members, after
close to two decades of war in Iraq and
Afghanistan, the idea of debating, let
alone authorizing, new military action
is not going to be popular, even if war-
ranted. But we were not elected to pass
the buck or abdicate our constitutional
responsibility. We must debate these
issues.
Mr. Speaker, as a combat veteran
and a Member of Congress, I know it is
one of our most important and solemn
responsibilities to decide when and how
we send Americans into harm’s way.
We cannot shirk that responsibility be-
cause of its gravity. We must embrace
the tough decisions our role requires us
to carry out.
I hope today is the beginning of our
long-overdue debate over the AUMF
and the true costs of war on our coun-
try and the men and women who fight
and die serving it.
f
ROCKEFELLER CANCER INSTITUTE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Arkansas (Mr. HILL) for 5 minutes.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today in recognition of National
Cancer Prevention Month and to high-
light the long-term, exceptional work
of the Winthrop P. Rockefeller Cancer
Institute at the University of Arkansas
in Little Rock.
The Rockefeller Cancer Institute
opened in 1989 and serves as Arkansas’
only comprehensive cancer treatment
and research facility. Now in its 30th
year, the Rockefeller Cancer Institute
is in the process of pursuing designa-
tion as a National Cancer Institute.
In 2018, approximately 44 Arkansans
a day were diagnosed with some form
of cancer, and 6,910 Arkansans lost
their lives to this terrible disease. NCI
grant funding would increase Arkan-
sans’ access to clinical trials and new
therapies, expand services for patients,
and create more healthcare jobs in cen-
tral Arkansas.
With 70 NCI-designated cancer cen-
ters across the country, not one is in
Arkansas, and therefore, this is a vi-
tally important mission.
I applaud the Rockefeller Institute’s
objective.
RECOGNIZING BILL HOLMES
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to recognize my friend, Bill
Holmes, who passed away peacefully
late last year. He left an indelible im-
pact on the Arkansas business commu-
nity.
Bill dedicated over four decades of
his life to financial services, commu-
nity banking, and government policy,
most recently as CEO of the Arkansas
Bankers Association. I was fortunate
to work with him throughout my busi-
ness career in Arkansas.
Among his friends, Bill was known
for his quick wit, mischievous smile,
and ability to connect with others.
Bill’s contributions to our State and
our community banks will not be for-
gotten. I join all Arkansans in recog-
nizing Bill for his remarkable career
and his life well-lived.
I extend my respect, affection, and
prayers to his wife, Rita, and their
family and friends.
RECOGNIZING SYBIL JORDAN HAMPTON
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to recognize my friend, Sybil
Jordan Hampton, who was recently
awarded the alumni award from the
University of Chicago for providing
leadership in advancing social justice
and equity in our society.
Sybil grew up in Little Rock, Arkan-
sas, and in 1962, in the aftermath of the
Little Rock Nine integration of Central
High in 1957, Sybil became the first Af-
rican American student to complete
her entire education at Little Rock
Central High School.
She went on to earn her bachelor’s
degree from Earlham College, a mas-
ter’s degree in elementary education
from the University of Chicago, and a
second master’s degree and doctorate
from Columbia University.
After working as a higher education
administrator and philanthropist,
Sybil returned to Little Rock to be-
come president of the Winthrop Rocke-
feller Foundation, focusing on building
a better Arkansas. She continues to be
involved in many local community
service organizations and is a life
member of the Girl Scouts of America.
As a local educator and civic and
community leader, Arkansas has been
an enriched place to live and work due
to the outstanding accomplishments of
Sybil Jordan Hampton.
RECOGNIZING JIM HINKLE
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to recognize the achieve-
ments of Mr. Jim Hinkle, who was in-
ducted into the Arkansas Outdoor Hall
of Fame last year by the Arkansas
Game and Fish Commission.
Born and raised in Mountain View,
Arkansas, Jim graduated from the Uni-
versity of Central Arkansas before pur-
suing a lifelong career in community
service and the outdoors. He served as
commissioner of the Arkansas Game
and Fish Commission before
transitioning to 14 years on the board
of the National Wild Turkey Federa-
tion, ultimately serving as president of
the national chapter.
Jim’s leadership helped lead toward
the expansion and improvement of
habitat throughout the United States,
Mexico, and Canada. His service to the
State of Arkansas and to wildlife and
conservation causes will not be forgot-
ten, and I join all Arkansans in con-
gratulating Jim on this achievement
and wish him much continued success.
RECOGNIZING THURMAN BOOTH’S RETIREMENT
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to recognize the life of Thur-
man Booth. Thurman retired earlier
this year after serving more than 52
years in wildlife services, most re-
cently as the Arkansas director of
Wildlife Services for the U.S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture.
Thurman’s journey began at Lou-
isiana State University. He quickly
joined the Bureau of Sport Fisheries
and Wildlife as a trainee and then be-
came assistant State supervisor in the
Division of Wildlife Services. He served
as the Wildlife Services lead in Arkan-
sas since 1968.
We appreciate his service to con-
servation and to the Game and Fish
Commission, and I wish him a great re-
tirement.
f
GUN VIOLENCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Florida (Mr. DEUTCH) for 5 minutes.
Mr. DEUTCH. Mr. Speaker, I don’t
know what it is like to lose a child to
gun violence. My words are not suffi-
cient to describe that pain.
These are the words of Patricia Oli-
ver, the mother of Joaquin Oliver. Joa-
quin was killed 1 year ago tomorrow at
Marjory Stoneman Douglas High
School in Parkland, Florida.
Dear Representative DEUTCH: I am writing
to you to plead with you to ensure that other
mothers and fathers do not have to endure
this gut-wrenching pain, the senseless and
unnecessary loss of life, liberty, and the pur-
suit of happiness for my family.
My name is Patricia Oliver. My beautiful
son, Joaquin, was one of the 17 who lost their
lives at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High
School last year. Words cannot express the
devastation wrought on the families of the
victims, the shattering of families, friends,
and those who survived.
After the avoidable mass shooting, many
said we were in their thoughts and prayers.
How many of you in this Chamber uttered
just those words?
I thank you for your prayers, but are you
actually thinking about your constituents,
about those you have sworn an oath to serve,
and about those you know and love? If you
were thinking, you would do something.
It is in your power to enact commonsense
gun laws, commonsense mental health sup-
port, and appropriate support and guidance
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:28 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.005 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1530 February 13, 2019
to law enforcement. If we have the courage
to stand up and do this, then never again will
thoughts and prayers be needed in the after-
math of a mass shooting.
This country is at a crossroads. We need
your leadership. We need your love, your
compassion. We need your serious thought
unmarred by lobbyists.
I implore you to think about the kids.
Think about how you would feel if it were
your son, your daughter, your grand-
daughter, or your grandson, because it could
be.
Had we—had the Members of this body—
learned the lessons of Columbine and of
Sandy Hook, Joaquin would still be here.
The lives of hundreds would not have been
ripped to pieces. This was preventable.
Something you can do, and urge your col-
leagues to do right this moment, is support
the recently introduced universal back-
ground checks bill.
It is now my mission in life to do whatever
I can to ensure that no mother and no father
have to endure the pain I have, that no shin-
ing beacon of light, hope, and love like my
Joaquin is snuffed out too soon in a prevent-
able mass shooting.
We know that he didn’t have to die if our
leaders had done enough. Other countries
have solved this problem. The roadmap ex-
ists. Please follow it.
Sincerely, Patricia Oliver, Parkland, Flor-
ida.
Mr. Speaker, Patricia and Manuel,
Joaquin’s father, have not allowed Joa-
quin to remain a victim. He is an advo-
cate.
Last month, the Olivers visited Cap-
itol Hill with a statue of Joaquin to de-
liver this letter and to call for change.
It is time to listen to them, Patricia,
Manuel, and Joaquin. We shouldn’t
have to know the pain that Patricia
and Manny know, that 16 other fami-
lies in Parkland know, and that fami-
lies in every corner of this country
know, to do something about gun vio-
lence.
The time to act is now.
f
DISASTER RELIEF
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
the Virgin Islands (Ms. PLASKETT) for 5
minutes.
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to remind you and my colleagues
that Congress appropriated billions for
disaster relief for Hurricanes Irma and
Maria. In the latest effort, however, to
find funding to build a wall, the White
House and top budget officials continue
to discuss shifting disaster funding to
pay for a wall that a foreign nation was
to pay for and now must be borne by
people still recovering from disaster.
The 2017 hurricane season was one of
the worst on record. Among the hard-
est places hit were Puerto Rico and my
home, the Virgin Islands of the United
States, which not only lost power
across the islands, but many vital
pieces of infrastructure were heavily
damaged and destroyed, and, most
tragically, lives were lost.
This disaster significantly impacted
the Virgin Islands, destroying the is-
land’s infrastructure, with the loss of
our only two hospitals, multiple
schools, thousands of homes, and it left
residents without electricity for a pe-
riod of 9 months.
The total damage to the Virgin Is-
lands is estimated at $10.8 billion—$10.8
billion in a place that only has a $1 bil-
lion budget—$6.9 billion for infrastruc-
ture, $2.3 billion for housing, and $1.5
million for the economy.
Diverting disaster funds from this
community would create a security
risk and make them even more vulner-
able.
Mr. Speaker, shifting disaster relief
funds appropriated by this body from
my district and others impaired by the
2017–2018 natural disasters would create
a catastrophic economic disaster.
b 1030
Disaster funding from the Army
Corps was critical to disaster recovery,
including power restoration, studies,
repairs, and construction projects in
the Virgin Islands and other territories
and States impacted by the national
disasters.
The Army Corps of Engineers, how-
ever, has barged more than 25,000 cubic
yards of construction and demolition
debris from the territory. However, ap-
proximately more than 6,000, almost
7,000, cubic yards remain on the island,
still to be removed.
There is still so much work left un-
done. Individuals are still without
roofs. After extensive debate and dis-
cussion with FEMA, the roof repair
program is just now, a year and a half
later, repairing the thousands of roofs
and homes destroyed.
The STEP roof program has been ex-
tended to March 1. The STEP program
debris removal is still in progress
throughout the territory.
The hurricanes left not one but two
hospitals overwhelmed with debris and
destroyed—our only two hospitals—
and, now, worksheets still have not
been approved by FEMA for the re-
building of those hospitals. The mod-
ular hospital is still not in place.
Students have only recently, in this
month, moved into the modular class-
rooms. Can you imagine?
School reconstruction has not begun.
Our communities still have a long way
to go to get in the disaster recovery
and rebuilding process.
Mr. Speaker, nowhere else in this
country would this be allowed. This
would not be allowed in any of your
colleagues’ homes.
However, before and after the storm,
Virgin Islanders put their heads down
and did the work. They pitched in and
helped one another because that is all
we had at that time, and the benevo-
lence of other people, until you, Con-
gress, until you, colleagues, gave them
the disaster funding that was needed to
rebuild.
Mr. Speaker, unlike other places, the
Virgin Islands doesn’t have five or six
Members of the House or millions of
constituents living in your own dis-
tricts. The Virgin Islands didn’t have
thousands of people on the news media
or chefs or playwrights bringing musi-
cals to our island to draw attention to
the devastation in our home.
The Virgin Islands had me, and I
pray they have you—they have you,
Mr. Speaker; they have you, col-
leagues—to continue the fight for
them, for these Americans, to tell the
White House that they should not shift
disaster funding to build a wall away
from Americans living in territories
for something that a foreign country
was to pay for in the beginning.
f
NATIONAL CHILDREN’S DENTAL
HEALTH MONTH
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Maryland (Mr. CUMMINGS) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. CUMMINGS. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize February as Na-
tional Children’s Dental Health Month
and to raise awareness around the
critically important issue of access to
quality dental care for our Nation’s
children.
The most prevalent chronic infec-
tious disease among children in the
United States is tooth decay. This dis-
ease is responsible for countless health
problems in children and more than 51
million hours lost at school every year.
However, this disease is preventable
with basic dental care. Sadly, even
with improvements in recent years, too
many children are not able to access
the quality dental care they need to
simply stay healthy.
I have a long history of advocating
for increased access to dental care for
all, particularly our Nation’s young
people. I have often said that our chil-
dren are the living messengers we send
to a future we will never see. That
means that we must do everything in
our power to ensure that they are
healthy and given every opportunity to
succeed.
Today, I also rise to share the story
of a young Maryland boy named
Deamonte Driver. He died because of a
lack of access to basic dental care.
In February of 2007, 12-year-old
Deamonte Driver came home from
school with a simple headache, which
had started as a toothache. His mother
worked hard to make ends meet with
all kinds of low-paying jobs. She
searched for a dentist who would ac-
cept Medicaid for her children, but she
found no dentist who would care for
children’s teeth.
Deamonte’s mother took him to the
emergency room, where he received
medication for pain, a sinus infection,
and a dental abscess. Unfortunately,
that was not enough. The bacteria
from Deamonte’s cavity spread to his
brain, and, at 12 years old, Deamonte
Driver died—12 years old. Deamonte
could be alive today if it were not for
the lack of a simple procedure and the
early removal of one tooth.
Deamonte’s story is one we must
never, ever forget. We must imprint it
in the DNA of every cell of our brains.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:28 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.006 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1531
February 13, 2019
Fortunately, we have made great
strides in access to dental care, par-
ticularly for children, since
Deamonte’s death in 2007. Passage of
the Children’s Health Insurance Pro-
gram Reauthorization Act and the Af-
fordable Care Act have filled the gaps
in dental care for children who are eli-
gible for these programs. This has
given many children across this great
Nation access to dental care and many
families greater peace of mind regard-
ing their children’s health.
Maryland has also made significant
progress in access to dental healthcare
over the last several years and now
stands as a national model thanks,
sadly, to Deamonte Driver.
Through the work of many groups
and organizations, more Maryland chil-
dren are visiting a dentist, and dental
health is a priority in our great State.
In 2017, almost 70 percent of the Mary-
land children enrolled in Medicaid re-
ceived at least one dental care service.
The Maryland Department of Health
also funds specific programs, such as
the Oral Disease and Injury Prevention
Program and the Dental Sealants Pro-
gram, that cares for and educates thou-
sands of children, including right there
at the schools.
Yet, even with these improvements
in access to education, there is more
that must be done to protect dental
health in honor of that little boy,
Deamonte Driver. That is why I am
proud to rise in support of dental care
during Children’s Dental Health Month
and encourage everyone to take advan-
tage of oral health education,
screenings, preventive care, and restor-
ative services in their community.
It is also why I plan to reintroduce
my Comprehensive Dental Reform Act
this Congress, which, among other
things, would provide comprehensive
dental coverage to all Medicare, Med-
icaid, and VA beneficiaries and make
dental care an essential health benefit
for adults under the Affordable Care
Act.
Dental services must no longer be
thought of as an optional health ben-
efit for children or adults.
f
BLACK HISTORY MONTH
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
California (Mrs. TORRES) for 5 minutes.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today to celebrate
Black History Month and to honor
countless African American leaders
throughout our history who have
pushed relentlessly to make our Union
one that is more just and more equi-
table for all people.
We recognize the incredible progress
that they made possible and the work
that we still need to do to ensure that
opportunity isn’t something that is de-
termined by the color of our skin.
We honor the courageous and deter-
mined everyday men and women, like
Medgar Evers and Fannie Lou Hamer,
who challenged every barrier in our so-
ciety and set a path for the activists of
today, like Patricia Nickols-Butler,
the CEO of Community Action Part-
nership. She has dedicated her entire
life to making sure that not one single
family in San Bernardino County is
left behind by providing them with the
resources they need to succeed.
We honor educators like Maxine
Smith, who fought discrimination in
our classrooms to give every child an
equal opportunity to learn, and leaders
in the Inland Empire like Dr. Soraya
M. Coley, the president of Cal Poly Po-
mona, who is committed to helping
every student reach his and her full po-
tential; trailblazers like San
Bernardino County’s first Black
schoolteacher, Dorothy Inghram, who
taught every child to reach for the
stars and never give up, or Dr. Eric
Bishop, the vice president of student
services at Chaffey College, who has
been a guiding force for every student
when the going got tough.
We honor the countless Black vet-
erans who fought for our freedoms in
every war, from the Revolutionary War
to our current conflicts in the Middle
East, and law enforcement officers who
put their own lives on the line every
single day to keep our communities
safe. We salute Chief Derek Williams of
the Ontario Police Department, whose
commitment to service began in the
Air Force.
We honor the public servants like
Congresswoman Shirley Chisholm, the
first African American woman elected
to Congress, who showed us what it
meant to be ‘‘unbought and unbossed’’
and made way for the historic number
of women running for office today; and
Wilmer Amina Carter, the first African
American woman to represent San
Bernardino County in the California
State Assembly. Throughout her time
in office, she worked to improve the
lives of people in her community by
passing laws to strengthen healthcare,
safety, transportation, and help create
jobs.
We honor the moral leadership of Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr., who made
America listen—listen—to its con-
science and sacrificed his life to ad-
vance civil rights for each and every
one of us.
And we honor Pastor Chuck Sin-
gleton of Loveland Church in Ontario
and Rialto, whose words provide com-
fort and healing here at home and
abroad through his humanitarian
work.
The successes of African American
leaders reach far and wide and are
deeply entrenched in each of our lives.
May we all take the time to uplift the
immeasurable contributions that Afri-
can American leaders have made to our
country this month and every single
day of the year. May we renew our
commitment and join them to pick up
the fight for equality, opportunity, and
justice for all Americans.
HOLOCAUST REMEMBRANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
California (Mr. COSTA) for 5 minutes.
Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, last month
we commemorated Holocaust Remem-
brance Day. It is important that we al-
ways take note because, sadly, geno-
cide and anti-Semitism continues to
exist in the 21st century. As the philos-
opher George Santayana once ex-
plained: Those who do not learn his-
tory are doomed to repeat it.
Yes. An important episode in the his-
tory of the Holocaust is the story of
Aristides de Sousa Mendes, a Por-
tuguese diplomat, who was the con-
sular general in Bordeaux, France, in
the late 1930s, 1940, and 1941. As a Por-
tuguese diplomat in Bordeaux, France,
at the outset of the Second World War,
Sousa Mendes is credited with saving
the lives of tens of thousands of Euro-
pean Jews fleeing the Holocaust.
As a proud Portuguese American and
the co-chair of the Congressional Por-
tuguese Caucus, I am glad that later
this year we will be hosting a screening
of the film, ‘‘Disobedience: The Sousa
Mendes Story,’’ in partnership with the
Sousa Mendes Foundation.
b 1045
We must learn from our history so
that the atrocities of the past are
never repeated in the future. We re-
member, and we pledge to never, ever
forget.
Speaking of atrocities, sadly, they do
continue to exist around the world.
This week, we will have an oppor-
tunity, as Congress, to go on record to
discuss the challenges of the civil war
going on in Yemen and America’s par-
ticipation in that effort.
It is high time Congress reassert
itself in terms of our checks and bal-
ances. We have abdicated our role far
too often in terms of declaring what
America’s actions and interventions
will be like around the world. This
week, we will have an opportunity to
go on record on the atrocities that are
taking place in Yemen and, hopefully,
be a positive force for change.
In addition to our efforts this week, a
looming deadline on February 15 is be-
fore us, and that is whether we will
reach an agreement on proposed border
security and continue to fund this gov-
ernment to the end of our fiscal year.
It is wrong, and it is irresponsible to
ever shut down government.
In the 14 years that I have been a
Member of Congress, I have never voted
to shut down government. It is not just
the hundreds and thousands of Federal
employees who are at risk, who have
home payments, car payments, and
other obligations, but all the other
contractors and people who do business
with the Federal Government or who
are indirectly impacted.
We have held hearings throughout
my district. I hope that before the end
of this week, we will reach a bipartisan
agreement on border security. I hope
that we will continue to ensure that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:28 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.008 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1532 February 13, 2019
government is not shut down and that
we go about the business of working on
this year’s budget, hopefully, reaching
an agreement to reduce the cost of pre-
scription drugs; to reduce the cost of
healthcare; to protect people’s insur-
ance for preexisting conditions; and
maybe, just maybe, reach an agree-
ment on a bipartisan infrastructure
package. That is the business at hand,
and that is what we ought to be focused
on.
CONGRATULATING UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA,
MERCED
Mr. COSTA. Finally, on an upbeat
note, Mr. Speaker, I rise today to rec-
ognize the University of California at
Merced in my district being named one
of the country’s universities of the
year by Education Dive, which honors
education’s top innovators.
One of the newest research univer-
sities in the entire country, it is a tes-
tament to UC Merced’s forward-think-
ing approach, which has been integral
in increasing opportunity to improve
the quality of education for Califor-
nia’s San Joaquin Valley and the en-
tire system of the University of Cali-
fornia.
UC Merced prides itself in having the
largest share of low-income, first-gen-
eration, and underrepresented students
among all the University of Califor-
nia’s campuses. It is the first minority-
majority campus in California, with
over 8,000 students.
It has been a pleasure to watch the
university grow over the last 13 years
and an honor to meet its educators,
students, and alumni who make up a
tight, close-knit community.
Go Bobcats.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until noon
today.
Accordingly (at 10 o’clock and 49
minutes a.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
f
b 1200
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker at
noon.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Loving God, we give You thanks for
giving us another day.
As we meditate on all the blessings of
life, our fervent prayer, O God, is that
people will learn to live together in
reconciliation and respect so that the
terrors of war and of dictatorial abuse
will be no more.
May Your special blessings be upon
the Members of this assembly in the
important, sometimes difficult, work
they do. We thank You for having in-
spired those who fashioned a bipartisan
agreement earlier this week. Continue
to give all Members wisdom and char-
ity that they might work together for
the common good.
May all that is done this day in the
people’s House be for Your greater
honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER. The Chair has exam-
ined the Journal of the last day’s pro-
ceedings and announces to the House
her approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
Mr. DELGADO. Madam Speaker, pur-
suant to clause 1, rule I, I demand a
vote on agreeing to the Speaker’s ap-
proval of the Journal.
The SPEAKER. The question is on
the Speaker’s approval of the Journal.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. DELGADO. Madam Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER. Pursuant to clause 8,
rule XX, further proceedings on this
question will be postponed.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER. Will the gentleman
from Georgia (Mr. ALLEN) come for-
ward and lead the House in the Pledge
of Allegiance.
Mr. ALLEN led the Pledge of Alle-
giance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
The SPEAKER. The Chair will enter-
tain up to 15 requests for 1-minute
speeches on each side of the aisle.
f
HONORING SOJOURNER TRUTH
(Mr. DELGADO asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. DELGADO. Madam Speaker,
today I rise to honor Sojourner Truth.
Born a slave in Ulster County in 1797,
she ran away to freedom with her in-
fant daughter in 1827. She then chal-
lenged the illegal sale of her son to a
slave owner and was the first Black
woman to win such a case against a
White man. She spent the rest of her
life as a national leader in the aboli-
tionist movement, challenging the
norms of her time by advocating for
gender and racial equality and for the
right to vote.
Her bust is displayed here in the Cap-
itol in Emancipation Hall, the first
sculpture here to honor an African
American woman.
It is an unbelievable honor as well as
incredibly humbling to stand here dur-
ing this Black History Month, as the
first African American Congressman
from Upstate New York, to recognize
the life of a true American hero.
I hope and pray that we as a nation
continue to honor her legacy and so
many others who have committed their
lives to ensuring America live up to
the promise of true equality for all.
f
RAISING THE MINIMUM WAGE
(Mr. ALLEN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. ALLEN. Madam Speaker, I rise
in opposition to legislation that my
Democratic colleagues are pushing to
raise the Federal minimum wage to $15
an hour—more than double its current
level.
As a member of the House Education
and Labor Committee, I participated in
a hearing last week to speak against
this radical proposal that will hurt
low-skilled workers and small busi-
nesses the most. I am a proud small
business owner, and I know for a fact
that businesses pay wages according to
their employees’ skill set. In a free en-
terprise environment, a growing econ-
omy grows jobs which grows opportuni-
ties which grows wages.
I believe you reward a good day’s
work, but my Democratic colleagues
don’t want to believe that we can
produce economic opportunity in con-
cert with growing wages without the
government interfering.
Signing the front of the paycheck
and providing folks with a good job has
been one of the greatest privileges of
my life. That is why I oppose the Raise
the Wage Act. This one-size-fits-all,
top-down government regulation will
destroy millions of hard-earned jobs
and restrain our growing economy.
Democrats should focus on economic
growth and getting the American peo-
ple back to work, not an unpopular,
progressive agenda.
f
HONORING THE FAMILIES OF
VETERANS
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Madam Speaker, last
year, veterans from northern Cali-
fornia brought an issue to our atten-
tion. Due to a flaw in the current law,
the Department of Veterans’ Affairs
cannot include almost any information
about the spouse of a veteran on a VA-
provided tombstone at a non-VA ceme-
tery.
That is why last week I introduced
the Honoring Veterans’ Families Act
to rectify this issue and allow the
spouse of a veteran to be included on
the veteran’s grave marker on their
death.
With all that veterans and their fam-
ilies sacrifice for this country, is that
too much to ask?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:28 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.011 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1533
February 13, 2019
Every veteran should have the oppor-
tunity to include their spouse on their
own tombstone should they wish to do
so.
I would like to thank my colleague
from California (Mr. PANETTA), a vet-
eran himself, for joining with me to
correct this oversight in a bipartisan
effort. Honoring the families of our
veterans is something that everyone
can and should support.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
DEGETTE) laid before the House the fol-
lowing communication from the Clerk
of the House of Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, February 13, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on
February 13, 2019, at 11:40 a.m.:
That the Senate passed S. 47.
That the Senate passed S. 461.
With best wishes, I am
Sincerely,
KAREN L. HAAS.
f
BORDER SECURITY
(Mr. HARRIS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. HARRIS. Madam Speaker, in the
next few days, we are going to be asked
to take another step on our journey to
securing our border.
The Congress has to take this very
seriously because we have tens of thou-
sands of people dying every year from
drug overdoses with a lot of those
drugs crossing our southern border.
Just a few weeks ago we seized hun-
dreds of pounds of fentanyl, a drug that
can kill millions of people and, in fact,
has taken tens of thousands of lives.
We know our border is unsecured. We
have to do whatever we can to give the
President and the Department of
Homeland Security the ability to pro-
tect our southern border.
f
MARJORY STONEMAN DOUGLAS
HIGH SCHOOL
(Mr. CROW asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. CROW. Madam Speaker, I rise in
memory of the 17 students killed near-
ly 1 year ago today at Marjory
Stoneman Douglas High School. They
deserve more than our remembrance,
though. They deserve action and the
promise that we as a country will do
better. I speak today as a father, as a
soldier, as a sportsman, and as a resi-
dent of Aurora, Colorado.
I respect the Second Amendment and
our heritage of responsible gun owner-
ship, but I learned while serving our
country that citizenship comes with
duties to our fellow Americans. One of
those duties is to ensure that our fel-
low citizens can live without fear and
safely pursue their dreams and ambi-
tions. I was sent here to speak the
truth, and the truth is we are not ful-
filling that duty to one another.
So let us be the generation who has
the courage to stand up to the gun
lobby and to the special interests. Let
us be the generation that recognizes
that citizenship comes with responsi-
bility. I know we can be that genera-
tion.
The question is: Can we be that Con-
gress?
I call on my colleagues to pass H.R.
8 and reinstitute the ban on assault
weapons to keep our kids and our com-
munities safe.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
REPUBLICAN LEADER
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Honorable KEVIN
MCCARTHY, Republican Leader:
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, February 8, 2019.
Hon.NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to H. Res.
6 Sec. 104(a), I am pleased to appoint the fol-
lowing Member to the House Democracy
Partnership to serve as the Ranking Repub-
lican Member:
The Honorable Vern Buchanan of Florida
Thank you for your attention to this mat-
ter.
Sincerely,
KEVIN MCCARTHY,
Republican Leader.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.J. RES. 37, REMOVAL OF
UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES
FROM HOSTILITIES IN YEMEN
THAT HAVE NOT BEEN AUTHOR-
IZED BY CONGRESS; WAIVING A
REQUIREMENT OF CLAUSE 6(a)
OF RULE XIII WITH RESPECT TO
CONSIDERATION OF CERTAIN
RESOLUTIONS REPORTED FROM
THE COMMITTEE ON RULES; AND
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF MOTIONS TO SUSPEND THE
RULES
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, by
direction of the Committee on Rules, I
call up House Resolution 122 and ask
for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 122
Resolved, That at any time after adoption
of this resolution the Speaker may, pursuant
to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the
House resolved into the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union for
consideration of the joint resolution (H.J.
Res. 37) directing the removal of United
States Armed Forces from hostilities in the
Republic of Yemen that have not been au-
thorized by Congress. The first reading of the
joint resolution shall be dispensed with. All
points of order against consideration of the
joint resolution are waived. General debate
shall be confined to the joint resolution and
shall not exceed one hour equally divided
and controlled by the chair and ranking mi-
nority member of the Committee on Foreign
Affairs. After general debate the joint reso-
lution shall be considered for amendment
under the five-minute rule. It shall be in
order to consider as an original joint resolu-
tion for the purpose of amendment under the
five-minute rule an amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute consisting of the text of
Rules Committee Print 116-4. That amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute shall be
considered as read. All points of order
against that amendment in the nature of a
substitute are waived. No amendment to
that amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute shall be in order except those printed
in the report of the Committee on Rules ac-
companying this resolution. Each such
amendment may be offered only in the order
printed in the report, may be offered only by
a Member designated in the report, shall be
considered as read, shall be debatable for the
time specified in the report equally divided
and controlled by the proponent and an op-
ponent, shall not be subject to amendment,
and shall not be subject to a demand for divi-
sion of the question in the House or in the
Committee of the Whole. All points of order
against such amendments are waived. At the
conclusion of consideration of the joint reso-
lution for amendment the Committee shall
rise and report the joint resolution to the
House with such amendments as may have
been adopted. Any Member may demand a
separate vote in the House on any amend-
ment adopted in the Committee of the Whole
to the joint resolution or to the amendment
in the nature of a substitute made in order
as original text. The previous question shall
be considered as ordered on the joint resolu-
tion and amendments thereto to final pas-
sage without intervening motion except one
motion to recommit with or without instruc-
tions.
SEC. 2. The requirement of clause 6(a) of
rule XIII for a two-thirds vote to consider a
report from the Committee on Rules on the
same day it is presented to the House is
waived with respect to any resolution re-
ported through the legislative day of Feb-
ruary 17, 2019, relating to a measure making
or continuing appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019.
SEC. 3. It shall be in order at any time
through the calendar day of February 17,
2019, for the Speaker to entertain motions
that the House suspend the rules as though
under clause 1 of rule XV. The Speaker or
her designee shall consult with the Minority
Leader or his designee on the designation of
any matter for consideration pursuant to
this section.
SEC. 4. The chair of the Committee on Ap-
propriations may insert in the Congressional
Record not later than February 17, 2019, such
material as she may deem explanatory of
measures making or continuing appropria-
tions for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2019.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Massachusetts is recog-
nized for 1 hour.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, for
the purpose of debate only, I yield the
customary 30 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma (Mr. COLE), my
good friend, who is the ranking mem-
ber of the Rules Committee, pending
which I yield myself such time as I
may consume. During consideration of
this resolution, all time yielded is for
the purpose of debate only.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:44 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.013 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1534 February 13, 2019
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers be given 5 legislative days to re-
vise and extend their remarks.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Massachusetts?
There was no objection.
b 1215
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, on
Monday the Rules Committee met and
reported a rule, House Resolution 122,
providing for consideration of H.J. Res.
37, under a structured rule.
The rule provides 1 hour of debate,
equally divided and controlled by the
chair and ranking minority member of
the Committee on Foreign Affairs. It
also provides same-day authority for
fiscal year 2019 appropriations meas-
ures, suspension authority, and author-
ity for the Appropriations chair to in-
sert explanatory language into the
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, all through
February 17.
Madam Speaker, the Constitution
specifically empowers Congress with
the responsibility to declare war; and
for more than 4 years, there has been a
Saudi-led, U.S.-supported conflict hap-
pening in Yemen that is a war by any
logical definition.
Nearly all of the bombs that have
fallen say the same thing: ‘‘Made in the
United States of America.’’ They fall
on weddings. They fall on hospitals and
on homes. They fall on funerals, ref-
ugee camps, and school buses. It is an
aerial bombing campaign that ham-
mers children, families, and civilian
neighborhoods every single day.
The U.S. military has supported this
reign of terror with logistics, intel-
ligence, ground support, midair refuel-
ing of bombers, and the sale of bombs
and munitions dropped on Yemen.
The Armed Conflict Location and
Event Data Project estimates that
more than 60,000 civilians and combat-
ants have been killed in Yemen over
the last 2 years. This total is increas-
ing by more than 2,000 people every sin-
gle month.
Madam Speaker, 85,000 children
under the age of 5 have died from hun-
ger and disease; 18 million people there
are food insecure; and 75 percent of
Yemen’s population is in need of hu-
manitarian assistance.
The United Nations has said Yemen
is suffering from the fastest growing
cholera epidemic ever recorded, as well
as the world’s biggest food emergency.
These are not abstract numbers.
These are human lives—tens of thou-
sands of children lost.
Given all of this, Americans would be
forgiven for believing that Congress ac-
tually declared our involvement in this
war, but we have not. We abdicated our
responsibility to the executive branch
instead, across multiple Presidents,
Democratic and Republican alike.
Some may dance around this fact by
calling what is happening there a con-
flict, but let’s call it what it is. It is a
war. And our involvement in this war
is unconstitutional.
Despite being one of the world’s
worst humanitarian crises, others, like
the President, don’t mention Yemen at
all. In his State of the Union Address
last week, President Trump, right here
in this Chamber, discussed his ineffec-
tive wall with Mexico, encouraged Con-
gress to stop upholding our oversight
responsibilities over his administra-
tion, and highlighted how Americans
will once again be sent into space.
It was the longest State of the Union
Address in nearly 20 years, but the
President didn’t utter the word
‘‘Yemen’’—not once. He couldn’t even
spare 2 minutes to update this Con-
gress and the American people on our
involvement there. Are you kidding
me?
The President may not want to talk
about it, but a free press has been de-
livering the grisly details day after
day, in spite of the roadblocks the
Saudis have thrown up to limit media
access to Yemen.
Perhaps none spoke more vocally
than the late Saudi dissident and
Washington Post reporter Jamal
Khashoggi. He called for an end to this
conflict in a column titled: ‘‘Saudi
Arabia’s Crown Prince Must Restore
Dignity to His Country—By Ending
Yemen’s Cruel War.’’ That was pub-
lished in The Washington Post just
weeks before his death.
Let’s be honest. What happened to
Jamal Khashoggi was a murder. All
evidence makes it clear that it was
likely at the behest of Saudi Crown
Prince Mohammad bin Salman. A re-
cent New York Times article even re-
vealed that American intelligence
agencies intercepted a conversation
where bin Salman threatened to use a
bullet on Mr. Khashoggi if he didn’t
end his criticism of Saudi Arabia and
this conflict.
Madam Speaker, is this really the
kind of regime Congress wants as our
Nation’s partner?
There was even a report that Saudis
and the UAE are transferring Amer-
ican-made weapons to al-Qaida fighters
and other rebels. This would expose
sensitive national security technology
that could endanger the lives of our
military.
President Trump has said of Saudi
Arabia: They have been a great ally.
Really? Really? This is a country
that is responsible for killing and dis-
membering a Washington Post re-
porter.
Madam Speaker, if this is what the
President considers a friend, then I
would hate to see what he considers a
foe.
Even Republicans are angry with this
administration’s apparent affinity to-
wards Saudi Arabia. Politico reported:
‘‘Senate Republicans are fuming at
President Donald Trump for telling
lawmakers that he would disregard a
law requiring a report to Congress de-
termining who is responsible for the
murder of Saudi journalist Jamal
Khashoggi.’’
No Member of Congress should be
okay with a President showing such
disregard for the laws that we pass, and
we certainly shouldn’t look the other
way when it comes to the murder of a
resident of the United States.
I say to all my friends on the other
side of the aisle: If you want to send a
message that United States foreign
policy respects human rights, join with
us on this resolution.
Prior Republican Congresses have
used every legislative trick in the book
to prevent this debate. They even took
the unprecedented step of stripping war
powers resolutions related to our in-
volvement in Yemen of their privileged
status—not once but twice.
These tactics may have delayed us,
but they did not deter us. Speaker
Boehner may have been content ceding
our constitutional duties to the execu-
tive branch. Speaker Ryan may also
have been happy to do so. Thankfully,
Speaker PELOSI is not. She is empow-
ering this Congress to do its job.
I am glad that, under her leadership,
this Congress has strengthened its po-
litical will and is reasserting our Arti-
cle I constitutional responsibilities.
This is the system our Founders in-
tended, and it is what our constituents
expect of all of us.
This Congress is not turning a blind
eye to U.S. involvement in Yemen.
This Congress is not looking away from
the civil war the world sees unfolding
on its television screens.
I want to thank the Congressional
Progressive Caucus and, especially,
Congressman KHANNA for leading this
matter. Congressman KHANNA has been
the conscience of Congress when it
comes to our involvement in Yemen.
He has pushed us again and again and
again to do something as these atroc-
ities mount.
We not only have a constitutional re-
sponsibility to pass the underlying res-
olution, we have a moral responsi-
bility.
No Congress should be complicit in
the bombing of children or the bombing
of water treatment plants during a
cholera outbreak or the decimation of
hospitals during a humanitarian catas-
trophe or the creation of a blockade
that leads thousands of people to die by
starvation.
Considering this measure in the
opening weeks of this Congress rep-
resents a clear break from the old ways
of doing business, where matters of war
and peace were routinely swept under
the rug.
I am proud that this is a structured
rule that makes in order a bipartisan
amendment and a minority amend-
ment. The bipartisan amendment is
mine, and, among other things, it says
that nothing in this resolution may be
considered as authorizing the use of
military force and nothing may alter
the 2001 AUMF because, as important
as this measure is, it is also targeted
specifically to our involvement only in
and affecting the war in Yemen.
It is something Republicans and
Democrats agree on. Members ranging
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:28 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.016 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1535
February 13, 2019
from conservative Republican TOM
MASSIE to progressive Congresswoman
BARBARA LEE have signed on as cospon-
sors. It should not be controversial.
Madam Speaker, there is bipartisan
agreement that the U.S. involvement
in Yemen needs to end, so I urge all my
colleagues to seize this opportunity
that we have fought for for so long.
Vote ‘‘yes’’ on this rule and the under-
lying joint resolution. Let’s finally end
our Nation’s complicity in the greatest
humanitarian crisis taking place on
our planet today.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume,
and I want to thank my good friend,
Chairman MCGOVERN, for yielding me
the customary 30 minutes.
Normally, Madam Speaker, I would
be agreeing with my good friend, Mr.
MCGOVERN, on the issue of congres-
sional war powers, and, frankly, I want
to applaud his efforts over the years to
reassert congressional war powers.
It is a responsibility, in my view and,
I know, my friend’s view, that Congress
has abdicated and one which we must
work to reclaim in the weeks and
months ahead. I commit to work with
my friend, as I have in the past, to do
just that in the future. But, in my
view, this particular issue is not about
congressional war powers.
Madam Speaker, we had a spirited
debate on this joint resolution in the
Rules Committee Monday night, and I
expect that today’s debate will be just
as spirited. The reason is because this
measure concerns one of the most im-
portant of Congress’ powers: the power
under Article I of the Constitution to
declare war and to say when, where,
and with whom the American Armed
Forces will be committed to combat.
In 1973, Congress passed the War Pow-
ers Resolution, which is intended to
give Congress and the President proce-
dures to follow when committing U.S.
Armed Forces into hostilities and to
give Congress a method to instruct the
President to remove U.S. forces from
hostilities.
Today, the majority is bringing up
H.J. Res. 37, a resolution ostensibly
arising under Congress’ powers under
the War Powers Resolution, to instruct
the President to remove United States
Armed Forces from hostilities in
Yemen. Specifically, this refers to
United States support for key allies, a
coalition led by Saudi Arabia in their
intervention in the civil war in Yemen
against the Iranian-backed Houthi
rebels.
Unfortunately, Madam Speaker, I be-
lieve this resolution is fatally flawed,
misstates the facts, and will not ac-
complish what the majority is prom-
ising. For that reason, I oppose this
rule and oppose this joint resolution.
Let’s start with the text of the reso-
lution.
Section 2 of the resolution directs
the President to ‘‘remove United
States Armed Forces from hostilities
in or affecting the Republic of Yemen
except United States Armed Forces en-
gaged in operations directed at al-
Qaida or associated forces.’’
Of course, the problem with this reso-
lution is that, under the terms of the
War Powers Resolution, American
Armed Forces are not currently en-
gaged in hostilities. Hostilities, under
the War Powers Resolution, means fir-
ing weapons or dropping bombs.
As we heard on Monday night at
rules, the United States is presently
providing assistance to the Saudi-led
coalition that falls short of actual hos-
tilities. We are providing intelligence
and logistics support to an ally, but
that is a far cry from the threshold
necessary to be considered hostilities
for the purposes of the War Powers
Resolution.
This came up during Monday night’s
Rules Committee debate. I note that
even Representative CONNOLLY, who
spoke in favor of this resolution at the
Foreign Affairs Committee a few weeks
ago, stated that ‘‘the United States is
not technically involved on the ground
in hostilities.’’
If we are not ‘‘technically involved’’
in hostilities—we don’t have troops on
the ground, we don’t have flights in the
air, and we are not engaging in combat
missions of any kind against the
Houthis in Yemen—then what does this
resolution actually accomplish?
The majority attempts to get around
this by redefining hostilities to mean
‘‘in-flight refueling non-United States
aircraft conducting missions as part of
the ongoing civil war in Yemen.’’
Even if I did accept, for the sake of
argument, that this is a legitimate def-
inition—and I don’t—this is still a false
statement. The United States is not
currently providing Saudi Arabia with
in-flight refueling assistance and has
not since early November of last year.
That fact is just one of the many prob-
lems with the resolution.
I do point out the last administration
certainly did that. It is actually this
administration that canceled that pro-
cedure, which it inherited from the
Obama administration.
But even if the statement, again,
were accurate, I believe the majority’s
resolution raises significant questions
that should give us pause.
Across the globe, the United States
has security agreements with 117 coun-
tries, including Saudi Arabia and other
countries in the Saudi-led coalition.
We as a nation and the President of the
United States have obligations under
those security agreements, including
to provide them with support when
they find themselves in combat situa-
tions. The resolution the majority is
asking us to consider today is putting
all of those security agreements—all
117 of them—into jeopardy.
When the President provides assist-
ance short of hostilities to allies and to
countries with whom the United States
has a security agreement, the Presi-
dent is generally well within his or her
rights as Commander in Chief to do so
and well within his or her statutory au-
thority to do so.
It is only when American troops
enter hostilities that the War Powers
Resolution applies, and today, in
Yemen, American forces are not in-
volved in hostilities.
I think that the majority should sit
back and think about the possible con-
sequences of this resolution. For allies
around the globe, this resolution
should give them pause; and, for our
adversaries, this resolution should give
them hope.
For the first time, the United States
Congress would be saying that the
President of the United States no
longer has the authority to provide as-
sistance short of hostilities that we
have agreed to under our security
agreements with these countries. For
our allies and NATO, this would put in
jeopardy our commitment to the col-
lective defense of Europe.
b 1230
For our allies in the Pacific, like
South Korea and Japan, it would put
into question our ability to continue to
provide support in the event of a con-
flict with North Korea.
For potential adversaries like Russia
or Iran, this resolution provides the
hope that America will not live up to
its security commitments and will not
support our allies during their time of
need.
Perhaps most disturbingly, it would
put our ongoing security arrangements
with the state of Israel in question. In
1973, shortly before the War Powers
Resolution was passed, Israel was sub-
ject to a surprise attack. During the
resulting Yom Kippur War, while Israel
was fighting for its survival, the
United States launched an effort to re-
supply Israel. The United States mili-
tary airlifted supplies, ammunition,
and vehicles to Israel, helping to en-
sure their continued survival. However,
we were never engaged in hostilities.
We never committed forces to combat.
If the majority has its say, U.S. as-
sistance to Israel under similar cir-
cumstances could be put in jeopardy.
Under the type of resolution the major-
ity is putting forward today, Israel
would have good cause to question the
U.S. commitment to that nation and to
question our commitment to providing
Israel with support in the future.
Should the United States provide
Israel with the support it needs, our al-
lies would have good reason to fear
that a portion of the House of Rep-
resentatives would try to shut off the
tap by putting forward a resolution
like this. I suggest to my friends that
they rethink whether the War Powers
Resolution should or even can be used
in this way.
Madam Speaker, I urge opposition to
the rule and the underlying legislation,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Just so there is no misunderstanding,
in this resolution, it is written, Section
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:28 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.018 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1536 February 13, 2019
3: ‘‘Nothing in this joint resolution
may be construed to influence or dis-
rupt any military operations and co-
operation with Israel.’’ I mean, it is
written here for everybody to see.
Secondly, my good friend talked
about the consequences of moving this
legislation forward. Let me tell you
what the consequences of not moving
this resolution forward are. It means
that we are totally content to sit back
and say nothing and not admit that our
government has its fingerprints all
over one of the worst humanitarian cri-
ses in the world. It means that we will
be complicit in the continuing destruc-
tion and murder in Yemen.
If this country stands for anything, if
the United States of America stands
for anything, we need to stand out loud
and foursquare for human rights. For
too long, especially under this adminis-
tration, human rights have become an
afterthought.
What makes us great is the fact that
we do have a high standard when it
comes to human rights, that we are
there to speak up for those who are
being persecuted and those who are
being murdered.
This is a statement, this is a signal,
to the administration and to the Saudi
Government that when it comes to
human rights, there are people in this
Congress—hopefully, a bipartisan
group of people in this Congress—who
are not going to be silent, who are
going to demand that things change.
Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
JACKSON LEE).
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker,
I thank the gentleman from Massachu-
setts and the gentleman from Cali-
fornia for their leadership on this mat-
ter. They have discussed this over the
months, and I have been pleased to join
them in this effort.
Madam Speaker, U.S. bombs are
bombing school buses of 40 children.
U.S. bombs are bombing those in
Yemen who are innocent citizens. The
violence through bombing has been fa-
cilitated with U.S. resources. This is a
demand that is without parallel of its
necessity.
The question is whether we are en-
gaged without the authorization of the
United States Congress, whether we
have declared war against Yemen. If
the answer is no, then this resolution is
appropriate.
Yemen is the poorest or one of the
poorest countries in the world. This
resolution clearly says that we should
stop the hostilities against the Houthi
forces. More importantly, we should
stop being used by the Saudi forces.
By the way, having gone to Yemen, I
know that at least a decade ago, Saudi
closed its doors to the Yemen young
men, who could find no work in Yemen
because of its poverty, to go into Saudi
to work there. Without that oppor-
tunity, all we ceded was poverty and
violence. Now, because of the conflict,
we have been bombing Yemen citizens
for many years.
This is a constructive resolution. It
does not violate the 2001 Authorization
for Use of Military Force. It is one that
says that we must take our forces and
impact out of Yemen.
Let me also say that I know that we
will discuss this further, but I do want
to add that it is crucial to take note
that we have an agreement on border
security and funding the different
agencies, so that we do not hold our
Federal employees hostage and we
don’t shut the government.
This resolution, coming back to this
resolution dealing with directing the
removal of Armed Forces from Yemen,
is constructive work of the Democratic
Caucus and Democratic Members. We
hope our Republican Members will join
us in doing the right thing in removing
the impact of the United States forces
in Yemen.
Stop bombing children.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
My friends talked a great deal about
human rights, and I just want to make
the point that I don’t believe—I surely
don’t believe they think that the
Houthi rebels in Yemen are great de-
fenders of human rights or that the
Iranian forces who are on the ground in
Yemen are actually there to advance
human rights and are defending them.
Frankly, I think this issue has more
to do with whether or not we are in-
volved in hostilities, which we clearly
are not.
Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to
the gentleman from Georgia (Mr.
WOODALL), my good friend, a distin-
guished member of the Rules Com-
mittee.
Mr. WOODALL. Madam Speaker, I
don’t know if you have ever tuned in
the Rules Committee when my chair-
man and my ranking member up there
are having a conversation. You get a
very different look at what goes on in
Congress then, because it is not every-
body poking each other with sharp
sticks. It is thoughtful, deliberate pub-
lic servants who are really very close
to finding a common way forward that
is going to make all Americans proud.
That is my frustration with this reso-
lution today and why I hope my col-
leagues will reject it.
My friend from Massachusetts, the
chairman of the Rules Committee, is
working very hard to open up the Rules
Committee, add more voices, bring
more of a constructive process to the
House of Representatives. I admire him
for it. I appreciate his effort, and I sup-
port him every step of the way.
But we are in some bad habits here
on the floor of the House, and we are in
the habit of finding ways to make im-
portant distinctions instead of making
important agreements.
My friend from Massachusetts said
just a few moments ago that not to do
this resolution is to do nothing, and
that is a false choice. There is una-
nimity on the floor of this House that
we must stand up for Article I, that we
must stand up against an overreaching
Article II executive branch, that we
must speak with one voice on issues of
international affairs.
Instead of bringing a bill to the floor
that would have brought us together so
that we do speak with one voice on be-
half of 330 million Americans, we are
bringing a bill to the floor that is going
to pass on a largely party-line vote. We
have done that time and time again in
these first 45 days.
We did that with veteran housing
last week. We took a bill that passed
unanimously in the last Congress to
both provide childcare for our veterans
and pay for that childcare and, instead,
this year, we brought it back where we
are going to have to cut some veteran
accounts in order to fund that
childcare going forward. It made that
motion to recommit a party-line vote.
We did that with recognition of Fed-
eral employees, Madam Speaker, where
we are trying to recognize their service
and their sacrifice. Instead of bringing
a bill that we would have agreed on
unanimously, we brought a bill that di-
vided this institution and made us
speak with two voices.
This is another missed opportunity
today. My friend from Massachusetts
doesn’t have control over this entire
institution. He can’t work his will on
this entire institution. He is doing
what he can on the House Rules Com-
mittee to open up the process and lead
to a better product.
Flawed processes produce flawed
products. Divided bills on the floor of
this House do nothing to unify a di-
vided nation.
We have opportunities. There are
plenty of things on which we disagree.
When we have things like this on which
we agree, I think we need to work
harder, Madam Speaker, to bring our-
selves together, put our divisions be-
hind us, rather than highlight those di-
visions in the name of political gain.
This could have been a unifying mo-
ment, not just for this Congress, but
for the global political entirety as they
see America speak with one voice to
say, when troops are in harm’s way,
the United States Congress, not Article
II, controls that destiny. I hope we will
get to that point sooner rather than
later. We only get so many chances,
and each time we waste one, it becomes
harder.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
I thank my good friend, the gen-
tleman from Georgia, for his kind
words. I have a great deal of respect for
him, as I do for the ranking member,
Mr. COLE. I am hoping that this week
maybe we will have a bipartisan mo-
ment where we all stand together and
keep the government open and prevent
another shutdown.
But on this bill in particular, the bill
that we are taking up here today is vir-
tually identical to the bill that passed
the United States Senate last year
with a bipartisan vote. That bill that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:28 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.020 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1537
February 13, 2019
passed the Senate last year was pre-
vented by the then-Republican major-
ity from even being considered on this
House floor on at least two occasions.
So I can appreciate the fact the gen-
tleman may not agree with the state-
ment we are trying to make today or
the bill that we are putting forward
here today, but the process, I think,
has been pretty good.
It just had a hearing in the com-
mittee of jurisdiction. It had a markup.
We had a long hearing in the Rules
Committee. All the germane amend-
ments were made in order, a bipartisan
amendment and a Republican amend-
ment, and we are going to debate it
here today under regular order. So the
process has been very, very, very good.
I think, for many of us, we are bring-
ing this forward in large part because
we believe that this institution has
been silent for too long.
I am not here to defend the Houthi
rebels or, certainly, to cover up for any
Iranian meddling here, but I will say
this: We know that 85,000 children
under the age of 5 have died of hunger
and disease since 2015. Eighty percent
of all children in Yemen require hu-
manitarian assistance, according to
UNICEF, the U.N.’s children’s agency.
We need to do everything in our
power to encourage a political solution
to this terrible humanitarian crisis. I
mean, this is unbelievable. Every per-
son who cares about human rights
should be outraged by what is going on.
We are having this debate here today
to say that enough is enough and to let
the Saudi Government hear loud and
clear that we will no longer be
complicit in this.
Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentlewoman from Hawaii (Ms.
GABBARD).
Ms. GABBARD. Madam Speaker, I
thank the chairman and the sponsor of
this important legislation for the in-
credible leadership and continuing to
be a resolute voice.
The United States support for Saudi
Arabia’s genocidal war in Yemen, with
no authorization from Congress, has re-
sulted in the deaths of tens of thou-
sands of Yemeni civilians. The U.S.-
Saudi coalition has dropped bombs on
children in school buses, on people in
markets, and on families who are cele-
brating weddings.
They have left millions of Yemeni
people on the brink of death from fam-
ine, disease, starvation, a lack of ac-
cess to clean water, sanitation, and
healthcare. This has created the worst
humanitarian crisis in a generation.
Earlier this week, the Trump admin-
istration threatened to veto this crit-
ical legislation should it pass Congress,
this legislation that would end U.S.
support for the Saudi-led war in
Yemen, by spreading blatant lies. They
have said that this legislation draws
‘‘constitutional concerns,’’ and they
say it would ‘‘affect our ability to pre-
vent the spread of violent extremist or-
ganizations.’’
But here is the truth. First, the
United States’ support for this war in
Yemen is unconstitutional. Congress
has not authorized it. Second, Saudi
Arabia is not our ally, and continued
U.S. support for this war in Yemen is
strengthening terrorist groups like al-
Qaida.
A recent CNN report documented
how Saudi Arabia is literally taking
the U.S. weapons that have been pro-
vided to them in this war in Yemen and
handing them off to al-Qaida on the
ground in Yemen, the very same ter-
rorist group that attacked us on 9/11.
Or to speak of the fact that Saudi
Arabia is continuing to spend billions
of dollars spreading their Wahhabi-
Salafist ideology that is fueling ter-
rorist organizations like ISIS and al-
Qaida, causing them to grow stronger.
Congress must take action today. We
must reclaim our constitutional re-
sponsibility and pass this legislation to
stop supporting Saudi Arabia’s geno-
cidal war in Yemen and strengthening
these terrorist groups that threaten us.
b 1245
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, if we defeat the pre-
vious question, I will offer an amend-
ment to the rule to bring up the text of
H.R. 336, the Strengthening America’s
Security in the Middle East Act of 2019.
One of the four constituent parts of
this bill has already passed the House
by voice vote in this Congress, and
three of the four constituent parts
passed the House by voice vote last
Congress.
The four parts of this bill authorize
assistance and weapons transfers to
Israel, extend defense cooperation with
Jordan, establish additional sanctions
related to the conflict in Syria, and al-
lows States to divest from entities boy-
cotting Israel. On the whole, unlike the
resolution on the floor today, it will
preserve and strengthen our relation-
ship with our allies and reaffirm Amer-
ica’s commitment to a peaceful and
more secure Middle East.
Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous
consent to insert the text of my
amendment in the RECORD, along with
extraneous material, immediately
prior to the vote on the previous ques-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma?
There was no objection.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentlewoman from Wy-
oming (Ms. CHENEY), my distinguished
colleague and the chair of the Repub-
lican Conference.
Ms. CHENEY. Madam Speaker, I
thank very much my colleague, Mr.
COLE, for his tremendous leadership on
this issue and all others as the leading
Republican on the Rules Committee.
Madam Speaker, if we defeat the pre-
vious question, we will move to bring
up H.R. 336, the Strengthening Amer-
ica’s Security in the Middle East Act of
2019. I urge the House to vote on this
bill, whose companion passed the Sen-
ate with bipartisan support this
month.
Bringing this legislation to the floor,
Madam Speaker, is not a partisan ma-
neuver; it is an urgent matter of na-
tional security that requires action by
this House.
H.R. 336 includes two bills that en-
hance our security cooperation with
Israel and Jordan, key U.S. allies in
the Middle East that are active in the
fight against terrorist organizations in
the region.
H.R. 336 also reaffirms America’s un-
wavering support for Israel with the
Combating BDS Act, a bill that em-
powers State and local governments to
counter discriminatory anti-Israel boy-
cotts.
There should be no doubt, Madam
Speaker, about the bipartisan nature of
each of these bills. The Israel security
assistance legislation passed the House
by voice vote in September. The Jor-
dan defense cooperation bill passed the
House by voice vote last February. The
Syria sanctions bill passed the House
by voice vote just last month. And last
Congress, Senator MARCO RUBIO’s Com-
bating BDS Act gained the support of
Minority Leader CHUCK SCHUMER and a
number of other Democrats on the Sen-
ate side.
Most Democratic Members continue
to stand with Republicans in rejecting
the Boycott, Divestment, and Sanc-
tions, BDS, campaign. These Members
understand, as the Republicans do,
that this is a campaign that too often
seeks to delegitimize and demonize
Israel. So, Madam Speaker, why not
hold a vote on H.R. 336 that contains a
bill called the Combating BDS Act?
BDS is a campaign whose adherents
have time and time again revealed
their anti-Semitic motives. This is a
campaign that directs its followers to
avoid certain products merely because
they are made in Israel. Armed with
economic warfare tactics, supporters of
BDS seek to isolate and punish the
only Jewish state. That, Madam
Speaker, is the dictionary definition of
discrimination.
Opponents of the Combating BDS Act
often cite First Amendment objections
to this legislation, but the truth is,
this bill would not prohibit individuals
or companies from speaking out in sup-
port of the BDS movement, nor would
it prohibit them from boycotting
Israel. The Combating BDS Act applies
to entities, such as companies, and
their conduct.
This bill cements what should be an
obvious point: States have the right
not to contract with companies that
engage in discriminatory conduct
against Israel.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
an additional 1 minute to the gentle-
woman from Wyoming.
Ms. CHENEY. In fact, many States
already have laws on the books that
promote that right. At its core, the
Combating BDS Act protects and em-
powers States in their efforts to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:28 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.021 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1538 February 13, 2019
counter a hateful anti-Israel move-
ment.
There is no reason not to hold a vote
on H.R. 336, which also includes legisla-
tion that authorizes security assist-
ance to Israel and extends our defense
partnership with Jordan. Helping our
key allies in the Middle East ensure
their security should not be controver-
sial.
Madam Speaker, we are now at a mo-
ment in this House, at a moment in
this body where we are facing real anti-
Semitism from the other side of the
aisle. It is time that we all come to-
gether as a body in a bipartisan man-
ner to stand against anti-Semitism, to
condemn it, to ensure that everyone
understands it has no place in this
House, in this body, or in our public
discourse.
These bills that we are offering
today, if the previous question is de-
feated, are those bills that will recog-
nize and symbolize American leader-
ship and define American leadership. I
hope Democrats will choose our secu-
rity and our closest allies over par-
tisanship and bring H.R. 336 to a vote.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
First, on process, just so everybody
understands, we are bringing a bill to
the floor today under a structured rule
that has a bipartisan amendment and a
Republican amendment.
What my Republican friends are sug-
gesting is that they want to bring up a
bill, and all amendments are blocked,
with the exception of one if offered by
a Republican, sight unseen.
Boy, old habits die hard. This is the
way they were in the majority. And
thank God they are no longer in the
majority, but, wow, what a lousy proc-
ess this is.
Then secondly, I want to say that we
are having a debate about Yemen,
about one of the worst humanitarian
crises in the world, where the Saudi
Government is bombing weddings and
funerals and school buses, where thou-
sands and thousands, tens of thousands
of people are on the verge of starva-
tion, where children are dying every
day.
The previous question has nothing to
do with Yemen. I mean, it is as if this
entire horrific catastrophe that is now
unfolding in Yemen doesn’t even exist.
I mean, how sad.
This is an important issue, and we
have a responsibility to debate and to
vote on this issue, because we have
been involved in supplying so much as-
sistance to the Saudi Government, and
not even a mention, not even a men-
tion of this.
Maybe this doesn’t matter to my Re-
publican friends. Maybe they are per-
fectly fine turning a blind eye to this
horrific horror show that is happening
in Yemen. But I am going to tell you,
I think most people in this country,
when they are made aware of what is
going on and they are made aware of
our involvement, are horrified. This is
not what the United States Govern-
ment is about.
So, in any event, it is a little bit dis-
appointing.
Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentleman from California (Mr.
KHANNA), the author of H.J. Res. 37,
and I want to thank him for his leader-
ship on this.
Mr. KHANNA. Madam Speaker, I
want to echo Representative COLE’s
praise for Chairman MCGOVERN for
leading for years in this body in help-
ing Congress reassert its role on mat-
ters of war and peace.
I want to just note the difference pro-
cedurally of what happened. Every
time we introduced this in the last
Congress, Speaker Ryan didn’t allow a
vote. He tied a vote on Yemen with a
vote on endangered wolves.
In contrast, Chairman MCGOVERN,
not only is he allowing a vote on the
resolution of Yemen, he is allowing a
vote on an amendment that Represent-
ative BUCK has offered that I oppose ve-
hemently, that I went to him and I
said, ‘‘This is going to gut the entire
resolution.’’
What did Chairman MCGOVERN do?
Did he say, ‘‘Oh, we will go behind
closed doors. Don’t worry. We won’t
allow a vote?’’ No. He said, ‘‘We are
going to bring it to a vote on this
floor.’’
I said, ‘‘Do we have the votes?’’
He said, ‘‘I don’t know.’’
Why are we bringing it to the floor?
Because that is a democracy. That is
what we are supposed to do in a democ-
racy.
We will have the votes. You know
how I know we are going to have the
votes and it is going to be a bipartisan
vote? Because when LINDSAY GRAHAM
is quoted saying he may vote in sup-
port of the resolution, you know there
is going to be an overwhelming vote.
I want to just address one point, be-
cause Representative COLE is one of the
more thoughtful Members here and I
take what he says very seriously, but
on the War Powers Act, we just dis-
agree. When you read the plain reading
of the War Powers, it says that the
United States Armed Forces cannot be
assigned to coordinate, participate, or
accompany any foreign government’s
military when they are in hostilities.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield an additional 30 seconds to the
gentleman.
Mr. KHANNA. Madam Speaker, our
forces are coordinating with the Saudi
forces. I concede to Members we don’t
have troops there, but the War Powers
Resolution was written broadly, pre-
cisely because we wanted Congress to
have a say.
And, Representative COLE, I am con-
vinced if one of our allies, like Israel or
another country, were attacked; I have
enough confidence in this body that we
would make the right decision. This is
a matter of the Congress’ right to have
a say on matters of war and peace, and
I thank Chairman MCGOVERN for bring-
ing this for a vote.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to direct their com-
ments to the Chair.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume,
and then I will turn to my friend from
Texas.
Madam Speaker, I want to thank my
friend for his comments. And we do; we
just disagree. I do not see this as ap-
propriate for the War Powers Resolu-
tion, because we don’t have troops in
common; we have not committed any-
body to hostilities. But the Com-
mander in Chief historically has had
broad authority to assist countries
that we have agreements and arrange-
ments with that he thinks are impor-
tant in our own security, short of com-
mitting troops into combat. I think
that is precisely what he is doing.
Frankly, that is what his predecessor
did. It would have been nice if our
friends were as equally concerned when
President Obama actually was commit-
ting us to the kinds of activities we are
talking about. I don’t recall hearing a
lot about it then, but I am happy to
discuss it now.
Madam Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to
the gentleman from Texas (Mr.
MCCAUL), the former chairman of the
Homeland Security Committee and the
current ranking member of the Foreign
Relations Committee.
Mr. MCCAUL. Madam Speaker, I
want to thank Ranking Member COLE
for yielding.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘no’’ on the previous
question so that we can consider H.R.
336, the Strengthening America’s Secu-
rity in the Middle East Act, under a
rule that would allow an amendment to
add a section recognizing the dangers
of a precipitous withdrawal from Syria
and Afghanistan. This amendment
would change H.R. 336 to mirror the
text of the Senate companion bill S. 1.
S. 1 passed the Senate just last week
by an overwhelming bipartisan vote of
77–23.
I introduced this House companion in
January.
This package of bipartisan bills from
last Congress bolsters the security of
America and our allies in the Middle
East.
This bill authorizes U.S. security as-
sistance to Israel over a 10-year period
and updates key elements of our secu-
rity cooperation to ensure that Israel
can respond to the significant threats
it faces from its neighbors.
It also reauthorizes the United
States-Jordan Defense Cooperation
Act, allowing Jordan to remain eligible
to receive special treatment for the
transfer of U.S. defense articles and
services.
Jordan is a critical ally in the fight
against ISIS and other extremist
groups. We need to make sure that
they are adequately equipped to help
maintain stability in the Middle East.
H.R. 336 also contains the Caesar
Syria Civilian Protection Act. This bill
passed the House earlier this year. It
should have been law a long time ago.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:28 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.023 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1539
February 13, 2019
This act will impose long-overdue
sanctions against Syria’s Assad regime
and its backers, including Iran and
Russia, for their egregious human
rights abuses.
Finally, this bill empowers State and
local governments in the United States
to counter the anti-Israel Boycott, Di-
vestment, and Sanctions, otherwise
known as BDS, movement’s discrimi-
natory economic warfare against
Israel.
These provisions have already passed
the Senate with bipartisan support. I
urge all my colleagues to join me in
voting ‘‘no’’ on the previous question
in order to consider this important bill
to shore up U.S. interests and allies in
the Middle East and take action
against Assad’s murderous regime.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
want to thank the gentleman, the dis-
tinguished ranking member on the
Committee on Foreign Affairs, for his
comments. I just would inform the gen-
tleman that, you know, another bill
that passed the Senate with a bipar-
tisan vote is the bill that we are dis-
cussing here today on Yemen.
b 1300
The other thing I would say to my
friends on the other side of the aisle,
one of the things that we are trying to
do is return to regular order, some-
thing that I think a lot of people don’t
know what it looks like. A number of
the bills that the gentleman is refer-
ring to had no markup. Let’s go
through the committee process. Let’s
do markups, and let’s do this the way
we are supposed to do it.
I appreciate that my friends don’t
want to talk about the horrific situa-
tion in Yemen, but that is what we are
going to do here today because it is
horrific, and it is about time that this
body take a stand.
Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to
the gentleman from Rhode Island (Mr.
CICILLINE).
Mr. CICILLINE. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
Madam Speaker, I want to begin by
acknowledging the extraordinary lead-
ership of the chairman of the Rules
Committee and this very transparent
and open process.
I stand to support, strongly, H.J. Res.
37, which directs the President to re-
move American troops from their role
in hostilities in Yemen.
By taking up this War Powers Reso-
lution, the House is, finally, re-
asserting our constitutional authority
and responsibility over American mili-
tary actions and sending an important
message both to the Saudi-led coali-
tion and to the Trump administration.
The Iranian-backed Houthis have
acted with complete disregard for civil-
ian lives in Yemen, blocking humani-
tarian aid and mounting attacks into
Saudi Arabian cities. There is no ques-
tion that they bear much of the blame
for the current humanitarian crisis.
However, for nearly 4 years, the
Saudi and Emirati-backed coalition
has used American bombs, American
planes with American logistical sup-
port, and, until recently, American re-
fueling to further a conflict that has
cost thousands of civilian lives and led
to a humanitarian crisis in the coun-
try. There is no question in my mind
that American involvement, to date,
has exceeded the congressional author-
ization that exists to combat terrorists
in the region. For too long, the United
States has been directly involved in
this war without proper congressional
authorization or oversight.
This bill, which passed the Senate
last year with bipartisan support, spe-
cifically exempts actions that target
al-Qaida and any other terrorist activ-
ity.
My colleagues opposing this effort
seem to forget that we have a responsi-
bility under the Constitution to exer-
cise our oversight authority over
American military engagement. Noth-
ing in this legislation prevents the ad-
ministration from coming to Congress
and presenting a strategy and asking
for authorization to involve our mili-
tary in Yemen. That is not something
I would support, but they did not even
try to make the case.
Instead, we have become embroiled
in a humanitarian nightmare and
backed a flawed military engagement
with no end in sight, all without proper
authorization or oversight. It seems
pretty obvious that it is time to exert
our proper role as Congress.
H.J. Res. 37 is an important first step
of what I hope will be a concerted ef-
fort to bring the war in Yemen to an
end and to reestablish Congress’ role in
overseeing our military’s engagements
overseas. Madam Speaker, I urge my
colleagues to support the rule and to
support this resolution.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. ZELDIN), my good friend.
Mr. ZELDIN. Madam Speaker, I rise
in strong support of Mr. COLE’s amend-
ment so that the House may take up
H.R. 336.
The House should immediately bring
this legislation up, which is a bipar-
tisan legislative package that would
help others fight back against the BDS
movement, protect U.S. security in the
Middle East by strengthening our alli-
ances with Israel and Jordan, and sanc-
tion bad actors like Assad.
The Senate version of this bill, S. 1,
passed with strong bipartisan support,
77–23.
The major point of contention for
some, regarding this package, is the
Combating BDS Act of 2019, a bipar-
tisan bill with over 100 cosponsors last
Congress, that would help stop the BDS
movement.
It is okay to have a reasonable, le-
gitimate concern with any govern-
ment, including Israel, as well as our
own, but, keep in mind, the founder of
BDS was blatantly anti-Semitic, and,
on college campuses all across our en-
tire country, we have college students
who are being targeted by blatant anti-
Semitism in the name of BDS.
The founder of the BDS movement
was a raging anti-Semite, who once
said: ‘‘We are witnessing the rapid de-
mise of Zionism, and nothing can be
done to save it, for Zionism is intent
on killing itself. I, for one, support eu-
thanasia.’’ That is not all he has said.
This bill would simply allow State
and local governments to have the
right to counter the BDS movement by
ending contracts with companies that
boycott Israel. This bill does not im-
pede the right of any American to boy-
cott or criticize Israel. Instead, this
bill protects States’ rights to divest
from countries that boycott Israel and
from lawsuits driven by the ACLU.
The BDS movement is designed to
hurt Israel by encouraging companies
to boycott Israeli goods. The BDS
movement is consumed by efforts to
delegitimize and demonize Israel.
Numerous incidents are highlighted
in my resolution, H. Res. 72, con-
demning this behavior. For example, at
NYU, after the student government
passed a resolution supporting BDS,
they had to close the Center for Jewish
Life in response to threatening Twitter
posts by a student who expressed ‘‘a de-
sire for Zionists to die.’’
There are so many other examples on
college campuses all across our coun-
try. Where the BDS grows, anti-Semi-
tism follows. Yet some Members in the
House openly support this movement.
House Democrats are holding up this
major bipartisan legislation.
This bill would provide $3.3 billion in
security assistance to Israel and au-
thorize the 2016 MOU to guarantee
Israel’s security for the next 10 years
by providing advanced capabilities to
protect our greatest ally.
This bill strengthens Jordan’s ability
to promote regional security and sta-
bility by enhancing Jordan’s military
capacity in the sale of defense articles.
This bill also sanctions those who
provide financial assistance or support
to prop up the Assad regime, which is
responsible for chemical weapon at-
tacks in Syria.
Madam Speaker, I thank, again, Mr.
COLE for bringing this amendment, and
I encourage all of my colleagues to sup-
port it.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, let me say to the
gentleman from New York that I ap-
preciate his comments, but that is not
what we are talking about here today.
I would just say to him, while we ap-
preciate the cooperation of the minor-
ity in the Rules Committee and trying
to facilitate a process dedicated more
to regular order—and we are going to
continue to work that way—that he
should make sure that these bills have
hearings and markups and that the
Members of the House have an oppor-
tunity to be able to deliberate on them,
and then bring them to the Rules Com-
mittee and we can have that debate.
But I am going to say to the gen-
tleman, this is a new day. We, hope-
fully, will discuss process less and ideas
more.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:28 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.025 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1540 February 13, 2019
I would also say that we have an
emergency right now when it comes to
Yemen. It is one of the worst humani-
tarian crises in the world. I am a little
bit struck by the fact that the last cou-
ple of speakers haven’t even used the
word ‘‘Yemen’’ once.
So, in any event, there is a right way
to bring legislation to the floor. We
want to have regular order. We want to
do this the right way. We did this bill
the right way. It did pass the Senate.
We had a hearing, we had a markup. It
came to the Rules Committee. We
made in order a bipartisan amendment,
a Republican amendment, one that I
strongly disagree with; but, nonethe-
less, we hope we can defeat it on the
floor. If not, that is the way it goes.
That is the process we ought to ad-
here to. And I would say that, if we ad-
hered to a better process, we are going
to end up with better legislation and
more, hopefully, bipartisan legislation.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself the remainder of my time to
close.
Madam Speaker, I urge opposition to
this rule and the underlying measure.
The majority has brought up a reso-
lution under the War Powers Resolu-
tion instructing the President to re-
move the United States Armed Forces
from hostilities in Yemen. Unfortu-
nately, this resolution is misguided.
United States Armed Forces are not
currently involved in hostilities in
Yemen, and it is unclear exactly what
this resolution will accomplish.
Further, passage of this resolution
would likely damage our relationships
with our allies, who would have reason
to question our commitments to them,
and embolden our potential adversaries
in the future.
I want to take just a moment to,
frankly, reaffirm and thank my friend
for his strong assertion of Congress’
powers under war powers. I think he
has absolutely been a leader in this
area, and I have tried to work with him
on many occasions.
I want to state for the RECORD, I look
forward to working with him in this
area again, because I think this body,
under both Republicans and Demo-
crats, has far too often abdicated its
responsibilities and simply left it to
the executive branch to determine
when we were at war.
Frankly, when President Bush 41
went to war in the Gulf, he came to
Congress and asked for its permission;
when President Bush 43 went to war, he
came to Congress and asked for its per-
mission in both Afghanistan and Iraq—
and they received it.
President Obama never bothered to
do that. Whether it was in Libya or
whether it was extending the mission,
in many cases, he simply did not
choose to do that. And, frankly, it was
President Obama who began the ac-
tions that concerned my friends in
Yemen.
So, again, my friend has appro-
priately tried to pursue, over the
course of his career, the reassertion of
congressional war powers, and I com-
mend him for that. This case is not one
of those cases.
The President of the United States
does have legitimate powers as Com-
mander in Chief to support friends and
allies short of war without congres-
sional approval. That has happened
time and time and time again in Amer-
ican history.
We have 117 security agreements
with various countries around the
world. Some of those are with coun-
tries we have formal alliances with,
some of them are not. They do not
commit the United States to hos-
tilities, but they do say, in certain sit-
uations, we will be there to render sup-
port.
I agree with my friend that there
have been atrocities in Yemen. I think
he is absolutely right about that. I
think, unfortunately, we didn’t talk
very much about the Iranian role in
that. We didn’t talk very much about
the Houthi role in that. We didn’t talk
very much about who overthrew a le-
gitimate government and what other
countries were involved in that. This is
a lot more complex than that.
But, in this case, unlike Libya, for
instance, where President Obama did
commit us to military activity without
coming to this Chamber and asking
permission, somehow stretched the
NATO alliance to cover our participa-
tion in a conflict within a country that
had not attacked any member of
NATO, let alone the United States of
America, that was a time we should
have done something like this.
Right now, in my view, whether you
agree with him or not, the President is
exercising his legitimate authority as
Commander in Chief. And it is worth
noting for the RECORD, he is actually
doing less than his predecessor, Presi-
dent Obama, did. He actually is the
person, President Trump, who ordered
the cessation of aerial refueling oper-
ations with the Saudi Air Force.
Again, there is room for disagree-
ment here. I know, on the underlying
issue of congressional war powers, my
friend and I agree. I look forward to
working with him on that issue as we
go forward, as I know we will. But, in
my opinion, this is the wrong place and
the wrong time to have this debate.
I think the President is operating
well within his rights. He has made it
clear he will veto this legislation
should it pass the United States Sen-
ate. None of us know whether it will.
But I can assure you this: that veto
will have more than enough votes to
sustain it.
So, again, I thank my friend for the
spirited debate and discussion. It is al-
ways thoughtful.
Madam Speaker, I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote
on the previous question, ‘‘no’’ on the
underlying measure, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
Madam Speaker, I want to recognize
the work of Ranking Member COLE on
these issues. We may not agree on this
specific bill, but we have worked to-
gether on matters like the Authoriza-
tion for Use of Military Force for many
years. He is always thoughtful in urg-
ing Congress to reclaim authority on
matters of war and peace, and I do look
forward to working with him in the
months ahead.
Let me just remind my colleagues
about how this bill came to the floor.
It was introduced in January. There
was a hearing in the Foreign Affairs
Committee. They held a markup, and
the Rules Committee did a hearing and
made amendments in order.
Some of my Republican friends may
not agree with the underlying bill, but
there shouldn’t be much disagreement
about the process, because this is how
the process should work. We even made
in order a Republican amendment from
Congressman BUCK that I strongly op-
pose. That amendment would allow the
President to maintain unfettered intel-
ligence sharing with any foreign coun-
try, even when the sole objective is to
help determine which targets to bomb
in offensive airstrikes not authorized
by Congress.
I don’t believe we should preemp-
tively cede our own purview over intel-
ligence sharing, and certainly not as
part of a resolution designed to re-
assert Congress’ constitutional war au-
thority.
Maybe this amendment passes—I
hope it doesn’t—but it will be debated,
voted upon, and this House will decide.
Let me say to my colleagues what is
happening in Yemen is horrific. It
should shake every Member of this in-
stitution to their core: bombings of
weddings, funerals, and school buses;
thousands dead; children starving—a
humanitarian nightmare.
I don’t know what is going to happen
over in the Senate, but I know what
this institution should do, and that is
reclaim our responsibilities and make
clear that the Constitution matters,
that human rights matter; the lives of
people in Yemen and the children in
Yemen, they matter. This Chamber,
under this majority, is going to provide
a consequence for the actions of the
Saudi Government.
b 1315
And I hope that this resolution is
just our first step in responding to the
humanitarian issues across the region.
I look forward to the Foreign Affairs
Committee holding more hearings and
markups and bringing more bills to the
Rules Committee.
I have introduced a bipartisan bill
with 20 colleagues that will imme-
diately stop all military aid and armed
sales to the Government of Saudi Ara-
bia. I think it is the right thing to do
when our democratic values are on the
line. I would like to see that come up
for a vote, but I want to have a hearing
and a markup before it comes to this
floor.
But, Madam Speaker, this Congress
needs to start somewhere so we can
step up our response as a country.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:28 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.027 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1541
February 13, 2019
I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on the previous
question. I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on this
rule and the underlying resolution.
The material previously referred to
by Mr. COLE is as follows:
At the end of the resolution, add the fol-
lowing:
Sec. 5. Immediately upon adoption of this
resolution, the House shall proceed to the
consideration in the House of the bill (H.R.
336) to make improvements to certain de-
fense and security assistance provisions and
to authorize the appropriation of funds to
Israel, to reauthorize the United States-Jor-
dan Defense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to
halt the wholesale slaughter of the Syrian
people, and for other purposes. All points of
order against consideration of the bill are
waived. The bill shall be considered as read.
All points of order against provisions in the
bill are waived. The previous question shall
be considered as ordered on the bill and on
any further amendment thereto to final pas-
sage without intervening motion except: (1)
one hour of debate equally divided and con-
trolled by the chair and ranking minority
member of the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs; (2) one amendment if offered by Rep-
resentative McCaul of Texas or his designee,
which shall be in order without intervention
of any point of order or demand for division
of the question and shall be separately de-
batable for 10 minutes equally divided and
controlled by the proponent and an oppo-
nent; and (3) one motion to recommit with or
without instructions.
Sec. 6. Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall not
apply to the consideration of H.R. 336.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
yield back the balance of my time, and
I move the previous question on the
resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on ordering the previous
question.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 15-
minute vote on ordering the previous
question will be followed by 5-minute
votes on:
Adoption of House Resolution 122, if
ordered; and
Agreeing to the Speaker’s approval of
the Journal.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 227, nays
195, not voting 9, as follows:
[Roll No. 78]
YEAS—227
Adams
Aguilar
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—195
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—9
Allred
Castor (FL)
Connolly
Dingell
Granger
Kinzinger
Pingree
Quigley
Ryan
b 1342
Messrs. HIGGINS of Louisiana and
HUDSON changed their vote from
‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Messrs. NADLER, TAKANO, SAR-
BANES, Ms. BASS, and Mr. NOR-
CROSS changed their vote from ‘‘nay’’
to ‘‘yea.’’
So the previous question was ordered.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the resolution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This
will be a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 228, nays
193, not voting 10, as follows:
[Roll No. 79]
YEAS—228
Adams
Aguilar
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:28 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.029 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1542 February 13, 2019
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—193
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—10
Allred
Connolly
Dingell
Granger
Kinzinger
Pingree
Quigley
Ryan
Taylor
Wagner
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during
the vote). There are 2 minutes remain-
ing.
b 1350
So the resolution was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
MOMENT OF SILENCE HONORING
VICTIMS OF MARJORY
STONEMAN DOUGLAS HIGH
SCHOOL SHOOTING
(Mr. DEUTCH asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. DEUTCH. One year ago, Madam
Speaker, on February 14, 2018, 17 people
were killed in a senseless and horrific
act of gun violence at Marjory
Stoneman Douglas High School in
Parkland, Florida.
I ask the Members of the House of
Representatives to use this time to
center their thoughts on the 17 who
were killed, the 17 who were injured,
the healing of the Parkland commu-
nity, and the 40,000 lives lost to gun vi-
olence in every corner of this Nation
each year.
I ask that we work together, not as
Democrats or Republicans, but as
Americans to end this silence with ac-
tion to make all our communities safer
from gun violence.
I ask that this moment of silence not
be in vain, and I ask my colleagues to
please rise and bow your heads as we
remember Alyssa Alhadeff, Scott
Beigel, Martin Duque Anguiano, Nich-
olas Dworet, Aaron Feis, Jaime
Guttenberg, Chris Hixon, Luke Hoyer,
Cara Loughran, Gina Montalto, Joa-
quin Oliver, Alaina Petty, Meadow Pol-
lack, Helena Ramsay, Alex Schachter,
Carmen Schentrup, and Peter Wang.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mrs.
MCBATH). All present will rise for a
moment of silence.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the question on agree-
ing to the Speaker’s approval of the
Journal, on which the yeas and nays
were ordered.
The question is on the Speaker’s ap-
proval of the Journal.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 215, nays
199, answered ‘‘present’’ 1, not voting
16, as follows:
[Roll No. 80]
YEAS—215
Adams
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Bacon
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bergman
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brown (MD)
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Collins (GA)
Cooper
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Cuellar
Cummings
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Granger
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Grothman
Haaland
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
King (IA)
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
McBath
McCarthy
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Perry
Phillips
Pocan
Pressley
Raskin
Reed
Richmond
Rodgers (WA)
Roybal-Allard
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Simpson
Sires
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stivers
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (MS)
Thornberry
Titus
Tlaib
Torres (CA)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Watkins
Welch
Wexton
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
Yoho
NAYS—199
Abraham
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Babin
Baird
Balderson
Bera
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cicilline
Cisneros
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cole
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:28 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE7.006 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1543
February 13, 2019
Cook
Correa
Costa
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fudge
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Hill (AR)
Himes
Holding
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lawson (FL)
Lesko
Loudermilk
Lucas
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McCaul
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Olson
Palmer
Pence
Peters
Peterson
Porter
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Ruiz
Rutherford
Scalise
Schrader
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spanberger
Spano
Steube
Stewart
Suozzi
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (PA)
Timmons
Tipton
Torres Small
(NM)
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Westerman
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Young
Zeldin
ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—1
Tonko
NOT VOTING—16
Allred
Biggs
Blumenauer
Dingell
Gohmert
Hurd (TX)
Keating
Kinzinger
Palazzo
Pingree
Price (NC)
Quigley
Ryan
Scanlon
Wagner
Wenstrup
b 1403
So the Journal was approved.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Stated for:
Ms. SCANLON. Madam Speaker, my vote
did not record. Had I been present, I would
have voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 80.
f
REMOVAL OF UNITED STATES
ARMED FORCES FROM HOS-
TILITIES IN YEMEN THAT HAVE
NOT BEEN AUTHORIZED BY CON-
GRESS
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and to
insert extraneous material on H.J. Res.
37.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 122 and rule
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union for the consider-
ation of the joint resolution, H.J. Res.
37.
The Chair appoints the gentlewoman
from the Virgin Islands (Ms. PLASKETT)
to preside over the Committee of the
Whole.
b 1407
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
consideration of the joint resolution
(H.J. Res. 37) directing the removal of
United States Armed Forces from hos-
tilities in the Republic of Yemen that
have not been authorized by Congress,
with Ms. PLASKETT in the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the joint
resolution.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to the rule, the
joint resolution is considered read the
first time.
General debate shall not exceed 1
hour equally divided and controlled by
the chair and ranking minority mem-
ber of the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs.
The gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) and the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. MCCAUL) each will control 30 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
This is an important moment for the
House, Madam Chair. For years, under
administrations of both parties, the
Congress has handed away our author-
ity and abrogated our responsibility
when it comes to foreign policy, par-
ticularly the questions of how and
where our military is engaged around
the world.
Article I of the Constitution gives
Congress the responsibility to declare
war, yet we have given Presidents of
both parties a virtual blank check to
send our brave servicemembers into
harm’s way while we have stood on the
sidelines.
With the measure we are considering
today, we take some of that power
back, and we do so to restore a sense of
American values and American leader-
ship to the worst humanitarian catas-
trophe in the world.
For the last few years, we have all
seen horrific images of the civilian cas-
ualties in the Yemen war: starving
children, millions displaced, outbreaks
of deadly disease.
Madam Chair, 85,000 children have
starved to death. Fourteen million are
on the brink of famine. More than a
million suffer from cholera. And the
ongoing military operations are bring-
ing us no closer to a resolution. The
only way out of this mess is for parties
to sit down and work toward a political
solution.
The United States can and should
play a role pushing for that solution,
pushing parties to make a commitment
to negotiations. This measure, intro-
duced by Mr. KHANNA, will help us do
exactly that.
Let me explain why this is so impor-
tant and why I support passing this
resolution right now.
In the last few years, the Saudi-led
coalition has carried out 18,000 air-
strikes. A full one-third of those
strikes hit nonmilitary targets. This is
absolutely reckless.
I am not naive, Madam Chair. I know
we have critical strategic interests in
that region. The Houthis are a prob-
lem. They get support from Iran. They
launch missiles into Saudi territory
and international waterways, threat-
ening Saudi civilians. They are starv-
ing the Yemeni people, diverting as-
sistance, and holding civilians hostage
to their political demands. But we can-
not just give the coalition a blank
check when so many innocent lives are
being lost. And if the administration
won’t demand any sort of account-
ability from the Saudis and Emiratis,
it is time for Congress to act.
I want to acknowledge my friend
from Texas, the ranking member on
the Foreign Affairs Committee, Mr.
MCCAUL. I believe that he also wants to
see Congress reclaim our prerogatives
on foreign policy, though I understand
we have an honest difference of opinion
on the approach we are dealing with
today.
I am glad that we moved this meas-
ure through regular order, that we had
a hearing with experts and a markup,
and that the gentleman from Texas and
I could make our cases before the Rules
Committee. It allowed me to hear the
arguments from all perspectives on
this issue.
I think, during this debate, we will
hear my friends on the other side call
this resolution misguided. I think be-
cause this resolution has to do with our
security agreements with the Saudis
and Emiratis, we will hear them ques-
tion what impact this may have on
other security agreements.
It is a fair question, to be honest.
That is why this measure is tailored so
specifically to deal with just this situa-
tion. This is not a broad, blanket pol-
icy that is going to tie the hands of the
executive branch. There is no dan-
gerous precedent being set here, just an
attempt to stop a war that is costing
far too many innocent lives.
I think we will hear my friends ques-
tion whether this measure would even
do anything because this measure
withdraws American forces engaged in
hostilities, and the Pentagon says
‘‘hostilities’’ only applies to situations
where American troops are firing weap-
ons at an enemy. I have two reactions
to that.
First of all, this measure would spe-
cifically define ‘‘hostilities’’ to include
aerial refueling of warplanes carrying
out airstrikes against Houthi mili-
tants. Now, I understand the Defense
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:26 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE7.007 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1544 February 13, 2019
Department has stopped refueling as a
matter of policy, but policies can be re-
versed, so this resolution would cut off
refueling as a matter of law.
My second point is broader and gets
at the heart of today’s debate. This
body is not subject to the definitions
conjured up by the Defense Depart-
ment. We don’t ask permission to exer-
cise our Article I authority. Of course,
the Pentagon will try to define things
in a way that consolidates the power of
the executive branch, but Congress,
with authority over war powers, need
not accept that definition.
The Congress has lost its grip on for-
eign policy, in my opinion, by granting
too much deference to the executive
branch, by failing to examine the deci-
sions, determinations, and definitions
that are used to justify sending Ameri-
cans into harm’s way. Our job is to
keep that branch in check, not to
shrug our shoulders when they tell us
to mind our own business.
Lastly, I think we will hear my col-
leagues on the other side ask: Isn’t this
just all politics? No, Madam Chair. Pol-
itics is what the former majority did to
this resolution twice during the last
Congress. Politics is stifling debate on
national security issues because we are
uncomfortable with the message it
might send or we don’t want to take a
tough vote.
b 1415
Politics is walking away from our
constitutional responsibilities, as Con-
gress has done for far too long; and
frankly, we have done it for far too
long, Congresses in both parties with a
majority and Presidents in both par-
ties.
Our Article I responsibilities are
things that we cannot just simply turn
the other way. We are a coequal branch
of government, and we have not had a
declaration of war, for instance, since
1941. We are content to just tell what-
ever administration is in, go ahead,
you handle it. We don’t have any re-
sponsibility. I hope that that stops this
afternoon.
The other body has already weighed
in on this measure. It passed with bi-
partisan support. Today, the Members
of the House get our chance to go on
record finally and say where we stand.
I joined this resolution as an original
cosponsor because I think it will lead
to a sort of reckoning for our govern-
ment.
What is our role in the conflict in
Yemen?
What is Congress’ voice in our for-
eign policy?
How will we exercise American lead-
ership and American power?
What will we provide and what will
we withhold to push warring parties to-
ward peace?
I want to thank Mr. KHANNA for his
hard work and for his leadership in
shining the light on this issue.
I want to thank our members of the
House Foreign Affairs Committee who
have contributed so far to a valuable
debate.
I want to thank Mr. MCCAUL, who
has made his opposition to this about
the policy, not about the politics or the
personalities. We are going to have a
lot more debates; sometimes we will be
on the same side and sometimes not,
but I hope we can always grapple with
these challenges in a substantive way.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. MCCAUL. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Let me just begin by extending my
appreciation for the chairman. I know
his arguments are well-intentioned, as
are mine. I believe that we both com-
pletely agree and completely support
Congress’ solemn duty under Article I
of the Constitution, to authorize the
commitment of U.S. troops to foreign
hostilities; and perhaps there will be
another example where we can join
forces in that. But that is not the issue
here.
Allow me to quote the actual War
Powers Act, from Title 50 of the United
States Code. This procedure applies to
‘‘the removal of United States Armed
Forces engaged in hostilities outside
the territory of the United States.’’
This has always meant, historically,
and today, U.S. troops being directly
involved in live-fire combat. As the De-
partment of Defense has repeatedly
confirmed, U.S. Armed Forces are not
engaged in hostilities against the
Houthi forces in Yemen.
This resolution is directing us to re-
move troops that simply, Madam
Chair, are not there. Even the aerial
refueling of coalition jets, which does
not constitute traditional hostilities,
ended last November.
This resolution, in my judgment,
misuses the tool to try to get at the
different issue of security assistance to
third countries. It provides no clear de-
cisions on which forms of assistance
are cut off. It does not address the hu-
manitarian catastrophe inside Yemen
and, alarmingly, it completely ignores
the destabilization role that Iran is
playing in Yemen and the region.
This irresponsible measure is trying
to hammer a square peg in a round
hole.
This resolution really stretches the
definition of ‘‘hostilities’’ to cover non-
U.S. military operations by other coun-
tries. It reinterprets U.S. support to
those countries as ‘‘engagement in hos-
tilities.’’
This overreach has dangerous impli-
cations far beyond Saudi Arabia. This
approach will now allow any single
Member to use this privileged mecha-
nism to second-guess U.S. security co-
operation relationships with more than
100 countries throughout the world.
Under this model, if one Member
doesn’t like something that any of our
security partners does overseas, that
Member can force quick consideration
of a resolution directing the removal of
U.S. forces from hostilities ‘‘in or af-
fecting’’ that situation. It no longer
matters that U.S. forces are not actu-
ally conducting those hostilities.
This could impact our assistance to
Israel. It could affect our cooperation
with our NATO allies. It could impact
counterterrorism cooperation with Af-
rican nations in the Sahel. We could
recklessly undo critical security rela-
tionships that we have spent decades
building.
That is not what the War Powers
Resolution has ever meant, and I don’t
think that is what Congress designed it
to do, and it should not be used in this
way now.
No one is saying that U.S. security
assistance to Saudi Arabia, or anyone
else, is beyond congressional scrutiny.
Congress has many tools at its dis-
posal. Our committee receives regular
arms sales notifications. Congress can
condition or cut off security assistance
through targeted legislation or the an-
nual appropriations process.
But this resolution is the wrong tool.
It is vague and irresponsible. It will
create new doubts for our partners and
allies around the world.
For those reasons, Madam Chair, I
strongly oppose this measure, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Chair, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. KHANNA), the author of this
joint resolution.
Mr. KHANNA. Madam Chair, I thank
Chairman ENGEL for his extraordinary
leadership to help bring a war in
Yemen to an end. I want to thank him
and Chairman MCGOVERN, Speaker
PELOSI, and Majority Leader HOYER,
for finally speaking up for the millions
of Yemenis who are on the brink of
starvation.
This is not a complex issue. For the
last 2 years, we have been assisting the
Saudis in bombing Yemeni civilians;
and the reports say there are 14 million
Yemenis who face starvation; 14 mil-
lion.
Let’s put that in context: 800,000 peo-
ple died in Rwanda; 100,000 in Bosnia,
and 14 million face famine in Yemen.
And it is not because the world doesn’t
have enough food or medicine to get in
there. It is because there is a system-
atic bombing preventing the food and
medicine to get in.
We want to send the food. We want to
send medicine, but the Saudis aren’t
allowing that food and medicine to get
in.
And what do we know about Saudi
Arabia? We know that they were re-
sponsible for the murder of Khashoggi.
We know recently, that MBS admitted
that he wanted Khashoggi dead.
We know that they, the Saudis, are
supplying arms to al-Qaida in Yemen
who are fighting our troops. The
Saudis are giving arms to the very peo-
ple who are fighting our troops. This is
why Senator LINDSEY GRAHAM has said
he may support this resolution.
The only patriotic thing, if you care
about our troops, if you care about
American interests, if you care about
the outrage that the Saudis are inflict-
ing on Americans, and on the world,
the only patriotic thing to do is to vote
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:26 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.038 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1545
February 13, 2019
for this resolution. I am convinced it
will pass with a bipartisan majority.
Mr. MCCAUL. Madam Chair, I yield 3
minutes to the distinguished gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. THORNBERRY),
ranking member of the House Armed
Services Committee.
Mr. THORNBERRY. Madam Chair, I
appreciate the gentleman for yielding.
Madam Chair, this resolution is mis-
guided, and let me take a few moments
to illustrate some of the reasons.
Number 1, as the ranking member of
the Foreign Affairs Committee, Mr.
MCCAUL, has described, this is a misuse
of the War Powers Resolution. It
conflates two different sections. It has
definitional problems. I am not going
to repeat all the arguments he has
used.
My point is that, if we use that pow-
erful law, it should be clear, direct, and
applicable. To misuse it in this way ac-
tually weakens the authority of Con-
gress, the exact opposite of what the
chairman of the committee was talk-
ing about.
Secondly, the message coming from
this resolution is, Iran, you can do
whatever you want to.
Now, it is clear we do not have troops
in the fight against the Houthis. We do,
however, want other countries to join
in trying to constrain Iran’s aggression
in various parts of the world. But with
this resolution, we are saying, Okay,
you are on your own. We are not going
to assist you in any way. And that
message reverberates throughout the
Middle East. It will have lasting con-
sequences.
Third, if anything, this resolution
will make our military more cautious
when targeting ISIS and al-Qaida.
Now there is a section in here that
says, Well, it doesn’t really apply when
you are going against terrorists. But
Yemen is a messy place. You have indi-
viduals commingled in the same loca-
tion. Sometimes the same individual
can have multiple loyalties.
Our military will be overly cautious
in interpreting this resolution. They
will be less likely to target ISIS and al-
Qaida.
Mr. Chairman, don’t forget. It wasn’t
very long ago the most serious threats
coming to our homeland, to Americans
emanated from Yemen. This adds dan-
ger to the world.
Fourth, I think this resolution
makes a humanitarian situation worse.
As long as rockets are fired from
Yemen into Riyadh, there will be a
military response.
Now, the U.S. has been assisting the
Saudis in targeting, so that it is nar-
rower; so that they are only targeting
military targets and minimizing civil-
ian casualties. And yet, this resolution
says, No, you can’t offer that sort of
help.
So what is the result? It is going to,
unfortunately, be less specific tar-
geting, and I am afraid that the hu-
manitarian situation will only grow
worse.
Fifth, and finally, if this passes and
signs into law, it will not help the peo-
ple of Yemen one iota. There are lots of
things we just heard from the author of
the resolution, why he does not ap-
prove of some of the actions going on
with Saudi Arabia. This does not help
any of that.
It is an attempt to make us feel bet-
ter, that we have at least done some-
thing. And yet, the result is, we reduce
our influence in the Middle East; we
encourage and enhance the position of
Iran; and we lead to a more dangerous
world for us. That is quite an after-
noon’s work.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Chair, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. BERA), the chairman of the
Foreign Affairs Committee’s Oversight
and Investigations Subcommittee, a
very valued member of the Foreign Af-
fairs Committee.
Mr. BERA. Mr. Chairman, I rise
today in support of H.J. Res. 37, and ap-
plaud Chairman ENGEL, as well as my
colleague from California, Mr. KHANNA,
on their leadership.
This joint resolution would direct the
removal of U.S. forces from supporting
the Saudi and Emirati that campaign
in Yemen. We will still be supporting
our fight against ISIS and al-Qaida in
the Arabian Peninsula, which Congress
has specifically authorized. We are not
debating that.
We are also not debating, as some
might suggest, setting a precedent
when it comes to cooperating with our
allies. This is about hostilities we are
engaged in because we are supporting a
coalition in war.
We have not authorized our military
to act in the Yemeni civil war. This is
about reclaiming the jurisdiction of
Congress in making a war. That is our
job. That is what we were elected to do.
I would say that if there were a Demo-
crat or a Republican in the White
House.
Now, if the administration wants to
be involved there, they need to come to
Congress and make a compelling case.
But let’s have that discussion.
For that reason, I support this reso-
lution, and I urge my colleagues to join
me in helping to move this resolution
out of the House.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2
minutes to the distinguished gen-
tleman from South Carolina (Mr. WIL-
SON), the ranking member on the Mid-
dle East and North Africa Sub-
committee.
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Chair, I urge opposition to H.J. Res. 37,
directing the removal of U.S. Armed
Forces from the hostilities in Yemen.
Actually, the U.S. is not directly en-
gaged in any hostilities in Yemen. This
is not my independent assessment, but
the determination of the Department
of Defense.
The U.S. is currently supporting the
Saudi-led coalition in Yemen by pro-
viding targeting assistance, intel-
ligence sharing, and joint planning to
defeat the Houthi rebels who are armed
by Iran, with missiles that they have
directed at civilian airports in Saudi
Arabia.
There is no doubt that the Saudi-led
coalition in Yemen has made terrible
targeting mistakes. But what would
happen if the U.S. were to pull the plug
on our intelligence-sharing and tar-
geting cooperation?
b 1430
Would this improve the coalition’s
targeting or possibly make it worse, in-
creasing the chances for collateral
damage and civilian casualties?
I am concerned that, if we walk away
now, these terrible tragedies will sim-
ply multiply.
The United States must be at the
table so that we can insist on and re-
spect international law. This does not
mean that the coalition will always do
the right thing, but it does mean that
we will have leverage and influence to
promote the right direction.
Instead of this resolution, I hope that
our colleagues, Foreign Affairs Com-
mittee Chairman ELIOT ENGEL and
Ranking Member, Republican leader,
MIKE MCCAUL, will work together on a
bipartisan initiative that can address
these important concerns in Yemen.
We can all agree that the humani-
tarian crisis in Yemen must be ad-
dressed and that the ongoing conflict
must come to an end. Let’s work to-
gether as we have always done on the
Foreign Affairs Committee to address
this issue and end the suffering of the
Yemeni people.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Chair, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Michi-
gan (Mr. LEVIN), a new member on the
House Foreign Affairs Committee who
is already making his mark.
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Mr. Chair, I
thank Chairman ENGEL for his incred-
ible leadership on this issue.
Mr. Chair, I am proud to be an origi-
nal cosponsor of Congressman
KHANNA’s resolution.
The Saudi-led war in Yemen has led
to a staggering crisis, and it is hap-
pening on our watch. This bombing
campaign would not be happening
without the active involvement of the
United States military with the
Saudis.
More than 75 percent of Yemen’s pop-
ulation needs humanitarian assistance.
Yemen has one of the highest maternal
death rates in the region. Its health in-
frastructure has crumbled, and tens of
thousands of pregnant women are at
risk of serious complications. The list
goes on and on.
It is long past time to bring U.S. in-
volvement in this calamity to an end.
Mr. Chair, I want to thank Congress-
man KHANNA for his leadership and
Chairman ENGEL for making this a top
priority.
We have a responsibility not just as
Members of Congress, but as human
beings not just to talk about these hor-
rors, but to do everything in our power
to end them.
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. PANETTA).
The time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Chair, I yield an ad-
ditional 30 seconds to the gentleman.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:26 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.040 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1546 February 13, 2019
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Mr. Chair, I
thank the gentleman for yielding the
additional time.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to
support this resolution.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Florida
(Mr. YOHO), the ranking member on the
Asia, the Pacific, and Nonproliferation
Subcommittee.
Mr. YOHO. Mr. Chair, I think the
chairman for yielding. I appreciate it.
Mr. Chair, this is something that we
do need to get resolved, but I cannot
support H.J. Res. 37.
Mr. Chair, I rise today in opposition
to this resolution, which I could not
support as it was pushed through the
Foreign Affairs Committee over strong
objection from me and my 16 col-
leagues.
The Foreign Affairs Committee has a
proud tradition of bipartisanship, but
that was thrown out the window with
this bill.
Among my objections to this bill is
the basic premise of the bill, which is
flawed. U.S. Forces are not engaged in
hostilities between the Saudi-led coali-
tion and the Houthi forces in Yemen.
This bill distorts the definition of
hostilities to cover non-U.S. military
operations by third countries. It then
reinterprets U.S. activities in support
of those countries as U.S. engagement
in those hostilities.
I have been well documented
throughout my time in Congress as op-
posing the misuse of the War Powers
Act. That is really what needs to be ad-
dressed: the misapplication of the 2001
and 2002 AUMFs.
While I wholeheartedly believe that
the U.S. Forces put into combat roles
must be approved by Congress, I cannot
stand by as those firm beliefs in the
Constitution are twisted around to
make a political messaging point.
Keep in mind, my colleagues from
the other side talk about the humani-
tarian crisis in Yemen, yet they fail to
mention the Houthi rebel fighters over-
threw the legitimate government of
President Hadi, and this overthrow was
sponsored by Iran, which Iran is the
largest sponsor of state terrorism.
That is really where the problem is in
this. We are there in a different capac-
ity.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues not
to vote for this partisan bill because, if
we break this agreement, we have got
over 100 other agreements that we
would have to negotiate with our al-
lies, and this would be bad for Amer-
ica’s foreign policy.
Mr. Chair, I thank the gentleman for
sponsoring this.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Chair, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Mary-
land (Mr. HOYER), our majority leader.
(Mr. HOYER asked and was given
permission to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Chair, I want to
thank Chairman ENGEL, Chairman
SMITH, Representative KHANNA, and
others for ensuring that the House ex-
presses its views on the humanitarian
catastrophe in Yemen.
After the Republican leader declined
to allow this resolution to come to the
floor in December, I promised to bring
it to the floor.
Here we are, and now the House will
have an opportunity to express its
views to the President and to the coun-
try that he ought to end his adminis-
tration’s support of the Saudi coali-
tion’s military campaign in Yemen. It
is a campaign that has led to tremen-
dous human suffering, with minimal
military gains. After 4 years, it is time
for a change in policy.
Let me be clear: The Houthi rebels in
Yemen are bad actors, engaging in bru-
tal actions against civilians, and they
are sponsored by Iran. The Houthis
commit human rights abuses, prevent
humanitarian assistance to starving ci-
vilians, and exercise a brute form of
governance in the areas they control.
We should have no illusion that there
are two parties responsible for this hu-
manitarian catastrophe; however, we
are supporting one of them.
The result of the coalition campaign
thus far has been an unmitigated hu-
manitarian disaster as well as a mili-
tary stalemate.
Using military force to pressure the
Houthi rebels into accepting coalition
demands has demonstrably not worked.
It is time, therefore, for Congress to
make clear to the Trump administra-
tion and to our country and to the
international community that it can-
not simply keep our Yemen policy on
autopilot while the situation not only
has not improved, but deteriorates.
With the United States supporting
one party to this conflict, the best way
we promote a peaceful and positive so-
lution is by focusing our efforts on the
variables that we can affect. It is time
that we set a new course forward on
Yemen and that the House and Senate
need to demand that the administra-
tion uphold basic American values in
its exercise of our foreign policy. That
means ending our support for the
Saudi-led coalition in Yemen.
Although not the focus of this resolu-
tion, I am mindful that this debate is
taking place a day after the President
disregarded the law and failed to report
to Congress who was responsible for
the murder of journalist Jamal
Khashoggi. The more the President
tries to sweep this heinous incident
under the rug, the more incumbent
upon Congress it is to act.
This resolution is bipartisan. A simi-
lar resolution passed the United States
Senate. It was not brought to this
floor. I hope it will receive the strong
support of both sides of the aisle.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to
support this resolution.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Chair, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Penn-
sylvania (Mr. PERRY), a member of the
House Foreign Affairs Committee.
Mr. PERRY. Mr. Chair, I thank the
gentleman from Texas for yielding.
I am opposed to H.J. Res. 37, Mr.
Chair. This resolution is poor policy
and will not achieve the aims of those
who support it. That is really the crux
of the issue here.
My colleagues are using this resolu-
tion to express their concerns with the
actions of Saudi Arabia and the status
of the war in Yemen, disregarding the
dangerous precedent this resolution
will send.
The joint resolution improperly ex-
pands the definition of hostilities to in-
clude non-U.S. military operations by
third countries. This bill then reinter-
prets the U.S. activities in support of
those countries as U.S. engagements in
said hostilities.
The Department of Defense and the
White House have both correctly stated
that, under the longstanding definition
of hostilities, the United States is not
engaged in such in Yemen.
In order to force a privileged measure
in the Senate, my colleagues had to ex-
pand and distort the definitions in the
War Powers Resolution to achieve
their goals. This is absolutely poor pol-
icy, and we cannot support such a
measure.
The misuse of this privileged tool en-
dangers U.S. security cooperation with
over 100 partners around the world, to
include Israel, NATO, and many
antiterror allies.
Now, I understand my colleagues on
both sides of the aisle are unhappy
with the actions taken by Saudi Ara-
bia. Frankly, I am as well. Unfortu-
nately, we live in an imperfect world,
Mr. Chairman, with imperfect actors.
We must deal with the reality of geo-
politics in the way that they are and
not the way that we wish they would
be.
We and I find many of the things the
Saudis to be doing horrific, including
the murder of Muslim Brotherhood
member Khashoggi. I was one of the
first people to go on the record de-
manding the declassification of the 9/11
report concerning Saudi Arabia, but
this will not be the first action Saudi
Arabia takes that is counter to our be-
liefs here in the United States. During
the first 4 months of 2017, Saudi Arabia
beheaded 48 people.
The Acting CHAIR. The time of the
gentleman has expired.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Chair, I yield an
additional 30 seconds to the gentleman
from Pennsylvania.
Mr. PERRY. Mr. Chair, according to
the reports, half of those deaths were
for nonviolent drug charges. The Saudi
Kingdom executes its citizens for blas-
phemy and crimes against the state,
actions that are protected under the
First Amendment of the U.S. Constitu-
tion.
I understand that we are dissatis-
fied—I am, too—but using poor policy
to terminate U.S. assistance will not
improve conditions in Yemen. Iran’s
own IRGC commander openly admitted
that Iran provides military assistance
to the Houthis in Yemen.
In this body, we can choose to stand
with Iran or the Houthis or, as I sug-
gest, to stand with Israel and Saudi
Arabia.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:35 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.042 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1547
February 13, 2019
Mr. Chair, this resolution is not the
right step. It is poor policy. I encour-
age my colleagues to vote ‘‘no.’’
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 min-
utes to the gentleman from California
(Mr. TED LIEU), a very well-respected
member of the House Foreign Affairs
Committee.
Mr. TED LIEU of California. Mr.
Chair, I thank Chairman ENGEL for his
leadership.
Mr. Chair, I rise in support of this
resolution. I want to commend Con-
gressman KHANNA for offering it. It is
another step in years of pressure that
Congress has put on the executive
branch to get us out of this bloody war
in Yemen.
In 2015, I wrote a letter to the Pen-
tagon about what was then a little-
known war in Yemen, asking why the
U.S. was involved in war crimes com-
mitted by the Saudis in Yemen.
I previously served in Active Duty in
the military. It was clear to me that
what the Saudi jets were doing in drop-
ping bombs on innocent civilians was a
war crime.
In 2016, I introduced legislation to
limit the transfer of air-to-ground mu-
nitions from the U.S. to Saudi Arabia.
And then, working with other Members
such as Representatives Pocan and
Welch and others, we were able to
cause the Obama administration to
stop a shipment of air-to-ground muni-
tions to Saudi Arabia.
In 2017, I worked with Representative
TED YOHO, and we helped insert lan-
guage into the NDAA requesting the
administration to certify what the
heck it was doing in Yemen.
And then last August, I wrote a let-
ter to the Pentagon inspector general
asking for an investigation of whether
U.S. personnel were aiding and abet-
ting Saudi war crimes in Yemen.
I am very pleased that a few months
later, in November of last year, the
Trump administration announced it
was going to stop the U.S. refueling of
Saudi jets in Yemen.
Now we need to pass this resolution
as another step in increasing the pres-
sure on the administration to get us
out of the war in Yemen.
It is not a partisan issue. This start-
ed under Obama’s watch, continues
under Trump’s, and at the end of the
day, war crimes and humanitarian ca-
tastrophes are not partisan issues.
Every Member of Congress should vote
for this.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. ZELDIN), the ranking mem-
ber of the Oversight and Investigations
Subcommittee of the Committee on
Foreign Affairs.
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Chair, I thank
Chairman MCCAUL for yielding. I have
great respect for him, as well as our
committee chair, ELIOT ENGEL.
Mr. Chair, I rise today in opposition
to H.J. Res. 37, directing the removal
of U.S. Armed Forces from unauthor-
ized hostilities in Yemen. One of the
reasons why is because we aren’t even
engaged in hostilities in Yemen.
b 1445
The United States is not involved in
any direct live fire exchanges. Last No-
vember, the U.S. stopped aerial refuel-
ing of Saudi jets.
According to the Department of De-
fense, U.S. support to the coalition is
for defensive purposes only. It focuses
only on helping minimize civilian cas-
ualties, which means that this resolu-
tion, if passed and implemented, will
actually result in less food and medi-
cine getting into Yemen and more ci-
vilians dying, and the war will not end.
If anyone wants to propose a bill and
pass one cutting off or conditioning
specified U.S. security assistance to
Saudi Arabia, they have the ability to
do so. That is not this bill.
What is also important is that there
are a lot of freshman Members here in
this Chamber, and the fact that we are
rushing this to the floor so quickly
without having a classified briefing for
all of those Members is also deeply un-
fortunate. That should take place be-
fore passing this resolution.
Congress has many other ways to en-
gage in oversight efforts for U.S. secu-
rity assistance with Saudi Arabia, in-
cluding approving arms sales and
through appropriations.
Our assistance for Saudi Arabia
started in 2015, when the Houthis over-
threw a legitimate government, backed
by Iran. The Houthis fired missiles
against Saudi Arabia with support
from Iran, and the U.S. provided intel-
ligence and logistical support in com-
pliance with the law of armed conflict.
Iran poses a massive geostrategic
threat to Yemen and to the United
States and many of our allies. Iran is
providing training and support to the
Houthi rebels, including supplying bal-
listic missiles that have been fired into
Saudi Arabia. In 2016, missiles were
fired by Iranian-backed Houthi rebels
at a U.S. Navy warship near the Bab el-
Mandeb. If Iran has the ability to cut
off global shipping through the Strait
of Hormuz and el-Mandeb, it would
have disastrous consequences.
If this resolution passes, we are
emboldening Iran to continue their ne-
farious ambitions in the region without
restraint.
Mr. Chairman, I oppose H.J. Res. 37.
I think Iran would endorse it.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. ESPAILLAT), another very
valuable member of the Foreign Affairs
Committee.
Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Chairman, I
thank Chairman ENGEL for allowing
me this opportunity.
Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support
of H.J. Res. 37, in which Congress will
finally reclaim its constitutional au-
thority over the power to declare war
and will finally address the terrible
suffering happening in Yemen.
For 4 years, we have aided the Saudi-
led campaign in Yemen, which has con-
tributed to the gravest humanitarian
crisis in the world, a man-made crisis
that we could help alleviate, rather
than contribute to. This is 4 years too
long.
The Trump administration has cozied
up to the Saudis, ignoring the harm
they cause in Yemen and their egre-
gious violations of human rights. The
President has expressed his personal af-
firmation for the Saudi Kingdom on
several occasions, saying, ‘‘They give
us a lot of business,’’ and, ‘‘They’ve
been a great ally to me.’’
Trump and those opposed to this res-
olution have argued that our ties to
Saudi Arabia are too precious and that
our cooperation on counterterrorism
and countering Iran would be jeopard-
ized by this resolution. But in Decem-
ber, when discussing an earlier version
of this resolution, Senator LINDSEY
GRAHAM wrote the following: ‘‘The fear
that the Saudis will stop cooperating
with the U.S. on terrorism or Iran isn’t
rational. Those threats pose as much of
a danger to the Saudis as they do to
America. Demanding better from allies
isn’t downgrading the relationship; it’s
a sign that Americans take our prin-
ciples seriously and won’t be taken ad-
vantage of by anyone, friend or foe.’’
Mr. Chairman, I urge Congress to re-
assert its constitutional authority to
work to end the suffering of millions
and to pass this war powers resolution.
This is what it is.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2
minutes to the distinguished gen-
tleman from Kansas (Mr. WATKINS), a
member of the House Foreign Affairs
Committee.
Mr. WATKINS. Mr. Chairman, I
thank my Republican leader, Mr.
MCCAUL, for his leadership on this
issue.
Mr. Chairman, I rise today in opposi-
tion of H.J. Res. 37, and I encourage my
colleagues to do the same.
As a combat veteran, with many
years of experience in conflict and
postconflict environments, I am par-
ticularly concerned about this resolu-
tion. Passing it would pose a threat to
many other important bilateral agree-
ments that help keep us and our allies
safe and make the world a better place.
Even the resolution is misleading.
Our Armed Forces are not engaged in
hostilities in the Yemen conflict. Out-
side of Yemen, the U.S. Armed Forces
support an ally, through intelligence
sharing, threat analysis, and logistical
support.
The strength of our international re-
lations lies on the numerous global re-
lationships that we hold. We help each
other understand, forecast, and elimi-
nate threats. This is especially true in
the Arabian Peninsula, where ISIS and
al-Qaida have been notoriously active.
Furthermore, pertinent facts relating
to Yemen are classified, leaving Con-
gressmen and -women to vote blind.
Mr. Chairman, we have a long history
of free-thinking bipartisanship when it
comes to foreign policy. I ask my col-
leagues to think for themselves, not
merely vote along party lines.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Mary-
land (Mr. TRONE), another new member
of the Foreign Affairs Committee.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:26 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.043 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1548 February 13, 2019
Mr. TRONE. Mr. Chairman, I rise
today to voice my support for the joint
resolution. It is important for us in
this institution, in this critical mo-
ment, to undertake serious debate re-
garding the use of U.S. military in the
conflict in Yemen.
As my colleagues have pointed out,
Article I of our Constitution clearly
states that the power to declare war
belongs to the Congress. Congress must
put down a marker stating it is unac-
ceptable for our military to support
hostilities we have not authorized.
Our support for the Saudi-led coali-
tion’s efforts in Yemen has proven
problematic in so many ways. The im-
pact on civilian lives is real and pain-
ful. Overall, 60,000 lives have been lost.
Ultimately, the question should be
really simple: Did Congress authorize
our military to engage in hostilities in
Yemen? The answer is no.
So, today, we must pass this resolu-
tion to stand up for our Constitution
and stand up for what is right.
Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues
to lend their support to that effort.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2
minutes to the distinguished gen-
tleman from Colorado (Mr. LAMBORN).
Mr. LAMBORN. Mr. Chairman, I
thank the ranking member of the com-
mittee for his leadership.
I rise to speak against this resolu-
tion, which would direct the removal of
U.S. forces from Yemen. This resolu-
tion is dangerous, and the majority
should immediately take this vote off
of our schedule.
The majority claims to be concerned
about the threat of Iranian and Rus-
sian influence around the world. If that
were the case, they would not force a
vote on this war powers resolution.
Let’s be clear: The U.S. is not in-
volved in hostilities in Yemen, so this
resolution would set a dangerous prece-
dent by calling into question many se-
curity agreements we have with na-
tions around the world that do not in-
volve hostilities. The Pentagon has re-
peatedly stated that America is only
providing support to our allies in the
region as they combat the Houthis, and
everyone is trying to reduce civilian
casualties. Ultimately, we want to
limit Iran’s ability to gain more influ-
ence in the region.
The Houthi rebels are just one part of
the Iranian regime’s proxy battles
around the world with the ultimate
goal to destroy Israel, America, and all
those who share our democratic values.
Mr. Chairman, a vote for this resolu-
tion is a vote for Iran. A vote against
this resolution is a vote for Israel. I
urge my colleagues to vote ‘‘no’’ on
this dangerous resolution, and I urge
the administration to veto this resolu-
tion, if it should somehow pass.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Chairman, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentleman from Wis-
consin (Mr. POCAN), a champion of pro-
gressive causes.
Mr. POCAN. Mr. Chairman, I thank
the chairman for shepherding this im-
portant resolution to the floor.
Today, Yemen is the worst humani-
tarian crisis on the planet. Eighty-five
thousand children under the age of 5
have died of starvation since 2015, and
150 children die every single day.
The U.S., alongside Saudi Arabia,
which has used starvation as a weapon
of war, has supported targeting for
deadly airstrikes, provided logistical
support and refueling, and sent Special
Operations Forces to the Yemeni bor-
der.
It is time for these activities to end,
absent congressional consent. The
American people deserve a transparent
debate and a vote by Congress, per Ar-
ticle I, Section 8 of the Constitution,
before the U.S. engages in war-making.
While the President is tweeting
about wars and nuclear bombs, we
must reassert our authority and end
the unconstitutional U.S. participation
in Yemen’s civil war.
Mr. Chairman, I urge all my col-
leagues to vote in favor of this resolu-
tion.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1
minute to the distinguished gentleman
from Ohio (Mr. DAVIDSON).
Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio. Mr. Chair-
man, I thank the gentleman for allow-
ing me time, as I do support H.J. Res.
37. Fundamentally, it is about Article I
and the authority of Congress as ad-
dressed in Federalist Paper No. 69.
As the President said, great powers
don’t fight endless wars. I would add
nor do they fight or participate in
undeclared wars.
The United States is not partici-
pating in the Yemen war in the sense
that many of my colleagues on the
other side of the aisle have character-
ized. In fact, I personally asked Sec-
retary Mattis on two occasions to help
draft authorization against Iranian
proxies.
This is, at best, a half measure in
that it stops any active participation
in undeclared unauthorized combat.
But it also fails to advance the policy
of our country, which is to treat Iran
as the threat it is, not just to the
United States of America, but to its
neighbors and our allies in the region.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Ms. LEE).
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Chairman,
I thank the gentleman for yielding.
Also, I thank Representative KHANNA,
Representative POCAN, and Chairman
MCGOVERN for their work in bringing
this very critical measure to the floor.
Of course, I rise in strong support of
H.J. Res. 37. Today, I am remembering
our dear friend and colleague, Con-
gressman Walter Jones, who was an
original cosponsor. I miss him tremen-
dously. I know he would be down here
speaking on behalf of this resolution.
Since 2015, the United States has par-
ticipated in the Saudi-led military
campaign in Yemen without authoriza-
tion from Congress. We have helped
create and worsen the world’s largest
humanitarian crisis. 22.2 million Yem-
enis, 75 percent of the population, need
humanitarian assistance. At least
85,000 children under the age of 5 have
died from war-related hunger and dis-
ease.
Our involvement in this war, quite
frankly, is shameful. That is why this
bipartisan measure to end the United
States’ unconstitutional role in this
war is so important. I have long pushed
efforts to repeal the overly broad 2001
Authorization for Use of Military
Force.
Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues
to vote ‘‘yes’’ on H.J. Res. 37 and to
support this bipartisan bill to end the
United States’ role in the war on
Yemen.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Chairman, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
b 1500
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 min-
utes to the gentleman from Virginia
(Mr. CONNOLLY), another very valued
member of the Foreign Affairs Com-
mittee.
Mr. CONNOLLY. Mr. Chair, I thank
the distinguished gentleman from New
York (Mr. ENGEL), chairman of the
House Foreign Affairs Committee. It is
a delight to call him that title.
Mr. Chair, I rise in support of H.J.
Res. 37, directing the President to re-
move U.S. Armed Forces from hos-
tilities in or affecting Yemen within 30
days.
Since 2015, the United States has pro-
vided support to the Saudi-led coali-
tion in its war against the Houthi
rebels in Yemen.
In addition to claiming an estimated
60,000 Yemeni lives, this war is fueling
the world’s largest humanitarian and
refugee crisis. Humanitarian agencies
estimate that 85,000 children have died
from malnutrition, more than half the
population currently requires emer-
gency food assistance, and 1 in every 10
Yemeni children has been forcibly dis-
placed from their homes due to the
conflict.
In September of 2018, Secretary
Pompeo certified to Congress that the
Saudi and Emirati Governments were
mitigating harm to civilians and civil-
ian infrastructure in Yemen. Mean-
while, the Saudi-led coalition con-
ducted attacks killing dozens of civil-
ians at a time, often with U.S.-provided
munitions.
Article I, Section 8, Clause 2 of the
United States Constitution states un-
equivocally that Congress shall have
the power to declare war and to raise
and support armies and other Armed
Forces. That is Congress’ prerogative
in the Constitution.
Pursuant to the War Powers Resolu-
tion, the President must remove U.S.
Armed Forces engaged in hostilities
outside U.S. territory without a spe-
cific statutory authorization from Con-
gress.
Congress must reclaim its constitu-
tional role, and American complicity
in the ongoing humanitarian crisis in
Yemen must end. That is why I am
glad to support H.J. Res. 37, which
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:26 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.045 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1549
February 13, 2019
would direct such a removal of U.S.
Armed Forces from hostilities associ-
ated with the Saudi-led coalition war
in Yemen.
Importantly, this legislation defines
hostilities to include in-flight fueling
of non-U.S. aircraft conducting
counter-Houthi missions.
Mr. Chairman, I urge support of this
resolution.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Chair, I continue
to reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 min-
utes to the gentleman from Texas (Mr.
DOGGETT).
Mr. DOGGETT. Mr. Chair, finally,
this House is doing what the Constitu-
tion demands: to debate war and peace.
The problem here is that President
Trump has essentially subcontracted
out American foreign policy in the
Middle East to a murderous Saudi re-
gime, and the result has been that
85,000 little children under the age of
five have been starved to death or have
died of disease as a result of Saudi
blockades and aggression. Indifference
to their suffering is dooming a genera-
tion—unlawful, murderous airstrikes
with bombs made in America on
schools, on hospitals, on weddings, on
markets.
All these people who speak out about
the security of Israel and of America,
they seem to have forgotten that these
same Saudis have been giving away
American-made weapons to al-Qaida—
al-Qaida—once the sworn enemy of the
Houthis about whom they complain.
The Saudi leadership, which approved
the killing and dismemberment of an
American resident journalist, is
unsurprisingly not moved by the suf-
fering of these children. They are in-
tent on annihilation of the Yemenis.
We cannot let the slaughter continue
in the name of American taxpayers.
The Saudis do not represent our values,
but they are using our tax dollars and
our weapons.
Instead of shutting down our govern-
ment, President Trump needs to shut
down cooperation with the regime that
tortures women who speak out, that
kills its enemies who dare to speak the
truth, and that is waging an immoral
conflict, the world’s largest humani-
tarian catastrophe.
Mr. Chairman, the days of symbolic
action have far passed. Months, years,
hundreds of small graves ago this Con-
gress should have acted. Today, we can
act to put a stop to this nonsense, this
misappropriation of our values in the
Middle East.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Chairman, I con-
tinue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 min-
utes to the gentleman from Vermont
(Mr. WELCH).
Mr. WELCH. Mr. Chair, I thank the
gentleman from New York (Mr. ENGEL).
I have listened to the arguments of
my colleagues who say that Saudi Ara-
bia is an ally and a partner and we
have to support them. Saudi Arabia is
a questionable ally—we all know that—
and it is time to reexamine that rela-
tionship.
But I have a question that this
raises: If we have an ally that is en-
gaged in violent strikes killing inno-
cent civilians, including children, do
we turn a blind eye and condone that
behavior because it is ‘‘an ally’’?
Do we condone the bombing of
schools, of hospitals, of funerals be-
cause it is a partner or an ally?
Do we disregard our own responsi-
bility as human beings to oppose vio-
lence against innocence because that
violence is being perpetrated by an
ally?
And, yes, it is true, our troops are
not there, but our bombs are, our mid-
air refuelers are, our targeting folks
are.
We are allowing ourselves to be
complicit in what is the greatest hu-
manitarian tragedy that is on the face
of this Earth at this moment. We
should not be doing that, and we should
stop by voting for this resolution.
Mr. Chair, we have a proud tradition
in this country that both sides want to
honor, and that is to stand up for free-
dom and for human decency and dig-
nity.
This policy of Saudi Arabia to bomb
and bomb again and bomb yet again,
despite the devastating impact upon
innocent people, despite how reckless
and ineffective it is, must end. Let’s
end it.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Chair, I have no
further speakers, so I am prepared to
close, and I yield myself the balance of
my time.
Mr. Chair, let me state a few points.
We all condemn the murder of
Khashoggi. I have condemned it pub-
licly, very strongly, what happened
with the Saudis killing Khashoggi, exe-
cuting him.
We are talking about the situation in
Yemen.
Who started this humanitarian crisis
in the first place? The Houthis tried to
take over the Yemeni Government—
the Houthis, backed by Iran.
This is about the geopolitics of Iran,
Houthis in Yemen, Iran and the Shia
crescent in Iraq and Syria, and a direct
threat to Israel by the largest state-
sponsored terror, Iran, that is a mortal
sworn enemy to Israel, as they chant
‘‘death to Israel,’’ ‘‘death to America.’’
So let’s put this all in proper context
of what we are really talking about
here. Are we defending Iran and the
Houthis here today?
So I would like to close by putting
two documents in the RECORD. The
first is a letter sent by the Department
of Defense Office of General Counsel
stating that ‘‘DOD opposes the resolu-
tion because the resolution’s funda-
mental premise is flawed’’ because the
United States support to the Saudi-led
coalition ‘‘does not involve any intro-
duction of U.S. forces into hostilities.’’
Are we going to go around and sec-
ond-guess every security cooperation
agreement we have with 117 countries,
including Israel and NATO and other
partners?
Mr. Chair, I include in the RECORD
this letter from the General Counsel of
the Department of Defense.
GENERAL COUNSEL OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE,
Washington, DC, Feb. 27, 2018.
Hon. MITCHELL ‘‘MITCH’’ MCCONNELL,
Majority Leader, U.S. Senate,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. MAJORITY LEADER: On February
22, 2018, the Department of Defense (DoD)
briefed your staff concerning DoD support to
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia’s (KSA) oper-
ations in Yemen. Subsequently, you re-
quested an unclassified letter reflecting
DoD’s views on a draft joint resolution that
would ‘‘direct[] the President to remove
United States Armed Forces from hostilities
in or affecting the Republic of Yemen, except
United States Armed Forces engaged in oper-
ations directed at al Qaeda in the Arabian
Peninsula or associated forces. . . .’’ DoD op-
poses this Joint Resolution. Even if enacted
into law, the Joint Resolution would not
achieve its apparent purpose of restricting
U.S. support to the KSA-led coalition, be-
cause, as described below, that support does
not constitute ‘‘hostilities.’’ In addition to
the potential constitutional concerns raised
by such a proposal, the draft resolution’s re-
strictions on U.S. military support to our
partners could undermine our ability to fos-
ter long-term relationships, increase inter-
operability, promote burden sharing, and
build strong security architectures through-
out the world. The KSA is a key U.S. partner
in the Middle East and we rely on our strong
military partnership to promote regional se-
curity.
DoD opposes the resolution because the
resolution’s fundamental premise is flawed.
Specifically, the draft resolution incorrectly
asserts that U.S. forces have been ‘‘intro-
duced into hostilities between the [KSA-led]
coalition and the Houthis. . . .’’ The limited
military and intelligence support that the
United States is providing to the KSA-led co-
alition does not involve any introduction of
U.S. forces into hostilities for purposes of
the War Powers Resolution or of section 1013
of the Department of State Authorization
Act, Fiscal Years 1984 and 1985 (50 USC
1546a).
Since 2015, the United States has provided
limited support to KSA-led coalition mili-
tary operations against Houthi and Saleh-
aligned forces in Yemen. With the exception
of a defensive strike in October 2016, U.S.
forces are not taking direct military action
in this Saudi-led effort in Yemen. Instead,
the United States provides the KSA-led coa-
lition defense articles and services, including
air-to-air refueling; certain intelligence sup-
port; and military advice, including advice
regarding compliance with the law of armed
conflict and best practices for reducing the
risk of civilian casualties.
The draft resolution incorrectly describes
United States support to the KSA-led coali-
tion as an operation that introduces U.S.
forces into hostilities or imminent involve-
ment in hostilities for purposes of the War
Powers Resolution. It has been the long-
standing view of the Executive Branch that
‘‘hostilities’’ refers to ‘‘a situation in which
units of U.S. armed forces are actively en-
gaged in exchanges of fire with opposing
units of hostile forces.’’ U.S. personnel pro-
viding support to the KSA-led coalition are
not engaged in any such exchanges of fire.
Further, the limited U.S. support to the
KSA-led coalition does not implicate the ac-
tivities identified in section 8(c) of the War
Powers Resolution. Section 8(c) defines the
term ‘‘introduction of United States Armed
Forces’’ but does not address the term ‘‘hos-
tilities.’’ ‘‘[W]hen applying section 8(c), the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:26 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.047 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1550 February 13, 2019
relevant question remains whether U.S.
forces—not the foreign forces they are ac-
companying—are introduced into hostilities
or situations involving the imminent threat
thereof.’’ With respect to U.S. support to the
KSA-led coalition, U.S. forces do not cur-
rently command, coordinate, accompany, or
participate in the movement of coalition
forces in counter-Houthi operations. Thus,
no U.S. forces are accompanying the KSA-led
coalition when its military forces are en-
gaged, or an imminent threat exists that
they will become engaged, in hostilities. Ac-
cordingly, U.S. forces supporting the KSA-
led coalition have not been introduced into
hostilities or situations where hostilities are
imminent.
Although the resolution’s requirement to
remove U.S. forces from hostilities would
not implicate U.S. support to the KSA-led
coalition, this requirement could call into
question the statutory authority for ongoing
U.S. counterterrorism operations in Yemen.
Pursuant to the 2001 Authorization to Use
Military Force (AUMF) (Public Law 107–40),
U.S. armed forces are currently engaged in
hostilities against both al Qa’ida in the Ara-
bian Peninsula (AQAP) and the Islamic State
of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) in Yemen. Hos-
tilities against AQAP and associated forces
are explicitly exempted from the resolution’s
termination requirement, but hostilities
against ISIS are not similarly exempted.
The resolution also asserts incorrectly
that there is no authorization for U.S. par-
ticipation in a Joint Combined Planning Cell
with the KSA and mid-air refueling of KSA-
led coalition aircraft. President Obama di-
rected such military and intelligence sup-
port pursuant to his authority under Article
II of the Constitution as Commander in Chief
and Chief Executive and his authority to
conduct U.S. foreign relations. See Fleming
v. Page, 50 U.S. (9 How.) 603, 615 (1850) (ex-
plaining that the President ‘‘is authorized to
direct the movements of the naval and mili-
tary forces placed by law at his command’’);
Training of British Flying Students in the
United States, 40 Op. Att’y Gen. 58, 62 (1941)
(‘‘[T]he President’s authority has long been
recognized as extending to the dispatch of
armed forces outside the United States, ei-
ther on missions of goodwill or rescue, or for
the purpose of protecting American lives or
property or American interests.’’). Because,
as discussed above, this limited support to
the KSA does not involve the introduction of
U.S. forces into hostilities or into situations
where imminent involvement in hostilities is
clearly indicated, it does not implicate sec-
tion 4(a)(l) of the War Powers Resolution.
See 50 U.S.C. § 1543(a)(l). The Obama Admin-
istration published its summary of that lim-
ited support to the KSA-led coalition as part
of the December 2016 ‘‘Report of the Legal
and Policy Framework Guiding the United
States Use of Military Force and Related Na-
tional Security Operations.’’ As discussed
further below, DoD and the Department of
State have implemented the President’s di-
rection through statutory authorities avail-
able to the respective Secretaries.
Article II of the Constitution likewise sup-
plied the legal authority for the October 2016
strikes against radar facilities in Houthi-
controlled territory in defense of U.S. Navy
ships in international waters. The President
has authority pursuant to Article II to take
military action that furthers sufficiently im-
portant national interests. The limited Octo-
ber 2016 strikes were taken to protect U.S.
vessels and personnel. Consistent with the
War Powers Resolution, President Obama
notified Congress of these strikes on October
14, 2016. The Obama Administration also pub-
lished a summary of its legal analysis for the
strike in its December 2016 report.
In late July 2017, President Trump com-
pleted a review of the Obama Administra-
tion’s policy of limited support to the Saudi-
led coalition. President Trump decided to
continue that support, adjusting the prior-
ities in light of the recommendations of Sec-
retary of Defense James Mattis and inter-
vening developments in Yemen. President
Trump’s policy guidance for support to the
KSA-led coalition’s operations in Yemen is
to focus on ending the war and avoiding a re-
gional conflict, mitigating the humanitarian
crisis, and defending Saudi Arabia’s terri-
torial integrity and commerce in the Red
Sea. Authorized types of support continue to
include intelligence, logistics, and advisory
support to the KSA-led coalition.
DoD and the Department of State have im-
plemented the President’s policy guidance to
provide limited support to the Saudi-led coa-
lition pursuant to legal authorities available
to the respective Secretaries. The most
prominent forms of support to the KSA and
the United Arab Emirates (UAE), as well as
the corresponding legal authorities, are de-
tailed below.
Arms and Other Defense Articles: The
Arms Export Control Act (AECA) is the un-
derlying authority through which the United
States provides or licenses defense articles
and defense services to the KSA, UAE, and
other members of the KSA-led coalition;
many of these defense articles and defense
services have been used in the conflict in
Yemen. The AECA and associated delega-
tions of authority provide the Secretary of
State with the authority to approve the
transfer of arms and other defense articles
and defense services, primarily through the
Foreign Military Sales program (which is
overseen by the State Department and im-
plemented through DoD) and through the
State Department’s licensing of Direct Com-
mercial Sales to foreign partners. The au-
thority to approve such transfers or licenses
is not contingent upon whether the foreign
recipient is engaged in an ongoing armed
conflict, although the existence of such a
conflict clearly increases demand and can be
a policy factor in approval decisions. Trans-
fers and licenses made pursuant to the AECA
are subject to various requirements (such as
notifications to Congress when transfers are
above certain monetary thresholds) as well
as restrictions on end-use (including no fur-
ther transfer by the end-user without U.S.
consent and that proposed uses must be con-
sistent with the law of armed conflict).
Logistics: Pursuant to licenses issued by
the State Department under the AECA, U.S.
contractors provide defense services in the
form of essential maintenance and
sustainment for KSA and UAE combat air-
craft engaged in hostilities in Yemen. The
in-flight refueling of KSA and UAE aircraft,
including combat aircraft, and certain other
support, may also be provided pursuant to 10
U.S.C. §§ 2341 et seq., which authorizes DoD
to provide logistic support, supplies, and
services to the military forces of a country
with which DoD has an Acquisition and
Cross-Servicing Agreement (ACSA) in force.
DoD must first obtain State Department ap-
proval to conclude an ACSA; DoD has ACSAs
with the Ministry of Defense of the KSA (ap-
plied provisionally pending its formal entry
into force) and with the Armed Forces Gen-
eral Headquarters of the UAE.
I trust that this response will be helpful to
your understanding of U.S. support to the
KSA’s operations in Yemen, and the reason
for the DoD’s opposition to this proposed
Joint Resolution. Thank you for your con-
tinued support of the Department of Defense.
Sincerely,
WILLIAM S. CASTLE,
Acting.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Chair, I include in
the RECORD this second document,
which is a Statement of Administra-
tion Policy on this point.
STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
S.J. RES. 54—TO DIRECT THE REMOVAL OF
UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES FROM HOS-
TILITIES IN THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN THAT
HAVE NOT BEEN AUTHORIZED BY THE CON-
GRESS—SEN. SANDERS, I–VT AND 16 COSPON-
SORS
The Administration strongly opposes pas-
sage of S.J. Res. 54, a joint resolution that
purports to direct the removal of United
States Armed Forces that have not been au-
thorized by the Congress from hostilities in
the Republic of Yemen. The fundamental
premise of S.J. Res. 54 is flawed—United
States forces are not engaged in hostilities
between the Saudi-led coalition and Houthi
forces in Yemen. Since 2015, the United
States has provided limited support to mem-
ber countries of the Emirati and Saudi-led
coalition, including intelligence sharing, lo-
gistics, and, until recently, aerial refueling.
This support is provided in accordance with
licenses and approvals under the Arms Ex-
port Control Act, statutory authorities to
provide logistics support, and the President’s
constitutional powers. United States
counterterrorism operations and an October
2016 strike on radar facilities in Houthi-con-
trolled territory, which was the subject of a
prior report consistent with the War Powers
Resolution of 1973, are separate matters.
Other than those engagements, no United
States forces have been introduced into hos-
tilities, or into situations where hostilities
are clearly imminent, in connection with on-
going support to the Saudi-led coalition. As
a result, this United States support does not
implicate the War Powers Resolution.
In addition to its erroneous premise, the
joint resolution would harm bilateral rela-
tionships in the region and negatively im-
pact the ability of the United States to pre-
vent the spread of violent extremist organi-
zations such as al-Qa’ida in the Arabian Pe-
ninsula and ISIS in Yemen. The continued
cooperation of the United States allows the
Administration to support diplomatic nego-
tiations to end the war, ensure humanitarian
access, enhance efforts to recover United
States hostages in Yemen, and defeat terror-
ists that seek to harm the United States.
Accordingly, if S.J. Res. 54 were presented
to the President in its current form, his ad-
visors would recommend that he veto the
joint resolution.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Chair, I am deeply
troubled by the one-sided nature of this
resolution and what is missing from
this resolution, which I just stated ear-
lier, and that is Iran, the world’s lead-
ing state sponsor of terror and the
Houthis’ benefactor. By staying silent
on Iran and by not condemning the
Houthis in this resolution, it sends a
green light to the Houthis and to the
Iranian backers to press on.
This resolution is counterproductive,
also, to the efforts that are ongoing
right now to negotiate peace in Yemen
between the Houthi rebels and the Gov-
ernment of the Yemen Republic.
As we speak, the U.N. envoy is work-
ing with the full support of the United
States to negotiate a political resolu-
tion to this conflict. Getting to these
talks has required placing substantial
pressure on all parties involved.
The U.N. is encouraging the Houthis
to uphold these agreements and to
make further agreements with the
Yemini Government and the Saudi-led
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:35 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE7.011 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1551
February 13, 2019
coalition. But this resolution might
cut the U.N. efforts off at its knees.
The Democrats can’t tell specifically
what assistance this resolution cuts
off, but what I can say for sure is that
what this resolution says to the
Houthis and to Iran is: You have got a
green light. Keep going on. You can
gain more ground and cause more de-
struction and humanitarian crisis and
cause more problems for Israel and our
Saudi ally.
Advancing this pro-Houthi, pro-Iran,
anti-Israel resolution does not help to
end this war. In Yemen, it only
emboldens the rebels in Iran who vio-
lently overthrew Yemen’s Government
and the radical regime that backs
them, Iran.
So I would say, Mr. Chairman, in
closing, this resolution is not only a
dangerous precedent legally—it vio-
lates the construction of the War Pow-
ers Act—but it is damaging and very
bad policy, and I urge my colleagues to
vote against it.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Chair, I yield myself
the balance of my time.
Today is the day that Congress be-
gins to take back its jurisdiction over
war and peace. For time after time and
year after year, administration after
administration, Congress after Con-
gress, the Congress has relinquished its
responsibility given to us by the Con-
stitution.
The Constitution clearly says that
Congress has the power to wage war,
and yet, since President Roosevelt de-
clared war against Japan on December
7, 1941, we have had war after war and
conflict after conflict, and Congress
has not had anything to do with it.
Congress has been silent.
This is not a matter of whether a war
is a good war or a bad war. This is a
matter of the fact that this Congress
needs to make that determination.
Article I makes us a coequal branch
of government. And, again, for too
long, we have had administration after
administration, Republican and Demo-
cratic, usurp the power that should be
the Congress’. So this is the day my
colleagues would begin to take it back.
Mr. Chair, I know that my friends on
the other side of the aisle have been
saying that this is not the best way to
do it, but, you know, I have learned
through the years that, if you don’t
take the bull by the horns, it is never
the best way to do it.
There is always a reason not to do it.
There is always a reason to point out
certain things and say, well, this is not
a perfect situation. This isn’t the per-
fect situation. I will be the first to say
that. But it is perfect in terms of say-
ing we will take back our jurisdiction
and do what the American people elect-
ed us to do.
Again, I want to thank Mr. KHANNA
for his tireless work on this issue.
As I mentioned, this measure is an
important step in Congress reclaiming
its role in foreign policy by debating
where and when the United States
military is engaged abroad. I don’t
think that is too much to ask. I think
that is what we should be doing.
With the humanitarian crisis in
Yemen, it is critical that we act now.
We can go after Iran another time—and
heaven knows I have been the sponsor
of many resolutions and bills sanc-
tioning Iran—but this is not to mix ap-
ples with oranges.
There is a civil war going on now in
Yemen, and innocent children are
dying. We have an ability to put an end
to that, and that is what we should do.
With this humanitarian crisis, it is
critical that we don’t delay.
So I urge my colleagues to join me in
supporting it, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Chair, I rise today in
support of H.J. Res. 37, which would end U.S.
involvement in the Yemen conflict that has
claimed tens of thousands of lives and will
soon enter its 4th year.
The humanitarian situation in Yemen is
grave and deteriorating. Since the conflict
began in 2015 between the Saudi-led military
coalition and the Houthi militias, Yemen has
faced what is widely recognized as the worst
humanitarian crisis in the world.
The conflict has displaced millions of Yem-
enis, shattered the country, and triggered a
famine that has 13 million men, women and
children facing starvation.
Additionally, the country is facing an out-
break of cholera of unprecedented scale, with
over a million cases of this disease because
of the destruction of Yemen’s water and sani-
tation infrastructure.
The United States has provided weapons,
targeting assistance and refueling support to
the Saudi-led coalition since the conflict
began. However, this support was never au-
thorized by Congress and is not covered by
any existing Authorization for the Use of Mili-
tary Force.
In addition, the coalition’s bombing cam-
paign has caused significant numbers of civil-
ian casualties, and the conflict continues with
no end in sight.
My district is home to a large Yemeni-Amer-
ican community, and I constantly hear stories
of the suffering caused by the Yemen conflict
and the dire humanitarian situation on the
ground.
The breadth and magnitude of the humani-
tarian crisis is almost unimaginable, and we
must take action to address this without delay.
This begins with ending our nation’s involve-
ment in the Yemen war. U.S. involvement in
the Yemen conflict has undermined our na-
tion’s moral authority and has never been au-
thorized by Congress.
I strongly urge my colleagues to support this
important resolution, which will send a strong
signal that this Congress will not stand idly by
in the face of such actions.
H.J. Res. 37 will help bring an end to the
suffering of the Yemeni people and reassert
Congress’s authority as a coequal branch of
government. It is my hope that passage of this
resolution will be the first step toward healing
Yemen and ending this brutal and senseless
conflict.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Chair, I rise today
in strong support of H.J. Res. 37, which di-
rects the removal of United States Armed
Forces from hostilities in the Republic of
Yemen that have not been authorized by Con-
gress.
The passage of H.J. Res. 37 would mark
the first time in the 45 years since the enact-
ment of the War Powers Act that the House of
Representatives successfully invoked the stat-
ute’s removal mechanism to compel the Exec-
utive Branch to remove American troops from
harm’s way.
I support this resolution because, Congress
has the sole power to declare war under Arti-
cle I, Section 8, Clause 11 of the United
States Constitution.
Mr. Chair, Congress has not declared war
with respect to, or provided a specific statutory
authorization for, the conflict between military
forces led by Saudi Arabia, including forces
from the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Ku-
wait, Egypt, Jordan, Morocco, Senegal, and
Sudan (the Saudi-led coalition), against the
Houthis, also known as Ansar Allah, in the Re-
public of Yemen.
Since March 2015, members of the United
States Armed Forces have been introduced
into hostilities between the Saudi-led coalition
and the Houthis, including providing to the
Saudi-led coalition aerial targeting assistance,
intelligence sharing, and mid-flight aerial re-
fueling.
The United States has established a Joint
Combined Planning Cell with Saudi Arabia, in
which members of the United States Armed
Forces assist in aerial targeting and help to
coordinate military and intelligence activities.
Mr. Chair, the conflict between the Saudi-led
coalition and the Houthis constitutes, within
the meaning of Section 4(a) of the War Pow-
ers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1543(a)), either hos-
tilities or a situation where imminent involve-
ment in hostilities is clearly indicated by the
circumstances into which United States Armed
Forces have been introduced.
Section 5(c) of the War Powers Resolution
(50 U.S.C. 1544(c)) states that, ‘‘at any time
that United States Armed Forces are engaged
in hostilities outside the territory of the United
States, its possessions and territories without
a declaration of war or specific statutory au-
thorization, such forces shall be removed by
the President if the Congress so directs’’.
Most importantly, no specific statutory au-
thorization for the use of United States Armed
Forces with respect to the conflict between the
Saudi-led coalition and the Houthis in Yemen
has been enacted.
Also, no provision of law explicitly author-
izes the provision of targeting assistance or of
midair refueling services to warplanes of Saudi
Arabia or the United Arab Emirates that are
engaged in such conflict.
For this reason, the resolution directs that
the President remove United States Armed
Forces from hostilities in or affecting the Re-
public of Yemen, except United States Armed
Forces engaged in operations directed at al-
Qaeda or associated forces, by not later than
the date that is 30 days after the date of the
enactment.
The resolution makes clear that the term
‘‘hostilities’’ includes in-flight refueling, non-
United States aircraft conducting missions as
part of the ongoing civil war in Yemen.
Mr. Chair, Yemen is the largest humani-
tarian crisis in the world right now.
The Yemen crisis began in the Arab Spring
of 2011, when an uprising forced the country’s
long-time authoritarian president, Ali Abdullah
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:35 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.050 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1552 February 13, 2019
Saleh, to hand over power to his deputy,
Abdrabbuh Mansour Hadi.
Since 2015, Saudis Arabia has launched an
estimated 18,000 air strikes on Yemen, attack-
ing hospitals, schools, water treatment plants,
funerals, markets and even farms.
The Saudis also imposed a blockade on
food, fuel and medicine from freely entering
the country in what can only be described as
a deliberate effort to starve the civilian popu-
lation into submission.
More than 14 million Yemenis are steps
away from starvation and at least 85,000 chil-
dren under the age of five have perished from
war-related hunger and disease.
The United States has supported the Saudi-
led air campaign with mid-air refueling sup-
port, intelligence and targeting assistance, and
other support.
Yemen is experiencing the world’s worst
famine in 100 years, with 12 million to 13 mil-
lion innocent civilians at risk of dying from the
lack of food within months.
Mr. Chair, too many lives hang in the bal-
ance to allow American involvement in Yemen
war to continue.
I ask all members to join me in supporting
H.J. Res. 37.
b 1515
The Acting CHAIR. All time for gen-
eral debate has expired.
Pursuant to the rule, the joint reso-
lution shall be considered for amend-
ment under the 5-minute rule.
It shall be in order to consider as an
original joint resolution for the pur-
pose of amendment under the 5-minute
rule the amendment in the nature of a
substitute consisting of the text of
Rules Committee Print 116–4. The
amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute shall be considered as read.
The text of the amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute is as follows:
H.J. RES. 37
Resolved by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) Congress has the sole power to declare war
under article I, section 8, clause 11 of the United
States Constitution.
(2) Congress has not declared war with respect
to, or provided a specific statutory authoriza-
tion for, the conflict between military forces led
by Saudi Arabia, including forces from the
United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Kuwait, Egypt,
Jordan, Morocco, Senegal, and Sudan (the
Saudi-led coalition), against the Houthis, also
known as Ansar Allah, in the Republic of
Yemen.
(3) Since March 2015, members of the United
States Armed Forces have been introduced into
hostilities between the Saudi-led coalition and
the Houthis, including providing to the Saudi-
led coalition aerial targeting assistance, intel-
ligence sharing, and mid-flight aerial refueling.
(4) The United States has established a Joint
Combined Planning Cell with Saudi Arabia, in
which members of the United States Armed
Forces assist in aerial targeting and help to co-
ordinate military and intelligence activities.
(5) In December 2017, Secretary of Defense
James N. Mattis stated, ‘‘We have gone in to be
very—to be helpful where we can in identifying
how you do target analysis and how you make
certain you hit the right thing.’’.
(6) The conflict between the Saudi-led coali-
tion and the Houthis constitutes, within the
meaning of section 4(a) of the War Powers Reso-
lution (50 U.S.C. 1543(a)), either hostilities or a
situation where imminent involvement in hos-
tilities is clearly indicated by the circumstances
into which United States Armed Forces have
been introduced.
(7) Section 5(c) of the War Powers Resolution
(50 U.S.C. 1544(c)) states that, ‘‘at any time that
United States Armed Forces are engaged in hos-
tilities outside the territory of the United States,
its possessions and territories without a declara-
tion of war or specific statutory authorization,
such forces shall be removed by the President if
the Congress so directs’’.
(8) Section 8(c) of the War Powers Resolution
(50 U.S.C. 1547(c)) defines the introduction of
United States Armed Forces to include ‘‘the as-
signment of members of such armed forces to
command, coordinate, participate in the move-
ment of, or accompany the regular or irregular
military forces of any foreign country or govern-
ment when such military forces are engaged, or
there exists an imminent threat that such forces
will become engaged, in hostilities’’, and activi-
ties that the United States is conducting in sup-
port of the Saudi-led coalition, including aerial
refueling and targeting assistance, fall within
this definition.
(9) Section 1013 of the Department of State
Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1984 and 1985
(50 U.S.C. 1546a) provides that any joint resolu-
tion or bill to require the removal of United
States Armed Forces engaged in hostilities with-
out a declaration of war or specific statutory
authorization shall be considered in accordance
with the expedited procedures of section 601(b)
of the International Security and Arms Export
Control Act of 1976 (Public Law 94–329; 90 Stat.
765).
(10) No specific statutory authorization for
the use of United States Armed Forces with re-
spect to the conflict between the Saudi-led coali-
tion and the Houthis in Yemen has been en-
acted, and no provision of law explicitly author-
izes the provision of targeting assistance or of
midair refueling services to warplanes of Saudi
Arabia or the United Arab Emirates that are en-
gaged in such conflict.
SEC. 2. REMOVAL OF UNITED STATES ARMED
FORCES FROM HOSTILITIES IN THE
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN THAT HAVE
NOT BEEN AUTHORIZED BY CON-
GRESS.
Pursuant to section 1013 of the Department of
State Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1984 and
1985 (50 U.S.C. 1546a) and in accordance with
the provisions of section 601(b) of the Inter-
national Security Assistance and Arms Export
Control Act of 1976 (Public Law 94–329; 90 Stat.
765), Congress hereby directs the President to re-
move United States Armed Forces from hos-
tilities in or affecting the Republic of Yemen, ex-
cept United States Armed Forces engaged in op-
erations directed at al-Qaeda or associated
forces, by not later than the date that is 30 days
after the date of the enactment of this joint res-
olution (unless the President requests and Con-
gress authorizes a later date), and unless and
until a declaration of war or specific authoriza-
tion for such use of United States Armed Forces
has been enacted. For purposes of this resolu-
tion, in this section, the term ‘‘hostilities’’ in-
cludes in-flight refueling, non-United States air-
craft conducting missions as part of the ongoing
civil war in Yemen.
SEC. 3. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION REGARDING
CONTINUED MILITARY OPERATIONS
AND COOPERATION WITH ISRAEL.
Nothing in this joint resolution may be con-
strued to influence or disrupt any military oper-
ations and cooperation with Israel.
SEC. 4. REPORT ON RISKS POSED BY CEASING
SAUDI ARABIA SUPPORT OPER-
ATIONS.
Not later than 90 days after the date of the
enactment of this joint resolution, the President
shall submit to Congress a report assessing the
risks posed to United States citizens and the ci-
vilian population of Saudi Arabia and the risk
of regional humanitarian crises if the United
States were to cease support operations with re-
spect to the conflict between the Saudi-led coali-
tion and the Houthis in Yemen.
SEC. 5. REPORT ON INCREASED RISK OF TER-
RORIST ATTACKS TO UNITED
STATES ARMED FORCES ABROAD, AL-
LIES, AND THE CONTINENTAL
UNITED STATES IF SAUDI ARABIA
CEASES YEMEN-RELATED INTEL-
LIGENCE SHARING WITH THE
UNITED STATES.
Not later than 90 days after the date of the
enactment of this joint resolution, the President
shall submit to Congress a report assessing the
increased risk of terrorist attacks on United
States Armed Forces abroad, allies, and to the
continental United States if the Government of
Saudi Arabia were to cease Yemen-related intel-
ligence sharing with the United States.
The Acting CHAIR. No amendment
to the amendment in the nature of a
substitute shall be in order except
those printed in House Report 116–8.
Each such amendment may be offered
only in the order printed in the report,
by a Member designated in the report,
shall be considered as read, shall be de-
batable for the time specified in the re-
port equally divided and controlled by
the proponent and an opponent, shall
not be subject to amendment, and shall
not be subject to a demand for division
of the question.
The Chair understands that amend-
ment No. 1 will not be offered.
AMENDMENT NO. 2 OFFERED BY MR. BUCK
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 2 printed in
House Report 116–8.
Mr. BUCK. Mr. Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 5, after line 13, insert the following
new section (and redesignate the subsequent
sections accordingly):
SEC. 4. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION REGARDING IN-
TELLIGENCE SHARING.
Nothing in this joint resolution may be
construed to influence or disrupt any intel-
ligence, counterintelligence, or investigative
activities conducted by, or in conjunction
with, the United States Government involv-
ing—
(1) the collection of intelligence;
(2) the analysis of intelligence; or
(3) the sharing of intelligence between the
United States and any foreign country if the
President determines such sharing is appro-
priate and in the national security interests
of the United States.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 122, the gentleman
from Colorado (Mr. BUCK) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Colorado.
Mr. BUCK. Mr. Chairman, I am an
original cosponsor of this resolution,
and it was my understanding at the
time that I cosponsored this that we
would have the opportunity to make
this resolution better. This amendment
that I have offered does just that.
I actually thought of this amend-
ment after the chairman of the com-
mittee held a hearing on this issue, and
I listened carefully to the witnesses.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:26 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE7.014 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1553
February 13, 2019
The witnesses talked about the fact
that our intelligence sharing with
Saudi Arabia helped target sites in
Yemen to bomb and reduced civilian
casualties.
I want to make sure that we continue
to help Saudi Arabia reduce civilian
casualties. I want to make sure that we
are doing everything we can to avoid
the humanitarian crisis there. At the
same time, we recognize the geo-
political significance of our relation-
ship with Saudi Arabia.
I support the resolution with the un-
derstanding that we have an oppor-
tunity to improve this legislation. I am
concerned about how broadly the legis-
lation is drafted, and it may inadvert-
ently call into question our ability to
maintain intelligence-sharing agree-
ments around the globe; not just in
this situation.
My amendment addresses these po-
tential unintended consequences by
guaranteeing that this resolution does
not curtail our Nation’s intelligence-
sharing capabilities. It ensures our
country will not face another major
terrorist attack or be caught flat-foot-
ed in battle because the necessary in-
telligence information didn’t reach our
leaders.
My amendment keeps the spirit of
this important legislation intact, while
ensuring that this Congress isn’t
hamstringing our intelligence capabili-
ties.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support this commonsense amend-
ment that will keep our intelligence
sharing agreements in place.
Madam Chairman, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Chair, I claim
the time in opposition to the amend-
ment.
The CHAIR. The gentleman from
New York is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Chair, I yield
myself 1 minute. I actually support in-
telligence sharing. We need to work to
reduce civilian casualties and ensure
that the United States has a clear pic-
ture into the security threats in the re-
gion.
However, this amendment is unneces-
sary. The underlying resolution does
not implicate intelligence sharing. I
have been very clear about what this
resolution would do. We have made
necessary changes to this resolution,
but I do not support adding unneces-
sary rules of construction to a resolu-
tion which has already passed the Sen-
ate.
For that reason, I am opposed to this
amendment, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. BUCK. Madam Chair, I appre-
ciate the gentleman’s remarks, but it
doesn’t. This resolution is not clear,
and that is the problem. This amend-
ment clarifies something that is un-
clear.
My friends on the other side of the
aisle feel that we must cut our intel-
ligence-sharing operations in order to
fully withdraw our forces from the re-
gion. I don’t believe that this is the
right course.
The Middle East is a dangerous, war-
torn part of the world where we need
intelligence sharing more than ever. As
such, we must ensure that we are not
putting our intelligence agreements in
jeopardy by passing this resolution.
My amendment keeps the intent of
this legislation, allowing Congress to
exercise its Article I powers, while en-
suring that we are not cutting off our
nose to spite our face.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support this commonsense amend-
ment, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from Colorado (Mr. BUCK).
The question was taken; and the
Chair announced that the noes ap-
peared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. BUCK. Madam Chair, I demand a
recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 252, noes 177,
not voting 8, as follows:
[Roll No. 81]
AYES—252
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Case
Chabot
Cheney
Cisneros
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Correa
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
Delgado
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kim
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Latta
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Loebsack
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luria
Lynch
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Morelle
Moulton
Mullin
Murphy
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peterson
Phillips
Porter
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Ruiz
Rush
Rutherford
Scalise
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spanberger
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Torres Small
(NM)
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Waters
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—177
Adams
Aguilar
Amash
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Crist
Cummings
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Massie
Matsui
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Mucarsel-Powell
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Pascrell
Peters
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Pressley
Price (NC)
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Roybal-Allard
Ruppersberger
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sires
Smith (WA)
Soto
Speier
Stanton
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—8
Allred
Dingell
Kinzinger
Payne
Quigley
Radewagen
Ryan
Sánchez
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:35 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.053 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1554 February 13, 2019
b 1556
Messrs. GONZALEZ of Texas,
GARCÍA of Illinois, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Messrs. COHEN, SCHNEI-
DER, Mrs. LOWEY, Ms. DELAURO,
Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. LEWIS, Ms. JOHN-
SON of Texas, and Mr. JEFFRIES
changed their vote from ‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’
Messrs. WILSON of South Carolina,
MCHENRY, MARCHANT, WALKER,
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire,
Messrs. CORREA, CUELLAR, BROOKS
of Alabama, and Ms. WATERS changed
their vote from ‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Stated against:
Mr. RUSH. Madam Chair, during Roll Call
Vote number 81 on H.J. Res. 37, the Buck
Amendment, I mistakenly recorded my vote as
Yes when I should have voted No.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute, as amended.
The amendment was agreed to.
The CHAIR. Under the rule, the Com-
mittee rises.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr.
BUTTERFIELD) having assumed the
chair, Ms. PLASKETT, Chair of the Com-
mittee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union, reported that that Com-
mittee, having had under consideration
the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 37) di-
recting the removal of United States
Armed Forces from hostilities in the
Republic of Yemen that have not been
authorized by Congress, and, pursuant
to House Resolution 122, she reported
the joint resolution back to the House
with an amendment adopted in the
Committee of the Whole.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the rule, the previous question is or-
dered.
Is a separate vote demanded on the
amendment to the amendment re-
ported from the Committee of the
Whole?
If not, the question is on the adop-
tion of the amendment in the nature of
a substitute, as amended.
The amendment was agreed to.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the engrossment and
third reading of the joint resolution.
The joint resolution was ordered to
be engrossed and read a third time, and
was read the third time.
MOTION TO RECOMMIT
Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I have a motion to recommit
at the desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the
gentleman opposed to the joint resolu-
tion?
Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I am in its current form.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion to recom-
mit.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mr. Kustoff of Tennessee moves to recom-
mit the joint resolution H.J. Res. 37 to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs with instruc-
tions to report the same back to the House
forthwith, with the following amendment:
Add at the end of section 1 the following:
(11) It is in the national security interest
of the United States to combat anti-Semi-
tism around the world because—
(A) anti-Semitism is a challenge to the
basic principles of tolerance, pluralism, and
democracy, and the shared values that bind
Americans together;
(B) there has been a significant amount of
anti-Semitic and anti-Israel hatred that
must be most strongly condemned; and
(C) there is an urgent need to ensure the
safety and security of Jewish communities,
including synagogues, schools, cemeteries,
and other institutions.
(12) It is in the foreign policy interest of
the United States to continue to emphasize
the importance of combating anti-Semitism
in our bilateral and multilateral relations,
including with the United Nations, European
Union institutions, Arab League, and the Or-
ganization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe.
(13) Because it is important to the national
security interest of the United States to
maintain strong bipartisan support for
Israel, the only democracy in the Middle
East, all attempts to delegitimize and deny
Israel’s right to exist must be denounced and
rejected.
(14) It is in the national security interest
of the United States to oppose restrictive
trade practices or boycotts fostered or im-
posed by any foreign country against other
countries friendly to the United States or
against any United States person.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, this is the final amendment
to the bill. It would not kill the bill
nor send it back to committee. If
adopted, the resolution will imme-
diately proceed to final passage, as
amended.
Mr. Speaker, the attack in October
last year against the Tree of Life syna-
gogue in Pittsburgh was a devastating
assault on the Jewish community. By
inflicting violence on a neighborhood
congregation’s Shabbat morning serv-
ice, the gunman sent a bone-chilling
message; even in 2018, hate-filled indi-
viduals will attack Jews simply for
being Jewish.
The Anti-Defamation League be-
lieves that this is the deadliest attack
on the Jewish community in the his-
tory of the United States of America.
This tragedy is merely one part of an
upsetting development that has
emerged in recent years, a resurgence
of anti-Semitism around the globe.
The Anti-Defamation League re-
ported a 60 percent rise in anti-Semitic
incidents in the United States from
2016 to 2017.
In December, the European Union re-
leased a survey of over 16,000 European
Jews, which reported that ‘‘anti-Semi-
tism pervades everyday life,’’ under-
mining European Jews’ feelings of safe-
ty and security.
Mr. Speaker, we should all be
alarmed by this international trend.
No one should be forced to live in fear
of violence, or be deterred from partici-
pating in their faith community.
The United States must remain a
global leader, not only in speaking out
against anti-Semitism, but in holding
those who enable these vile beliefs ac-
countable.
Our motion to recommit adds lan-
guage to H.J. Res. 37 that affirms that
it is in the national security interest of
the United States to combat anti-Sem-
itism around the world. It states that
we must make combating anti-Semi-
tism a priority in all of our diplomatic
relationships; and we need to ensure
that Jews around the world feel safe in
their communities.
Mr. Speaker, I remain deeply con-
cerned by the measure the Democrats
have called up today on Yemen, but if
this resolution is going to move for-
ward, it should do so while making a
strong statement that the United
States has no tolerance for anti-Semi-
tism.
I urge all Members to stand in soli-
darity with Jews around the world and
support the motion to recommit.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I claim the
time in opposition, although I do not
oppose the motion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the gentleman from New
York is recognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, first of all,
I accept this resolution, and I agree
with everything that Mr. KUSTOFF just
said. Anti-Semitism is a scourge. It is
a scourge on humanity; it is a scourge
on this country; and it has to be fought
just the way prejudice of any kind has
to be fought.
I think that this entire House should
support this and say, once and for all,
with a united voice, we will not tol-
erate anti-Semitism in any shape or
form.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the previous question is or-
dered on the motion to recommit.
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to recommit.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I demand a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 5-
minute vote on the motion to recom-
mit will be followed by 5-minute votes
on:
Passage of the joint resolution, if or-
dered; and
The motion to suspend the rules and
pass H.R. 995, if ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 424, noes 0,
answered ‘‘present’’ 2, not voting 5, as
follows:
[Roll No. 82]
AYES—424
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:53 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.055 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1555
February 13, 2019
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—2
Amash Massie
NOT VOTING—5
Allred
Dingell
Kinzinger
Quigley
Ryan
b 1616
Mr. VISCLOSKY changed his vote
from ‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘aye.’’
So the motion to recommit was
agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, pursuant
to the instructions of the House in the
motion to recommit, I report the joint
resolution, H.J. Res 37, back to the
House with an amendment.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the amendment.
The Clerk read as follows:
Amendment offered by Mr. ENGEL:
Add at the end of section 1 the following:
(11) It is in the national security interest
of the United States to combat anti-Semi-
tism around the world because—
(A) anti-Semitism is a challenge to the
basic principles of tolerance, pluralism, and
democracy, and the shared values that bind
Americans together;
(B) there has been a significant amount of
anti-Semitic and anti-Israel hatred that
must be most strongly condemned; and
(C) there is an urgent need to ensure the
safety and security of Jewish communities,
including synagogues, schools, cemeteries,
and other institutions.
(12) It is in the foreign policy interest of
the United States to continue to emphasize
the importance of combating anti-Semitism
in our bilateral and multilateral relations,
including with the United Nations, European
Union institutions, Arab League, and the Or-
ganization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe.
(13) Because it is important to the national
security interest of the United States to
maintain strong bipartisan support for
Israel, the only democracy in the Middle
East, all attempts to delegitimize and deny
Israel’s right to exist must be denounced and
rejected.
(14) It is in the national security interest
of the United States to oppose restrictive
trade practices or boycotts fostered or im-
posed by any foreign country against other
countries friendly to the United States or
against any United States person.
Mr. MCCAUL (during the reading).
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent
to dispense with the reading.
Mr. HOYER. I object.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Objec-
tion is heard.
The Clerk will continue to read.
The Clerk continued to read.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the amendment.
The amendment was agreed to.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the engrossment and
third reading of the joint resolution.
The joint resolution was ordered to
be engrossed and read a third time, and
was read the third time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the joint
resolution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 248, nays
177, answered ‘‘present’’ 1, not voting 5,
as follows:
[Roll No. 83]
YEAS—248
Adams
Aguilar
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Biggs
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buck
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:39 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE7.020 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1556 February 13, 2019
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Massie
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—177
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Rutherford
Scalise
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—1
Amash
NOT VOTING—5
Allred
Dingell
Kinzinger
Quigley
Ryan
b 1628
So the joint resolution was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
Stated for:
Ms. SHERRILL. Mr. Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained this afternoon immediately
following the vote on final passage of H.J.
Res. 37. Had I been present, I would have
voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 83.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. ALLRED. Mr. Speaker, as I am back
home in Dallas, Texas on paternity leave with
my family, I submit the following vote expla-
nation. Had I been present, I would have
voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 78, ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall
No. 79, ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 80, ‘‘yea’’ on roll-
call No. 81, ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 82, and ‘‘yea’’
on rollcall No. 83.
f
MOMENT OF SILENCE IN REMEM-
BRANCE OF THE LATE HONOR-
ABLE WALTER B. JONES
(Mr. PRICE of North Carolina asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today, along with my
colleagues in the North Carolina dele-
gation, to remember and honor the life
of Representative Walter Jones, Jr., a
treasured colleague, a conscientious
public servant, and a personal friend to
many across this Chamber.
Walter died on February 10, his 76th
birthday. He lived a life full of service:
4 years in the North Carolina National
Guard, 10 years in the North Carolina
General Assembly, and nearly a quar-
ter century in the U.S. House of Rep-
resentatives.
Walter and I met long before either
of us served in the House. We worked
together on the North Carolina Presi-
dential campaign of Jimmy Carter in
1976. I have a photo on my desk of a
very youthful-looking campaign team
to prove it.
Walter went on to chart a different
course politically, a course that was
uniquely his own. In fact, he found
himself frequently at odds with if not
one party, then the other. But by the
same token, he sometimes found possi-
bilities for alliances and cooperation in
unexpected places and did not hesitate
to take those opportunities.
This approach was rooted in Walter’s
strong conscience and his personal sin-
cerity. He stood out in an age when
sincerity is sometimes in short supply
in our Nation’s politics, earning him
respect and admiration on both sides of
the aisle. The outpouring of tributes
and remembrances we have seen in re-
cent days is a testament to that fact.
Much has been said about the per-
sonal encounters Walter had with vet-
erans of the Iraq war and the families
of those who never returned, and how
these encounters led him to reassess
his past and present policy stances.
Walter sent over 10,000 letters to fam-
ilies of fallen troops, and he memorial-
ized those who died from North Caro-
lina’s Camp Lejeune with photos out-
side his office.
Walter’s determined and effective
voice for our military—certainly, the
Marines especially—and his deep love
for his home State of North Carolina
will be missed in these halls and in the
coastal, farming, and military commu-
nities that make up the Third Congres-
sional District.
We extend heartfelt condolences to
Walter’s wife, Joe Anne; his daughter,
Ashley; his loyal staff; and the count-
less friends, neighbors, and community
members whose lives he touched along
the way. Our State, our Nation, and
the institution of Congress will be
poorer without him.
We will miss Walter’s reliable and
cordial presence right here in this cen-
ter aisle.
Mr. Speaker, before we observe a mo-
ment of silence in Walter’s honor, I
yield to the gentlewoman from North
Carolina (Ms. FOXX), the senior Repub-
lican in the North Carolina delegation.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I thank Mr. PRICE for yielding
and for his wonderful comments re-
membering Walter.
On behalf of the Republican Members
of the North Carolina delegation—in-
deed, all the Members of our Repub-
lican Conference—we remember our
long-serving colleague, Walter B.
Jones, already miss him, and express
our prayers for him and his family.
Walter asked to be memorialized on
the floor by his dear friend THOMAS
MASSIE, and Mr. PRICE will yield to
him in a moment for that purpose.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I thank my colleague for
those remarks.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Kentucky (Mr. MASSIE).
Mr. MASSIE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Mr. PRICE for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, our colleague and my
great friend, Walter Jones, was both
courageous and kind.
He frequently quoted a statement by
Senator John Ashcroft’s father: ‘‘Wash-
ington is the spirit of arrogance, and
Christ is the spirit of humility.’’ Wal-
ter had the spirit of Christ.
It didn’t matter if you were a waiter
at his table, a summer intern in his of-
fice, or the chairman of his committee,
Walter extended the same respect to
everyone. In his heart, he never be-
lieved that he was any better than the
most common person.
Walter’s chief, Josh, who has been
with him for 16 years, reminded me
that some people in Washington, DC,
kiss up and punch down. Walter often
did the opposite. Walter would kiss
down and punch up.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:35 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE7.021 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1557
February 13, 2019
He was a statesman and a true south-
ern gentleman who followed his heart
while fighting for his constituents.
Whether you agreed with him or not,
Walter displayed the type of courage
we could all hope to possess. He was
willing to admit when he was wrong,
like that time he devoted to Jimmy
Carter. He would admit it in front of
God, his colleagues, and his 750,000 con-
stituents. That is true courage.
Walter’s conscience guided his every
vote and action in the 6 years that I
knew him.
11,266: that is the final number of let-
ters that Walter Jones personally
wrote, offering his apologies and condo-
lences to the families of soldiers who
lost their lives in the wars in the Mid-
dle East. You see, Walter eagerly voted
for the Iraq war, but then later came to
believe that he had made a grave mis-
take.
Did he write those letters to prepare
him for his next reelection? No. He
wrote those letters to prepare him for
this day, when he would be judged at
the gates of Heaven.
What might seem like a small plight
could become Walter’s greatest cause,
if honor and respect were in the bal-
ance. Whenever Walter gave the bless-
ing before the meals that I shared with
him, he would mention two marine pi-
lots who had been unfairly implicated
in a tragic crash. Clearing the names of
Major Brooks Gruber and Lieutenant
Colonel John Brow was one of his most
important achievements. When I spoke
with Walter 2 weeks ago, he said he
looked forward to meeting them in
Heaven. He was at peace.
Walter told me something else in
that hour that we shared a couple of
weeks ago. He reminded me that his fa-
ther had served 13 terms in Congress,
and it had been Walter’s goal, he said,
to match his father’s service. For those
who don’t know, this was Walter’s 13th
term.
I told Walter, ‘‘They never beat you,
did they?’’ Well, I used another word
than that. He laughed. You see, all the
money in the world was no match for
Walter’s sincerity, which always shone
through to the people he served, even if
they didn’t always agree with him.
Walter wanted to finish this term,
but God called him back too soon. I
told Walter he would finish this term
because when I would vote, I would ask
myself: What would Walter do? He
seemed pleased at that.
So please join me. The next time you
are torn on what to do or say in this
body, ask yourself: What would Walter
do? Walter would follow his conscience.
Just follow your conscience, and to-
gether, we can ensure that Walter’s
spirit finishes this 13th term.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I ask that we observe a mo-
ment of silence.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair asks all present to rise and ob-
serve a moment of silence.
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT INFOR-
MATION DATABASE ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the question on sus-
pending the rules and passing the bill
(H.R. 995) to amend chapter 3 of title 5,
United States Code, to require the pub-
lication of settlement agreements, and
for other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
HILL) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, as amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. FERGUSON. Mr. Speaker, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 418, noes 0,
not voting 13, as follows:
[Roll No. 84]
AYES—418
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—13
Allred
Dingell
Gabbard
Kinzinger
Lowenthal
Pascrell
Quigley
Ryan
Schakowsky
Sherrill
Smith (WA)
Taylor
Wilson (FL)
b 1653
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:53 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.064 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1558 February 13, 2019
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
Stated for:
Mr. ALLRED. Mr. Speaker, as I am back
home in Dallas, Texas, on paternity leave with
my family, I submit the following vote expla-
nation. Had I been present, I would have
voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 84.
f
RESIGNATION AS MEMBER OF
COMMITTEE ON RULES
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following resigna-
tion as a member of the Committee on
Rules:
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, February 13, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
The Capitol, Washington, DC.
DEAR SPEAKER PELOSI: I was honored to re-
turn to serve on the Rules Committee at the
start of the 116th Congress. It has been my
privilege to work alongside Chairman
McGovern, Ranking Member Cole, and the
hardworking members that work so hard to
bring serious legislation and policy to the
House Floor.
Respectfully, I am writing to tender my
resignation as a member of the Rules Com-
mittee, effective February 13, 2019.
Thank you for this opportunity and to my
colleagues on the Committee for their hard
work and friendship.
Sincerely,
DORIS MATSUI,
Member of Congress.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the resignation is accepted.
There was no objection.
f
ELECTING MEMBERS TO CERTAIN
STANDING COMMITTEES OF THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
AND RANKING MEMBERS ON A
CERTAIN STANDING COMMITTEE
OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTA-
TIVES
Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Speaker, by di-
rection of the Democratic Caucus, I
offer a privileged resolution and ask
for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 125
Resolved, That the following named Mem-
bers be, and are hereby, elected to the fol-
lowing standing committees of the House of
Representatives:
COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET: Mr. Sires, Mr.
Peters, and Mr. Cooper.
COMMITTEE ON ETHICS: Ms. Meng, Ms. Wild,
and Mr. Phillips.
COMMITTEE ON NATURAL RESOURCES: Mr.
Cartwright.
COMMITTEE ON RULES: Mr. DeSaulnier.
Resolved, That the following named Mem-
ber be, and is hereby, ranked as follows on
the following standing committee of the
House of Representatives:
COMMITTEE ON RULES: Mr. Perlmutter (to
rank immediately after Mrs. Torres of Cali-
fornia).
Mr. JEFFRIES (during the reading).
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent
that the resolution be considered as
read and printed in the RECORD.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
The resolution was agreed to.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
REMOVAL OF NAME OF MEMBER
AS COSPONSOR OF H.R. 940
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to
be removed as a cosponsor of H.R. 940.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from South Carolina?
There was no objection.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
THE BORN-ALIVE ABORTION
SURVIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration of the bill
(H.R. 962) the Born-Alive Abortion Sur-
vivors Protection Act, and ask for its
immediate consideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman is advised that, under guide-
lines consistently issued by successive
Speakers, as recorded in section 956 of
the House Rules and Manual, the Chair
is constrained not to entertain the re-
quest unless it has been cleared by the
bipartisan floor and committee leader-
ships.
f
b 1700
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF CONGRESSMAN WALTER JONES
(Ms. LEE of California asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker, I
want to offer my condolences and pray-
ers to my dear friend, Congressman
Walter Jones, and also to the people of
North Carolina, who lost a tireless
champion.
Throughout his time in service, Con-
gressman Jones never lost sight of
those he served: the families in North
Carolina, people across the country,
and, of course, our brave servicemem-
bers around the globe.
Congressman Jones will be remem-
bered for his limitless compassion and
his willingness to reach across the aisle
and to find common ground.
I worked with him on many issues
over the years, but our greatest col-
laboration was on our shared effort to
draw down our endless wars and bring
our brave troops home. He was a colead
on several of my bills, including the
one to repeal the 2001 and 2002 Author-
ization for Use of Military Force to fi-
nally end our limitless wars abroad.
It fills me with unspeakable sadness,
Mr. Speaker, that Congressman Jones
did not live to see the end of these
wars, but his memory will live on. We
will fight harder in his memory to en-
sure that Congress does its job on mat-
ters of war and peace.
I was honored to call Congressman
Jones my colleague and my friend. His
spirit will be greatly missed in the
Halls of Congress, and tonight I again
offer my condolences to his family, his
friends; and also, I celebrate his life,
because it was truly a life well lived.
f
REMEMBERING FLIGHT 3407 10
YEARS LATER
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, yesterday marked the
10th anniversary of the flight 3407
crash that went down outside of Buf-
falo, New York, resulting in the un-
timely deaths of 49 people. I rise today
with a heavy heart as we commemo-
rate this tragedy.
A decade has gone by, but for fami-
lies who lost loved ones, the pain will
live with them forever. These individ-
uals have suffered an unspeakable loss,
yet so many of them have traveled to
Washington numerous times over the
past 10 years to advocate for improved
airline safety.
They advocate for regional flights to
operate under the same standards as
major airlines and to ensure that the
tragedy of flight 3407 is never repeated.
They advocate in memory of their
loved ones whose lives were cut short.
Nothing can bring back their loved
ones, but the standards implemented,
thanks to their advocacy, have saved
lives, and for that we are grateful.
f
AUTHORIZING THE CLERK TO
MAKE CORRECTIONS IN EN-
GROSSMENT OF H.J. RES. 37, RE-
MOVAL OF UNITED STATES
ARMED FORCES FROM HOS-
TILITIES IN YEMEN THAT HAVE
NOT BEEN AUTHORIZED BY CON-
GRESS.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that in the engrossment
of H.J. Res. 37, the Clerk be authorized
to correct section numbers, punctua-
tion, spelling, and cross-references and
to make such other technical and con-
forming changes as may be necessary
to reflect the actions of the House, in-
cluding the change now at the desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
PAPPAS). The Clerk will report the
change.
The Clerk read as follows:
In section 2 of the joint resolution, strike
‘‘refueling,’’ and insert ‘‘refueling of’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
f
RESTORE AMERICA’S FAITH IN
OUR DEMOCRACY
(Ms. KAPTUR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, last week
I received a peculiar invitation from
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:04 Feb 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\FEBRUARY\H13FE9.REC H13FE9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1559
February 13, 2019
the Kuwaiti Government to celebrate
Kuwait’s independence at the Trump
Hotel.
While Kuwait is a close ally of the
United States, I feel compelled to de-
cline the invitation. We must reject
the culture of corruption that sur-
rounds President Trump and his fam-
ily.
President Trump promised he would
drain the swamp. He promised to put
the interests of the American people
before his own. Yet he has used his of-
fice to enrich himself further.
According to USA Today, the Presi-
dent earned—get ready for this—$40
million from his Washington hotel just
in 2017. This includes $350,000 in cam-
paign funds and events hosted by the
Republican National Committee.
As we press foreign nations to better
their own governments, it is clear that
President Trump has reduced Amer-
ica’s moral authority.
I remind the President of Article II,
Section 1 of the Constitution, which
prohibits the President from receiving
gifts from a foreign power without the
consent of Congress.
We must restore America’s faith in
our democracy. That is why I look for-
ward to working with my colleagues to
hold the Trump administration fully
accountable for their misdeeds.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
RECOGNIZING CHARLIE DANIEL ON
HIS RETIREMENT
(Mr. BURCHETT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BURCHETT. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the career of one of
my district’s most notable journalistic
figures, Charlie Daniel. He spent the
last six decades as a political car-
toonist in Knoxville and retired this
year.
He is a marine, like my brother-in-
law, Cliff Worsham, and my father, and
he served his country admirably. His
retirement is a loss to our community.
I have never known a time when you
couldn’t open the Knoxville News Sen-
tinel to see Charlie’s latest cartoon
taking one politician or another to
task. Quite often, Mr. Speaker, it was
me, because Charlie and I didn’t always
get along or see eye to eye, and I have
forgiven him for his transgressions.
Mr. Speaker, he was and is one of the
best. I have been made fun of by people
all over the world, but my friend Char-
lie is my favorite. His cartoons were
razor sharp while still being respectful.
Comic artists that I grew up looking
at, like Steve Ditko, Frank Frazetta,
Neal Adams, and Joe Kubert, are prob-
ably more famous but never were as
creative as Charlie is. He is a Ten-
nessee Journalism Hall of Fame in-
ductee and has been recognized by the
National Cartoonists Society.
Mr. Speaker, I am honored to call
him my dear friend, and I know I speak
for many in east Tennessee when I say
that the morning paper isn’t the same
without him.
f
HONORING PARKLAND SHOOTING
VICTIMS
(Mrs. MURPHY asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mrs. MURPHY. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to pay tribute to the victims of
the shooting at Marjory Stoneman
Douglas High School on February 14,
2018.
It was just a year ago that we lost 17
lives at the hands of a gunman as part
of the terrible epidemic that is gun vio-
lence in America. Fourteen of these
were young students with a bright fu-
ture ahead of them.
Today, I am here to honor the memo-
ries of Alyssa, Martin, Nicholas, Jaime,
Luke, Cara, Gina, Joaquin, Alaina,
Meadow, Helena, Alex, Carmen, and
Peter and the three courageous staff
members: Scott, Aaron, and Chris.
May their souls in Heaven be a guid-
ing light to us here on Earth as we con-
tinue to fight against gun violence, be-
cause no parent wants to send their
kids to school, to church, or to a movie
theater worried about whether they
may ever come home.
It took less than 7 minutes for a gun-
man in Parkland, Florida, to try to
erase these 17 people, but he could not
and will not be able to erase them from
the memories of their loved ones.
Today we remember their lives by
saying their names, and we honor them
by taking action. We can and must act.
I, for one, will never stop fighting to
honor their legacies and make our
communities safer by ending gun vio-
lence. We as a nation shall never for-
get.
f
PROTECT BORN-ALIVE CHILDREN
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SPANO. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to enthusiastically support Con-
gresswoman WAGNER’s born-alive bill, a
bill that would protect children born
after a failed abortion from further at-
tempts on their lives.
This is not a liberal or conservative
issue. This is not a Democratic or Re-
publican issue. This is not a political
issue, even. It is a moral issue, and
moral issues have a way of being unde-
niable.
It is a universal truth that laws pro-
tect the living; and while many of us
cannot agree when life begins, I am
confident that everyone in this House
would agree that life begins at least at
birth. More importantly, I am con-
fident that the vast majority of the
American people would agree that a
child born alive is, in fact, alive.
I understand there may be attempts
to prevent a vote on this bill to protect
Members who are against the born-
alive bill, but, no, it is impossible to
protect politicians from the moral con-
victions of the American people, and
history is unkind to those who try.
I urge Members from both parties to
see the born-alive bill as an oppor-
tunity to foster bipartisanship in this
House.
Supporting this bill does not make
you antiabortion or against a woman’s
right to choose; it simply ensures that
laws already in place are enforced to
protect the most vulnerable among us.
f
GUN VIOLENCE
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, we
have spent a very long day in the Judi-
ciary Committee working on legisla-
tion to respond to the American peo-
ple’s cry for universal background
checks, but I rise as well, in the back-
drop of that legislation, to stand for
the victims of gun violence.
I think it is important to note that
America has 329 million people-plus
here in the United States, and it is
growing every day. But we have 393
million guns here in this country. We
have lost, in this past year, almost
40,000 people to gun violence.
I believe it is important, in a bipar-
tisan way, that, when we are here in
the people’s House, we act on behalf of
the American people. They want fair,
simple universal background checks,
which I hope will be on this floor very
soon.
Let me close by giving my deepest
sympathy to the family, friends, and
staff of Walter Jones. I viewed him as
a great American, a great public serv-
ant, and one of great principle. I know
that Walter, in his life and now in his
passing, will wish for this Nation peace
and dignity for all of those men and
women who serve in the United States
military.
May he rest in peace.
f
SUPREME COURT ETHICS
(Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, in recent years, some Americans
suspect that politics has infected our
courts, particularly the United States
Supreme Court. This troubling trend
threatens our democracy when the
independence of our judiciary is ques-
tioned.
Last week, I introduced a bill that
requires the Judicial Conference of the
United States to create a code of eth-
ical conduct for the U.S. Supreme
Court.
Unlike Federal judges, Supreme
Court Justices are exempt from the
code of conduct. The Supreme Court
Ethics Act changes that.
Supreme Court Justices should not
be exempt from adhering to the stand-
ards other Federal judges must follow.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:53 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.071 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1560 February 13, 2019
Passage of this necessary ethical re-
form would restore the public’s con-
fidence and perception that the judici-
ary is independent, impartial, and apo-
litical; and it would protect public con-
fidence in the rule of law, the inviola-
bility of the judiciary and the incom-
parable and unique role it plays in the
delicate system of checks and balances
that sustains our democracy.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF REP-
RESENTATIVE WALTER JONES,
JR.
(Ms. ADAMS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. ADAMS. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in honor of my colleague, Rep-
resentative Walter Jones, Jr.
For 24 years, Congressman Jones rep-
resented the people of North Carolina’s
Third Congressional District with pride
and integrity. In his quarter century in
service to our great country, Congress-
man JONES was a steadfast voice and
advocate for North Carolina.
He was unafraid to put people before
politics and was a dedicated public
servant. He was a principled leader. He
stood firmly for what he believed and
wasn’t afraid to admit when he made a
mistake.
Second Corinthians 5:8 reminds us
that ‘‘ . . . to be absent from the body
is to be present with the Lord.’’ I pray
that Congressman Jones has now found
the peace that he sought.
To his wife, Joe Anne, and daughter,
Ashley, please know that Walter Jones
left an indelible mark upon our State
and Nation, and he will be missed.
f
PROTECT BABIES BORN ALIVE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentlewoman from In-
diana (Mrs. WALORSKI) is recognized for
60 minutes as the designee of the mi-
nority leader.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and include extra-
neous material on the topic of this Spe-
cial Order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Indiana?
There was no objection.
Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today alongside my colleagues to speak
out against the radical and dangerous
policies being pursued by Democratic
leadership and State legislators across
the country.
In New York, a new law legalizes
what amounts to infanticide—allowing
abortions up to and even after birth for
almost any reason—and ends the safe-
guards that protect babies born alive
after an abortion attempt.
b 1715
In Virginia, a similar bill is under
consideration that could lead to babies
being denied lifesaving medical care.
As Governor Ralph Northam put it:
‘‘The infant would be kept comfortable
. . . and then a discussion would
ensue.’’
I think this is sickening. That is why
my colleagues and I have called for the
House vote on H.R. 962, the Born-Alive
Abortion Survivors Protection Act, a
commonsense bill to require that med-
ical care—just medical care—be pro-
vided to children who survive a failed
abortion.
Sadly, Democratic leadership in the
House is standing in the way and refus-
ing even to allow an up-or-down vote
on this issue. This is not a partisan
issue. It is simply what is right.
We have got to stand together
against this radical and inhumane
agenda. We must act to protect the
rights of all infants.
I am grateful to be joined in this call
by so many of my colleagues.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentle-
woman from the Third District of
Washington (Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER).
Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER. Mr.
Speaker, it is a privilege to get to be
here on this floor, and I get to share
my story.
In mid-2013 my husband, Dan, and I
went in for our 20-week ultrasound as
excited first-time parents. We were not
prepared for what we were told. We
were told our unborn baby had a zero
percent chance at survival. There were
no kidneys. It was a condition called
bilateral renal agenesis, or Potter’s
syndrome. As a result, our baby would
either miscarry or be born unable to
breathe because her lungs wouldn’t de-
velop. She would literally suffocate
upon arrival if we brought her to term.
I, of course, was encouraged from
physicians to abort my baby. While
there are many reasons that lead
women to make that decision, Dr. Jen-
nifer Gunter, who is a women’s health
advocate, asserts that ‘‘terminations
after 24 weeks are for severe fetal
anomalies.’’
Now, our baby’s diagnosis wasn’t just
severe; it was without any glimmer of
hope. Being told that that wriggling,
alive, kicking child in your stomach
will certainly die doesn’t just take the
breath out of your lungs, it is like hell
screaming in your face, and it leads to
fear.
Miraculously, our doctors were
wrong. We pushed forward with that
pregnancy and were successful. We had
seen something that had never hap-
pened before: my baby developed lungs
in utero without kidneys. It was an im-
possible outcome to the medical world
at that time.
In good faith, our doctors had given
us their honest, professional opinions.
But guess what. Doctors aren’t infal-
lible.
While we wouldn’t have known this if
we hadn’t tried to overcome this diag-
nosis—and through divine intervention
and some amazing doctors who were
willing to charter new waters, lit-
erally—we now get to experience our
daughter, Abigail, who is holding the
Bible for the swearing-in standing next
to me and Speaker PELOSI, a healthy,
happy 5-year-old who is a big sister.
She says that some day she is going to
be the boss of Mommy’s work.
Look out, Speaker PELOSI.
So since our story became public, I
have talked to moms all over the world
who, like me, carried their babies into
the second and third trimesters hoping
to deliver and then are given dev-
astating diagnoses. But what if the
doctor is wrong about their babies,
too?
Abigail was the first to survive her
condition, but because of her break-
through, she is not the only survivor
now.
Radical legislation in New York and
Virginia has recently brought late-
term or partial-birth abortion into the
spotlight. But what if we used this dis-
cussion to go on the offensive against
the potential disease instead of attack-
ing the pregnancy itself?
Some parents have been presented
with scary prenatal tests that can
produce false alarms. These same ear-
nest, loving, would-be parents have
made permanent decisions based on
what could be incorrect information.
What if the baby won’t have that sig-
nificant health condition or disability
after all? Or even if she does, what
about the loving families eager to raise
a child in anticipation of her living a
full and fulfilling life?
We got to hear Frank Stephens, an
exceptionally joy-filled disability
champion with Down syndrome, de-
scribe, at a congressional hearing, how
he is a medical gift to society in that
his extra chromosome might lead to
the answer to Alzheimer’s. Science
bears this out.
Our society celebrates the term, ‘‘di-
versity.’’ Shouldn’t that mean full di-
versity, which includes all physical and
mental abilities, or disabilities as some
call it?
We step onto very shaky ground
when we start deciding who lives or
dies based on one’s abilities or, pos-
sibly, lack thereof in utero because, de-
spite our best intentions or the best in-
tentions of the messenger—doctor or
otherwise—there is a limit to what
science can predict.
That is not naivete speaking. That is
coming from the mom of a child who
was given a zero percent chance of sur-
vival based on, at the time, sound
science.
Now this kiddo has a full, adult life
ahead of her, and those of us who know
her are privileged, immeasurably.
Do you know what? Every single
child, regardless of their ability, has
that same potential if we only give
them that chance.
I believe that care, understanding,
and compassion are needed at every
stage of a woman’s maternal journey.
But to me, that means empowering
mothers to dwell in the realm of the
possible, not the impossible, even if it
has never been tried before.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:54 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.073 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1561
February 13, 2019
Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I
yield to the gentleman from the
Fourth District of New Jersey (Mr.
SMITH), who is the co-chair of the Bi-
partisan Congressional Pro-Life Cau-
cus, and I thank Representative CHRIS
SMITH for his leadership and courage.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, what an expression of love,
compassion, and faith we just heard,
the child who was thought to be impos-
sible; and what a tribute to parents and
a mother who just love so uncondition-
ally.
Mr. Speaker, in 2012, two
bioethicists, Dr. Alberto Giubilini and
Francesca Minerva, published an out-
rageous paper in the Journal of Med-
ical Ethics justifying the deliberate,
premeditated murder of newborn ba-
bies during the first hours, days, and
even weeks after birth. The ethicists
said:
When circumstances occur after birth that
would have justified abortion, what we call
after-birth abortion should be permissible.
In other words, the same conditions
that would justify the killing of a baby
in utero justifies the killing of that
baby even when she is born.
These two individuals made it clear
that because the child does not have
dreams about the future at birth, that
that somehow is a disqualifier to
personhood.
The infanticide that they proposed,
Mr. Speaker, is here. After-birth abor-
tion is here.
A couple weeks ago, New York Gov-
ernor Cuomo signed into law a bill to
allow abortion until birth and even re-
moves penalties for infanticide. Other
States, including Virginia, Rhode Is-
land, and New Mexico, have similar
anti-child statutes under consider-
ation.
The violent assault on children, Mr.
Speaker, must end. Not only have 61
million unborn babies been killed since
1973 by either dismemberment—when a
child is torn apart, arms, legs, and
torso, literally dismembered—or by
chemical poisoning, a death toll that
equates with the entire population of
Italy, the pro-choice crowd now is leg-
islating to extend the violence after
birth.
Mr. Speaker, we cannot look away
when a child’s fundamental human
rights are being violated with such le-
thal actions. Pass the Born-Alive Abor-
tion Survivors Protection Act now. Mr.
Speaker, give us that chance to vote on
this.
Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I
yield to the gentlewoman from the
Second Congressional District of Ala-
bama (Mrs. ROBY).
Mrs. ROBY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
gentlewoman for yielding, and I thank
the gentlewoman for leading this very,
very Special Order tonight.
This topic is critically important, es-
pecially in light of the heartbreaking
news we have already referenced that
has come out of New York and Virginia
in recent weeks.
I want to start by thanking the gen-
tlewoman from Washington for stand-
ing up tonight and telling us her story.
The gentlewoman does have an amaz-
ing story and an amazing family: a lov-
ing husband, Dan; and Ethan and Abi-
gail.
This is a family, and so we know each
other’s children. I can tell you, Mr.
Speaker, that walking through that
journey with the gentlewoman as her
friend and colleague has been so special
to Riley, to me, and to our children,
Margaret and George, who love them
just the same.
So I thank the gentlewoman so much
for standing on the floor tonight and
having the courage to tell her amazing
story. It just means a lot. So I thank
the gentlewoman for that.
Of course, I was stunned to hear the
boisterous cheering upon the New York
State Legislature’s passage of a bill
that would significantly loosen restric-
tions on late-term abortions.
Meanwhile, in Virginia, the Demo-
cratic Governor recently threw his sup-
port behind similar legislation and
made comments that served as a hor-
rific defense of born-alive abortions.
For the purpose of tonight’s discus-
sion, we have got to call born-alive
abortion what it is, and it is infan-
ticide.
Here in Congress, part of our job is to
debate the issues. Our dialogue sur-
rounding legislation is a critically im-
portant component of the democratic
process in this country.
Still, no matter how our stances on
abortion may vary, I hope we can all
agree that, if an abortion fails and a
child is born alive, the child must be
given the same medical care that any
other living, breathing infant would
otherwise be given.
I want to take this opportunity to re-
assure the people I represent in Ala-
bama that I remain unapologetically
pro-life. I believe that life begins at
conception, and I am opposed to abor-
tion at any stage.
I am severely disturbed that this
country now requires written legal pro-
vision to protect living babies. But,
sadly, in the aftermath of this news
coming out of New York and Virginia,
it is clear that this step is immediately
necessary.
That is why I am proud that the
House of Representatives has wasted
no time in acting, and I especially ap-
preciate my colleagues, Mr. SCALISE
and Mrs. WAGNER, who have been work-
ing tirelessly to force a vote on the
Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protec-
tion Act, a bill I cosponsored that
would protect babies who are born
alive during failed abortion procedures.
Again, to my colleague, I thank her
so much for organizing and having this
special hour tonight. This is a criti-
cally important issue, and I hope that
we will continue to have these discus-
sions not just tonight but in the days
moving forward.
Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I
yield to my friend from the Second Dis-
trict of Missouri (Mrs. WAGNER), who is
the sponsor of H.R. 962, the Born-Alive
Abortion Survivors Protection Act.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I want
to thank my good friend and colleague,
the gentlewoman from Indiana, JACKIE
WALORSKI. We are classmates and came
in to Congress almost 7 years ago. I am
so grateful to her for pulling this Spe-
cial Order together tonight to talk
about the most vulnerable in our soci-
ety and talk about the right to life.
To the gentlewoman from Wash-
ington State, I have to say her story
moves us all, and we are so excited
about her growing family.
I cannot thank Mrs. ROBY enough for
her support, her passion, and her dig-
nity when it comes to supporting life—
all of my colleagues who are here with
us tonight and stand with us on this
legislation.
Above all, I want to say, Mr. Speak-
er, that I believe our President, last
week at the National Prayer Breakfast,
said it best:
All children, born and unborn, are made in
the holy image of God. Every life is sacred,
and every soul is a precious gift from Heav-
en.
None of us could say it any better
than that.
I never thought the time would come
when I would have to actually argue,
fight, debate, and stand for providing
healthcare to infants after they are
born. Yet here we are. There are, ap-
parently, many legislators who believe
it is okay to allow a child to die after
it has been born.
When I first heard the news of State
officials in New York and Virginia be-
lieving that it is acceptable to limit
healthcare for newborn babies, I was
horrified. But I will tell you, Mr.
Speaker, it is not just in the Common-
wealth of Virginia and the State of
New York. In fact, only 26 States have
affirmative protections for children
born alive after attempted abortions—
only 26 States.
In fact, in recent days, Vermont,
Rhode Island, and New Mexico are con-
sidering legislation to loosen the late-
term abortion restrictions that have
gone forward in Virginia and New
York.
b 1730
In fact, New Mexico’s House passed
H.B. 51, which would effectively permit
abortions up until birth and eliminate
all restrictions thereafter.
To me, it is unthinkable that if a
baby is born alive, anyone’s first in-
stinct could be anything but to try to
save that precious, innocent life by any
means possible.
Our babies are some of the most in-
nocent, most vulnerable members of
our society, and it is our responsi-
bility, our duty, our calling to make
sure that they are cared for.
Every year, babies survive late-term
abortions and are left to die on tables,
in bedpans, in operating rooms. This
should not happen in the United States
of America. It is a flagrant violation of
our Constitution and an offense against
women and children.
I implore my colleagues to support
our bill, H.R. 962, the Born-Alive Abor-
tion Survivors Protection Act.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:53 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.074 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1562 February 13, 2019
Mr. Speaker, for the next 25 days,
until we can put forward a discharge
petition, we will bring the born-alive
act and ask for unanimous consent
that it be passed by the full House.
This should not be in question. This is
a piece of legislation that was passed in
the 115th Congress. We will do that the
next 25 days until we can put together
a discharge petition and force it to a
vote on the floor of the United States
House of Representatives.
Last week, I was told, when I offered
the unanimous consent decree, that it
was the ‘‘wrong time’’ to fight for the
most basic of human rights. Well, Mr.
Speaker, I say it is always the time to
fight for those who cannot fight for
themselves. I ask my colleagues to join
me, join us, in this fight for innocent,
newborn babies.
I thank the gentlewoman for her
courage and her standing up for life.
Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I
thank my friends who are here, Jaime,
Representative ROBY, and Representa-
tive ANN WAGNER standing here, and I
reiterate the reason we are here is that
we are serious about this.
I did the unanimous consent tonight
and asked the Speaker to bring that
bill down right now and bring it to a
vote.
This is an issue of what is right and
what is wrong. This is an issue where
we have been able to rise up together
tonight and speak for those who not
only can’t speak for themselves but
those that could potentially be born
alive in this country and given a lethal
injection by a doctor or some other
medical professional.
What is going on in this country is
absolutely horrific.
Mrs. WAGNER. Will the gentle-
woman yield?
Mrs. WALORSKI. I yield to the gen-
tlewoman.
Mrs. WAGNER. So we can have a bit
of a colloquy here.
I can say that it does happen. Next
week, in Missouri’s Second Congres-
sional District, I have invited a guest.
She will be traveling from Kansas City
to share her story. She was, in fact, a
born-alive baby after an attempted
abortion through saline.
She will give her testimony about
what her life has meant; that it was
saved; that, in fact, she was given that
opportunity to live her life and to fol-
low in the ways of the Lord and to be
productive to society.
So this has happened, and we should
do all we can.
Mrs. WALORSKI. It does happen. We
are going to do all we can to absolutely
prevent this happening. I thank my
colleagues who have spoken so far.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Indiana (Mr. PENCE), my friend
and fellow Hoosier from Indiana’s
Sixth District.
Mr. PENCE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to reaffirm my unwavering commit-
ment to life, the protection of the un-
born, and the protection of those who
survive the violence of the unborn.
The greatness of our free society can
best be measured by how it cares for
the most vulnerable. I am deeply trou-
bled by the efforts by some to expand
late-term abortion and remove any
conceivable limits on this horrific
practice.
In the face of such an onslaught, let
the miracles of conception, pregnancy,
and childbirth serve as a solemn re-
minder of the constant fight for life.
On this, there should be no question
that Members of Congress from both
parties should agree to the fact that
every child born into this world has the
right to live.
We must stand together for life and
the unborn and protect those who can-
not protect themselves when handed
abortion’s death sentence.
I pray that one day each and every
life, born and unborn, is respected, val-
ued, and given the chance to pursue his
or her dreams. That is why I am a
proud cosponsor of H.R. 962.
We must never, ever give up in the
fight for life.
Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I now
yield to my friend from the Second Dis-
trict of Tennessee (Mr. BURCHETT).
Mr. BURCHETT. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman from Indiana
for yielding to me.
I rise to join my colleagues in advo-
cating for the unborn. This country
was founded to preserve our inalienable
rights: life, liberty, and the pursuit of
happiness. Abortion, the murder of in-
nocent children, cannot coexist with
our fundamental beliefs. Late-term
abortion is particularly brutal. It in-
cludes tearing limbs from bodies and
stopping beating hearts.
Only seven countries, including
China and North Korea, have legalized
this practice. The United States, Mr.
Speaker, should not be in that same
category as known human rights abus-
ers.
Proponents of abortion claim pro-life
policy is an attack on women’s rights,
but doctors have determined late-term
abortions, Mr. Speaker, endanger the
mother more than giving birth. The
best way to protect women’s rights is
to protect life.
I close with a little story. Before my
mama left this Earth to meet her sav-
ior, she was in and out of conscious-
ness, Mr. Speaker. At one point, she
had talked to her father, who had
passed away long before her, and her
brother, who had passed away in the
Second World War, and my daddy, who
had gone before her just a couple years
prior.
She was looking off into the corner,
and I said: What are you looking at,
mama?
She said: Baby, I am looking at all
those sweet little babies up there.
Mr. Speaker, I firmly believe that my
mother was looking at some babies
that had been murdered.
I urge my colleagues to stand with
me to protect the unborn. By doing so,
we defend the inalienable rights of all
Americans.
Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I
yield to my friend from the Fifth Dis-
trict of North Carolina (Ms. FOXX).
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I thank my colleague, the dis-
tinguished Member from Indiana, Con-
gresswoman WALORSKI, for leading this
Special Order tonight and all my col-
leagues who are here to affirm life.
Mr. Speaker, abortion advocates used
to say they wanted abortion to be
‘‘safe, legal, and rare.’’ Now, abortion
advocates have reached new levels of
disregard for new human lives by open-
ly promoting infanticide. And legisla-
tion that would prohibit doctors from
leaving born-alive infants to die cannot
even get a vote under this new major-
ity in this House of Representatives.
Bills such as the Reproductive Health
Act, RHA, which was recently passed
with celebration in New York, are
starkly at odds with reasonable limits
on abortion that most Americans sup-
port and exposes the extreme agenda of
the pro-abortion movement. The RHA
would expand upon Roe v. Wade’s al-
ready wide protections for access to
abortion.
In New York, an abortionist no
longer needs be a licensed physician. If
an abortion is not successful and the
child is born alive, the law offers no
protections for the life of the baby. It
is almost unthinkable, Mr. Speaker.
Such a horrifying bill should be met
with disgust and outrage, not cele-
brated.
It is clear that the value of life has
eroded in our culture. Without a soci-
ety that questions, ‘‘What are the
rights of the unborn?’’ legislators can
use their power to eliminate the right
to life and promote the idea that life is
dispensable.
Proponents of the New York and
similar Virginia legislation should ask
whether these policies truly reflect a
society where women are valued or
where unwanted babies are worthy of
protection.
In a culture where aborted babies are
collateral damage in so-called women’s
healthcare, we should all fear that, fol-
lowing unborn children and newborns,
there will soon be new targets for dis-
posal.
Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I now
yield to my friend from the First Dis-
trict of Kansas (Mr. MARSHALL).
Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, since I was a freshman
in high school, I wanted to become a
physician. I was blessed to get to do
that. By the time of my second year in
medical school, my wife and I had our
first daughter, and most of us were try-
ing to decide what type of doctor we
were going to be. The moment that lit-
tle girl was born, I knew that I wanted
to spend my medical career delivering
babies.
I think my wife can attest that, for
the next 30 years of my life, most of my
waking moments were spent with
somebody in labor. I was so blessed to
get to participate in that wonderful
moment.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:53 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.077 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1563
February 13, 2019
I was blessed to get to go to Congress
and represent the people of Kansas.
I woke up a couple weeks ago to the
cheering of State legislators from New
York and their Governor. I turned up
the volume to see what the fuss was.
The fuss was they were celebrating
their ability to murder the same babies
that I had been trying to protect and
deliver for the last 30 years of my life.
I don’t think there are any Ameri-
cans—I have never met such an Amer-
ican—who would think that it is right
to murder a baby moments, days, or
weeks before its due date. It is the
most barbaric law I have ever heard of
in our society.
If this wasn’t enough, I turned the
news on a week later, and now they are
talking about murdering babies after
they were born from so-called failed
abortions.
I cannot believe that I live in a soci-
ety that would even think about this.
So I went to my office the next day,
and I got my staff together and said,
look, we have got some legislation that
is going to take care of this. We have
our born survivor abortion bill that
protects babies after they are born, and
then we have a pain-capable bill as well
to protect babies who are able to feel
pain from being aborted.
My staff looked at me: Right, we
have got that legislation.
I said: All we will need is 20 or 30
Democrats to sign on to this. Surely,
the Speaker of the House is against
late-term abortion. Surely, she is
against infanticide.
My staff looked at me with bewil-
dered eyes and said: Congressman, I
don’t think we are going to find any
Democrats to do that.
I wanted to talk a second about the
moms, too. No one is talking about
how horrible this is going to be for
mothers. Moms are going to die from
these late-term abortions. As an obste-
trician, I never did an abortion, but
guess who takes care of complications
from abortions. It is obstetricians.
I remember the first week I was in
residency. I was called to the emer-
gency room, and there before me was a
lady in shock. I apologize if this is too
graphic, but the situation is so graphic,
I have to tell you the details.
This young lady was bleeding out
buckets of blood. I found out what had
happened is she just had had an abor-
tion done hours before, and now she
was hemorrhaging.
I looked at the nurse. I said: What is
going on here?
I knew that we needed to take her to
the operating room. We found out dur-
ing the procedure that a piece of that
baby was still inside her uterus, and
the uterus couldn’t clamp down, so she
was hemorrhaging.
This is a story I would see over and
over again. The later the abortion pro-
cedure is done in the pregnancy, the
more often we are going to see this.
People are going to get perforated
uteri. It will be catastrophic for
women.
Mr. Speaker, we can’t allow this to
continue.
Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I
yield to the gentlewoman from the
Fourth District of Missouri (Mrs.
HARTZLER), a great friend of mine who
stands for life every single day that she
is here.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Speaker, I ap-
preciate the gentlewoman’s leadership
in bringing this subject up here to the
floor, to the American people, and to
our colleagues.
It is deeply disturbing to see what is
happening across this country, as life
is no longer valued and babies are al-
lowed to be killed, their lives snuffed
out in the final moments before they
are born and after they are born.
Like my colleague from Kansas be-
fore me, I was shocked when I turned
on my TV, very similarly—and I am
sure there are people all across this
country who did that—to see the Gov-
ernor of New York sitting at his table
signing this bill and having all these
women celebrate it and then even hav-
ing a building in New York City lit up
in honor of this celebration. But what
were they celebrating?
b 1745
They were celebrating not only the
demise of human lives in late-term
abortion, when, as Dr. MARSHALL said,
they could be born alive in a hospital
and given medical care, and have a pro-
ductive, full life; they could have per-
mission to have that life snuffed out;
but then to have the death, perhaps, of
the woman as well, at the hands of that
procedure.
A lot of people are unfamiliar of how
a late-term abortion is done and what
these individuals in New York were
celebrating. It is graphic, but people
need to know what happens.
The woman’s uterus is dilated, and
forceps are put in there, and a limb of
the baby, in the womb, is grabbed hold
of. Steel forceps grab hold. They find a
leg or they find an arm. They clamp
down, and they pull and they pull until
it rips off, and they pull out the leg and
they put it in the tray.
And they go in again and they find
the other leg. They pull and they rip it
off and pull it out.
And then they go in for the arm, and
then they pull that out. They pull out
the other arm. And then they go in and
crush the skull and suck it out.
Now, if this doesn’t turn your stom-
ach, America, I don’t know what does.
And that we could be celebrating this
in parts of the country is just not only
tragic, it is barbaric, and it has to be
stopped.
So that is why, here in Congress, we
are trying to pass the Born-Alive In-
fants Protection Act, to stand up and
to say, we are better than this as a
country. That is not what America is
about; that our Founders established
this country and the basic rights of all
who are created by our Creator, and
that is the right to life, liberty, and
the pursuit of happiness.
We want to make sure every Amer-
ican can live out that American
Dream, the ones who have the privilege
of being born and the ones who, right
now, people are celebrating, unborn.
We want everybody to have that oppor-
tunity of life.
I call on all my colleagues and every-
one across this country to rise up and
say, now, now is the time that we stop
this, and we set up a new path for
America that values every life.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague
for leading this.
Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I
would like to inquire on the time re-
maining.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from Indiana has 261⁄4 min-
utes remaining.
Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I
yield to my friend from Utah’s Second
District, Representative CHRIS STEW-
ART.
Mr. STEWART. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentlewoman for chairing this Spe-
cial Order.
You listen to our colleagues, and it is
hard to listen to this and not just feel
overwhelmed by it. Some things are so
emotional and some things are so obvi-
ous that there are times when you just
speak from the heart.
One week ago tonight, little baby
Dawson was born to my family, a beau-
tiful little baby boy, my sixth grand-
son. It is unbelievable to me that some-
one would argue that you could take
that child, moments before birth, pull
him from his mother’s protection, and
destroy that life, take away any
chance he has of having any happiness
in this world, take away any chance he
has of being loved in this world; that
you would suggest that and not call it
evil.
That we could have this conversation
like the Virginia Governor who said,
Well, we’ll take that infant; we’ll make
them comfortable while we decide how
we are going to kill it. How could you
have that conversation and not call it
evil?
If you think that is okay, go make
that argument to the American people.
But while you are making that argu-
ment, be honest. Yes, this is a baby.
Yes, it is moments from birth; in some
cases the child has been delivered. It is
alive, laying there before you. Yes, you
are going to kill it.
Most Americans find that repulsive.
Most Americans find it unbelievable
that we are having this conversation.
Most Americans find it evil.
Please help us save these children.
Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I
yield to my friend from Florida’s
Fourth District, Representative JOHN
RUTHERFORD.
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman from Indiana
for yielding, and I appreciate this op-
portunity to speak for life.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today because
there are actually elected leaders in
this country, in the United States of
America, who believe a baby can be left
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:53 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.078 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1564 February 13, 2019
to die after having been born alive.
How is this even a debate in the United
States of America?
When did murder become a partisan
issue?
Some on the other side of the aisle
call this ‘‘parental choice’’ and
‘‘healthcare.’’
But, Mr. Speaker, I tell you that in-
fanticide is murder, not healthcare.
And abortion is not the answer to a
pre-born child’s physical or mental dis-
ability.
But don’t just take it from me. Lis-
ten to the words of Mr. Frank Ste-
phens, who was actually born with
Down syndrome and leads a remark-
able life, a life worth living.
He had this to say about abortion:
‘‘On abortion, I don’t want to make it
illegal. I want to make it unthinkable.
Politicians change laws. I want to
change people’s hearts.’’
Mr. Speaker, I want to partner with
Frank Stephens because I believe that
we can do both, making late-term abor-
tion unthinkable, and illegal.
Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I
yield to my fellow Hoosier from Indi-
ana’s Fourth District, Representative
JIM BAIRD.
Mr. BAIRD. Mr. Speaker, I just want
to thank the gentlewoman, and I ap-
preciate all her efforts regarding this
issue.
Mr. Speaker, I rise here today to
voice a concern over the actions taking
place in New York, Virginia, and across
the country that directly threaten the
sanctity of life. These proposals are far
beyond what Hoosiers in my commu-
nity, and most folks around the coun-
try, believe is right.
That is why I am proud to cosponsor
H.R. 962, the Born-Alive Abortion Sur-
vivors Protection Act. This legislation
will make it illegal to kill babies that
are born alive after surviving an at-
tempted abortion.
The degradation of life in this coun-
try is deeply concerning. Congress
needs to step up and do what is right.
The extreme views of some should not
overwhelm the commonsense majority
of millions of Americans.
Protecting the sanctity of life is
something I will continue to fight for,
to ensure that those without a voice
can be heard and their lives spared.
Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I
yield to my friend from Michigan’s
Seventh District, Representative TIM
WALBERG.
Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentlewoman for taking on this
issue.
When we have heard words such as
the Governor of Virginia and others
who would say that it is okay for a
male Governor of Virginia to make a
statement; but generally, men should
not be talking about something that is
only given to women to talk about be-
cause it is about their bodies, about
their lives. Well, it is. But I think we
need to talk as well.
And if it is not me who should talk,
I would like to read for you the state-
ments of another individual who, I
think, expresses all I would want to
say this evening. And I will read just a
few excerpts from an article he wrote.
He said: ‘‘Do you want us to let him
go?’’
‘‘Those were the first words that
were spoken over me as I came into the
world. Those were the words of my de-
livery room doctor as he held my arm-
less and lifeless body in his arms. As he
assessed me and my situation, all he
could tell my parents is that I was ‘not
viable.’
Those were the words of Daniel
Ritchie as he spoke about his birth. He
said: ‘‘Not bad for a kid that wasn’t
supposed to lead a full life.’’
And why did he say that? He says: ‘‘It
has now been almost 35 years since
those words were spoken over me and a
lot has happened since then. By God’s
grace, I was revived. . . . I learned to
feed myself, dress myself, write, type,
and drive, all with my feet. I graduated
from high school with honors and dou-
ble majored in college. I met the girl of
my dreams, got married 13 years ago,
and we have two beautiful kids. Now I
am a sought after speaker who shares
his story at conferences, churches,
schools, colleges and with corporations
across the country.
Not bad for a kid that wasn’t sup-
posed to lead a full life.’’
Viability and independence are ter-
rible indicators of life.
‘‘I am no less of a man because of my
two vacant sleeves. I am a perfect cre-
ation crafted by the hands of a careful
Creator. I am not the sum of my miss-
ing parts. I am a man that God has
made with talents, gifts, and abilities.
Just like any person who is born blind,
deaf, or paralyzed has the same sort of
giftings.’’
He ended by saying this: ‘‘We are all
made in God’s image. We are all given
talents and abilities. We are all worth
being given a chance at life, no matter
how small the chance may be, and I am
the living example of that.
‘‘My armless life is worth living, and
I am beyond thankful my parents saw
that on day one.’’ And he was viable.
Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I
yield to my friend from South Caro-
lina’s Fifth District, RALPH NORMAN.
Mr. NORMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to raise my voice for those who
have no voice.
You know, while we may have dis-
agreements in this Chamber, I never
thought I would have to come to this
floor for this reason, to denounce the
killing of children after they have been
born. But I am here today because one
of our Nation’s governors has endorsed
infanticide in all but name.
Even though the media may be dis-
tracted by the Governor’s latest scan-
dal, I refuse to allow this atrocity to be
ignored. It is wrong, plain and simple.
I wish to live in a nation where we
respect the sanctity of all human life;
where condemning the murder of a
child is not for debate, but a matter of
course. Until then, I will not stand by
silently. I will continue to call out
those who attempt to corrupt our val-
ues, whether through State laws allow-
ing abortion on demand or Governors
commending abortion.
These actions do not represent the
values of the American people. They
represent the views of a small but pow-
erful group of ideologues with no re-
spect for the sanctity of life or the
rights of the voiceless.
I find it bizarre that the party of
birthright citizenship will not endorse
the birthright to life.
Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I
yield to my friend from West Virginia’s
Third District, Representative CAROL
MILLER.
Mrs. MILLER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to stand for life.
I am a wife, a mother, and a grand-
mother. I have felt life quicken in my
womb. I know the blessing of children,
all of whom are created in God’s image.
And that is why I am so saddened by
the pro-abortion discussions taking
place around the country and in places
like New York, Virginia, and others,
where State legislatures are debating
and legalizing abortion all the way up
to birth and, in some cases, after a
child is born.
I am sickened that laws are being
written which allow for a baby who
survives an abortion attempt to no
longer receive support and care once
they are born. This is infanticide.
There is no other way to say it. This is
an affront to life.
We must demand more from our
country and our citizens. We must en-
sure protections for the youngest and
most innocent of our citizens, both in-
side and outside the womb. We must
take care of those who cannot take
care of themselves. We must take care
of our children. We must take care of
and respect and cherish life.
Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I
yield to my friend from Ohio’s Sixth
District, Representative BILL JOHNSON.
Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio. Mr. Speaker,
as a proud father of four and a grand-
father of six, I rise today in strong sup-
port of those who cannot defend them-
selves, the most innocent and defense-
less among us, the unborn.
b 1800
I share the pro-life views of those I
serve in eastern and southeastern Ohio.
A few weeks ago, many Ohioans
joined more than 100,000 pro-life Ameri-
cans at the annual March for Life here
in Washington, D.C. Although, with so
little national media coverage of this
major event, some may have missed
this passionate and growing movement
made up of men and women, boys and
girls from all walks of life.
Recently, we have witnessed the in-
human policies introduced by multiple
States permitting late-term abortions,
even, unbelievably, all the way up to
birth.
It is past time that Congress pass
legislation banning this horrific prac-
tice.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:53 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.080 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1565
February 13, 2019
Mr. Speaker, I strongly urge my col-
leagues on both sides to reject infan-
ticide and defend the sanctity of
human life.
Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I
yield to the gentlewoman from Wash-
ington (Mrs. RODGERS), my friend from
Washington’s Fifth District.
Mrs. RODGERS of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for
yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to join my col-
leagues this afternoon in celebrating
the dignity and the value of every
human life.
I am a mom of three young kids,
Cole, Grace, and Brynn, and I can tes-
tify that becoming a mom, bringing a
life into the world, is the most amazing
thing ever.
With technology today, we can look
into the womb; we can see day by day
how a baby is developing. It is a mir-
acle to witness and it is proof that we
as human beings are not defined by our
limits. We are empowered by the poten-
tial that we have and who we can be-
come.
So, Mr. Speaker, I am frightened and
I am heartbroken that anyone would
oppose the Born-Alive Abortion Sur-
vivors Protection Act led by Congress-
woman ANN WAGNER.
Just as the science is undeniable, it
should be unthinkable to deny life-
saving care to a newborn baby.
We have amazing technology. We can
do more than ever. It is limitless.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues
across the aisle to take a step back, to
look at the science, and let this bill
come to the floor. It is the right thing
to do.
You know, since our founding, we
have been a country that cherishes
every person’s inalienable human
right, and it is the right to life, liberty,
and the pursuit of happiness. It is in all
of us to uphold those values and ensure
that we are protecting the dignity of
every person as God intended.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Congresswoman
JACKIE WALORSKI for her leadership. I
thank her for bringing us all together
so that we could be warriors of human
dignity and human value.
Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I
would again inquire how much time I
have remaining.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman has 11 minutes remaining.
Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I
yield to the gentleman from Illinois
(Mr. LAHOOD), my friend from Illinois’s
18th District.
Mr. LAHOOD. Mr. Speaker, I want to
say thanks to Mrs. WALORSKI, my col-
league on the Ways and Means Com-
mittee, for yielding to me and for her
leadership in putting together this Spe-
cial Order and her tireless fight for life.
Mr. Speaker, I come to the floor
today in defense of life and the unborn.
Over the last few weeks, we have wit-
nessed extreme abortion views pushed
in States across the country.
In New York, the State legislature
passed and the Governor signed into
law an abortion bill so broad it effec-
tively allows abortion on demand until
birth while removing protections for
infants born alive during an abortion.
Barbaric legislation such as this is
nothing to cheer about.
In Virginia, the Governor tried to
soften the blow of his infanticide en-
dorsement by saying ‘‘the infant would
be kept comfortable’’ while a decision
was made on whether to abort the in-
fant.
These disturbing and extreme trends
seeping into the mainstream of the
Democratic platform underscore the
need for its leaders in Congress to
stand up, to fight for life in the face of
these abhorrent actions.
Now more than ever, leaders in Wash-
ington need to stand up for life.
I stand committed with the millions
of pro-life advocates around the coun-
try to make sure infanticide is con-
demned and the voiceless are given a
voice.
Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I
yield to the gentleman from North
Carolina (Mr. WALKER), my friend from
North Carolina’s Sixth District.
Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Representative WALORSKI, JACKIE, if I
may, for her leadership and showing
courage on this important topic.
The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors
Protection Act protects the lives of ba-
bies who survive abortions by requiring
the healthcare practitioner to save the
life of the baby. Sounds pretty much
like common sense, doesn’t it?
I am a proud cosponsor of Ms. ANN
WAGNER’s bill fighting for the sanctity
of life.
As a former pastor, I value each and
every life that is brought into this
world, and that is why it is imperative
that we pass this legislation and put an
end to the senseless murders of inno-
cent babies.
Earlier this week, I asked for unani-
mous consent, before being gaveled
out, to bring the Born-Alive Abortion
Survivors Protection Act to the House
floor for a vote. Unfortunately, my
Democratic colleagues put their party
leadership and affiliation over voting
for what is morally right.
The statistics are staggering. In just
looking at a few States, we found 25
children that were born alive that sur-
vived a botched abortion just in 2017. It
is concerning to think how much high-
er those numbers would be if we looked
throughout the entire country.
Simply put, I stand with 80 percent of
Americans who support legislation to
protect the life of a baby who survives
a failed abortion.
At a time when States like New York
and Virginia are matching abortion
laws of North Korea in making it easi-
er to perform abortions until the birth
of a child, it is absolutely necessary for
us to stand in unity and fight for those
who cannot fight for themselves.
Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I
yield to the gentleman from Georgia
(Mr. ALLEN), my friend from Georgia’s
12th District.
Mr. ALLEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Congresswoman WALORSKI for her ef-
forts in organizing this important Spe-
cial Order.
You know, Mr. Speaker, as the proud
father of four and grandfather of 13, I
rise here this evening, joined by many
of my Republican colleagues, to recog-
nize that we have a moral duty and ob-
ligation to protect the most vulnerable
among us: those who cannot yet pro-
tect or speak for themselves.
But as we stand here tonight, Demo-
crats in State legislatures across the
country are celebrating legislation to
deny medical care to an innocent baby
who is born alive after a failed abor-
tion. We cannot stand idly by and
allow this to happen.
How have we come to this point in
our country where infanticide is some-
thing we disagree on? Each and every
one of us has a right to life, even an in-
nocent newly born gift from God, and I
will continue to stand up and fight for
that right to life every step of the way.
We must continue to be proactive in
bringing commonsense pro-life legisla-
tion to the House floor. I hope to have
an opportunity to offer my full support
for these bills and protect the sanctity
of life.
Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I
yield to the gentleman from Texas (Mr.
OLSON), my friend from Texas’ 22nd
District.
Mr. OLSON. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
friend from Missouri for yielding to
me.
Mr. Speaker, in 2012, Ashley and
Toribio Cardenas got the best news
parents can hear: they are going to
have a baby girl.
They got an ultrasound at 16 weeks.
They saw the outlines of their new
daughter, Audrina. She was gorgeous.
They had pure joy.
Right after they left, the
sonographer rushes to call the obstetri-
cian. This little gift from God has ecto-
pia cordis. Her heart is outside of her
body. Sixteen human beings out of 1
million have this condition, and it is
usually fatal.
The doctors tell Ashley she has two
choices: either abort Audrina or keep
going and pray for the best.
Ashley had to act quickly, because
Texas law prohibited abortion after 20
weeks. This happened at 17 weeks.
She felt Audrina in her womb kick-
ing and thriving, and she thought:
‘‘Who wants to take a life away? Who
wants to stop a beating heart?’’
That is true love.
Audrina was born alive. Ashley saw
her, gave her a kiss, and then she was
rushed off to the cardiac intensive care
room for babies, the ICU. Little
Audrina had surgery the very next day.
Here is a picture of her I printed out
in the hospital; that beautiful young
girl, her heart behind that plate.
Her first year of life, there are wires
everywhere. She was on oxygen and
had to eat through a feeding tube.
But here that beautiful girl is today
with a sign that says:
‘‘#speaknowforkids.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:53 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.082 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1566 February 13, 2019
This is a sign for Audrina and for
every kid facing abortion.
Congress, American people, speak
now for the kids. Support the bill, the
Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protec-
tion Act. Don’t kill babies.
Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I
would like to thank my colleagues for
joining me this evening to stand up for
the most vulnerable among us.
We stand together to defend the sanc-
tity of life, to speak out against a rad-
ical anti-life agenda that would effec-
tively legalize infanticide.
I have long fought to defend the un-
born, but I am shocked that I now have
to defend the right to life of newborn
infants. These precious children are in
peril, their rights are under attack,
their lives are under attack, and this
House has the responsibility to act.
Tonight the American people heard
our call to action. It is time to vote on
the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Pro-
tection Act. Will the leadership of this
House listen or will the Democratic
majority continue to allow this march
toward legalized infanticide?
If we don’t send a strong message
that every baby has been endowed by
its creator with inalienable rights, that
we are not defending the fundamental
principles of the Constitution, if we
don’t protect these children from
harm, we are abandoning the basic
truth of our humanity.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my col-
leagues for standing with me here to-
night. I urge the support of House bill
H.R. 962, the Born-Alive Abortion Sur-
vivors Protection Act, and to stand
against infanticide.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF
REPRESENTATIVE JOHN DINGELL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Michi-
gan (Mr. KILDEE) is recognized for 60
minutes as the designee of the major-
ity leader.
Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today and will be joined by a number of
my colleagues from the State of Michi-
gan to pay tribute to a person that I
have known of and got to know as an
adult, but I have known Congressman
John Dingell virtually all of my life.
Having grown up in Michigan and
grown up in a family involved in poli-
tics in Michigan, I was aware of John
Dingell from my earliest days.
He served in this House with incred-
ible dignity and great distinction,
longer than anyone else in the history
of this country, of this government. In
fact, nearly one out of four Members of
the House of Representatives in its en-
tire history served with Congressman
John Dingell.
Yesterday, several of us made an at-
tempt to fly, we left Andrews Air Force
Base in a storm and attempted to fly to
Michigan and were, unfortunately, un-
able to land due to the weather.
We are here and will be able to honor
him this evening and also honor him
tomorrow at the funeral that will take
place here in Washington.
So our thoughts go to the Dingell
family, especially to our colleague,
John’s wife, Congressman Dingell’s
wife, whom he often referred to as ‘‘the
lovely Deborah.’’ She is a friend and a
colleague. I have known her myself, as
well, for as long as I can possibly re-
member.
I will have more to say about Con-
gressman Dingell, but I think there are
just a few aspects of his career that I
just want to make sure I noted for the
ecord.
The longest-serving Member of this
House, he is known not just for the lon-
gevity and the quantity of his time
here, but for the incredible impact that
he had on our country, on our Nation,
and on the policies that he believed in
and stood for.
He served as the chairman or the
ranking member on the House Energy
and Commerce Committee from 1981 to
2008, shaping very important legisla-
tion on clean air, clean water, pro-
tecting endangered animals, advo-
cating for national healthcare. In fact,
in every Congress that he served in, he
continued the legacy of his father, who
preceded him in Congress, by intro-
ducing legislation that would guar-
antee healthcare for every American.
b 1815
Some of the legislative highlights:
National Wilderness Act, 1964; Water
Quality Act, 1965; National Environ-
mental Policy Act, 1970; Endangered
Species Act, 1973; Natural Gas Policy
Act, 1978; Prescription Drug Marketing
Act, 1988; Clean Air Act Amendments,
1990; Energy Independence and Secu-
rity Act, 2007; National Instant Crimi-
nal Background Check System Im-
provements, 2008; Patient Protection
and Affordable Care Act, 2010; FDA
Food Safety Modernization Act, 2011.
Any one of these would constitute
the highlight of a legislative career,
and every one of them are attributable
to the work of Congressman John Din-
gell.
Before I yield to my colleagues, I
want to mention one other piece of leg-
islation that he is known for. In my
first term—the only term that I shared
with Congressman Dingell—we cele-
brated, as a nation, the 50th anniver-
sary of the 1964 Civil Rights Act. Late
that evening, commemorating that
day, I happened to turn on C–SPAN and
was watching old videotape of the sign-
ing ceremony where President Lyndon
Johnson stood with the civil rights and
legislative leaders of our Nation. I saw
this tall figure walk into the frame,
shake President Johnson’s hand, and
receive the President’s congratulations
for his work on that historic piece of
legislation.
I went to bed, and the very next day,
I got up and walked over here for a ses-
sion. I sat in that chair right there,
next to the one that Congressman John
Dingell sat in for all those years, and I
spoke to the guy who I saw the night
before in a moment of American his-
tory. He was still here fighting for the
very same things that he had fought
for, for so long. I took that as a per-
sonal privilege, to have been able to
serve with him.
As I said, this is a tremendous loss
for our country. It is a tremendous loss
for me personally. Our hearts go out to
DEBBIE.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Michigan (Mr. WALBERG).
Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from Flint for yielding.
I appreciate the opportunity that we
have to stand on the floor tonight as a
bipartisan delegation, Republicans and
Democrats who are joined together by
a love of a great State, the greatest
State, Michigan, and the history that
is there that includes a gentleman, a
leader, like John Dingell.
This is a vision that too often is not
seen by constituents back in the dis-
trict, isn’t it? They often think that if
you are a Republican or a Democrat,
you are automatically an antagonist
for the other side. That is just not true,
especially as we work together as a del-
egation.
I learned one thing of many things,
but one thing I will share tonight from
John D. Dingell, Jr. I will let that rest
a little bit and let it build to what in
the world I am going to say that I
learned specifically from John Dingell
that was unique, special, and impor-
tant to me and that I hope I never for-
get.
It was in 1983 that I first met John
Dingell. I was a freshman in the State
House of Representatives. I was in
Adrian, Michigan, the county seat of
the house district I represented. We
were there for a ribbon cutting. I heard
a commotion going on through the
room, and the commotion was simply
this: Big John Dingell is about here. He
is about to arrive.
Well, I had never met big John Din-
gell or John Dingell at all. Mr. Speak-
er, like Mr. KILDEE, I knew it was a
historic moment.
Sure enough, soon he came in. He
swept into the room, and I met a man
who, yes, indeed, was 6-foot-4. Strong
of appearance and presence, he com-
manded a presence in the room. Yet he
shook every single hand in the room,
including this freshman member of the
State legislature who he had never
met, maybe even never heard my name.
There was a warmth about that. I
learned something from that.
Over the years, seeing him in oper-
ation, and then, ultimately, coming
here in 2007 for my first term, and hav-
ing a chance to go up and sit where he
always sat, right over there, to sit and
talk with him, initially, very timid,
asking legislative questions, but then
we got down to important things like:
What is your favorite shotgun? What
are your favorite hunting sports? Who,
indeed, fitted your shotgun to you?
As we began to talk about things
later on, it became apparent that, with
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:53 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.083 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1567
February 13, 2019
redistricting, I was going to lose Cal-
houn County in the district, and I was
going to pick up Monroe County, which
was John Dingell’s county, which had
been his father’s before him. I was
going to be given an opportunity to
represent that county as part of the
Seventh Congressional District of
Michigan.
I remember asking John about Mon-
roe County. He talked about the
marshlands. He talked about the fact
that, if I were going to come into that,
he expected me to feel the same way
about water fowling, protecting the re-
sources there, and making sure that
the wildlife refuge continued to grow,
expand, and meet the needs of coming
generations. We talked about that, and
we shared those things together.
I found out about the River Raisin
National Battlefield Park. A signifi-
cant war, a loss to the United States,
took place there at the River Raisin,
but it became the rallying cry that, ul-
timately, I believe, led to the winning
of the War of 1812, ‘‘Remember the Rai-
sin.’’
This became part of my district, but
it became part of sharing with John
Dingell. Mr. Speaker, this is what I
learned that I will never forget, and I
hope none of us forget it, because it is
the way of life that I think leads to a
valued life of service.
I had the chance to serve with his son
Chris in the State legislature. That
was a Dingell who served and then
went on to be a circuit court judge. I
have the privilege now of serving with
DEBBIE DINGELL, our great friend and
colleague, who we all have expressed
our love to in these last few days, even
more than before.
But to serve with John Dingell, I said
to him, ‘‘Congressman,’’ and he said:
No, no. John.
I said: I believe, if the election goes
as I think, I am going to get Monroe
County. That has been your county for
many years. You have loved it. You
have loved all about it. I am giving up
Calhoun County. How are you going to
deal with that, giving away Monroe
County?
He said this to me, and this is what
I will never forget. He said: My young
friend, I never give away a friend.
He said: You know, it is going to be
your district. It is going to be your
county. But I will never give away my
friends in Monroe County.
And he said: You should never give
away Calhoun County either.
Marvelous advice. I think it would be
good for all of us to remember that in
our relationships, not only with our
districts and districts that may
change, but our relationships with our
colleagues. Democrat, Republican,
independent, delightful, ornery, what-
ever, these are friends. The way we re-
spond to them is the same way John
Dingell responded in such a way that
he had a life that made an impact.
Remember, he served almost 60
years—59 years and 29 days—historic,
not because he chose that, but his con-
stituents chose that. They made it pos-
sible for him to serve those years. They
chose not to term limit him but to say
thank you for representing us well.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend for
giving us the opportunity to do this to-
night for a great man, a human, but a
great man who loved this country, who
served this country. And I am not
going to give him away as a friend.
Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for those remarks. I
think it says a lot about John Dingell
that the affection that we feel for him
not only spans the middle aisle here
across party lines, but it transcends it.
It is meaningless, in some ways. He had
a relationship with people here just
based on the human touch that he had.
He was a wonderful, wonderful person,
and you, obviously, had a close rela-
tionship with him.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentle-
woman from Michigan (Ms. STEVENS)—
we have Democrats and Republicans
here—a freshman, a person who did not
have a chance to serve directly with
him but knew him and admired him.
Ms. STEVENS. Mr. Speaker, it is
with profound honor and great humil-
ity that I rise on this historic floor to
recognize and honor the great Chair-
man John Dingell—the day after the
birthday of the great President Lin-
coln, might I add.
It is clear that John Dingell’s life
manifested Michigan. He depicted that
rich legacy that our State symbolizes.
Mr. Dingell was a veteran, a man of
dignity, honor, and great fortitude. He
most assuredly represented a great
America, that great generation. It was
his life, this long life, that is com-
pounded by its beginning and its end
and that arc of progress that he cer-
tainly represents.
Mr. Dingell loved life, and he loved
this body. He loved this House of Rep-
resentatives. He was the man of the
House. He was the dean of the House. I
lovingly referred to him as ‘‘The
Dean.’’
As we remember the Honorable John
Dingell and reflect on what he meant
to this body, to this Nation, and to our
great State of Michigan, as somebody
who is now representing parts of south-
eastern Michigan that touched the
auto industry he so loved, we can re-
member his steadfast support of our
domestic automakers over the decades.
John Dingell understood the fate of
the auto industry and the fate of south-
eastern Michigan and Michigan as a
whole as being forever intertwined,
that so many Michigan workers depend
on the success of our auto industry,
from General Motors to Ford, Chrysler,
all the way down the supply chain.
I had the privilege, not as a Member
of the House of Representatives, but as
a White House appointee in the admin-
istration of Barack Obama in the
United States Department of the
Treasury, on the team that was respon-
sible for saving General Motors and
Chrysler—we were called the auto res-
cue team—10 years ago when Mr. Din-
gell was raising his voice and leading
conversations in standing up for that
auto industry. Just as he always has
been a ferocious advocate, he was then
a ferocious advocate for the Federal
initiative to save our automakers from
liquidation, to save over 200,000 Michi-
gan jobs, and to stand up for Michigan
and everything we represent.
Today, there are thousands of fami-
lies in Michigan who have kept their
jobs because of John Dingell, whose
value of work is respected and under-
stood because of John Dingell. To him,
that was just another day of work. To
him, public service and doing right by
his constituents was simply second na-
ture.
Any elected official in our country—
and there are 535 of us who sit in the
House of Representatives and the Sen-
ate—would all be wise to study John
Dingell’s passion, his mastery of legis-
lating, his dedication to public service.
b 1830
In an era that has sometimes felt
very polarizing, somehow this man,
this great dean of ours, is the great
unifier. And we saw that in his passing.
We saw that when we welcomed his
casket to the Capitol, and we will see
that tomorrow at his funeral in Wash-
ington, D.C.
John Dingell knew how important it
was to bring industry and labor to the
table during the policymaking process.
He knew that the auto industry needed
a friend, needed a champion for every-
thing that was right by our country
and, frankly, our State’s origin. He
made our Big Three stronger by push-
ing them to adopt fuel emission stand-
ards.
You see, complicated policymaking
brings all the stakeholders to the
table, and John Dingell knew how to do
that. He knew how to do that for the
environment; he knew how to do that
on safety; and he certainly contributed
to a safer, more sustainable industry
that has its moonshot views of the fu-
ture, the visions of the future around
zero emissions and zero accidents that
are now being shepherded by the work-
ers and innovation and the talent in
our State.
John Dingell also strived to do the
most good. He understood what service
meant. He understood what doing the
most good for the most people meant.
He fought for our water; he fought for
our infrastructure guarantee; and he
fought for universal healthcare every
day he was here.
He had such a profound respect for
his colleagues, even when he disagreed
with them. And he loved his wife. He
loved his wife for all 40 years.
And we heard howlings from this
Michigan delegation. We celebrate and
we share that love for the great DEBBIE
DINGELL, who has been such a pillar of
strength, of openness, of vulnerability.
I told Congresswoman DINGELL: You
are every woman today. You are every
woman in your grief.
And as we recognize her incredible
husband, as we recognize him here
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:53 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.085 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1568 February 13, 2019
today in this codified moment and as
we carry his torch forward—because
that is what we do through the genera-
tions is we pick up the torch and keep
carrying it forward—we will also con-
tinue to carry Congresswoman DINGELL
forward in her grief and in her adjust-
ment and in the memory of her hus-
band.
As such, John Dingell most assuredly
will also be remembered in our great
State of Michigan, watching the people
come to pay their respects, the service-
men and -women, the thousands of peo-
ple who felt connected to his life and
his life’s work. It is what Vice Presi-
dent Biden referred to as his great dig-
nity: his respect for his friends, for his
neighbors, for his fellow man.
His contributions to this Nation will
not be forgotten, and they will cer-
tainly be felt for generations to come.
So today, in a very official way, I say
good-bye to the chairman, to the dean,
to the Congressman, to the veteran
John Dingell.
Thank you. We will miss you dearly.
Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Congresswoman STEVENS for her com-
ments.
Yesterday, as we stood on the east
front steps of the Capitol, I stood next
to Congressman PAUL MITCHELL as
Congressman Dingell and Congress-
woman DINGELL and the motorcade
came by. It was an emotional moment
that we shared with one another, and I
know he meant a lot to him, so I now
yield to Congressman PAUL MITCHELL.
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Michigan
(Mr. KILDEE). I join all of our delega-
tion rising to recognize the life and leg-
acy of the chairman, John Dingell, the
longest serving member in the history
of this Congress—over nearly six dec-
ades in Congress. He touched tens of
thousands of Americans. Frankly, he
impacted this Nation in so many ways.
Mr. Speaker, the gentleman was
talking about the bills that he au-
thored and led. I was listening to that
list. The Endangered Species Act, I was
still in high school, and I am not a
young man anymore.
The legacy he left this Nation is mas-
sive and will be for a long time.
I first met the Congressman years
ago when I represented the Governor of
Michigan. He came to Washington to
talk with Members about workforce de-
velopment education. I was a bright-
eyed 22-year old, eager, ready to go.
I am sure the Congressman was won-
dering what I was doing there talking
to him and representing the Governor.
He agreed to meet with me because the
Governor had called him and said I was
the guy to talk to him about that.
So here was the chairman meeting
with a 22-year-old about workforce de-
velopment—the kindest man. He lis-
tened; we talked about it.
I represented a Republican Governor.
And there is no question that John
Dingell was a Democrat, but partisan-
ship wasn’t a priority for John Dingell.
He always focused on getting things
done effectively for people. It was peo-
ple over politics, something sometimes
we should take to heart around here.
We have talked about that.
His question was always: What is
good for our people in our State?
The other question he often had, as
was referenced, was: What is good for
our auto industry?
Lord help you if you are going to
take a shot at our auto industry. We
are the auto capital, and he defended
that fiercely.
A memory I have of meeting with the
chairman, one that stands out for me,
was about 20 years later, believe it or
not. I came in for a meeting with his
lead staffer on Education and Work-
force Development. He came out of his
office. He was going off to vote, I be-
lieve. He looked over. He said: I should
know you.
I explained why I was there, what I
was there to talk about. He said: I
can’t sign that letter to the White
House. I know what you are talking
about, but I can do one better. I can
call the White House and tell them
they need to pay attention to this.
Don’t mess up the people of my State.
He made that call. He was a man of
his word.
When I joined Congress, I had the op-
portunity to talk a little more with
John Dingell. Earlier on, he said to me:
Just call me John now.
Unlike many in D.C., he cared to
hear what others thought, listened to
others speak, not just himself. You
know, he always asked me: How is your
family? How are they dealing with you
being in Congress?
He will be remembered as one of the
greatest modern-day legislators. He ad-
dressed the tough problems of America
and got things done.
He wouldn’t just talk about it—and
Lord knows sometimes around here
they do. He found compromises and so-
lutions. He tackled them. He would
wrangle them. He would find a way to
bring it to a compromise and solve the
problem. He worked across the aisle.
I don’t believe his dedicated service
to this country will ever be met again.
He left an enormous mark on this in-
stitution, our country, and the world
that we will all remember.
So I say God bless this great Nation
with John Dingell, and may God bless
you, John David Dingell, Jr.
Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from Michigan (Mr.
MITCHELL), and I remember, as well,
when he told me—I used to call him
Mr. Chairman, mainly because I was
afraid of him most of my life. And
when he told me to call him John, I
think it might have been a full year be-
fore I developed enough courage to call
him by that name.
Another one of our Members who I
know is very close to John, has worked
in Michigan politics and knew John
Dingell for a long time, is our col-
league Congresswoman BRENDA LAW-
RENCE.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentle-
woman from Michigan (Mrs. LAW-
RENCE).
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank my colleagues; and to all who
are listening, my entire life, I had John
Dingell’s name as Congressman John
Dingell in my atmosphere, growing up
in Detroit, knowing about his work and
his tireless defending of people.
John Dingell served in Congress with
dedication and an earnest sense of duty
to his constituents, to his country, and
to his solemn oath of office. As a
Michigander, support of the auto indus-
try was a high priority of his. From
steering the original Corporate Aver-
age Fuel Economy Act in 1975 to his ef-
forts on the Energy and Commerce
Committee, John Dingell helped to
build a legacy of laws in strong support
of Michigan’s manufacturing workforce
and the American auto industry—a
champion for the auto industry, a
champion for our veterans and for what
our government can do when we truly
work together for the people.
He was a man of many accomplish-
ments on and off the Hill. And while
many may forget the thousands of
votes that he voted throughout his ca-
reer, many may lose track of the legis-
lation he promoted in support of the
American people, but as we heard from
so many colleagues, staff, family, and
friends, people never forget an uplift-
ing voice in a time of need or a simple
act of kindness that brightens up their
day.
There are many times that people
forget, but they often never forget how
you made them feel. John Dingell was
well known for his sense of humor,
friendly spirit, and how he treated ev-
eryone with dignity and respect. His is
a legacy that we all can only hope to
achieve.
John Dingell is and always will be a
shining star for the State of Michigan,
a north star of direction for us as Mem-
bers of Congress, and a superstar to all
his family—his wife and my colleague,
DEBBIE DINGELL—and all of his friends.
His life, his legacy, an example of true
patriotism, will never fade. John Din-
gell will never be forgotten.
John Dingell showed this country—
while so many say this House doesn’t
work or there is not a sense of respect
for our government, this is a time, as
we reflect on his life, to understand
that this government is important—
that the things we do every day matter
to people, and that if we do our job, do
it together, we will be contributors to
why this is such a great country.
Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Congresswoman LAWRENCE for her com-
ments.
Mr. Speaker, I know that Congress-
man FRED UPTON was a very close
friend with John Dingell. They served
together. They served on the same
committee together. They were one an-
other’s chairman at different times,
but I know, first and foremost, they
were just real friends.
I now yield to the dean of the Michi-
gan delegation, Congressman FRED
UPTON.
Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
fellow dean, my bipartisan dean on the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:53 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.087 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1569
February 13, 2019
other side. I have so many stories to
tell, so I am going to watch the clock
here a little bit. I am going to ramble.
I don’t have a prepared speech.
I am delighted to be here. I am de-
lighted that you were able to get this
time for some of us to speak and honor
a legend. And when you think about
this last year, man, we have lost some
really terrific ones: President Bush,
John McCain, others. Certainly, John
Dingell joins those ranks as a distin-
guished American who really made a
mark on everyone’s life in this coun-
try.
Mr. Speaker, I include into the
RECORD an article written by editor
Nolan Finley of The Detroit News.
[From the Detroit News, Feb. 9, 2019]
JOHN DINGELL KNEW HOW TO LIVE, HOW TO
LOVE
(By Nolan Finley)
I was up to my waist and cork tight in
what I can only describe as quicksand when
I looked up and saw John Dingell squinting
down at me with that familiar, satisfied
grin.
‘‘How in bloody hell did you get in there?
And more important, how in blue blazes are
you going to get out?’’
We were hunting ducks on Maryland’s
Eastern Shore. I’d winged a goose that came
down running, and was in hot pursuit when I
stepped into the hole of muck and quickly
sank.
John pulled me out, and then finished off
the goose.
I never know how to answer when someone
asks how a conservative, Republican-leaning
newspaperman could become such fast
friends with a New Deal Democrat who
shaped the liberal politics and policies of the
second half of the 20th century.
I never occurred to either of us that we
could be anything else.
John didn’t choose the people he loved
based on political compatibility. Certainly,
he had strong opinions, and so do I, and we
engaged often in intense discussions. Not
once in 25 years did we exchange angry
words, nor ever part with hard feelings.
We were more than our politics. When to-
gether, our conversation quickly moved to
our common loves—guns and hunting. It was
what drew us together in the first place.
John was a great hunter, a dead-eye with a
shotgun. I was with him when he shot the
last duck he ever killed. Four of us were set-
tled into a blind on a brisk but sunny Janu-
ary morning, and the ducks were coming in
fast and furious. Three of us were blasting
away like a trio of Elmer Fudds, shooting a
lot of birds, but burning up a case of shells in
doing so. Not John.
Barely able to stand, he shouldered his
shotgun just three times that day. And all
three times a duck fell from the sky. Not a
shell wasted.
John’s great passion was his wife, Debbie.
After that, it was a toss-up between a duck
blind and the House chamber for his next
greatest love. I recall an afternoon when we
were returning to Washington, and as we
crested a hill the gleaming white Capitol
dome came into view. ‘‘I never get tired of
seeing that,’’ he said softly.
And obviously he never did. John spent
nearly 60 years in Congress, serving longer
than anyone else. And better. John was a
parliamentarian; he cherished the traditions
and processes of the House.
And while he was a bare-knuckled nego-
tiator who relished a fight, he was ulti-
mately a pragmatist. When the time came to
compromise, John set down his club and
made the deal.
His decision to retire was based mostly on
his waning physical condition. But he was
also disgusted with the poisonous partisan-
ship and gridlock ruining Congress. He
couldn’t stand to watch what was becoming
of the institution he joined as a teen-aged
page during World War II.
Still, he hated to leave. The night before
he announced his retirement, he called me to
have dinner with him and Debbie. John had
made his decision but hadn’t accepted it. He
was looking for assurance that he wasn’t let-
ting down the people of his district by leav-
ing, that he’d done his best for them, that
they’d understand his reasons.
At the same time, he was offering counsel
to Debbie, who had a quick decision of her
own to make. He wanted her to succeed him,
as he had his father, to continue a Dingell
legacy in Congress stretching back to 1935. It
was a poignant moment between the past
and future.
When I’d visit him after retirement, the
questions were always the same. Did I make
a difference? Do my people remember me?
Would Pop be proud?
I was always stunned that he could harbor
such doubts, given his enormous accomplish-
ments. But John Dingell never took the obli-
gations of public service lightly. He always
felt there was more he could do for the peo-
ple who placed their trust in him.
He was a man in the best sense of the word.
A man of the Greatest Generation. A man of
courage, confidence, compassion. A man who
did his duty. A man who took care of his own
business, and of the people he loved.
And he sure did know how to love. He and
Debbie shared an epic love affair that never
waned. You couldn’t be around them more
than five minutes without hearing him say,
‘‘I love you, Fox.’’ The fire in his eyes when
he looked at her burned until his last breath.
She was fiercely protective of him, and
kept him alive years longer than he should
have expected by the sheer force of her will.
Our friendship may have been unlikely, but
it was one I cherished. I loved him, and hate
to see him go.
But if life’s a game, John Dingell won it.
Nearly 93 years, and every minute of it lived
honorably and with passion and purpose.
Goodbye, good friend. I hope wherever you
are this morning, the ducks are coming in
fast and low.
Mr. UPTON. I am going to also read
to you an email that I got just an hour
or two ago from his wife, DEBBIE, our
colleague, who received this from the
Ford family.
This is from Mike Ford. Of course,
his father was Gerry Ford, a great man,
President, Michigander. And he wrote
this, it is very brief:
Debbie,
Since learning of John’s recent passing,
my thoughts and prayers have been constant
with you and your extended family.
Through my reading of the many wonder-
ful remembrances of and tributes to John, I
have been deeply moved and blessed to re-
visit his remarkable legacy of leadership and
service to the people of Michigan and to all
of our Nation.
John and my father, though identified
from competing political parties, held so
much in common as men of wisdom, integ-
rity, compassion, and selfless service for all
of humanity, and their friendship was true
and enduring through a shared lifetime call-
ing of public service. John Dingell and Gerry
Ford represent what is good, honorable, and
decent in our country.
Please know of our Ford family’s grace
giving wishes and prayers for you and all the
Dingell family at this time of loss and grief.
May you know of God’s abiding comfort,
love, and hope this day and always.
MIKE FORD.
Good guy that, again, some of us
know, particularly those of us on the
west side of our State. You know, he
was our dean. And when I became the
dean of the Michigan Republican dele-
gation—that was in the early nineties.
I have got to say—I was just adding it
up here sitting with Tim—I was prob-
ably in thousands of meetings with
John.
b 1845
Our delegation is close. We stand to-
gether on a host of issues, from the
Great Lakes to the autos. We often had
an agenda we worked together. Our of-
fices were across the hall from each
other for a lot of years. Of course, we
have known DEBORAH forever and a day
as well.
I had the chance to talk to John Din-
gell the day before he died, and I talked
to him a number of times over the last
number of weeks. I read his book,
which I would recommend to folks.
Might put the R rating next to it, in
terms of his language. You can hear
him speak, and he had a genuine sense
of humor. He had so many stories.
I was asked a little bit earlier today:
What about his tweeting?
He tweeted until, literally, the last
day or two. For those of you watching
tonight, get on Google. Google MLive.
That is sort of the Michigan news net-
work. Google: MLive Dingell tweet.
This weekend, they ran the top 20
tweets that he did, and they will make
you laugh. They really will, especially
the one with the bulldog. All of the
animal lovers out there, make sure you
find this one. He had a sense of humor.
People say: How could a 92-year-old
do all this?
Well, let me tell you how. It is be-
cause of our committee. The com-
mittee has so much jurisdiction, part
of which is telecommunications. We
were the first ones. We forced the
broadcasters. It was actually the Tau-
zin-Dingell bill, I want to say a lot of
years ago, and I had an amendment
that was critical there. We passed the
Tauzin-Dingell bill. He cared so much
about bipartisanship.
We forced the broadcasters to go
from analog to digital. That then al-
lowed us all to have devices like this:
iPhones and the internet. Instead of
using a shoe for your phone, you got
something like this that is like the
world.
We forced them to go digital, and
that allowed this to happen. So guess
what? John Dingell, in Congress, we
would often sit down. We all meet in
Detroit, let’s face it. All of us, our dele-
gation, we come from someplace. Mr.
KILDEE comes from Flint. TIM
WALBERG is actually lucky and gets on
in Detroit. I come from South Bend or
Kalamazoo or Grand Rapids. We all
come from someplace, but generally,
we fly Delta from Detroit back to D.C.
We are all sitting at that A–75 gate.
There is John Dingell, a colleague, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:06 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.088 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1570 February 13, 2019
he is on his BlackBerry, zipping away,
typing just as fast as you could imag-
ine, communicating with people around
the world. It is because of the work he
did in our committee. That made our
lives what they are today.
Whether it is that or the environ-
ment or healthcare or pipeline safety,
you name the issue—we are sorry Mr.
KILDEE went to the Ways and Means
Committee. DEBORAH chose right; she
went to the Energy and Commerce
Committee. Mr. KILDEE went to the
dark side. Our committee has jurisdic-
tion over so much.
John Dingell was such a leader. He
didn’t care about who got the credit.
He just wanted to get the job done. He
sat right over here. When you would
come over and ask his advice, you
would make sure that you were on his
good ear, and he would talk, and he
would remember things.
I can remember taking the CONGRES-
SIONAL RECORD from some big debates,
the Voting Rights Act and others, and
I would sit with him here, and we
would go through the names, particu-
larly the Michigan delegation, and why
they voted this way or that way. He
would tell the history. He was here for
our lifetime.
He was a gentleman to the very end.
He knew the rules. He had respect from
both sides of the aisle. He was a guy
who we will never see replaced here in
this House.
In closing, let me say, even at the
end, he was wondering: Did I make a
difference?
Of course he did. But here was a guy
who made such a difference and a guy
who really never thought he would be
in this institution. When his dad died,
a week before his dad died, he didn’t
think he was going to run for that seat.
It was the people at home who encour-
aged him to run. When he chose to re-
tire, he didn’t push Deborah, nudge
Deborah, to run for that seat.
It is hard to imagine, 86 years of a
Dingell representing southeast Michi-
gan. What a tribute to a family that
has made such a difference in this
body, folks who love not only our
State, but certainly their constituents.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. KILDEE for
doing this Special Order.
Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Speaker, I recall
yesterday, when we were attempting to
get to the funeral in Detroit, Congress-
man UPTON participated in an im-
promptu observance for Congressman
Dingell at 30,000 feet as we flew back to
Washington, because of our failure to
land. I will never forget that.
Another one of our colleagues who I
know, like me, has known the Dingell
family and Congressman John Dingell
for as long as he can remember, and
whose father served with Congressman
Dingell, and was also once the dean of
the Michigan delegation, Congressman
ANDY LEVIN. I know this means a lot to
the gentleman.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Michigan, (Mr. LEVIN).
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Mr. Speaker,
I thank the gentleman for yielding.
I say to the gentleman from St. Jo-
seph, in this Special Order, we are a lit-
tle different from Michigan. I say to
the gentleman from St. Joseph, if KIL-
DEE went to the dark side, LEVIN will
come over to the Energy and Com-
merce Committee. So I appreciate
that. We will get that all lined up, so
we can take care of that right here.
Mr. UPTON. Will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Speaker, I yield to
the gentleman from Michigan.
Mr. UPTON. We really ribbed Dave
Camp about this, and the good Sandy,
too.
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Mr. Speaker,
I thank the gentleman. I am ready to
diversify things in Michigan again.
I really want to pick up where the
gentleman left off, because I don’t
want to talk about John’s unbelievable
legislative record. I want to talk about
two families, the Levin family and the
Dingell family, and really about what
the Dingell family has meant to my
family for almost 80 years.
My dad has been interviewed about
this, and my Uncle Carl. But my dad
has not revealed the beginning of his
relationship with the Dingells, and
that is about John’s dad, John Dingell,
Sr.
My father, Sander Levin’s first polit-
ical memory, aside from listening to
fireside chats all around the living
room radio coming from President
Roosevelt, is of campaigning for John
Dingell, Sr., in his knickers. My dad
would have been maybe 10 years old, so
this is going back to the late 1930s or
the early 1940s.
In 1946, I think, John Dingell, Sr.,
recommended to President Harry Tru-
man that he appoint a lawyer named
Theodore Levin to the Eastern District
of Michigan to be a Federal judge, and
Harry Truman did that. I was looking
at the RECORD, and with all the time
things take these days, the President
nominated Uncle Ted on July 3, and he
was sitting on July 27 of either 1946 or
1947. Things happened at a different
speed in those days.
Theodore Levin served for many
years, and he was the chief judge of the
Eastern District of Michigan.
Earlier than that, before he was chief
judge, I think, John Dingell’s son, John
D. Dingell, Jr., clerked for Judge
Levin. It made a profound impact on
the chairman. He told me about this all
the time.
Imagine getting to go see this very
senior Member of Congress to find out
about your own great uncle. What was
he like? Mr. Dingell loved Uncle Ted.
Then many years later, John Din-
gell—I don’t even know how this hap-
pens—he did whatever you do to name
the Federal courthouse in Detroit after
my great uncle. He did not tell Con-
gressman Sander Levin and he did not
tell Senator Carl Levin about this at
all until it was a done deal. He didn’t
want any sense, I guess, of conflict of
interest or whatever. He was doing this
for his own sake. This was his mentor.
So if you go to downtown Detroit, the
courthouse is named after Theodore
Levin.
Over the years, my dad served here
for 36 years. All 36 years, his beloved
senior colleague was John Dingell. My
dad rose to be the chair of the House
Ways and Means Committee, and Mr.
Dingell was the chair of the Energy
and Commerce Committee. They
worked together on so many things,
things that people from other States
wouldn’t know about, like cleaning up
the Rouge River, a symbol of industri-
alism that now is a much cleaner river,
a really clean river, and working to
save the auto industry, of course.
Imagine what it meant to my dad to
be the chairman of the Ways and
Means Committee when we passed the
Affordable Care Act, and getting to
work with his legendary and beloved
senior colleague from Michigan who
had introduced universal healthcare in
this country every Congress since he
entered in 1955, to get to work together
to advance the ball, not achieving uni-
versal healthcare, but achieving so
much through the Affordable Care Act.
I don’t know how to say good-bye to
Mr. Dingell. Like Mr. KILDEE, he scared
the heck out of me. He was gruff. He
was big. But for the sparkle in his eye,
I am not sure I would have even ap-
proached him.
He was always willing to sit down, no
matter how big and powerful he was.
He was always willing to listen. The
advice he gave was unfailingly honest
and direct. A lot of times, you couldn’t
repeat exactly the advice, all of the
words in the advice he gave, but it was
really special to me.
I am not sure I am willing to say
good-bye to Mr. D. I will just say God-
speed to someone who, to me, will al-
ways be the dean of the House and rep-
resent what this body is supposed to be:
down to Earth and sophisticated at the
same time, highly principled, and ex-
pert at making the sausage.
This is the people’s House, and John
Dingell was the people’s Representa-
tive.
Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Congressman LEVIN for his kind words.
Mr. Speaker, I would now like to call
on the last of our Michigan Members to
speak, a new Member, a freshman,
someone who I know had a very special
relationship with Congressman Dingell.
I yield to the gentlewoman from
Michigan, Congresswoman RASHIDA
TLAIB.
Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
colleague from the incredibly strong
city of Flint.
I had a unique relationship with Con-
gressman Dingell, who we lovingly
called ‘‘The Dean’’ in Michigan. Be-
cause I was a young activist, ‘‘radical,’’
always out there protesting for clean
air, protesting for good-paying jobs,
and he was the person who, even
though we had different styles and dif-
ferent approaches to various issues, he
never reduced or tried to silence my
voice and many of the voices of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:06 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.090 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1571
February 13, 2019
young people who were really trying to
get the Clean Air Act to be put in place
and have corporate polluters be held
accountable.
As I transitioned into elected office
in the Michigan Legislature and be-
came a State representative, within a
few months of being a State represent-
ative, there was a corporate billionaire
who owned a bridge, and there was this
whole, huge controversy around wheth-
er or not he had a permit or whether or
not he was following the environ-
mental impact statement process that
is there on the Federal level.
This is a community where one in
five children has asthma. This is the
community I was raised in. It was the
first issue that came before me as a
member of the State legislature in
Michigan, and I was at a loss. Many
people said, Congressman Dingell, The
Dean, has historical, institutional
knowledge of this company, and you
should sit down with him and talk to
him.
I was completely taken aback and
could not believe that Congressman
Dingell reached out to me right away
and also got my residents at that time
a hearing, which you don’t usually get
with the U.S. Coast Guard, a hearing
that happened in a public school right
in the center of the neighborhood that
was directly impacted.
We had over 500 residents that finally
felt heard, many of them giving testi-
mony after testimony of why a cor-
poration needed to follow the rules,
needed to follow the processes for the
EPA, the Federal Highway Administra-
tion, and the number of entities that
were involved in possibly a new bridge
crossing.
b 1900
What I also incredibly loved is I re-
member sitting on a panel about immi-
gration reform with Congressman Din-
gell at the University of Michigan-Ann
Arbor. As a city and State rep, I re-
member coming in to the capitol, driv-
ing about an hour or so. It was a very
cold day, and I believe it was snowing.
I was disheveled, as I usually am, and
I looked to him—if you know Congress-
man Dingell, Mr. Speaker, he always
had the cane, and he would put his
cane right between his two knees and
just sit there, and he would look up
from his glasses.
I looked at him, and I said: Congress-
man Dingell, I just don’t know how you
have been doing it for so long. This is
so hard because they lie.
He looked at me, and he said—I just
loved what he said, because he turned
to me, and he always called me young
lady—he said: Young lady, there is a
saying in India that if you stand still
enough at the riverbank—stand still—
that your enemies will float by dead.
I have no idea why, but that calmed
me because he was teaching me still-
ness, but he was also teaching me pa-
tience. I just felt so much better after-
ward.
We had an incredible panel that up-
lifted so many of our immigrant neigh-
bors. Again, from someone who has
such a huge and powerful presence and
from me, this young activist who car-
ries a bullhorn in her car, and I could
sit next to this amazing, incredible per-
son and feel heard, feel seen, and be on
a panel with him and serve with him in
so many powerful ways around our en-
vironmental justice issues.
I will forever remember the humbling
experience as his last ride in front of
the Capitol, to have been serving now
in this Chamber that he served for 59
years, 11 different Presidents. I was
telling my 13-year-old son about him.
He said: I want to look him up. I want
to find out.
I said: You need to, because he is a
rarity.
I hope to honor his tremendous leg-
acy by doing the same thing he did, be-
cause I know there will be a generation
after me that may be different and may
have a different style, and I never want
to ever shush or silence them in any
way and I want them to be heard just
like he did for me.
So I want to thank him from the bot-
tom of my heart for teaching me so
much. I am just so pleased to have been
serving by his side in many ways, but
also that he served me and my family
for so many years.
I thank Congressman KILDEE so
much for allowing me to speak about
my dear friend, Congressman John Din-
gell.
Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Congresswoman TLAIB.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from California (Mr. SHERMAN), who
served a very long time—most of his
career—here in the House side by side
with Congressman John Dingell. Con-
gressman BRAD SHERMAN is a member
of the Financial Services Committee
and the Foreign Affairs Committee and
a good friend of Congressman John
Dingell.
Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I was in
my office watching these tributes to
the dean, and after a while I couldn’t
just sit there and watch. I realized this
is an hour devoted to remembrances
from his colleagues from Michigan, and
I thank Congressman KILDEE for allow-
ing a humble Californian to partici-
pate.
America is healthier because of John
Dingell. Less tobacco is smoked now
than decades ago because of John Din-
gell. Our air is cleaner. Our water is
cleaner. We are healthier, and we are
closer to completely universal
healthcare than we have ever been in
our history because of John Dingell.
Not only is our environment
healthier and our bodies are healthier,
our country is healthier because of
what John Dingell did to move forward
the fight for civil rights in this coun-
try.
John is the dean of the Michigan del-
egation, but he belongs to us, too. He is
the dean of the House. He is the dean of
the House for all time. I doubt that any
Member will ever match his record of
tenure, but I know that no Member
will ever match his record of accom-
plishment.
So we have had so many new Mem-
bers come to the House this year won-
dering how to learn, how to be an effec-
tive Member, and how to serve their
country. They could not do any better
than to study the life of John Dingell
in his nearly six decades of service to
this country and to this House.
I am so pleased that DEBBIE DINGELL
continues to serve the district, a dis-
trict served by John and John’s father.
I thank the gentleman from Michigan
for inviting a California member and
taking just a bit of his time.
Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Speaker, tomorrow
we will lay Congressman John Dingell
to rest, and it will be a painful time.
But we can take a lot of comfort in the
contribution that he has made, not just
to this body but to the quality of life in
this country; and as individuals with
our own perspective, our own experi-
ence here, we can take some comfort in
knowing that his wife—the love of his
life—will continue his legacy by serv-
ing here with us side by side.
Our hearts go out to her. I know this
is a very difficult time for the Dingell
family, but especially for DEBBIE. They
loved one another. They were insepa-
rable. They were one. I know this will
be a difficult time for her. We stand
with her.
Mr. Speaker, John Dingell served
with 11 Presidents and 11 Speakers of
the House. Mr. Speaker, 2,419 Members
of Congress served with him. He served
21,551 days in this House and cast over
25,000 votes. But as he would say and
has said many times: It is not the lon-
gevity that counts, it is the way you
serve.
He served in a way that brought
honor to this Congress and made it a
better institution. He led in a way that
made this country a better place. And
I know for each of us who came to the
floor and each of us who served with
him, he not only made us better Rep-
resentatives of the people whom we
work for, but he made us better people.
We honor John Dingell’s life and leg-
acy.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess subject to
the call of the Chair.
Accordingly (at 7 o’clock and 6 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 2337
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. CUELLAR) at 11 o’clock
and 37 minutes p.m.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:06 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE7.091 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1572 February 13, 2019
declares the House in recess for a pe-
riod of less than 15 minutes.
Accordingly (at 11 o’clock and 37
minutes p.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
f
b 2350
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. CUELLAR) at 11 o’clock
and 50 minutes p.m.
f
CONFERENCE REPORT ON H.J.
RES. 31, FURTHER CONTINUING
APPROPRIATIONS FOR DEPART-
MENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY,
2019
Mrs. LOWEY submitted the following
conference report and statement on the
joint resolution (H.J. Res. 31) making
further continuing appropriations for
the Department of Homeland Security
for fiscal year 2019, and for other pur-
poses:
(For conference report and state-
ment, see proceedings of the House of
February 13, 2019, in Book II.)
f
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
By unanimous consent, leave of ab-
sence was granted to:
Mr. QUIGLEY (at the request of Mr.
HOYER) for today on account of death
in the family.
f
PUBLICATION OF COMMITTEE
RULES
RULES OF THE COMMITTEE ON NATURAL
RESOURCES FOR THE 116TH CONGRESS
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, February 13, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to Rule
XI, Clause 2(a)(2) of the Rules of the House of
Representatives, I respectfully submit the
rules of the 116th Congress for the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources for publication
in the Congressional Record. The Committee
adopted these rules by voice vote, with a
quorum being present, at our organizational
meeting on Wednesday, January 30th, 2019.
Sincerely,
RAÚL M. GRIJALVA,
Chairman, Committee on Natural Resources.
RULE 1. RULES OF THE HOUSE; VICE CHAIRS
(a) Applicability of House Rules.
(1) The Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, so far as they are applicable, are the
rules of the Committee on Natural Resources
(hereinafter in these rules referred to as the
‘‘Committee’’) and its Subcommittees.
(2) Each Subcommittee is part of the Com-
mittee and is subject to the authority, direc-
tion and rules of the Committee. References
in these rules to ‘‘Committee’’ and ‘‘Chair’’
shall apply to each Subcommittee and its
Chair wherever applicable.
(3) House Rule XI is incorporated and made
a part of the rules of the Committee to the
extent applicable.
(b) Vice Chair.—Unless inconsistent with
other rules, the Chair shall designate a Vice
Chair of the Committee and appoint Vice
Chairs of the Subcommittees. If the Chair of
the Committee or Subcommittee is not
present at any meeting of the Committee or
Subcommittee, as the case may be, the Vice
Chair shall preside. If the Vice Chair is not
present, the Ranking Member of the Major-
ity party on the Committee or Sub-
committee who is present, or the Chair’s des-
ignee, shall preside at that meeting.
RULE 2. MEETINGS IN GENERAL
(a) Scheduled Meetings.—The Committee
shall meet at 10 a.m. the first Wednesday of
each month when the House is in session if
so noticed by the Chair under Committee
Rule 3(a). The Committee shall also meet at
the call of the Chair subject to advance no-
tice to all Members of the Committee. Spe-
cial meetings shall be called and convened
by the Chair as provided in clause 2(c)(1) of
House Rule XI. Any Committee meeting or
hearing that conflicts with a party caucus,
conference, or similar party meeting shall be
rescheduled at the discretion of the Chair, in
consultation with the Ranking Minority
Member. The Committee may not sit during
a joint session of the House and Senate or
during a recess when a joint meeting of the
House and Senate is in progress.
(b) Open Meetings.—Each meeting for the
transaction of business, including the mark-
up of legislation, and each hearing of the
Committee or a Subcommittee shall be open
to the public, except as provided by clause
2(g) and clause 2(k) of House Rule XI.
(c) Broadcasting.—Whenever a meeting for
the transaction of business, including the
markup of legislation, or a hearing is open to
the public, that meeting or hearing shall be
open to coverage by television, radio, and
still photography in accordance with clauses
2(a)(1) and 4 of House Rule XI. The provisions
of clause 4(f) of House Rule XI are specifi-
cally made part of these rules by reference.
To the maximum extent practicable, the
Committee shall provide audio and visual
coverage of each hearing or meeting for the
transaction of business in a manner that al-
lows the public to easily listen to and view
the proceedings, and maintain the recordings
of such coverage in a manner that is easily
accessible to the public. Operation and use of
any Committee internet broadcast system
shall be fair, and nonpartisan, and in accord-
ance with clause 4(b) of House Rule XI and
all other applicable rules of the Committee
and the House.
(d) Oversight Plan.—No later than March 1
of the first session of each Congress, the
Committee shall prepare and submit its
oversight plan for that Congress in accord-
ance with clause 2(d) of House Rule X.
RULE 3. MEETING AND HEARING PROCEDURES
IN GENERAL
(a) Notice and Information for Members
and the Public.
(1) The Chair shall publicly announce the
date, place and subject matter of a Com-
mittee hearing or meeting in accordance
with clause 2(g)(3) of House Rule XI.
(2) A hearing or meeting may begin sooner
if the Chair, with the concurrence of the
Ranking Minority Member, determines that
there is good cause to begin the meeting or
hearing sooner, or if the Committee so deter-
mines by majority vote. In these cases, the
Chair shall publicly announce the meeting or
hearing at the earliest possible time. The
Committee shall promptly notify the Daily
Digest Clerk of the Congressional Record and
shall promptly make publicly available in
electronic form the appropriate information
as soon as possible after the public an-
nouncement is made.
(3) To the extent practicable, a background
memorandum prepared by the Majority staff
summarizing the major provisions of any bill
being considered by the Committee, includ-
ing the need for the bill and its effect on cur-
rent law, will be available for the Members
of the Committee and the public no later
than 48 hours before the meeting.
(b) Public Availability of Markup Text.—
At least 24 hours prior to the markup of any
legislation (or at the time of an announce-
ment under paragraph (a)(2) above made
within 24 hours before such meeting), the
Chair shall cause the text of such legislation
to be made publicly available in electronic
form.
(c) Meetings and Hearings to Begin
Promptly.—Each meeting or hearing of the
Committee shall begin promptly at the time
stipulated in the public announcement of the
meeting or hearing.
(d) Addressing the Committee.—A Com-
mittee Member may address the Committee
or a Subcommittee on any bill, motion, or
other matter under consideration or may
question a witness at a hearing only when
recognized by the Chair for that purpose.
The time a Member may address the Com-
mittee or Subcommittee for any purpose or
to question a witness shall be limited to five
minutes, except as provided in Committee
Rule 4(f). Members shall limit remarks to
the subject matter under consideration.
(e) Quorums.
(1) A majority of the Members of the Com-
mittee shall constitute a quorum for the re-
porting of any measure or recommendation,
the authorizing of a subpoena, the closing of
any meeting or hearing to the public under
clause 2(g)(1), clause 2(g)(2)(A) and clause
2(k)(5)(B) of House Rule XI, and the releasing
of executive session materials under clause
2(k)(7) of House Rule X. Testimony and evi-
dence may be received at any hearing at
which there are at least two Members of the
Committee present. For the purpose of
transacting all other business of the Com-
mittee, one-third of the Members shall con-
stitute a quorum.
(2) When a call of the roll is required to as-
certain the presence of a quorum, the offices
of all Members shall be notified and the
Members shall have not less than 15 minutes
to prove their attendance. The Chair shall
have the discretion to waive this require-
ment when a quorum is actually present or
whenever a quorum is secured and may di-
rect the relevant Committee staff to note
the names of all Members present within the
15-minute period.
(f) Participation of Members in Committee
and Subcommittees.—Any Member of the
Committee may sit with any Subcommittee
during any meeting or hearing, and by unan-
imous consent of the Members of the Sub-
committee, may participate in such meeting
or hearing. However, a Member who is not a
Member of the Subcommittee may not vote
on any matter before the Subcommittee, be
counted for purposes of establishing a
quorum, or raise points of order.
(g) Proxies.—No vote in the Committee or
its Subcommittees may be cast by proxy.
(h) Record Votes.—Record votes shall be
ordered on the demand of one-fifth of the
Members present, or by any Member in the
apparent absence of a quorum.
(i) Postponed Record Votes.
(1) Subject to paragraph (2), the Chair may,
after consultation with the Ranking Minor-
ity Member, postpone further proceedings
when a record vote is ordered on the ques-
tion of approving any measure or matter or
adopting an amendment. The Chair shall re-
sume proceedings on a postponed request at
any time after reasonable notice, but no
later than the next meeting day.
(2) Notwithstanding any intervening order
for the previous question, when proceedings
resume on a postponed question under para-
graph (1), an underlying proposition shall re-
main subject to further debate or amend-
ment to the same extent as when the ques-
tion was postponed.
(3) This rule shall apply to Subcommittee
proceedings.
(j) Privileged Motions.—A motion to recess
from day to day, a motion to recess subject
to the call of the Chair (within 24 hours), and
a motion to dispense with the first reading
(in full) of a bill or resolution if printed cop-
ies are available, are nondebatable motions
of high privilege.
(k) Layover and Copy of Bill.—No measure
or recommendation reported by a Sub-
committee shall be considered by the Com-
mittee until two calendar days from the
time of Subcommittee action. No bill shall
be considered by the Committee unless a
copy has been delivered to the office of each
Member of the Committee requesting a copy.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:33 Feb 15, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\FEBRUARY\H13FE9.REC H13FE9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1573
February 13, 2019
These requirements may be waived by a ma-
jority vote of the Committee at the time of
consideration of the measure or rec-
ommendation.
(1) Access to Dais and Conference Room.—
Access to the hearing rooms’ daises (and to
the conference rooms adjacent to the Com-
mittee hearing rooms) shall be limited to
Members of Congress and employees of the
Committee during a meeting or hearing of
the Committee, except that Committee
Members’ personal staff may be present on
the daises if their employing Member is the
author of a bill or amendment under consid-
eration by the Committee, but only during
the time that the bill or amendment is under
active consideration by the Committee. Ac-
cess to the conference rooms adjacent to the
Committee hearing rooms shall be limited to
Members of Congress and employees of Con-
gress during a meeting or hearing of the
Committee.
(m) Cellular Telephones and other Elec-
tronic Devices.—During a meeting of the
Committee, ringing or audible sounds or con-
versational use of cellular telephones or
other electronic devices is prohibited on the
Committee dais or in the Committee hearing
rooms.
(n) Motion to go to Conference with the
Senate.—The Chair may offer a motion
under clause 1 of House Rule XXII whenever
the Chair considers it appropriate.
(o) Materials for Record.—Other than wit-
ness questions for the hearing record, mate-
rials must be submitted within 10 business
days following the last day of the hearing or
meeting. Witness questions for the hearing
record must be submitted to the relevant
Full Committee staff or Subcommittee Clerk
within 3 business days following the last day
of the hearing. The materials submitted
must address the subject matter of the hear-
ing or meeting. Only a Member of the Com-
mittee or an invited witness may submit ma-
terials for inclusion in the hearing or meet-
ing record.
RULE 4. HEARING PROCEDURES
(a) Written Statement; Oral Testimony.—
Witnesses who are to appear before the Com-
mittee or a Subcommittee shall file with the
relevant Full Committee staff or Sub-
committee Clerk, at least two business days
before the day of their appearance, a written
statement of their proposed testimony. Wit-
nesses shall limit their oral presentation to
a five-minute summary of the written state-
ment, unless the Chair, in consultation with
the Ranking Minority Member, extends this
time period. Subject to the approval of the
Committee, the Chair may waive oral testi-
mony of any witness who has submitted
written testimony for the record.
In addition, a witness appearing in a non-
governmental capacity shall include a cur-
riculum vitae and a disclosure of any Federal
grants or contracts, or contracts or pay-
ments originating with a foreign govern-
ment, received during the current calendar
year or either of the previous two calendar
years by the witness or by the entity rep-
resented by the witness and related to the
subject matter of the hearing. The disclosure
shall include the amount and source of each
Federal grant (or subgrant thereof) or con-
tract (or subcontract thereof) related to the
subject matter of the hearing and the
amount and country of origin of any pay-
ment or contract related to the subject mat-
ter of the hearing originating with a foreign
government. Failure to comply with these
disclosure requirements may result in the
exclusion of the written testimony from the
hearing record and/or the barring of an oral
presentation of the testimony.
(b) Minority Witnesses.—When any hearing
is conducted by the Committee or any Sub-
committee upon any measure or matter, the
Minority party Members on the Committee
or Subcommittee shall be entitled, upon re-
quest to the Chair by a majority of those Mi-
nority Members before the completion of the
hearing, to call witnesses selected by the Mi-
nority to testify with respect to that meas-
ure or matter during at least one day of
hearings thereon.
(c) Information for Members.—After an-
nouncement of a hearing, the Committee
shall make available as soon as practicable
to all Members of the Committee a tentative
witness list and to the extent practicable the
Majority staff shall make publicly available
a memorandum explaining the subject mat-
ter of the hearing (including relevant legisla-
tive reports and other necessary material).
In addition, the Chair shall make available
to the Members of the Committee any offi-
cial reports from departments and agencies
on the subject matter as they are received.
(d) Subpoenas.—The Committee or a Sub-
committee may authorize and issue a sub-
poena under clause 2(m) of House Rule XI if
authorized by a majority of the Members
voting. In addition, the Chair of the Com-
mittee may authorize and issue subpoenas
during any period of time in which the House
of Representatives has adjourned for more
than three days and, as soon as practicable,
the Chair shall notify all Members of the
Committee of such action. Subpoenas shall
be signed only by the Chair of the Com-
mittee, or any Member of the Committee au-
thorized by the Committee, and may be
served by any person designated by the Chair
or Member.
(e) Oaths.—The Chair of the Committee,
the Chairs of the Subcommittees or any
Member designated by the Chair may admin-
ister oaths to any witness before the Com-
mittee. All witnesses appearing in hearings
may be administered the following oath by
the Chair or his designee prior to receiving
the testimony: ‘‘Do you solemnly swear or
affirm, under penalty of law, that the testi-
mony that you are about to give is the truth,
the whole truth, and nothing but the truth,
so help you God?’’
(f) Opening Statements; Questioning of
Witnesses.
(1) Opening statements may be made by
the Chair and the Ranking Member or their
designee. If a witness scheduled to testify at
any hearing of the Committee is a con-
stituent of a Member of the Committee, that
Member may be recognized for up to 30 sec-
onds to briefly introduce the witness at the
hearing.
(2) The questioning of witnesses in Com-
mittee and Subcommittee hearings may be
initiated by the Chair, followed by the Rank-
ing Minority Member and all other Members
alternating between the Majority and Minor-
ity parties. In recognizing Members to ques-
tion witnesses, the Chair shall take into con-
sideration the ratio of the Majority to Mi-
nority Members present and shall establish
the order of recognition for questioning in a
manner so as not to disadvantage the Mem-
bers of the Majority or the Members of the
Minority. A motion is in order to allow des-
ignated Majority and Minority party Mem-
bers to question a witness for a specified pe-
riod to be equally divided between the Ma-
jority and Minority parties. This period shall
not exceed one hour in the aggregate.
(g) Claims of Privilege.—Claims of com-
mon-law privileges made by witnesses in
hearings, or by interviewees or deponents in
investigations or inquiries, are applicable
only at the discretion of the Chair, subject
to appeal to the Committee.
RULE 5. FILING OF COMMITTEE REPORTS
(a) Duty of Chair.—Whenever the Com-
mittee authorizes the favorable reporting of
a measure from the Committee, the Chair or
the Chair’s designee shall report the same to
the House of Representatives and shall take
all steps necessary to secure its passage
without any additional authority needing to
be set forth in the motion to report each in-
dividual measure. In appropriate cases, the
authority set forth in this rule shall extend
to moving in accordance with the Rules of
the House of Representatives that the House
be resolved into the Committee of the Whole
House on the State of the Union for the con-
sideration of the measure; and to moving in
accordance with the Rules of the House of
Representatives for the disposition of a Sen-
ate measure that is substantially the same
as the House measure as reported.
(b) Filing.—A report on a measure which
has been approved by the Committee shall be
filed within seven calendar days (exclusive of
days on which the House of Representatives
is not in session) after the day on which
there has been filed with the relevant Full
Committee staff a written request, signed by
a majority of the Members of the Com-
mittee, for the reporting of that measure.
Upon the filing with the relevant Full Com-
mittee staff of this request, the staff shall
transmit immediately to the Chair notice of
the filing of that request.
(c) Supplemental, Additional, Dissenting
or Minority Views.—Any Member may, if no-
tice is given by any Member at the time a
measure or matter is approved by the Com-
mittee, file supplemental, additional, dis-
senting or minority views. These views must
be in writing and signed by each Member
joining therein and be filed with the Com-
mittee Chief Counsel not less than two addi-
tional calendar days (excluding Saturdays,
Sundays and legal holidays except when the
House is in session on those days) of the time
the bill or resolution is approved by the
Committee. This paragraph shall not pre-
clude the filing of any supplemental report
on any measure or matter that may be re-
quired for the correction of any technical
error in a previous report made by the Com-
mittee on that bill or resolution.
(d) Review by Members.—Each Member of
the Committee shall be given an opportunity
to review each proposed Committee report
before it is filed with the Clerk of the House
of Representatives. Nothing in this para-
graph extends the time allowed for filing
supplemental, additional, dissenting or mi-
nority views under paragraph (c).
(e) Disclaimer.—All Committee or Sub-
committee reports printed and not approved
by a majority vote of the Committee or Sub-
committee, as appropriate, shall contain the
following disclaimer on the cover of the re-
port: ‘‘This report has not been officially
adopted by the {Committee on Natural Re-
sources} {Subcommittee} and may not there-
fore necessarily reflect the views of its Mem-
bers.’’
RULE 6. ESTABLISHMENT OF SUBCOMMITTEES;
FULL COMMITTEE JURISDICTION; BILL RE-
FERRALS
(a) Subcommittees.—There shall be five
standing Subcommittees of the Committee,
with the following jurisdiction and respon-
sibilities:
SUBCOMMITTEE ON NATIONAL PARKS, FORESTS,
AND PUBLIC LANDS
(1) Measures and matters related to the
National Park System and its units, includ-
ing Federal reserved water rights.
(2) The National Wilderness Preservation
System.
(3) Wild and Scenic Rivers System, Na-
tional Trails System, national heritage areas
and other national units established for pro-
tection, conservation, preservation or rec-
reational development, other than coastal
barriers.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:06 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE7.049 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1574 February 13, 2019
(4) Military parks and battlefields, na-
tional cemeteries administered by the Sec-
retary of the Interior, parks in and within
the vicinity of the District of Columbia and
the erection of monuments to the memory of
individuals.
(5) Federal and non-Federal outdoor recre-
ation plans, programs and administration in-
cluding the Land and Water Conservation
Fund Act of 1965 and the Outdoor Recreation
Act of 1963.
(6) Preservation of prehistoric ruins and
objects of interest on the public domain and
other historic preservation programs and ac-
tivities, including national monuments, his-
toric sites and programs for international
cooperation in the field of historic preserva-
tion.
(7) Matters concerning the following agen-
cies and programs: Urban Parks and Recre-
ation Recovery Program, Historic American
Buildings Survey, Historic American Engi-
neering Record, and U.S. Holocaust Memo-
rial.
(8) Public lands generally, including meas-
ures or matters relating to entry, easements,
withdrawals, grazing and Federal reserved
water rights.
(9) Forfeiture of land grants and alien own-
ership, including alien ownership of mineral
lands.
(10) Cooperative efforts to encourage, en-
hance and improve international programs
for the protection of the environment and
the conservation of natural resources other-
wise within the jurisdiction of the Sub-
committee.
(11) Forest reservations, including manage-
ment thereof, created from the public do-
main.
(12) Public forest lands generally, includ-
ing measures or matters related to entry,
easements, withdrawals, grazing and Federal
reserved water rights.
(13) General and continuing oversight and
investigative authority over activities, poli-
cies and programs within the jurisdiction of
the Subcommittee.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON WATER, OCEANS, AND
WILDLIFE
(1) All measures and matters concerning
water resources planning conducted pursu-
ant to the Water Resources Planning Act,
water resource research and development
programs and saline water research and de-
velopment.
(2) Compacts relating to the use and appor-
tionment of interstate waters, water rights
and major interbasin water or power move-
ment programs.
(3) All measures and matters pertaining to
irrigation and reclamation projects and
other water resources development and recy-
cling programs, including policies and proce-
dures.
(4) Indian water rights and settlements.
(5) Activities and programs of the Water
Resources Division or its successor within
the U.S. Geological Survey.
(6) The Endangered Species Act.
(7) Fisheries management and fisheries re-
search generally, including the management
of all commercial and recreational fisheries
(including the reauthorization of the Magnu-
son Stevens Fishery Conservation and Man-
agement Act), interjurisdictional fisheries,
international fisheries agreements, aqua-
culture, seafood safety, and fisheries pro-
motion.
(8) All matters pertaining to the protection
of coastal and marine environments, estua-
rine protection, and coastal barriers.
(9) Oceanography.
(10) Ocean engineering, including mate-
rials, technology and systems.
(11) Marine sanctuaries.
(12) U.N. Convention on the Law of the Sea.
(13) All matters regarding Antarctica with-
in the Committee’s jurisdiction.
(14) Sea Grant programs and marine exten-
sion services.
(15) Cooperative efforts to encourage, en-
hance and improve international programs
for the protection of the environment and
the conservation of natural resources other-
wise within the jurisdiction of the Sub-
committee.
(16) Coastal zone management.
(17) Wildlife resources, including research,
restoration, and conservation.
(18) Measures and matters related to the
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, including eco-
logical services, fish and aquatic conserva-
tion, international affairs, migratory birds,
national wildlife refuge system, wildlife and
sport fish restoration, and the Lacey Act.
(19) General and continuing oversight and
investigative authority over activities, poli-
cies and programs within the jurisdiction of
the Subcommittee.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND MINERAL
RESOURCES
(1) Planning for and development of energy
from solar and wind resources on land be-
longing to the United States, including the
outer Continental Shelf.
(2) All matters and measures affecting geo-
thermal resources.
(3) Marine hydrokinetic energy develop-
ment on the outer Continental Shelf.
(4) All matters related to the leasing, de-
velopment, and conservation of fossil fuel re-
sources belonging to the United States, in-
cluding on the outer Continental Shelf and
land where the surface is owned by entities
other than the United States, including de-
commissioning of relevant facilities and rec-
lamation of affected areas.
(5) Mitigation of energy and mining related
impacts on Federal lands and resources.
(6) Terrestrial and geological sequestration
of carbon dioxide, except for matters involv-
ing implementation of land or forestry man-
agement strategies.
(7) All measures and matters concerning
the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation
and Enforcement.
(8) All measures and matters concerning
the U.S. Geological Survey, except for the
activities and programs of the Water Re-
sources Division or its successor.
(9) Collection and management of energy
and mineral revenues.
(10) Mining interests generally, including
all matters involving mining regulation and
enforcement, including the reclamation of
mined lands, the environmental effects of
mining, mineral land laws and claims, long-
range mineral programs, and seabed mining.
(11) Conservation of United States uranium
supply.
(12) Geospatial data collection and man-
agement, except for nautical charts (or data
collected by the National Oceanic and At-
mospheric Administration).
(13) Helium supply and management of the
Federal helium program.
(14) Rights-of-way over public lands for
pipeline transportation of oil, natural gas,
carbon dioxide, and helium.
(15) Measures and matters concerning the
transportation of natural gas from or within
Alaska and disposition of oil transported by
the trans-Alaska oil pipeline.
(16) Cooperative efforts to encourage, en-
hance and improve international programs
for the protection of the environment and
the conservation of natural resources other-
wise within the jurisdiction of the Sub-
committee.
(17) Generation and marketing of electric
power from Federal water projects by Feder-
ally chartered or Federal regional power
marketing authorities.
(18) Rights-of-way over public lands for en-
ergy-related transmission.
(19) General and continuing oversight and
investigative authority over activities, poli-
cies and programs within the jurisdiction of
the Subcommittee.
SUBCOMMITTEE FOR INDIGENOUS PEOPLES OF
THE UNITED STATES
(1) All matters related to the Federal trust
responsibility to Native Americans and the
sovereignty of Native Americans.
(2) Measures relating to the welfare of Na-
tive Americans, including management of
Indian lands in general and special measures
relating to claims which are paid out of In-
dian funds.
(3) All matters regarding Native Alaskans.
(4) All matters regarding the relations of
the United States with Native Americans
and Native American tribes, including spe-
cial oversight functions under House Rule X.
(5) All matters regarding Native Hawai-
ians.
(6) General and continuing oversight and
investigative authority over activities, poli-
cies and programs within the jurisdiction of
the Subcommittee.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON OVERSIGHT AND
INVESTIGATIONS
(1) Primary and general oversight and in-
vestigative authority on all activities, poli-
cies and programs within the jurisdiction of
the Committee under House Rule X.
(b) Full Committee.—The following meas-
ures and matters shall be retained at the
Full Committee:
(1) Environmental and habitat measures of
general applicability, including the National
Environmental Policy Act.
(2) All matters regarding insular areas of
the United States.
(3) All measures or matters regarding the
Freely Associated States.
(4) Cooperative efforts to encourage, en-
hance and improve international programs
for the protection of the environment and
the conservation of natural resources other-
wise within the jurisdiction of the Full Com-
mittee.
(5) All other measures and matters re-
tained by the Full Committee, including
those retained under Committee Rule 6(e).
(6) General and continuing oversight and
investigative authority over activities, poli-
cies and programs within the jurisdiction of
the Full Committee.
(c) Ex-officio Members.—The Chair and
Ranking Minority Member of the Committee
may serve as ex-officio Members of each
standing Subcommittee to which the Chair
or the Ranking Minority Member have not
been assigned. Ex-officio Members shall have
the right to fully participate in Sub-
committee activities but may not vote and
may not be counted in establishing a
quorum.
(d) Powers and Duties of Subcommittees.—
Each Subcommittee is authorized to meet,
hold hearings, receive evidence and report to
the Committee on all matters within its ju-
risdiction. Each Subcommittee shall review
and study on a continuing basis the applica-
tion, administration, execution and effec-
tiveness of those statutes, or parts of stat-
utes, the subject matter of which is within
that Subcommittee’s jurisdiction; and the
organization, operation, and regulations of
any Federal agency or entity having respon-
sibilities in or for the administration of such
statutes, to determine whether these stat-
utes are being implemented and carried out
in accordance with the intent of Congress.
Each Subcommittee shall review and study
any conditions or circumstances indicating
the need for enacting new or supplemental
legislation within the jurisdiction of the
Subcommittee. Each Subcommittee shall
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:06 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE7.050 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1575
February 13, 2019
have general and continuing oversight and
investigative authority over activities, poli-
cies and programs within the jurisdiction of
the Subcommittee.
(e) Referral to Subcommittees; Recall.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph
(2) and for those measures or matters re-
tained at the Full Committee, every legisla-
tive measure or other matter referred to the
Committee shall be referred to the maximum
extent possible to the Subcommittee of ju-
risdiction within two weeks of the date of its
referral to the Committee. If any measure or
matter is within or affects the jurisdiction of
one or more Subcommittees, the Chair may
refer that measure or matter simultaneously
to two or more Subcommittees for concur-
rent consideration or for consideration in se-
quence subject to appropriate time limits, or
divide the matter into two or more parts and
refer each part to a Subcommittee.
(2) The Chair, with the approval of a ma-
jority of the Majority Members of the Com-
mittee, may refer a legislative measure or
other matter to a select or special Sub-
committee. A legislative measure or other
matter referred by the Chair to a Sub-
committee may be recalled from the Sub-
committee for direct consideration by the
Full Committee, or for referral to another
Subcommittee, provided Members of the
Committee receive one week written notice
of the recall and a majority of the Members
of the Committee do not object. In addition,
a legislative measure or other matter re-
ferred by the Chair to a Subcommittee may
be recalled from the Subcommittee at any
time by majority vote of the Committee for
direct consideration by the Full Committee
or for referral to another Subcommittee.
(f) Consultation.—Each Subcommittee
Chair shall consult with the Chair of the
Full Committee prior to setting dates for
Subcommittee meetings and hearings with a
view towards avoiding whenever possible
conflicting Committee and Subcommittee
meetings and hearings.
(g) Vacancy.—A vacancy in the member-
ship of a Subcommittee shall not affect the
power of the remaining Members to execute
the functions of the Subcommittee.
RULE 7. TASK FORCES, SPECIAL OR SELECT
SUBCOMMITTEES
(a) Appointment.—The Chair of the Com-
mittee is authorized, after consultation with
the Ranking Minority Member, to appoint
Task Forces, or special or select Subcommit-
tees, to carry out the duties and functions of
the Committee.
(b) Ex-officio Members.—The Chair and
Ranking Minority Member of the Committee
may serve as ex-officio Members of each
Task Force, or special or select Sub-
committee if they are not otherwise Mem-
bers. Ex-officio Members shall have the right
to fully participate in activities but may not
vote and may not be counted in establishing
a quorum.
(c) Party Ratios.—The ratio of Majority
Members to Minority Members, excluding
ex-officio Members, on each Task Force, spe-
cial or select Subcommittee shall be as close
as practicable to the ratio on the Full Com-
mittee.
(d) Temporary Resignation.— Members can
temporarily resign their position on a Sub-
committee to serve on a Task Force, special
or select Subcommittee without prejudice to
the Member’s seniority on the Sub-
committee.
(e) Chair and Ranking Minority Member.—
The Chair of any Task Force, or special or
select Subcommittee shall be appointed by
the Chair of the Committee. The Ranking
Minority Member shall select a Ranking Mi-
nority Member for each Task Force, or
standing, special or select Subcommittee.
RULE 8. RECOMMENDATION OF CONFEREES
Whenever it becomes necessary to appoint
conferees on a particular measure, the Chair
shall recommend to the Speaker as conferees
those Majority Members primarily respon-
sible for the measure. Similarly, the Rank-
ing Member shall recommend to the Minor-
ity Leader as conferees those Minority Mem-
bers primarily responsible for the measure.
The ratio of Majority Members to Minority
Members recommended for conferences shall
be no greater than the ratio on the Com-
mittee.
RULE 9. COMMITTEE RECORDS
(a) Segregation of Records.—All Com-
mittee records shall be kept separate and
distinct from the office records of individual
Committee Members serving as Chairs or
Ranking Minority Members. These records
shall be the property of the House and all
Members shall have access to them in ac-
cordance with clause 2(e)(2) of House Rule
XI.
(b) Availability.—The Committee shall
make available to the public for review at
reasonable times in the Committee office
transcripts of public meetings and hearings,
except those that are unrevised or unedited
and intended solely for the use of the Com-
mittee.
(c) Archived Records.—Records of the Com-
mittee which are deposited with the Na-
tional Archives shall be made available for
public use pursuant to House Rule VII. The
Chair shall notify the Ranking Minority
Member of any decision, pursuant to clause
3(b)(3) or clause 4(b) of House Rule VII, to
withhold, or to provide a time, schedule or
condition for availability of any record oth-
erwise available. At the written request of
any Member of the Committee, the matter
shall be presented to the Committee for a de-
termination and shall be subject to the same
notice and quorum requirements for the con-
duct of business under Committee Rule 3.
(d) Records of Closed Meetings.—Notwith-
standing the other provisions of this rule, no
records of Committee meetings or hearings
which were closed to the public pursuant to
the Rules of the House of Representatives
shall be released to the public unless the
Committee votes to release those records in
accordance with the procedure used to close
the Committee meeting.
(e) Classified Materials.—All classified ma-
terials shall be maintained in an appro-
priately secured location and shall be re-
leased only to authorized persons for review,
who shall not remove the material from the
Committee offices without the written per-
mission of the Chair.
(f) Committee Information Available for
the Public.—In addition to any other re-
quirement of these rules or the Rules of the
House of Representatives, the Chair shall
cause to be made available publicly in elec-
tronic form the following:
(1) a record of the votes on any question on
which a recorded vote is taken which shall
be posted no later than 24 hours after the
vote is taken that shall include:
(i) a copy of the amendment or a detailed
description of the motion, order or other
proposition; and
(ii) the name of each Member voting for
and each Member voting against such
amendment, motion, order, or proposition,
the names of those Members voting present,
and the names of any Member not present.
(2) copies of all amendments adopted in
Committee by voice vote or unanimous con-
sent within 24 hours of the adoption of the
amendment.
(3) the rules of the Committee, once adopt-
ed, and any amendments thereto, in accord-
ance with clause 2(a)(2) of House Rule XI.
(4) the statements required under the sec-
ond sentence of clause 2(g)(5) of House Rule
XI, with appropriate redactions to protect
the privacy of the witness, which shall be
posted no later than one day after the wit-
ness appears before the Committee.
RULE 10. COMMITTEE BUDGET AND EXPENSES
(a) Budget At the beginning of each Con-
gress, after consultation with the Chair of
each Subcommittee and the Ranking Minor-
ity Member, the Chair shall present to the
Committee for its approval a budget cov-
ering the funding required for staff, travel,
and miscellaneous expenses.
(b) Expense Resolution.—Upon approval by
the Committee of each budget, the Chair,
acting pursuant to clause 6 of House Rule X,
shall prepare and introduce in the House a
supporting expense resolution, and take all
action necessary to bring about its approval
by the Committee on House Administration
and by the House of Representatives.
(c) Amendments.—The Chair shall report
to the Committee any amendments to each
expense resolution and any related changes
in the budget.
(d) Additional Expenses.—Authorization
for the payment of additional or unforeseen
Committee expenses may be procured by one
or more additional expense resolutions proc-
essed in the same manner as set out under
this rule.
(e) Monthly Reports.—Copies of each
monthly report prepared by the Chair for the
Committee on House Administration which
shows expenditures made during the report-
ing period and cumulative for the year, an-
ticipated expenditures for the projected
Committee program, and detailed informa-
tion on travel, shall be available to each
Member.
RULE 11. COMMITTEE STAFF
(a) Rules and Policies.—Committee staff
are subject to the provisions of clause 9 of
House Rule X, as well as any written per-
sonnel policies the Committee may from
time to time adopt.
(b) Majority and Nonpartisan Staff.—The
Chair shall appoint, determine the remu-
neration of, and may remove, the legislative
and administrative employees of the Com-
mittee not assigned to the Minority. The leg-
islative and administrative staff of the Com-
mittee not assigned to the Minority shall be
under the general supervision and direction
of the Chair, who shall establish and assign
the duties and responsibilities of Committee
staff and delegate any authority the Chair
determines appropriate.
(c) Minority Staff.—The Ranking Minority
Member of the Committee shall appoint, de-
termine the remuneration of, and may re-
move, the legislative and administrative
staff assigned to the Minority within the
budget approved for those purposes. The leg-
islative and administrative staff assigned to
the Minority shall be under the general su-
pervision and direction of the Ranking Mi-
nority Member of the Committee who may
delegate any authority the Ranking Member
determines appropriate.
(d) Availability.—The skills and services of
all Committee staff shall be available to all
Members of the Committee.
RULE 12. COMMITTEE TRAVEL
In addition to any written travel policies
the Committee may from time to time
adopt, all travel of Members and staff of the
Committee or its Subcommittees to hear-
ings, meetings, conferences and investiga-
tions, including all foreign travel, must be
authorized by the Full Committee Chair
prior to any public notice of the travel and
prior to the actual travel. In the case of Mi-
nority staff, all travel shall first be approved
by the Ranking Minority Member. Funds au-
thorized for the Committee under clauses 6
and 7 of House Rule X are for expenses in-
curred in the Committee’s activities within
the United States.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:06 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE7.051 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1576 February 13, 2019
RULE 13. CHANGES TO COMMITTEE RULES
The rules of the Committee may be modi-
fied, amended, or repealed by a majority
vote of the Committee provided that written
notice of the proposed change has been pro-
vided to each Member of the Committee
prior to the meeting date on which the
changes are to be discussed and voted on
consistent with Committee Rule 3(a). A
change to the rules of the Committee shall
be published in the Congressional Record no
later than 30 days after its approval and
made publicly available in electronic form.
RULE 14. OTHER PROCEDURES
The Chair may establish procedures and
take actions as may be necessary to carry
out the rules of the Committee or to facili-
tate the effective administration of the Com-
mittee, in accordance with the rules of the
Committee and the Rules of the House of
Representatives.
f
PUBLICATION OF COMMITTEE
RULES
RULES OF THE COMMITTEE ON VETERANS’
AFFAIRS FOR THE 116TH CONGRESS
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON VETERANS’ AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, February 13, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to Rule
XI, Clause 2(a) of the Rules of the House of
Representatives, I respectfully submit the
rules of the 116th Congress for the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs for publication
in the Congressional Record. The Committee
adopted these rules by voice vote, with a
quorum being present, at our organizational
meeting on Wednesday, February 13, 2019.
Sincerely,
MARK TAKANO,
Chairman.
RULE 1.—GENERAL PROVISIONS
(a) Applicability of the Rules of the U.S.
House of Representatives.—
In General.—The rules of the U.S. House of
Representatives (the House) are the rules of
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs (Com-
mittee) and its subcommittees so far as ap-
plicable.
(b) Subcommittees.—Each subcommittee
of the Committee is a part of the Committee
and is INN subject to the authority and di-
rection of the Committee and to its rules so
far as applicable. Except where the terms
‘‘full Committee’’ and ‘‘Subcommittee’’ are
specifically mentioned, the following rules
shall apply to the Committee’s subcommit-
tees and their respective chairs and ranking
minority members to the same extent as
they apply to the full Committee and its
Chair and Ranking Minority Member.
(c) Incorporation of House Rule on Com-
mittee Procedure.—Clause 2 of House rule
XI, which pertains entirely to Committee
procedure, is incorporated and made part of
the rules of the Committee so far as applica-
ble.
(d) Privileged Motions.—In the Committee,
a motion to recess from day to day, a motion
to recess subject to the call of the Chair
(within 24 hours), and a motion to dispense
with the first reading (in full) of a bill or res-
olution if printed copies are available, shall
be privileged and decided without debate.
(e) Conferences.—Pursuant to clause 2(a)(3)
of House rule XI, the Chair is authorized to
offer a motion under clause 1 of House rule
XXII whenever the Chair considers it appro-
priate.
(f) Vice Chair.—Pursuant to clause 2(d) of
House rule XI, the Chair of the Committee
shall designate the Vice Chair of the Com-
mittee.
(g) Taking of Depositions.—Pursuant to
section 103(a) of House Resolution 6 of the
116th Congress, the Chair upon consultation
with the Ranking Minority Member may
order the taking of depositions, including
pursuant to subpoena, by a member or coun-
sel of the Committee. Depositions taken by a
member or counsel of the Committee shall
be subject to regulations issued by the Com-
mittee on Rules and printed in the Congres-
sional Record.
(h) Subpoenas.—Pursuant to clause 2(m) of
House rule XI, subpoenas may be authorized
and issued by the Committee in the conduct
of any investigation or series of investiga-
tions or activities, only when authorized by
a majority of the members voting, a major-
ity being present.
(i) Open Meetings and Hearings.—Meetings
and hearings of the Committee shall be open
to the public unless closed in accordance
with clause 2(g) of House rule XI.
(j) Motions, Reduced to Writing.—Every
motion made to the Committee and enter-
tained by the Chair shall be reduced to writ-
ing upon demand of any member, and a copy
made available to each member present.
(k) Wireless Telephone Use Prohibited.—
No person may use a wireless telephone dur-
ing a Committee meeting or hearing.
RULE 2.—COMMITTEE MEETINGS
(a) Notice Requirements for Meetings.—
The Chair shall furnish each member of the
Committee with the date, place, and a list of
measures and subjects to be considered at a
Committee meeting, which may not com-
mence earlier than the third calendar day on
which members have notice thereof (exclud-
ing Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays
except when the House is in session on such
a day).
(b) At least 48 hours prior to the com-
mencement of a meeting for the markup of
legislation, including any amendment in the
nature of a substitute to such bills or resolu-
tions that shall first be recognized by the
Chair, the text of such legislation shall be
made publicly available in electronic form.
(c) In an emergency that does not reason-
ably allow for the notice as required in para-
graph (a), the Chair may waive the notice re-
quirement with the concurrence of the Rank-
ing Minority Member; or if the Committee so
determines by majority vote of the quorum
required under Committee Rule 4(a). An an-
nouncement made under this subparagraph
shall be published promptly in the Daily Di-
gest and made publicly available in elec-
tronic form.
(d) To the maximum extent practicable,
amendments to a measure or matter noticed
under paragraph (b) shall be submitted in
writing or electronically to the designee of
both the Chair and Ranking Member and
made available electronically to each mem-
ber of the Committee at least 24 hours prior
to the consideration of the measure or mat-
ter. The Chair may use his or her discretion
to give priority to amendments submitted in
advance.
(e) Transcripts of markups shall be re-
corded and may be published in the same
manner as hearings before the Committee.
(f) Additional Meetings.—The Chair of the
Committee may call and convene, as the
Chair considers necessary, additional meet-
ings of the Committee for the consideration
of any bill or resolution pending before the
Committee or for the conduct of other Com-
mittee business. The Committee shall meet
for such purpose pursuant to the call of the
Chair.
(g) Congressional Budget Office Scoring.—
The Committee shall not include any bill or
resolution for consideration during a Com-
mittee markup which is not accompanied by
an accounting from the Congressional Budg-
et Office of the mandatory and discretionary
costs or savings associated with such bill or
resolution.
The accounting from the Congressional
Budget Office need not be official, but is ex-
pected to provide Committee members with
an approximation of the budgetary impact a
bill or resolution may have prior to any vote
to favorably forward or report such bill or
resolution. The requirements of this para-
graph may be waived by a majority of Com-
mittee members, a quorum being present.
RULE 3.—HEARINGS
(a) Announcement of Hearing.—(1) The
Chair, in the case of a hearing to be con-
ducted by the Committee, shall publicly an-
nounce the date, place, and subject matter of
any hearing to be conducted on any measure
or matter at least one week before the com-
mencement of that hearing, unless in accord-
ance with clause 2(g)(3)(B) of House rule XI—
(A) the Chair with the concurrence of the
Ranking Minority Member determines that
there is good cause to begin the hearing at
an earlier date, or
(B) the Committee determines by majority
vote of the quorum required under Com-
mittee rule 4(a) that a hearing may begin
earlier than one week after announcement of
the hearing as required under this sub-
section. An announcement made under this
subparagraph shall be published promptly in
the Daily Digest and made publicly available
in electronic form.
(b) Requirements for Testimony.—
(1) Pursuant to clause 2(g)(5) of House rule
XI, each witness who is to appear before the
Committee shall file with the clerk of the
Committee, at least 48 hours (exclusive of
weekends and holidays) in advance of his or
her appearance, or at such other time as des-
ignated by the Chair after consultation with
the Ranking Minority Member, a written
statement of his or her proposed testimony.
Each witness shall, to the greatest extent
practicable, provide a copy of such written
testimony in an electronic format prescribed
by the Chair. Each witness shall limit initial
presentations to a brief summary of the
written statement.
(2)(A) In the case of a witness appearing in
a non-governmental capacity, a written
statement of proposed testimony shall in-
clude a curriculum vitae and a disclosure of
any Federal grants or contracts, or contracts
or payments originating with a foreign gov-
ernment, received during the current cal-
endar year or either of the two previous cal-
endar years by the witness and related to the
subject matter of the hearing.
(B) The disclosure required by this rule
shall include the amount and source of each
Federal grant (or subgrant thereof) or con-
tract (or subcontract thereof) related to the
subject matter of the hearing and the
amount and country of origin of any pay-
ment or contract related to the subject mat-
ter of the hearing originating with a foreign
government.
(c) Calling and Questioning Witnesses.—
(1) Committee members may question wit-
nesses only when they have been recognized
by the Chair of the Committee for that pur-
pose, and only for a 5-minute period until all
members present have had an opportunity to
question a witness. The questioning of wit-
nesses in Committee hearings shall be initi-
ated by the Chair, followed by the Ranking
Minority Member and all other members al-
ternating between the majority and minor-
ity. Except as otherwise announced by the
Chair at the beginning of a hearing, members
who are present at the start of the hearing
will be recognized before other members who
arrive after the hearing has begun. In recog-
nizing members to question witnesses in this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:06 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE7.052 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1577
February 13, 2019
fashion, the Chair shall take into consider-
ation the ratio of the majority to minority
members present and shall establish the
order of recognition for questioning in such
a manner as not to disadvantage the mem-
bers of the majority.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of para-
graph (1) regarding the 5-minute rule, and
pursuant to clause 2(j) of House rule XI, the
Chair after consultation with the Ranking
Minority Member, may permit a specified
number of Committee members to question a
witness for longer than 5 minutes. The time
for extended questioning of a witness under
this paragraph shall be equal for the major-
ity party and the minority party and may
not exceed one hour in the aggregate. In no
event shall the Chair allow a member to
question a witness for an extended period
under this rule until all members present
have had the opportunity to ask questions
under the 5-minute rule. The Chair after con-
sultation with the Ranking Minority Mem-
ber may permit Committee staff for its ma-
jority and minority party members to ques-
tion a witness for equal specified periods.
The time for extended questioning of wit-
nesses by staff shall be equal for the major-
ity party and the minority party and may
not exceed one hour in the aggregate.
(3) Pursuant to clause 2(k) of House rule
XI, the Chair at a hearing shall announce in
an opening statement the subject of the
hearing, and a copy of the committee rules
and of clause 2 of House rule XI shall be
made available to each witness on request.
(A) Witnesses at hearings may be accom-
panied by their own counsel for the purpose
of advising them concerning their constitu-
tional rights. The Chair may punish breaches
of order and decorum, and of professional
ethics on the part of counsel, by censure and
exclusion from the hearings; and the Com-
mittee may cite the offender to the House
for contempt.
(B) Whenever it is asserted by a member of
the Committee that the evidence or testi-
mony at a hearing may tend to defame, de-
grade, or incriminate any person, or it is as-
serted by a witness that the evidence or tes-
timony that the witness would give at a
hearing may tend to defame, degrade, or in-
criminate the witness
(i) notwithstanding clause 2(g)(2) of House
rule XI, such testimony or evidence shall be
presented in executive session if, in the pres-
ence of the number of members required
under Committee rule 4(a), the Committee
determines by vote of a majority of those
present that such evidence or testimony may
tend to defame, degrade, or incriminate any
person; and
(ii) the Committee shall proceed to receive
such testimony in open session only if the
Committee, a majority being present, deter-
mines that such evidence or testimony will
not tend to defame, degrade, or incriminate
any person.
In either case the Committee shall afford
such person an opportunity voluntarily to
appear as a witness, and receive and dispose
of requests from such person to subpoena ad-
ditional witnesses.
(C) Except as provided in subparagraph (B),
the Chair shall receive and the Committee
shall dispose of requests to subpoena addi-
tional witnesses.
(D) Evidence or testimony taken in execu-
tive session, and proceedings conducted in
executive session, may be released or used in
public sessions only when authorized by the
Committee, a majority being present.
(E) In the discretion of the Committee,
witnesses may submit brief and pertinent
sworn statements in writing for inclusion in
the record. The Committee is the sole judge
of the pertinence of testimony and evidence
adduced at its hearing.
(F) A witness may obtain a transcript copy
of the testimony of such witness given at a
public session or, if given at an executive
session, when authorized by the Committee.
(4) Non-Committee members may be in-
vited to sit at the dais for and participate in
Committee hearings with the unanimous
consent of the members present. Further,
non-Committee members may be recognized
for questioning of witnesses but only after
all Committee members have first been rec-
ognized.
(5) Pursuant to House rule XI clause 2(j)(1),
when a hearing is conducted by the Com-
mittee on any measure or matter, the minor-
ity members of the Committee shall be enti-
tled, upon request to the Chair of a majority
of those minority members before the com-
pletion of the hearing, to call witnesses se-
lected by the minority to testify with re-
spect to that measure or matter during at
least one day of the hearing thereon.
RULE 4.—QUORUM AND RECORD VOTES;
POSTPONEMENT OF PROCEEDINGS
(a) Working Quorum.—A majority of the
members of the Committee shall constitute
a quorum for business, except that two mem-
bers shall constitute a quorum for the pur-
pose of taking testimony and receiving evi-
dence.
(b) Quorum for Reporting.—No measure or
recommendation shall be reported to the
House or to the full Committee in a meeting
of a subcommittee unless a majority of the
members of the Committee are present.
(c) Record Votes.—A record vote may be
demanded by one-fifth of the members
present or, in the apparent absence of a
quorum, by any one member. With respect to
any record vote on any motion to amend or
report, the total number of votes cast for
and against, and the names of those mem-
bers voting for and against, shall be included
in the report of the Committee on the bill or
resolution.
(d) Prohibition Against Proxy Voting.—No
vote by any member of the Committee with
respect to any measure or matter may be
cast by proxy.
(e) Postponing Proceedings.—The Com-
mittee Chair may postpone further pro-
ceedings when a record vote is ordered on the
question of approving a measure or matter
or on adopting an amendment; and may re-
sume proceedings on a postponed question
after reasonable notice. When proceedings
resume on a postponed question, notwith-
standing any intervening order for the pre-
vious question, an underlying proposition
shall remain subject to further debate or
amendment to the same extent as when the
question was postponed.
RULE 5.—SUBCOMMITTEES
(a) Establishment and Jurisdiction—
(1) There shall be five subcommittees of
the Committee with jurisdictions as follows:
(A) Subcommittee on Disability Assistance
and Memorial Affairs, which shall have legis-
lative, oversight, and investigative jurisdic-
tion over compensation; general and special
pensions of all the wars of the United States;
life insurance issued by the Government on
account of service in the Armed Forces;
cemeteries of the United States in which vet-
erans of any war or conflict are or may be
buried, whether in the United States or
abroad, except cemeteries administered by
the Secretary of the Interior; burial benefits;
the Board of Veterans’ Appeals; and the
United States Court of Appeals for Veterans
Claims.
(B) Subcommittee on Economic Oppor-
tunity, which shall have legislative, over-
sight, and investigative jurisdiction over
education of veterans, employment and
training of veterans, vocational rehabilita-
tion, veterans’ housing programs (including
homeless veterans housing), transition of
servicemembers to civilian life, veteran-
owned business concerns, and
servicemembers civil relief.
(C) Subcommittee on Health, which shall
have legislative, oversight, and investigative
jurisdiction over the Veterans Health Ad-
ministration (VHA) including medical serv-
ices, community care, medical support and
compliance, medical facilities, medical and
prosthetic research, provision of healthcare
to homeless veterans, and major and minor
construction.
(D) Subcommittee on Oversight and Inves-
tigations, which shall have oversight and in-
vestigative jurisdiction over veterans’ mat-
ters generally, and over such matters as may
be referred to the Subcommittee by the
Chair of the full Committee for its oversight
or investigation and for its appropriate rec-
ommendations. The Subcommittee shall
have legislative jurisdiction over informa-
tion technology and procurement generally,
and over such bills or resolutions as may be
referred to it by the Chair of the full Com-
mittee.
(E) Subcommittee on Technology Mod-
ernization, which shall have oversight and
investigative jurisdiction over Department
of Veterans Affairs’ enterprise technology
modernization programs and projects, in-
cluding the Electronic Health Record Mod-
ernization (EHRM) program.
(2) Each subcommittee shall have responsi-
bility for such other measures or matters as
the Chair refers to it.
(b) Vacancies.—Any vacancy in the mem-
bership of a subcommittee shall not affect
the power of the remaining members to exe-
cute the functions of that subcommittee.
(c) Ratios.—On each subcommittee, there
shall be a ratio of majority party members
to minority party members, which shall be
consistent with the ratio on the full Com-
mittee.
(d) Referral to Subcommittees.—The Chair
of the Committee may refer a measure or
matter, which is within the general responsi-
bility of more than one of the subcommittees
of the Committee, as the Chair deems appro-
priate. In referring any measure or matter to
a subcommittee, the Chair of the Committee
may specify a date by which the sub-
committee shall report thereon to the Com-
mittee.
(e) Powers and Duties—
(1) Each subcommittee is authorized to
meet, hold hearings, receive evidence, and
report to the full Committee on all matters
referred to it or under its jurisdiction. Sub-
committee Chairs shall set dates for hear-
ings and meetings of their respective sub-
committees after consultation with the
Chair of the Committee and other sub-
committee chairs with a view toward avoid-
ing simultaneous scheduling of Committee
and subcommittee meetings or hearings
whenever possible.
(2) Whenever a subcommittee has ordered a
bill, resolution, or other matter to be re-
ported to the Committee, the Chair of the
subcommittee reporting the bill, resolution,
or matter to the full Committee, or any
member authorized by the subcommittee to
do so, shall notify the Chair and the Ranking
Minority Member of the Committee of the
subcommittee’s action.
(3) A member of the Committee who is not
a member of a subcommittee may sit with
the subcommittee during any of its meetings
and hearings, but shall not have authority to
vote, cannot be counted for a quorum, and
cannot raise a point of order at the meeting
or hearing.
(4) The Chair and Ranking Minority Mem-
ber of the Committee may serve as ex-officio
members of each standing subcommittee to
which the Chair or Ranking Minority Mem-
ber have not been assigned. Ex-officio mem-
bers shall have the right to fully participate
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:06 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE7.053 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1578 February 13, 2019
in subcommittee activities but may not vote
and may not be counted in establishing a
quorum.
(5) Non-Committee members may be in-
vited to sit at the dais for and participate in
subcommittee hearings with the unanimous
consent of all Members present. Further,
non-Committee members may be recognized
for questioning of witnesses but only after
all subcommittee members have first been
recognized for questioning.
(6) Each subcommittee shall provide the
full Committee with copies of such record
votes taken in subcommittee and such other
records with respect to the subcommittee as
the Chair of the Committee deems necessary
for the Committee to comply with the House
rules.
RULE 6.—GENERAL OVERSIGHT RESPONSIBILITY
(a) Purpose.—Pursuant to House Rule X
clause 2, the Committee shall carry out over-
sight responsibilities consistent with clause
1(s) of House rule X and Committee rule 5.
(b) Oversight Plan.—Not later than March
1 of the first session of a Congress, the Chair
shall prepare, in consultation with the Rank-
ing Minority Member, an oversight plan for
that Congress; provide a copy of that plan to
each member of the Committee for at least
seven calendar days before its submission;
and submit the plan (including any supple-
mental, minority, additional, or dissenting
views submitted by a member of the Com-
mittee) to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform and the Committee on House Admin-
istration, in accordance with House rule X
clause 2(d).
(c) Oversight by Subcommittees—The ex-
istence and activities of the Subcommittee
on Oversight and Investigations shall in no
way limit the responsibility of the other sub-
committees of the Committee for carrying
out oversight duties.
(d) Pursuant to House rule XI clause 1(b),
the Committee may conduct at any time
such investigations and studies as it con-
siders necessary or appropriate in the exer-
cise of its responsibilities under rule X.
RULE 7.—BUDGET ACT RESPONSIBILITIES
(a) Budget Act Responsibilities.—Pursuant
to clause 4(f)(1) of Rule X of the Rules of the
House, the Committee shall submit to the
Committee on the Budget not later than six
weeks after submission of the budget by the
President, or at such time as the Committee
on the Budget may request—
(1) Its views and estimates with respect to
all matters to be set forth in the concurrent
resolution on the budget for the ensuing fis-
cal year that are within its jurisdiction or
functions; and
(2) An estimate of the total amounts of
new budget authority, and budget outlays re-
sulting therefrom, to be provided or author-
ized in all bills and resolutions within its ju-
risdiction that it intends to be effective dur-
ing that fiscal year.
RULE 8.—RECORDS AND OTHER MATTERS
(a) Transcripts.—There shall be a tran-
script made of each meeting and hearing of
the Committee. Any such transcript shall be
a substantially verbatim account of remarks
actually made during the proceedings, sub-
ject only to technical, grammatical, and ty-
pographical corrections authorized by the
person making the remarks involved.
(b) Records.—(1) The Committee shall keep
a record of all Committee action. The record
shall contain all information required by
clause 2(e)(1) of Rule XI of the Rules of the
House and shall be available for public in-
spection at reasonable times in the offices of
the Committee.
(2) There shall be kept in writing a record
of the proceedings of the Committee, includ-
ing a record of the votes on any question on
which a record vote is taken. The result of
each such record vote shall be made avail-
able by the Committee for inspection by the
public at reasonable times in the offices of
the Committee and also made publicly avail-
able in electronic form within 48 hours of
such record vote. Information so available
shall include a description of the amend-
ment, motion, order, or other proposition,
the name of each member voting for and
each member voting against such amend-
ment, motion, order, or proposition, and the
names of those members present but not vot-
ing.
(c) Availability of Archived Records.—The
records of the Committee at the National Ar-
chives and Records Administration shall be
made available for public use in accordance
with House rule VII. The Chair shall notify
the Ranking Minority Member of any deci-
sion made by the Clerk of the House, pursu-
ant to clause 4 of House rule VII, to withhold
a record otherwise available, and the matter
shall be presented to the Committee for a
vote on written request of any member of
the Committee.
(d) Availability of Adopted Amendments.—
Not later than 24 hours after the adoption of
any amendment to a measure or matter con-
sidered by the Committee, the Chair shall
cause the text of each such amendment to be
made publicly available in electronic form.
(e) Availability of Publications.—Pursuant
to clause 2(e)(4) of Rule XI of the Rules of
the House, the Committee shall make its
publications available in electronic form to
the maximum extent feasible.
RULE 9.—TRAVEL
(a) Requirements for Travel.—All requests
for travel, funded by the Committee, for
members and staff in connection with activi-
ties or subject matters under the general ju-
risdiction of the Committee, shall be sub-
mitted to the Chair for approval or dis-
approval. All travel requests should be sub-
mitted to the Chair at least five working
days in advance of the proposed travel. For
all travel funded by any other source, notice
shall be given to the Chair at least five
working days in advance of the proposed
travel. All travel requests shall be submitted
to the Chair in writing and include—
(1) The purpose of the travel.
(2) The dates during which the travel is to
occur.
(3) The names of the locations to be visited
and the length of time to be spent in each.
(4) The names of members and staff of the
Committee for whom the authorization is
sought. Travel by the minority shall be sub-
mitted to the Chair via the Ranking Mem-
ber.
(b) Trip Reports.—Members and staff shall
make a written report to the Chair within 15
working days on all travel approved under
this subsection. Reports shall include a de-
scription of their itinerary, expenses, and ac-
tivities, and pertinent information gained as
a result of such travel.
When travel involves majority and minor-
ity members or staff, the majority shall sub-
mit the report to the Chair on behalf of the
majority and minority. The minority may
append additional remarks to the report at
their discretion.
(c) Applicability of House Rules.—Members
and staff of the Committee performing au-
thorized travel on official business shall be
governed by applicable laws, resolutions, and
rules of the House and of the Committee on
House Administration.
RULE 10.—FACILITY NAMING
(a) Facility Naming.—No Department of
Veterans Affairs (VA) facility or property
shall be named after any individual by the
Committee unless—
(1) Such individual is deceased and was—
(A) A veteran who (i) was instrumental in
the construction or the operation of the fa-
cility to be named, or (ii) was a recipient of
the Medal of Honor or, as determined by the
Chair and Ranking Minority Member, other-
wise performed military service of an ex-
traordinarily distinguished character;
(B) A member of the United States House
of Representatives or Senate who had a di-
rect association with such facility;
(C) An Administrator of Veterans’ Affairs,
a Secretary of Veterans Affairs, a Secretary
of Defense or of a service branch, or a mili-
tary or other Federal civilian official of com-
parable or higher rank; or
(D) An individual who, as determined by
the Chair and Ranking Minority Member,
performed outstanding service for veterans.
(2) Each member of the Congressional dele-
gation representing the State in which the
designated facility is located must indicate
in writing such member’s support of the pro-
posal to name such facility after such indi-
vidual. Evidence of a member’s support in
writing may either be in the form of a letter
to the Chair and Ranking Member or co-
sponsorship of legislation proposing to name
the particular VA facility in question.
(3) The pertinent State department or
chapter of each Congressionally chartered
veterans’ organization having a national
membership of at least 500,000 must indicate
in writing its support of such proposal.
(b) The above criteria for naming a VA fa-
cility may be waived by unanimous consent.
RULE 11.—MEDIA COVERAGE
(a) Media Coverage.—Any meeting of the
Committee that is open to the public shall be
open to coverage by radio, television, and
still photography in accordance with the
provisions of clause 4(f) of House rule XI as
follows:
(1) If audio or visual coverage of the hear-
ing or meeting is to be presented to the pub-
lic as live coverage, that coverage shall be
conducted and presented without commer-
cial sponsorship.
(2) The allocation among the television
media of the positions or the number of tele-
vision cameras permitted by a Committee
Chair in a hearing or meeting room shall be
in accordance with fair and equitable proce-
dures devised by the Executive Committee of
the Radio and Television Correspondents’
Galleries.
(3) Television cameras shall be placed so as
not to obstruct in any way the space between
a witness giving evidence or testimony and
any member of the Committee or the visi-
bility of that witness and that member to
each other.
(4) Television cameras shall operate from
fixed positions but may not be placed in posi-
tions that obstruct unnecessarily the cov-
erage of the hearing or meeting by the other
media.
(5) Equipment necessary for coverage by
the television and radio media may not be
installed in, or removed from, the hearing or
meeting room while the Committee is in ses-
sion.
(6)(A) Except as provided in subdivision
(B), floodlights, spotlights, strobe lights, and
flashguns may not be used in providing any
method of coverage of the hearing or meet-
ing.
(B) The television media may install addi-
tional lighting in a hearing or meeting room,
without cost to the Government, in order to
raise the ambient lighting level in a hearing
or meeting room to the lowest level nec-
essary to provide adequate television cov-
erage of a hearing or meeting at the current
state of the art of television coverage.
(7) If requests are made by more of the
media than will be permitted by the Com-
mittee Chair for coverage of a hearing or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:06 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE7.054 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1579
February 13, 2019
meeting by still photography, that coverage
shall be permitted on the basis of a fair and
equitable pool arrangement devised by the
Standing Committee of Press Photographers.
(8) Photographers may not position them-
selves between the witness table and the
members of the Committee at any time dur-
ing the course of a hearing or meeting.
(9) Photographers may not place them-
selves in positions that obstruct unneces-
sarily the coverage of the hearing by the
other media.
(10) Personnel providing coverage by the
television and radio media shall be currently
accredited to the Radio and Television Cor-
respondents’ Galleries.
(11) Personnel providing coverage by still
photography shall be currently accredited to
the Press Photographers’ Gallery.
(12) Personnel providing coverage by the
television and radio media and by still pho-
tography shall conduct themselves and their
coverage activities in an orderly and unob-
trusive manner.
f
SENATE BILL REFERRED
A bill of the Senate of the following
title was taken from the Speaker’s
table and, under the rule, referred as
follows:
S. 461. An act to strengthen the capacity
and competitiveness of historically Black
colleges and universities through robust pub-
lic-sector, private-sector, and community
partnerships and engagement, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform; in addition, to the Committee on
Education and Labor for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
f
BILL PRESENTED TO THE
PRESIDENT
Karen L. Haas, Clerk of the House,
reported that on February 12, 2019, she
presented to the President of the
United States, for his approval, the fol-
lowing bill:
H.R. 439. To amend the charter of the Fu-
ture Farmers of America, and for other pur-
poses.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I move
that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 11 o’clock and 52 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow,
Thursday, February 14, 2019, at 10 a.m.
for morning-hour debate.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
168. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Trifloxystrobin; Pesticide Toler-
ances [EPA-HQ-OPP-2017-0530; FRL-9985-23]
received February 8, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
169. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Trifluralin; Pesticide Tolerances
[EPA-HQ-OPP-2017-0420; FRL-9983-89] re-
ceived February 8, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
170. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — National Emission Standards for
Hazardous Air Pollutants: Wet-Formed Fi-
berglass Mat Production Residual Risk and
Technology Review [EPA-HQ-OAR-2004-0309;
FRL-9988-79-OAR] (RIN: 2060-AT47) received
February 8, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
171. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — National Emission Standards for
Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of
Wood Building Products Residual Risk and
Technology Review [EPA-HQ-OAR-2016-0678;
FRL-9988-71-OAR] (RIN: 2060-AT71) received
February 8, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
172. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Approval and Promulgation of
Implementation Plans; Texas; Reasonable
Further Progress Plan for the Houston-Gal-
veston-Brazoria Ozone Nonattainment Area
[EPA-R06-OAR-2017-0056; FRL-9988-61-Region
6] received February 8, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
173. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Clean Air Plans; 2008 8-Hour
Ozone Nonattainment Area Requirements;
San Joaquin Valley, California [EPA-R09-
OAR-2018-0535; FRL-9988-40-Region 9] re-
ceived February 8, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
174. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Air Plan Approval; South Caro-
lina: Revisions to Prevention of Significant
Deterioration Rules [EPA-R04-OAR-2018-0073;
FRL-9989-22-Region 4] received February 8,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
175. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Air Plan Approval; Wisconsin;
Reasonable Further Progress Plan and Other
Plan Elements for the Moderate Nonattain-
ment Chicago Area for the 2008 Ozone Stand-
ards [EPA-R05-OAR-2017-0212; FRL-9989-23-
Region 5] received February 8, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
176. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Approval and Promulgation of
Air Quality Implementation Plans; Mary-
land; Reasonably Available Control Tech-
nology (RACT) State Implementation Plan
(SIP) Under the 2008 Ozone National Ambient
Quality Standard (NAAQS) [EPA-R03-OAR-
2018-0508; FRL-9989-15-Region 3] received Feb-
ruary 8, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
177. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Approval and Promulgation of
Implementation Plans; California; South
Coast Serious Area Plan for the 2006 PM2.5
NAAQS [EPA-R09-OAR-2017-0490; FRL-9988-
60-Region 9] received February 8, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce.
178. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-603, ‘‘Warehousing and Storage Emi-
nent Domain Authority Temporary Act of
2018’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-198, Sec.
602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
179. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-596, ‘‘Senior Strategic Plan Amend-
ment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public Law
93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
180. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-597, ‘‘District of Columbia Education
Research Practice Partnership Establish-
ment and Audit Act of 2018’’, pursuant to
Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat.
814); to the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form.
181. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-598, ‘‘Risk Management and Own Risk
and Solvency Assessment Act of 2018’’, pur-
suant to Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87
Stat. 814); to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
182. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-599, ‘‘Temporary Parking Permit Lim-
itation Regulation Amendment Act of 2018’’,
pursuant to Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1);
(87 Stat. 814); to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
183. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-600, ‘‘District Historical Records Advi-
sory Board Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursu-
ant to Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87
Stat. 814); to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
184. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-601, ‘‘Southwest Waterfront Park Bus
Prohibition Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public
Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
185. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-602, ‘‘East End Health Equity Amend-
ment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public Law
93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
186. A letter from the Program Analyst,
NHTSA, Department of Transportation,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Federal Motor Vehicle Theft Prevention
Standard; Final Listing of 2017 Light Duty
Truck Lines Subject to the Requirements of
This Standard and Exempted Vehicle Lines
for Model Year 2017 [Docket No.: NHTSA-
2016-0046] (RIN: 2127-AL72) February 8, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
187. A letter from the Ombudsman, Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration, De-
partment of Transportation, transmitting
the Department’s final rule — Fees for the
Unified Carrier Registration Plan and Agree-
ment [Docket No.: FMCSA-2018-0068] (RIN:
2126-AC12) received February 8, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:06 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE7.055 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1580 February 13, 2019
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
188. A letter from the Ombudsman, Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration, De-
partment of Transportation, transmitting
the Department’s final rule — Commercial
Learner’s Permit Validity [Docket No.:
FMCSA-2016-0346] (RIN: 2126-AB98) received
February 8, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mrs. LOWEY: Committee of Conference.
Conference report on House Joint Resolution
31. Resolution making further continuing ap-
propriations for the Department of Home-
land Security for fiscal year 2019, and for
other purposes (Rept. 116–9). Ordered to be
printed.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. LANGEVIN (for himself, Mr.
HURD of Texas, and Mr. ESPAILLAT):
H.R. 1153. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to direct the Secretary of
Education to award institutions of higher
education grants for teaching English learn-
ers; to the Committee on Education and
Labor.
By Mr. KILDEE (for himself and Mr.
FITZPATRICK):
H.R. 1154. A bill to provide collective bar-
gaining rights for public safety officers em-
ployed by States or their political subdivi-
sions, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
By Ms. TITUS (for herself, Mr. MAST,
Mr. TED LIEU of California, Mr.
ZELDIN, Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr. GAETZ,
Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. COHEN, Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire, Mr. BUCHANAN, Mr. TUR-
NER, Mr. STAUBER, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Ms. NORTON, Mr. HASTINGS,
Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. POSEY, Mr. COLLINS
of New York, Mr. BEYER, Mr. SUOZZI,
Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana, Mr. KATKO,
Ms. MCCOLLUM, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr.
FOSTER, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mr.
CICILLINE, Mr. ENGEL, Mr. CRIST, Mr.
DEUTCH, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY
of New York, Mr. SOTO, Ms. BASS, Ms.
LEE of California, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Ms. WILD, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr.
GRIJALVA, Mr. SERRANO, Mr. GUTH-
RIE, Mr. WELCH, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr.
CARBAJAL, Mr. YARMUTH, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mr. HURD of Texas, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr. DAVID
SCOTT of Georgia, Mr. LAWSON of
Florida, Mr. AGUILAR, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, Mr. ESTES, Mr. GROTHMAN,
Mr. LAMB, Mr. EVANS, Mr. NEGUSE,
Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mrs. LOWEY, Mr.
TONKO, Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. SWALWELL
of California, and Ms. JOHNSON of
Texas):
H.R. 1155. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to prohibit the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs from conducting medical
research causing significant pain or distress
to dogs; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Mr. BACON (for himself, Mr.
STAUBER, and Mr. RUTHERFORD):
H.R. 1156. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to improve the Law Enforce-
ment Officer Safety Act and provisions relat-
ing to the carrying of concealed weapons by
law enforcement officers, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. DESJARLAIS (for himself, Mr.
FLEISCHMANN, Mr. BARR, Mr. COMER,
Mr. BURCHETT, Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of
Tennessee, Mr. KUSTOFF of Ten-
nessee, Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Ten-
nessee, Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky, Mr.
GREEN of Tennessee, and Mr. GUTH-
RIE):
H.R. 1157. A bill to amend the Horse Pro-
tection Act to provide increased protection
for horses participating in shows, exhibi-
tions, or sales, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. MCCAUL (for himself, Mr. LAN-
GEVIN, Mr. KATKO, Mr. RUPPERS-
BERGER, and Mr. RATCLIFFE):
H.R. 1158. A bill to authorize cyber inci-
dent response teams at the Department of
Homeland Security, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Homeland Security.
By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Mr.
RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. LARSEN
of Washington, and Mr. YOUNG):
H.R. 1159. A bill to encourage the research
and use of innovative materials and associ-
ated techniques in the construction and pres-
ervation of the domestic transportation and
water infrastructure system, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure, and in addition to
the Committees on Science, Space, and
Technology, and Energy and Commerce, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. SCHRADER (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENAUER, Mr. DEFAZIO, and Ms.
BONAMICI):
H.R. 1160. A bill to amend the Wild and
Scenic Rivers Act to designate segments of
the Molalla River in the State of Oregon as
components of the National Wild and Scenic
Rivers System, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. CLEAVER (for himself and Mr.
BANKS):
H.R. 1161. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to direct the Secretary of
Education to develop a plain language dis-
closure form for borrowers of Federal stu-
dent loans, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mrs. NAPOLITANO (for herself, Ms.
JOHNSON of Texas, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr.
HUFFMAN, Mr. ROUDA, Ms. BROWNLEY
of California, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr.
VELA, Mrs. TORRES of California, Mr.
CARBAJAL, Ms. HILL of California, Ms.
TITUS, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. HARDER of
California, Ms. ESHOO, Ms. SÁNCHEZ,
and Mr. SIRES):
H.R. 1162. A bill to establish a grant pro-
gram for the funding of water recycling and
reuse projects, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mrs. HARTZLER (for herself, Mr.
BOST, Mrs. LESKO, Mr. ROUZER, Mr.
MOONEY of West Virginia, Mr. WILSON
of South Carolina, and Mr. CORREA):
H.R. 1163. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to provide for the non-applica-
bility of non-Department of Veterans Affairs
covenants not to compete to the appoint-
ment of certain Veterans Health Administra-
tion personnel, to permit the Veterans
Health Administration to make contingent
appointments, and to require certain Vet-
erans Health Administration physicians to
complete residency training; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia (for him-
self, Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. DAVID P. ROE
of Tennessee, and Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia):
H.R. 1164. A bill to direct the Director of
the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts to consolidate the Case Man-
agement/Electronic Case Files system, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mr. FOSTER (for himself, Mr.
LIPINSKI, Mr. SCHNEIDER, and Mr.
CASTEN of Illinois):
H.R. 1165. A bill to modernize the National
Air Toxics Assessment, the Integrated Risk
Information System, and the Agency for
Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Mr.
MCKINLEY, Mr. VEASEY, Mr.
SCHWEIKERT, and Mrs. BUSTOS):
H.R. 1166. A bill to support carbon dioxide
utilization and direct air capture research,
to facilitate the permitting and development
of carbon capture, utilization, and sequestra-
tion projects and carbon dioxide pipelines,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce, and in addition to
the Committees on Science, Space, and
Technology, Natural Resources, and Trans-
portation and Infrastructure, for a period to
be subsequently determined by the Speaker,
in each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana (for him-
self and Mr. RUPPERSBERGER):
H.R. 1167. A bill to create a zero interest
loan program for Federal and District of Co-
lumbia employees furloughed or excepted
from such furlough during a lapse in Federal
appropriations, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Financial Services.
By Mr. RYAN (for himself, Mr. THOMP-
SON of Mississippi, Mr. KHANNA, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, and Mr. SOTO):
H.R. 1168. A bill to advance STEM edu-
cation, provide for improved worker, train-
ing, retention, and advancement, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor, and in addition to the
Committees on Ways and Means, Energy and
Commerce, Financial Services, Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure, Science, Space,
and Technology, Natural Resources, Over-
sight and Reform, Foreign Affairs, and the
Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Ms.
OMAR, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr. MCGOVERN,
Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr. PHILLIPS, and Ms.
NORTON):
H.R. 1169. A bill to provide for the adjust-
ment of status of certain nationals of Liberia
to that of lawful permanent residents, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mr. DEFAZIO:
H.R. 1170. A bill to enhance Social Security
benefits and ensure the long-term solvency
of the Social Security program; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means, and in addition
to the Committees on Education and Labor,
and Transportation and Infrastructure, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. DEFAZIO (for himself, Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr. KATKO,
Miss RICE of New York, Mr. LAN-
GEVIN, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Ms.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:06 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L13FE7.000 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1581
February 13, 2019
TITUS, Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Mrs.
DEMINGS, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
PAPPAS, Ms. ESHOO, Mr. SIRES, Mr.
CARBAJAL, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Ms.
STEFANIK, Mr. HECK, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
WELCH, Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Mr. HUFFMAN, Ms. PIN-
GREE, Mr. SOTO, and Mr. MCEACHIN):
H.R. 1171. A bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, to ensure that revenues col-
lected from passengers as aviation security
fees are used to help finance the costs of
aviation security screening by repealing a
requirement that a portion of such fees be
credited as offsetting receipts and deposited
in the general fund of the Treasury; to the
Committee on Homeland Security.
By Mr. KILDEE (for himself and Mr.
DEFAZIO):
H.R. 1172. A bill to amend title 31, United
States Code, to provide for automatic con-
tinuing appropriations, to withhold the pay
of the President and Members of Congress
during any period in which such automatic
continuing appropriations are in effect, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Ap-
propriations, and in addition to the Commit-
tees on Oversight and Reform, House Admin-
istration, and the Budget, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. WILLIAMS:
H.R. 1173. A bill to require that $1 coins
issued during 2019 honor President George
H.W. Bush and to direct the Secretary of the
Treasury to issue bullion coins during 2019 in
honor of Barbara Bush; to the Committee on
Financial Services.
By Mr. CARBAJAL (for himself, Mr.
BACON, Ms. STEFANIK, and Mr.
TAKANO):
H.R. 1174. A bill to amend chapter 81 of
title 5, United States Code, to create a pre-
sumption that a disability or death of a Fed-
eral employee in fire protection activities
caused by any of certain diseases is the re-
sult of the performance of such employee’s
duty, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. KIND (for himself, Mr. KELLY of
Pennsylvania, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr.
HIGGINS of New York, Mr. PANETTA,
Mr. LAHOOD, Mr. DEFAZIO, Ms. PIN-
GREE, Mr. TIPTON, Mr. MCHENRY, Mr.
BRINDISI, Mr. WENSTRUP, Mr. REED,
Mr. GOMEZ, and Mr. FERGUSON):
H.R. 1175. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to reform taxation of alco-
holic beverages; to the Committee on Ways
and Means.
By Mr. LEVIN of Michigan (for him-
self, Mr. SARBANES, Mr. GARAMENDI,
Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. KIM, Ms. KUSTER of
New Hampshire, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
PAPPAS, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, and Ms. WILD):
H.R. 1176. A bill to repeal the restriction on
the use of funds by the Securities and Ex-
change Commission to ensure that share-
holders of corporations have knowledge of
corporation political activity; to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services.
By Ms. SPANBERGER (for herself, Ms.
SHALALA, and Mr. BROWN of Mary-
land):
H.R. 1177. A bill to provide for continuing
appropriations in the event of a lapse in ap-
propriations under the normal appropria-
tions process, other than for the legislative
branch and the Executive Office of the Presi-
dent; to the Committee on Appropriations.
By Mr. SPANO (for himself and Mr.
WALTZ):
H.R. 1178. A bill to amend title 31, United
States Code, to provide for automatic con-
tinuing appropriations, to withhold the pay
of Members of Congress during any period in
which such automatic continuing appropria-
tions are in effect, to prohibit the use of
funds for the official travel of Members of
Congress during any period in which such
automatic continuing appropriations are in
effect, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Appropriations, and in addition to
the Committee on House Administration, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Ms. ADAMS (for herself and Mr.
MCEACHIN):
H.R. 1179. A bill to amend title 54, United
States Code, to establish within the National
Park Service the African American Burial
Grounds Network, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. BEYER (for himself and Mr.
RASKIN):
H.R. 1180. A bill to provide for a period of
continuing appropriations in the event of a
lapse in appropriations under the normal ap-
propriations process, and to prohibit consid-
eration of other matters in the House of Rep-
resentatives if appropriations are not en-
acted; to the Committee on Appropriations,
and in addition to the Committee on Rules,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mrs. BUSTOS (for herself, Mr.
MEADOWS, Mr. COOPER, Mr. ROSE of
New York, Mr. VAN DREW, Mr. HARD-
ER of California, Ms. SHERRILL, Mrs.
AXNE, Ms. WILD, Ms. HAALAND, Mrs.
MCBATH, Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Mr.
MALINOWSKI, Mrs. LEE of Nevada, Mr.
STANTON, Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas, Ms.
HILL of California, Ms. TORRES SMALL
of New Mexico, Mrs. CRAIG, Mr.
O’HALLERAN, and Mr. CROW):
H.R. 1181. A bill to require certain individ-
uals employed by the Federal Government to
give 30 days written notice to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Senate for certain obli-
gations or expenditures over $5,000 to furnish
or redecorate the office of such individual,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California:
H.R. 1182. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to ensure access to
acupuncturist services through the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs; to the Committee
on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California:
H.R. 1183. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to ensure access to qualified
acupuncturist services for military members
and military dependents, to amend title 38,
United States Code, to ensure access to
acupuncturist services through the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs, to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide
for coverage of qualified acupuncturist serv-
ices under the Medicare program; to amend
the Public Health Service Act to authorize
the appointment of qualified acupuncturists
as officers in the commissioned Regular
Corps and the Ready Reserve Corps of the
Public Health Service, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, and in addition to the Committees on
Armed Services, Veterans’ Affairs, and Ways
and Means, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Ms. DEGETTE (for herself, Mr. TIP-
TON, Mr. QUIGLEY, Ms. STEFANIK, Mr.
LYNCH, Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana, Mr.
CARTWRIGHT, Ms. JUDY CHU of Cali-
fornia, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr. KILMER, Ms.
LEE of California, Mr. LOWENTHAL,
Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New
York, Ms. PINGREE, Mr. POCAN, Mr.
SARBANES, Mr. THOMPSON of Cali-
fornia, Mr. WELCH, Mr. YARMUTH, Mr.
SCHIFF, Ms. DEAN, Mr. SMITH of
Washington, Ms. TORRES SMALL of
New Mexico, and Mr. GARAMENDI):
H.R. 1184. A bill to establish an Every Kid
Outdoors program, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Natural Resources, and in
addition to the Committees on Agriculture,
and Transportation and Infrastructure, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Ms. DELAURO (for herself, Mr.
NEAL, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois,
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Ms. NORTON,
Mr. PAYNE, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr.
SERRANO, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr.
DEFAZIO, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. KHANNA,
Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr.
COHEN, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. MCNERNEY,
Mr. LARSON of Connecticut, Mr. CUM-
MINGS, Mr. RICHMOND, Mr. ESPAILLAT,
Mr. WELCH, Ms. OMAR, Ms. KUSTER of
New Hampshire, Mr. HIGGINS of New
York, Ms. HILL of California, Ms.
SPEIER, Mr. HASTINGS, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Miss
RICE of New York, Mr. NADLER, Ms.
JACKSON LEE, Ms. WILSON of Florida,
Ms. GABBARD, Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr.
POCAN, Ms. MOORE, Ms. PINGREE, Ms.
BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mr. ENGEL, Mr.
MOULTON, Mr. LAWSON of Florida,
Mrs. MURPHY, Ms. SHALALA, Ms.
FRANKEL, Ms. DEGETTE, Mrs. CARO-
LYN B. MALONEY of New York, Mr.
GRIJALVA, Mr. RYAN, Mr. GOMEZ, Ms.
MCCOLLUM, Mr. PALLONE, Mr.
BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania,
Mr. RASKIN, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALO-
NEY of New York, Mr. TAKANO, Mr.
PRICE of North Carolina, Mr.
AGUILAR, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mrs. TORRES
of California, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan,
Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr. KILMER, Mr.
YARMUTH, Mr. SWALWELL of Cali-
fornia, Ms. KAPTUR, Ms. DEAN, Ms.
CASTOR of Florida, Mr. SOTO, Mr.
DOGGETT, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. LUJÁN, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Ms. DELBENE, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. TONKO,
Mr. SARBANES, Mrs. LOWEY, Mr.
NEGUSE, Mrs. CRAIG, Mrs. HAYES,
Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. CRIST, Mrs.
MCBATH, Mr. PASCRELL, Mr. DEUTCH,
Mr. SABLAN, Mr. BERA, Ms. ESHOO,
Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mr. KEN-
NEDY, Mr. COURTNEY, Ms. FUDGE, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Mr. KILDEE, Mr. EVANS, Ms.
SÁNCHEZ, Ms. WILD, Ms. OCASIO-COR-
TEZ, Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr.
TRONE, Mr. LYNCH, Ms. PRESSLEY,
Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr. GALLEGO, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. BEYER, Ms. SEWELL
of Alabama, Mr. CONNOLLY, Ms. MAT-
SUI, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Ms. LEE of
California, Mr. PANETTA, Mr. GON-
ZALEZ of Texas, Mr. LARSEN of Wash-
ington, Mr. KIND, Ms. JUDY CHU of
California, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr. NOR-
CROSS, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr.
MORELLE, Ms. SCANLON, Mr. HIMES,
Mr. HORSFORD, Ms. MENG, Mr. RUSH,
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. CARTWRIGHT,
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr.
GARCÍA of Illinois, Ms. SLOTKIN, Mr.
CLEAVER, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. MEEKS,
Ms. WEXTON, Ms. STEVENS, Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:06 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L13FE7.100 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1582 February 13, 2019
JEFFRIES, Ms. UNDERWOOD, Ms. CLARK
of Massachusetts, Mr. ROSE of New
York, Mr. MALINOWSKI, Ms.
HOULAHAN, Ms. SCHRIER, Mr. DAVID
SCOTT of Georgia, Mr. LEWIS, Mr.
VARGAS, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. KEATING,
Mr. COX of California, Mr. SIRES, Ms.
GARCIA of Texas, Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr.
TED LIEU of California, Mr. KIM, Ms.
ADAMS, Ms. HAALAND, Mr. SMITH of
Washington, and Mr. DELGADO):
H.R. 1185. A bill to provide paid family and
medical leave benefits to certain individuals,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Mr. DEUTCH (for himself, Mr. NAD-
LER, Ms. DEGETTE, Ms. TITUS, Mr.
AGUILAR, Mr. BERA, Ms. BONAMICI,
Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Mr. CASE, Ms. CLARK of
Massachusetts, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mr. COHEN, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr.
COOPER, Mr. CRIST, Mr. CUMMINGS,
Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Ms. ESHOO, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Ms. FRANKEL, Mr. GRI-
JALVA, Mr. HASTINGS, Ms. JOHNSON of
Texas, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Ms.
KELLY of Illinois, Mr. LANGEVIN, Ms.
LOFGREN, Mr. LYNCH, Mrs. CAROLYN
B. MALONEY of New York, Mr. SEAN
PATRICK MALONEY of New York, Ms.
MATSUI, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
MCEACHIN, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr.
MORELLE, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mr. PALLONE, Mr. PANETTA, Mr.
PETERS, Ms. PINGREE, Miss RICE of
New York, Mr. ROSE of New York,
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr. SARBANES,
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr.
SCHNEIDER, Mr. SCOTT of Virginia,
Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. SIRES, Mr. SMITH
of Washington, Mr. SOTO, Ms. SPEIER,
Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. SWALWELL of Cali-
fornia, Mr. TAKANO, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ,
Mr. VISCLOSKY, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Ms.
WILSON of Florida, Mr. YARMUTH, Mr.
CISNEROS, Mr. NEGUSE, and Mr.
GARAMENDI):
H.R. 1186. A bill to regulate large capacity
ammunition feeding devices; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. ESPAILLAT:
H.R. 1187. A bill to amend the Intelligence
Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004
to require congressional notification if rel-
atives or financial associates of the Presi-
dent are granted security clearances con-
trary to the advice or recommendation of a
background investigation or determination
of an adjudicating agency, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
By Mr. GOLDEN (for himself, Mr.
CASTEN of Illinois, Ms. SLOTKIN, Mr.
CISNEROS, Mr. ROSE of New York, and
Ms. PINGREE):
H.R. 1188. A bill to shorten monopoly peri-
ods for prescription drugs that are the sub-
jects of sudden price hikes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico (for herself, Mr. SABLAN, Mr.
SAN NICOLAS, Ms. PLASKETT, and Mrs.
RADEWAGEN):
H.R. 1189. A bill to repeal section 12616 of
the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Agriculture, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. GOSAR (for himself, Mr. MEAD-
OWS, Mr. WEBER of Texas, Mr. BIGGS,
Mr. KING of Iowa, Mr. DESJARLAIS,
Mr. DUNCAN, and Mr. BABIN):
H.R. 1190. A bill to prohibit an alien who is
not in a lawful immigration status in the
United States from being eligible for post-
secondary education benefits that are not
available to all citizens and nationals of the
United States; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary, and in addition to the Committee on
Education and Labor, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. GRIJALVA (for himself, Ms.
DELAURO, Mr. SERRANO, Mrs. TORRES
of California, Mrs. RADEWAGEN, Mr.
BLUMENAUER, Mr. CRIST, Mr. HAS-
TINGS, Mr. LUJÁN, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mr. GOSAR, Mr. GALLEGO, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Ms. NORTON, Mr. GALLA-
GHER, Mrs. DINGELL, Ms. MCCOLLUM,
Mr. O’HALLERAN, Mr. MULLIN, Ms.
MOORE, Mr. COLE, Ms. HAALAND, and
Mr. SOTO):
H.R. 1191. A bill to amend section 520E of
the Public Health Service Act to require
States and their designees receiving grants
for development and implementation of
statewide suicide early intervention and pre-
vention strategies to collaborate with each
Federally recognized Indian tribe, tribal or-
ganization, urban Indian organization, and
Native Hawaiian health care system in the
State; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce.
By Mr. GROTHMAN (for himself, Mr.
GAETZ, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. KING of
Iowa, and Mr. DIAZ-BALART):
H.R. 1192. A bill to improve school safety;
to the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. HIMES (for himself, Mr. ROUDA,
Ms. SHERRILL, Mr. KILMER, Mr.
GALLEGO, Mrs. LURIA, Mr. HUFFMAN,
Mr. MOULTON, Mr. COOPER, Mr. TED
LIEU of California, Mr. WELCH, Miss
RICE of New York, Mr. ESPAILLAT,
Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, and Mr.
SCHRADER):
H.R. 1193. A bill to prohibit funds available
for the United States Armed Forces to be ob-
ligated or expended for introduction of
United States Armed Forces into hostilities,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the Com-
mittees on Armed Services, and Rules, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. KENNEDY (for himself, Mr.
BANKS, and Mr. MOULTON):
H.R. 1194. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to permit fellowship and
stipend compensation to be saved in an indi-
vidual retirement account; to the Committee
on Ways and Means.
By Mr. KING of New York (for himself,
Mr. RYAN, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York, Ms. NORTON,
Mr. COLE, Mr. CARBAJAL, Ms. PIN-
GREE, Mrs. MURPHY, Mr. CRIST, Mr.
WELCH, Mr. LYNCH, Ms. MENG, Mr.
PALLONE, Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mr. RUTHERFORD, Mr.
COHEN, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr.
O’HALLERAN, Mr. ROSE of New York,
Mr. KILMER, and Mr. HIGGINS of New
York):
H.R. 1195. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to include certain Federal posi-
tions within the definition of law enforce-
ment officer for retirement purposes, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
By Mr. KING of New York (for himself,
Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico,
Mr. WELCH, Ms. WILD, Ms. GABBARD,
and Mr. GARAMENDI):
H.R. 1196. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow an increased work
opportunity credit with respect to recent
veterans, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. LARSEN of Washington (for
himself, Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr. GRI-
JALVA, Ms. NORTON, Mr. TONKO, Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire, Mr. SEAN
PATRICK MALONEY of New York, Mr.
HECK, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr. KIND, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Ms. DELBENE, Mr. KILMER,
Ms. ESHOO, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, and Mr.
HASTINGS):
H.R. 1197. A bill to establish a pilot pro-
gram to promote public-private partnerships
among apprenticeships or other job training
programs, local educational agencies, and
community colleges, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mrs. LEE of Nevada (for herself, Mr.
HORSFORD, Ms. TITUS, and Mr.
AMODEI):
H.R. 1198. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
404 South Boulder Highway in Henderson,
Nevada, as the ‘‘Henderson Veterans Memo-
rial Post Office Building’’; to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
By Mrs. LURIA:
H.R. 1199. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to conduct a study regard-
ing the accessibility of websites of the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs to individuals
with disabilities; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mrs. LURIA (for herself and Mr.
BOST):
H.R. 1200. A bill to increase, effective as of
December 1, 2019, the rates of compensation
for veterans with service-connected disabil-
ities and the rates of dependency and indem-
nity compensation for the survivors of cer-
tain disabled veterans, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Mr. LYNCH (for himself, Mr. TONKO,
Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr. PRICE of North
Carolina, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr. CUM-
MINGS, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. GALLEGO,
Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. COHEN, Ms. PIN-
GREE, Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr. CLEAVER,
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. CRIST, Mr.
CICILLINE, Mr. HASTINGS, Ms. NORTON,
Mr. FOSTER, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr. CON-
NOLLY, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. BONAMICI,
Mr. HIMES, Mr. SARBANES, Mr. DEFA-
ZIO, Mr. WELCH, Mr. KENNEDY, Ms.
BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mr. CARBAJAL,
and Mr. MCGOVERN):
H.R. 1201. A bill to direct Federal depart-
ments and agencies to perform certain func-
tions to ensure that climate change-related
impacts are fully considered in the develop-
ment of national security doctrine, policies,
and plans, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in
addition to the Committees on Armed Serv-
ices, Foreign Affairs, Science, Space, and
Technology, and Intelligence (Permanent Se-
lect), for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. MCHENRY:
H.R. 1202. A bill to reauthorize the Blue
Ridge National Heritage Area; to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. MITCHELL:
H.R. 1203. A bill to strengthen and enhance
the authority to discipline officers and em-
ployees of the Federal Government for vio-
lating the Anti-Deficiency Act, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
By Mr. MITCHELL:
H.R. 1204. A bill to amend title 44, United
States Code, to require the Administrator of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:06 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L13FE7.100 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1583
February 13, 2019
the Office of Information and Regulatory Af-
fairs to review regulations, and for other
purposes Be it enacted by the Senate and
House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled,; to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform,
and in addition to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mrs. MURPHY (for herself and Mr.
FITZPATRICK):
H.R. 1205. A bill to amend the Congres-
sional Budget Act of 1974 to prohibit an ad-
journment for a period of more than 12 hours
in the event of a lapse in appropriations; to
the Committee on Rules, and in addition to
the Committee on the Budget, for a period to
be subsequently determined by the Speaker,
in each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mrs. RADEWAGEN:
H.R. 1206. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to clarify that noncit-
izen nationals of the United States who are
children of United States citizens are eligi-
ble for United States citizenship, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mrs. RADEWAGEN:
H.R. 1207. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to include United States
nationals among the eligible employees of an
EB-5 commercial enterprise, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mrs. RADEWAGEN:
H.R. 1208. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to waive certain re-
quirements for naturalization for American
Samoan United States nationals to become
United States citizens, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary,
and in addition to the Committee on Natural
Resources, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD (for herself
and Mr. CALVERT):
H.R. 1209. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to ensure that non-ani-
mal methods are prioritized, where applica-
ble and feasible, in proposals for all research
to be conducted or supported by the National
Institutes of Health, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. RUIZ (for himself, Mr. COOK,
Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, Ms. BROWNLEY of California,
Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr. CARSON of Indiana,
Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Mr. KILMER, Mr. KING of
New York, Mr. O’HALLERAN, Mr.
PETERS, Mr. VELA, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ,
Ms. WEXTON, and Mr. CARBAJAL):
H.R. 1210. A bill to amend the Omnibus
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to
make reforms to the benefits for Public
Service Officers, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. RYAN:
H.R. 1211. A bill to amend the Ohio & Erie
Canal National Heritage Canalway Act of
1996 to repeal the funding limitation; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. THOMPSON of California:
H.R. 1212. A bill to amend section 1126 of
title 41, United States Code, to provide for an
exception for failure to deliver goods or com-
plete work due to a lapse in appropriations,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. THOMPSON of California:
H.R. 1213. A bill to provide compensation
for Federal contractors impacted by a lapse
in appropriations; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
By Ms. VELÁZQUEZ (for herself, Mr.
GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr. MCGOVERN,
Mr. CISNEROS, Ms. MOORE, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mrs. DEMINGS, Mrs. WAT-
SON COLEMAN, Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr.
LAWSON of Florida, and Mr.
SERRANO):
H.R. 1214. A bill to prohibit certain funds
from being transferred or reprogrammed to
plan, develop, or construct a new physical
barrier along the Southwest border, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Trans-
portation and Infrastructure, and in addition
to the Committee on Financial Services, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. WALBERG:
H.R. 1215. A bill to amend titles II and
XVIII of the Social Security Act to establish
a Social Security Surplus Protection Ac-
count in the Federal Old-Age and Survivors
Insurance Trust Fund to hold the Social Se-
curity surplus and a Medicare Surplus Pro-
tection Account in the Federal Hospital In-
surance Trust Fund to hold the Medicare
surplus, to provide for suspension of invest-
ment of amounts held in such Accounts until
enactment of legislation providing for in-
vestment of the Trust Funds in investment
vehicles other than obligations of the United
States, and to establish a Social Security
and Medicare Part A Investment Commis-
sion to make recommendations for alter-
native forms of investment of the Social Se-
curity and Medicare surpluses; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. WELCH (for himself, Mr.
STAUBER, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. POCAN,
Ms. MCCOLLUM, Ms. STEFANIK, Mr.
BEYER, Mrs. CRAIG, Mr. COLLINS of
New York, and Mr. GROTHMAN):
H.R. 1216. A bill to revise the authorized
route of the North Country National Scenic
Trail in northeastern Minnesota and to ex-
tend the trail into Vermont to connect with
the Appalachian National Scenic Trail, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. GIBBS (for himself, Mr. NOR-
MAN, Mr. WEBER of Texas, and Mr.
DUNCAN):
H.R. 1217. A bill to amend the National
Voter Registration Act of 1993 to prohibit a
State from registering an individual to vote
in elections for Federal office held in the
State unless the individual provides docu-
mentary proof that the individual is a cit-
izen of the United States; to the Committee
on House Administration.
By Mr. YOUNG (for himself and Mrs.
RADEWAGEN):
H.R. 1218. A bill to establish the American
Fisheries Advisory Committee to assist in
the awarding of fisheries research and devel-
opment grants, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. BIGGS (for himself, Mr. MEAD-
OWS, Mr. JORDAN, Mr. DAVIDSON of
Ohio, Mr. PERRY, Mr. HICE of Geor-
gia, Mr. HARRIS, Mr. ROY, Mr. GOSAR,
and Mr. GREEN of Tennessee):
H.J. Res. 45. A joint resolution making fur-
ther continuing appropriations for fiscal
year 2019, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Appropriations.
By Mr. WOMACK (for himself, Ms.
GABBARD, Mr. HILL of Arkansas, Mr.
WESTERMAN, Mr. CRAWFORD, and Mrs.
RADEWAGEN):
H. Con. Res. 18. Concurrent resolution rec-
ognizing the rich history, heritage, and stra-
tegic importance of the Republic of the Mar-
shall Islands and the Marshallese population
residing in the United States; to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources, and in addition
to the Committees on Oversight and Reform,
Armed Services, and Foreign Affairs, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. JEFFRIES:
H. Res. 125. A resolution electing Members
to certain standing committees of the House
of Representatives and ranking Members on
a certain standing committee of the House of
Representatives; considered and agreed to.
By Mr. DESAULNIER (for himself and
Ms. LEE of California):
H. Res. 126. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives regard-
ing the necessity to publically exonerate the
African-American sailors of the United
States Navy who were tried and convicted of
mutiny in connection with their service at
the Port Chicago Naval Magazine in Con-
cord, California, during World War II in
order to further aid in healing the racial di-
vide that continues to exist in the United
States; to the Committee on Armed Services.
By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Mr.
MCCAUL, Mr. SHERMAN, and Mr.
YOHO):
H. Res. 127. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives on the
importance and vitality of the United States
alliances with Japan and the Republic of
Korea, and our trilateral cooperation in the
pursuit of shared interests; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. ESPAILLAT:
H. Res. 128. A resolution recognizing Black
History Month and the contributions of Har-
lem to American history and culture; to the
Committee on Education and Labor, and in
addition to the Committees on the Judici-
ary, and Energy and Commerce, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Ms. FRANKEL (for herself, Mrs.
WAGNER, Mr. CICILLINE, and Ms.
WILD):
H. Res. 129. A resolution condemning the
Government of Saudi Arabia’s continued de-
tention and alleged abuse of women’s rights
activists; to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs.
By Mr. LIPINSKI (for himself, Mr.
LARSEN of Washington, Mr. KILMER,
Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. TONKO, Mr. RUSH,
Mr. RYAN, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
WESTERMAN, Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr.
REED, Ms. SHERRILL, Mr. KEVIN HERN
of Oklahoma, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas,
Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Mr. GALLEGO,
Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI,
Mrs. LURIA, Mr. SIRES, and Ms.
HOULAHAN):
H. Res. 130. A resolution supporting the
goals and ideals of Engineers Week; to the
Committee on Science, Space, and Tech-
nology, and in addition to the Committee on
Education and Labor, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:06 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L13FE7.100 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1584 February 13, 2019
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. LANGEVIN:
H.R. 1153.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1
By Mr. KILDEE:
H.R. 1154.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8.
By Ms. TITUS:
H.R. 1155.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. BACON:
H.R. 1156.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mr. DESJARLAIS:
H.R. 1157.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3. Congress
shall have power to regulate commerce with
Foreign Nations, and among the several
states, and with Indian Tribes.
By Mr. MCCAUL:
H.R. 1158.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. CICILLINE:
H.R. 1159.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. SCHRADER:
H.R. 1160.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Congress has the authority to act under
Article I, Section 8, clause 3—the Commerce
Clause.
By Mr. CLEAVER:
H.R. 1161.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 1 and Clause 3 of Section 8 of Arti-
cle I of the Constitution. [Page H8225]
By Mrs. NAPOLITANO:
H.R. 1162.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1, Clause 3, and
Clause 18 of the Constitution.
By Mrs. HARTZLER:
H.R. 1163.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18; and Article
VI, Clause 2 of the United States Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia:
H.R. 1164.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Mr. FOSTER:
H.R. 1165.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clauses 1 and 18 of the United States Con-
stitution.
By Mr. PETERS:
H.R. 1166.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana:
H.R. 1167.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S.C. Art. 1, Sec. 8, cl 18
By Mr. RYAN:
H.R. 1168.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 : ‘‘To make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or in any Department or Officer thereof.’’
By Mr. CICILLINE:
H.R. 1169.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. DEFAZIO:
H.R. 1170.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 (relating to
the power to make all laws necessary and
proper for carrying out the powers vested in
Congress)
By Mr. DEFAZIO:
H.R. 1171.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 (relating to
the power to make all laws necessary and
proper for carrying out the powers vested in
Congress)
By Mr. KILDEE:
H.R. 1172.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8.
By Mr. WILLIAMS:
H.R. 1173.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 5 of Section 8 of Article I of the
Constitution: ‘‘The Congress shall have the
power . . . to coin Money, regulate the Value
thereof, and of foreign Coin, and fix the
Standard of Weights and Measures.’’
By Mr. CARBAJAL:
H.R. 1174.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause I of the United
States Constitution
By Mr. KIND:
H.R. 1175.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 1 of Section 8 of Article I of the
United States Constitution.
By Mr. LEVIN of Michigan:
H.R. 1176.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 1 of the Constitution.
By Ms. SPANBERGER:
H.R. 1177.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 9, Clause 7
By Mr. SPANO:
H.R. 1178.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 9, Clause 7 of the United
States Constitution.
By Ms. ADAMS:
H.R. 1179.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8.
By Mr. BEYER:
H.R. 1180.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 9, Clause 7 (the Appro-
priations Clause) of the U.S. Constitution
By Mrs. BUSTOS:
H.R. 1181.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California:
H.R. 1182.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 1 of Section 8 of Article 1 of the
United States Constitution
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California:
H.R. 1183.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 1 of Section 8 of Article 1 of the
United States Constitution
By Ms. DEGETTE:
H.R. 1184.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
clause 18 of section 8 of article I of the
Constitution
By Ms. DELAURO:
H.R. 1185.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the United
States Constitution and Article I, Section 8,
Clause 1 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. DEUTCH:
H.R. 1186.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. ESPAILLAT:
H.R. 1187.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article One of the United States Constitu-
tion, section 8, clause 3:
The Congress shall have Power—To regu-
late commerce with foreign nations, and
among the several states, and with the In-
dian tribes;
or
Article One of the United States Constitu-
tion, section 8, clause 18:
The Congress shall have Power—To make
all laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying into execution the foregoing
powers, and all other powers vested by this
Constitution in the government of the
United States, or in any department or offi-
cer thereof.
By Mr. GOLDEN:
H.R. 1188.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 1 of Section 8 of Article I of the
United States Constitution.
By Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico:
H.R. 1189.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clauses 3 and 18 of the
U.S. Constitution, which provide as follows:
The Congress shall have Power To [. . .]
To regulate Commerce with foreign Na-
tions, and among the several States, and
with the Indian Tribes; [. . .]—And
To make all laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into Execution the
foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vest-
ed by this Constitution in the Government of
the United States, or in any Department or
Officer thereof.
By Mr. GOSAR:
H.R. 1190.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 4 (the Natu-
ralization Clause) and Section 5 of Amend-
ment XIV (the Enforcement Clause). In Or-
egon v. Mitchell, the Supreme Court de-
clared that Congress may ban state actions
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:49 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE7.032 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1585
February 13, 2019
that violate the Fourteenth Amendment.
Furthermore, in the Chamber of Commerce
v. Whiting and Cox v. Shalala, the Supreme
Court found that state laws are preempted if
they conflict with federal law.
By Mr. GRIJALVA:
H.R. 1191.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Const. art. I, §§ l and 8.
By Mr. GROTHMAN:
H.R. 1192.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. HIMES:
H.R. 1193.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution, clauses 11, 12, 13, 14, 18
By Mr. KENNEDY:
H.R. 1194.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 (relating to the power
of Congress to provide for the general wel-
fare of the United States) and Clause 18 (re-
lating to the power to make all laws nec-
essary and proper for carrying out the pow-
ers vested in congress).
By Mr. KING of New York:
H.R. 1195.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 6
The Congress shall have Power . . . To
make all Laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into Execution the fore-
going Powers, and all other Powers vested by
this Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.
By Mr. KING of New York:
H.R. 1196.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1
The Congress shall have Power To lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises,
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises
shall be uniform throughout the United
States.
By Mr. LARSEN of Washington:
H.R. 1197.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 1—All legislative powers
hereingranted shall be vested in a Congress
of the United States, which shall consist of a
Senate and House of Representatives.
By Mrs. LEE of Nevada:
H.R. 1198.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 7 of the United
States Constitution known as the Postal
Clause or the Postal Power.
By Mrs. LURIA:
H.R. 1199.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 5 of Section 8 of Article 1 of the
Constitution.
By Mrs. LURIA:
H.R. 1200.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 5 of Section 8 of Article 1 of the
Constitution.
By Mr. LYNCH:
H.R. 1201.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Congress shall have Power . . . To
make all Laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into Execution the fore-
going Powers, and all other Powers vested by
this Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.
By Mr. MCHENRY:
H.R. 1202.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, clause 2 provides
Congress with the power to ‘‘dispose of and
make all needful Rules and Regulations re-
specting the Territory and other Property
belonging to the United States.’’
By Mr. MITCHELL:
H.R. 1203.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 9, Clause 7 of the United
States Constitution
By Mr. MITCHELL:
H.R. 1204.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article 1, Section
8, Clause 18 of the United States Constitu-
tion.
By Mrs. MURPHY:
H.R. 1205.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 5, which enables each
chamber to determine the rules of its pro-
ceedings.
By Mrs. RADEWAGEN:
H.R. 1206.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mrs. RADEWAGEN:
H.R. 1207.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mrs. RADEWAGEN:
H.R. 1208.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD:
H.R. 1209.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. RUIZ:
H.R. 1210.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
clause 18 of section 8 of article I of the
Constitution
By Mr. RYAN:
H.R. 1211.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8: To make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or in any Department or Officer thereof.
By Mr. THOMPSON of California:
H.R. 1212.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1
By Mr. THOMPSON of California:
H.R. 1213.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1
By Ms. VELÁZQUEZ:
H.R. 1214.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
The Congress shall have Power. . . To reg-
ulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and
among the several States, and with the In-
dian Tribes.
Article I, Section 9, Clause 7
No money shall be drawn from the treas-
ury, but in consequence of appropriations
made by law; and a regular statement and
account of receipts and expenditures of all
public money shall be published from time to
time.
By Mr. WALBERG:
H.R. 1215.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1—The Con-
gress shall have power to lay and collect
Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay
the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises
shall be uniform throughout the United
States;
By Mr. WELCH:
H.R. 1216.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18: The Con-
gress shall have Power To . . . make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mr. GIBBS:
H.R. 1217.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 4, Clause 1: The Times,
Places, and Manner of holding Elections for
Senators and Representatives, shall be pre-
scribed by each state by the legislature
thereof;but the Congress may at any time by
Law make or such Regulations, except as to
the Places of Chusing Senators
By Mr. YOUNG:
H.R. 1218.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
‘‘The Congress shall have Power to make
all Laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying into Execution the foregoing
Powers, and all other Powers vested by this
Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.’’
By Mr. BIGGS:
H.J. Res. 45.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I of the U.S. Constitution
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 20: Mr. BROOKS of Alabama and Mr.
TIMMONS.
H.R. 38: Mr. GUEST and Mr. FULCHER.
H.R. 51: Mr. SAN NICOLAS.
H.R. 93: Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 95: Mr. MEEKS, Mr. WILLIAMS, Ms.
HAALAND, Ms. HOULAHAN, Mr. MALINOWSKI,
and Mr. VARGAS.
H.R. 99: Mr. BOST.
H.R. 129: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 140: Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
H.R. 141: Mr. KEATING and Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 188: Ms. SHERRILL and Mr. DELGADO.
H.R. 205: Mr. GALLAGHER.
H.R. 210: Mr. RASKIN and Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 219: Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mr. ROO-
NEY of Florida, Mr. MARCHANT, and Mr.
HUIZENGA.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:06 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE7.036 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1586 February 13, 2019
H.R. 230: Mr. ENGEL, Ms. ESHOO, Mr. NAD-
LER, and Ms. WILD.
H.R. 262: Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 276: Mr. WALDEN, Mr. KELLY of Mis-
sissippi, and Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 296: Mrs. ROBY and Mr. BROOKS of Ala-
bama.
H.R. 299: Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York, Mr. MCCAUL, Ms. MATSUI, Ms. HILL of
California, Ms. DEGETTE, Mr. LEVIN of Cali-
fornia, Mr. RIGGLEMAN, Mr. BAIRD, Mr.
PERRY, Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Mr. HUNTER,
Mrs. LURIA, Mr. RICHMOND, Mr. WEBER of
Texas, and Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H.R. 303: Mr. COHEN, Mr. KELLY of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mrs. RODGERS of
Washington, Mr. PAYNE, Mr. RUTHERFORD,
Mr. BUCHANAN, Mr. GAETZ, Mr. TURNER, Mr.
YOUNG, and Mr. VELA.
H.R. 309: Mr. MORELLE.
H.R. 332: Mr. DEFAZIO.
H.R. 336: Mr. MAST, Mr. WALDEN, and Mr.
FULCHER.
H.R. 339: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 365: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 367: Mr. GIBBS, Mr. CLAY, Mr. COMER,
Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. GREEN of Tennessee, and
Mr. RATCLIFFE.
H.R. 369: Mr. TURNER.
H.R. 372: Mr. CARBAJAL and Mr.
GARAMENDI.
H.R. 400: Mr. NORMAN, Mr. KIM, and Mr.
RUPPERSBERGER.
H.R. 415: Ms. VELÁZQUEZ and Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 437: Mr. CARTER of Georgia.
H.R. 478: Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 479: Mr. WEBER of Texas.
H.R. 489: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 490: Mrs. ROBY.
H.R. 500: Ms. SLOTKIN and Mrs. TRAHAN.
H.R. 510: Mr. GOHMERT, Mr. POCAN, Mr.
UPTON, Mr. RUSH, Mr. PASCRELL, Mrs.
HARTZLER, and Mr. BYRNE.
H.R. 512: Ms. GARCIA of Texas.
H.R. 516: Mr. ALLEN.
H.R. 540: Mr. RUSH and Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 553: Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. RUTHERFORD,
Mr. GIANFORTE, Mr. STEWART, and Mr. SCOTT
of Virginia.
H.R. 555: Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. MICHAEL F.
DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr. SOTO, and Mr.
KHANNA.
H.R. 573: Mr. BARR, Mr. JOHNSON of Lou-
isiana, Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania, Mr.
GROTHMAN, Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania, Mr.
COLE, Mrs. HARTZLER, Mr. MITCHELL, Mr.
JOHNSON of Ohio, Mr. CHABOT, Mr. WALTZ,
and Mr. CLOUD.
H.R. 578: Mr. LYNCH.
H.R. 579: Mr. HUNTER.
H.R. 580: Mr. HUNTER.
H.R. 583: Miss RICE of New York, Mr. COL-
LINS of New York, and Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York.
H.R. 587: Ms. WILD, Mr. MASSIE, Mr.
MCCLINTOCK, Mr. GREEN of Tennessee, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. MARCHANT, Mrs. ROBY,
and Mr. BISHOP of Utah.
H.R. 588: Mr. PETERS.
H.R. 612: Mr. WEBER of Texas and Mr.
PALMER.
H.R. 613: Mr. NORMAN, Mr. BRINDISI, Mr.
HIMES, Mr. WILSON of South Carolina, Mr.
WELCH, and Mr. LUETKEMEYER.
H.R. 621: Mr. LUETKEMEYER.
H.R. 625: Mr. BUDD.
H.R. 628: Mr. NORMAN, Mrs. HARTZLER, and
Mr. CARTER of Georgia.
H.R. 635: Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H.R. 636: Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. WILSON of
Florida, Ms. JACKSON LEE, and Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 643: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY and Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 647: Mr. LOWENTHAL and Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 652: Ms. JUDY CHU of California.
H.R. 664: Mr. BUCSHON.
H.R. 669: Ms. WATERS and Mrs. BEATTY.
H.R. 671: Mr. HUDSON.
H.R. 689: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 692: Mr. STAUBER, Mr. CHABOT, Mr.
TURNER, and Mr. CARTER of Georgia.
H.R. 693: Mr. FORTENBERRY, Mr. TURNER,
Mr. DELGADO, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. WALBERG,
Mr. PERRY, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Mr.
BRINDISI, Ms. WEXTON, Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr.
WALTZ, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. EVANS, Mr. EMMER,
Mr. LARSON of Connecticut, Mrs. NAPOLI-
TANO, and Mr. BROWN of Maryland.
H.R. 712: Mr. WALTZ, Mr. WELCH, and Mr.
BRINDISI.
H.R. 714: Mr. GOODEN, Mr. BUDD, Mr. WEB-
STER of Florida, Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio, and
Mr. PALMER.
H.R. 720: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 724: Mr. SOTO, Mr. LAWSON of Florida,
Mr. LARSON of Connecticut, Mr. BUCSHON,
and Mr. SCHIFF.
H.R. 728: Mr. COLE, Ms. WILD, and Mr.
O’HALLERAN.
H.R. 732: Miss RICE of New York, Mr. BRIN-
DISI, Ms. HAALAND, and Ms. VELÁZQUEZ.
H.R. 736: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 740: Mr. KELLY of Mississippi.
H.R. 756: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas.
H.R. 759: Mr. CLAY, Mr. O’HALLERAN, Ms.
ESCOBAR, and Ms. GARCIA of Texas.
H.R. 762: Miss RICE of New York.
H.R. 784: Mr. WOMACK, Mr. GALLAGHER, Mr.
MAST, Mr. PENCE, Mr. TIMMONS, and Mr.
BURCHETT.
H.R. 787: Mr. TURNER.
H.R. 803: Mr. CRAWFORD.
H.R. 804: Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 806: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 809: Mr. EVANS.
H.R. 810: Mr. LANGEVIN.
H.R. 811: Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 813: Mr. HASTINGS and Mr. ESPAILLAT.
H.R. 820: Mr. QUIGLEY.
H.R. 824: Mr. POSEY and Mr. YARMUTH.
H.R. 837: Mr. HUDSON and Mr. JOYCE of
Pennsylvania.
H.R. 845: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 847: Mr. DUNCAN, Mr. POSEY, Mr.
HUIZENGA, and Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 850: Mr. BUCSHON.
H.R. 854: Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr.
CICILLINE, and Mrs. MURPHY.
H.R. 856: Mr. WRIGHT, Mr. STAUBER, and
Mr. GOSAR.
H.R. 870: Mr. JEFFRIES, Mr. HASTINGS, and
Ms. ADAMS.
H.R. 872: Mr. KATKO, Mr. CASTEN of Illinois,
and Mr. SCHIFF.
H.R. 874: Mr. MEEKS, Mr. KHANNA, Mr.
CARTWRIGHT, Mr. PETERS, Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr.
RYAN, Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr. ENGEL,
Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. PASCRELL, Mr. SOTO, Mr.
MOULTON, Mr. KILMER, Mr. RUSH, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, and Mr. CRIST.
H.R. 879: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 882: Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 886: Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico
and Mr. VARGAS.
H.R. 889: Ms. HILL of California.
H.R. 900: Mr. SABLAN.
H.R. 915: Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York.
H.R. 919: Mr. SCHNEIDER.
H.R. 935: Mr. BYRNE.
H.R. 940: Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 945: Mr. DEFAZIO and Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 946: Ms. PINGREE and Mr. COOPER.
H.R. 949: Mr. KELLY of Mississippi, Mr.
DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee, Mr. TURNER, Mr.
PALMER, Mr. BYRNE, Mr. GAETZ, Mr. MEAD-
OWS, and Mr. MASSIE.
H.R. 951: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas.
H.R. 958: Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 961: Mr. MAST, Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire, Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
RESCHENTHALER, Mr. DELGADO, Mr. CON-
NOLLY, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. LAWSON of
Florida, Ms. WILD, Mr. HASTINGS, Ms.
STEFANIK, Mr. KATKO, Mr. KING of New York,
Mr. GAETZ, Mr. RYAN, Mr. CALVERT, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, and Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 962: Mr. FORTENBERRY, Mr. DIAZ-
BALART, Mr. ROUZER, Mr. SMITH of Nebraska,
Mr. COMER, Mr. MOOLENAAR, Mr. CARTER of
Georgia, Mr. KELLY of Mississippi, Mr.
LAHOOD, Mr. SIMPSON, Mr. WOMACK, and Mr.
SPANO.
H.R. 978: Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr.
CARTWRIGHT, Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi,
Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mr. GARAMENDI,
Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr. TED
LIEU of California, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Ms. BONAMICI, Ms. DELAURO, Mr.
SMITH of Washington, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Ms.
SPEIER, and Mr. LANGEVIN.
H.R. 987: Mr. WELCH and Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 989: Mr. MITCHELL, Mr. HARDER of
California, and Ms. WILD.
H.R. 1002: Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
ENGEL, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, and Mr.
RYAN.
H.R. 1004: Mr. HUFFMAN, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY,
Mr. YARMUTH, and Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 1007: Mr. SUOZZI and Mr. NORCROSS.
H.R. 1008: Mr. MITCHELL.
H.R. 1010: Mr. WELCH and Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 1011: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 1012: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 1013: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 1019: Ms. STEFANIK, Mr. JOYCE of Ohio,
Mr. KELLY of Mississippi, Mr. GROTHMAN, Mr.
DESJARLAIS, Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia,
Mr. GOLDEN, and Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 1027: Mr. ESTES.
H.R. 1044: Mr. GOLDEN, Mr. THORNBERRY,
Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Mr. ROUZER, Mr. KEN-
NEDY, Mr. BUCSHON, Mr. GOODEN, Mr. CART-
WRIGHT, Mr. SCHNEIDER, and Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 1049: Mr. WATKINS.
H.R. 1050: Mr. MALINOWSKI and Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 1055: Mrs. TRAHAN.
H.R. 1059: Mr. WATKINS and Mr. WALKER.
H.R. 1066: Mr. YOHO and Mr. COX of Cali-
fornia.
H.R. 1069: Mr. HASTINGS and Ms. MOORE.
H.R. 1073: Mr. HORSFORD, Ms. TITUS, and
Ms. MENG.
H.R. 1077: Mr. CLOUD and Mr. BUDD.
H.R. 1080: Ms. LEE of California, Mr. PA-
NETTA, Mr. PALLONE, Mr. CISNEROS, Ms.
ESHOO, Mr. LOWENTHAL, and Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 1108: Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. BROWN of
Maryland, Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
CARBAJAL, Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Mr.
COHEN, Mr. COURTNEY, Mrs. CRAIG, Mr. CUM-
MINGS, Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas, Mr. RODNEY
DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illi-
nois, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Ms.
FINKENAUER, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr.
GIBBS, Mr. HUFFMAN, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms.
JOHNSON of Texas, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Mr. KILMER, Mr. KING of New York, Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire, Mr. LAWSON of
Florida, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr.
LYNCH, Mr. MALINOWSKI, Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York, Mr. MOONEY of West
Virginia, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
PAPPAS, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Ms. PLASKETT,
Mr. ROUDA, Mr. RYAN, Mr. SIRES, Mr. STAN-
TON, Mr. THOMPSON of California, Ms. TITUS,
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, and Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H.R. 1109: Mr. POCAN, Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr.
SAN NICOLAS, Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr.
SERRANO, and Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 1126: Mr. RUTHERFORD.
H.R. 1134: Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 1135: Mr. JOYCE of Ohio.
H.R. 1140: Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mrs. DEMINGS,
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of
Georgia, and Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 1142: Mrs. LOWEY, Mrs. TORRES of Cali-
fornia, Mr. DESAULNIER, and Mr. FOSTER.
H.R. 1146: Mr. CASE, Mr. HIGGINS of New
York, Ms. MOORE, and Mr. LEVIN of Michi-
gan.
H.J. Res. 2: Ms. ESHOO.
H.J. Res. 4: Mr. RICE of South Carolina.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:06 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE7.041 H13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1587
February 13, 2019
H.J. Res. 20: Mr. RIGGLEMAN.
H.J. Res. 33: Mr. WELCH.
H.J. Res. 35: Mr. HIMES, Ms. PORTER, Mr.
BRINDISI, and Mr. HIGGINS of New York.
H.J. Res. 44: Mr. SIRES, Mr. RASKIN, Ms.
SHALALA, and Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H. Con. Res. 10: Mr. MOONEY of West Vir-
ginia, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. GAETZ, Mr. MCKIN-
LEY, Mr. WEBSTER of Florida, Mr.
RIGGLEMAN, Mr. CURTIS, Mr. BUDD, and Mr.
CLINE.
H. Con. Res. 14: Mr. BEYER and Mrs. LURIA.
H. Con. Res. 15: Mr. DESAULNIER and Ms.
ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H. Res. 23: Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr.
WELCH, Mrs. LOWEY, and Ms. TITUS.
H. Res. 33: Mr. TAKANO.
H. Res. 34: Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. LYNCH, Mr.
SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York, and
Ms. TITUS.
H. Res. 49: Mr. SPANO.
H. Res. 54: Mr. WATKINS, Mr. BUCHANAN,
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania, Mr. SWALWELL
of California, Mr. YOUNG, Mr. SMITH of Mis-
souri, and Ms. TITUS.
H. Res. 58: Ms. HOULAHAN.
H. Res. 60: Mr. CARBAJAL, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. LAMB, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms.
KELLY of Illinois, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. KIL-
DEE, Mrs. DEMINGS, Ms. TITUS, and Mr.
LOWENTHAL.
H. Res. 72: Mr. FULCHER, Mr. COOK, Mr.
JOYCE of Ohio, Mr. GUTHRIE, Mr. BERGMAN,
Mr. EMMER, Mr. WALBERG, Mr. SMUCKER, Mr.
CALVERT, Mr. BANKS, Mr. GREEN of Ten-
nessee, Mr. AMODEI, Mr. MCCAUL, Mr.
HAGEDORN, Mr. ABRAHAM, Mrs. MILLER, Mr.
BUCSHON, Mr. PENCE, Mr. KATKO, Mr. LONG,
Mr. SMITH of Missouri, Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio,
Mr. COMER, Mr. WALTZ, Mr. SCHWEIKERT, Mr.
DUNN, Mr. FLORES, Mr. STEWART, Mr.
GIANFORTE, Mr. BUCHANAN, Mr. TURNER, Mr.
PALAZZO, Mr. MULLIN, Mr. LAMBORN, Mr.
ARRINGTON, and Mr. STAUBER.
H. Res. 104: Mr. KILMER, Mr. LUJÁN, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Ms. HAALAND, and Mr. WATKINS.
H. Res. 106: Mr. COHEN, Mr. KHANNA, Ms.
MOORE, and Mr. RASKIN.
H. Res. 110: Mr. MITCHELL, Mr. BANKS, Mr.
DAVIDSON of Ohio, Mr. KELLY of Mississippi,
Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma, Mr. WILSON of
South Carolina, Mr. GREEN of Tennessee, Mr.
MCKINLEY, Mr. WALTZ, Mr. LOUDERMILK, Mr.
GROTHMAN, Mr. CARTER of Georgia, Mr.
LAMALFA, Mr. SCALISE, Mr. BYRNE, Mr. KING
of Iowa, and Mr. ROUZER.
H. Res. 112: Mr. DEUTCH and Mr. HASTINGS.
H. Res. 116: Ms. STEFANIK, Mr. TURNER, and
Mr. HECK.
H. Res. 119: Mr. GRAVES of Missouri, Mr.
BERA, and Mr. CASE.
H. Res. 124: Mr. VARGAS, Mr. HECK, Mr.
FOSTER, Mr. YARMUTH, Mrs. TORRES of Cali-
fornia, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. KILDEE, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr.
LOEBSACK, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mrs. LEE of
Nevada, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, and Mr. MOULTON.
f
DELETIONS OF SPONSORS FROM
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were deleted from public bills and reso-
lutions, as follows:
H.R. 940: Mr. WILSON of South Carolina.
N O T I C E
(For conference report and statement, see proceedings of the House of February 13, 2019, in Book II.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:06 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 8633 E:\CR\FM\A13FE7.046 H13FEPT1
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S1285
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2019 No. 28
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Almighty God, our refuge and
strength, Your Kingdom cannot be
shaken. We praise You that more
things are wrought by prayer than we
can imagine. We are grateful for Your
invitation to ask and receive, to seek
and find, and to knock for doors to
open.
May this prayer that opens today’s
session be a springboard for our law-
makers to communicate with You
throughout the day. May they pause
repeatedly during their challenging
world to ask You for wisdom and guid-
ance. Lord, empower the members of
their staffs and all who labor for lib-
erty to harness prayer power continu-
ously.
We pray in Your powerful Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
DAINES). Under the previous order, the
leadership time is reserved.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
MEASURE PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR—S. 464
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
understand there is a bill at the desk
due for a second reading.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the title of the bill for
a second time.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 464) to require the treatment of
a lapse in appropriations as a mitigating
condition when assessing financial consider-
ations for security clearances, and for other
purposes.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, in
order to place the bill on the calendar
under the provisions of rule XIV, I ob-
ject to further proceedings.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the bill will be
placed on the calendar.
f
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, yes-
terday Chairman SHELBY, Ranking
Member LEAHY, and their House coun-
terparts continued finalizing their leg-
islative proposal to fund the govern-
ment. Their negotiated solution would
wrap up this year’s appropriations and
avoid another partial government shut-
down.
As our colleagues hammer out the
final details, I would like to thank
them again for their cooperative, bi-
partisan efforts that have brought us
to this point. The agreement reached
on Monday was achieved because the
conference committee set aside far-left
poison pills and utterly absurd de-
mands. None of these radical non-
starters was allowed to torpedo the
process.
Notwithstanding weeks of over-the-
top rhetoric from Speaker PELOSI, the
agreement did not cave to the far-left
demand that no more than a single dol-
lar go toward new barriers on the
southern border—no, indeed, it pro-
vides well over a billion such dollars.
The negotiators also prevented last-
minute efforts to hamstring the U.S.
Immigrations and Customs Enforce-
ment with an unprecedented statutory
limit on their ability to detain crimi-
nal aliens in the interior of our coun-
try.
Instead, here is what their agreement
does provide. It provides another sig-
nificant downpayment on the Presi-
dent’s plan to secure our Nation’s bor-
ders with new physical barriers and
keep American communities safe. It
provides nearly $1.4 billion for new bar-
riers in the Border Patrol’s highest pri-
ority areas—enough to build nearly
twice as many miles as were funded
last year. It gives ICE the capacity and
the flexibility to continue responding
to surges in illegal immigration. It
continues to provide the President
with appropriate reprogramming au-
thority, so he can direct additional
funding toward urgent homeland secu-
rity priorities should circumstances re-
quire. Of course, in addition to all this,
the legislation will wrap up all our out-
standing regular appropriations bills
and get the entire Federal Government
funded the right way.
It goes without saying that neither
side is getting everything it wants.
That is the way it goes in divided gov-
ernment. If the text of the bill reflects
the principles agreed to on Monday, it
won’t be a perfect deal, but it will be a
good deal.
I hope that our colleagues will com-
plete the process of turning these prin-
ciples into legislation soon and final
text that can become law before this
Friday’s deadline.
We can’t let any unrelated, cynical,
partisan plays get in the way of fin-
ishing this important process. I under-
stand, for example, that Speaker
PELOSI and House Democrats are ap-
parently objecting, believe it or not, to
a modest extension of the Violence
Against Women Act. They want this
authority to expire on Friday.
Republicans believe that we should
follow standard procedure and extend
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE6.000 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1286 February 13, 2019
this important legislation through the
end of the fiscal year, which is about 7
months. There are new chairmen in
this Congress of both the Senate and
House Judiciary Committees, and a
modest extension of this authority
would allow them to work on a longer
term reauthorization of this important
law. In addition, a modest extension of
this law is consistent with how this
matter has been handled in the past.
Every time a continuing resolution was
necessary in the past Congress, Repub-
licans made sure it included an exten-
sion of VAWA.
I don’t know what cynical ploy my
Democratic colleagues may be trying
to pull here, but surely no political ma-
neuvering should be worth letting the
Violence Against Women Act lapse this
Friday, 2 days from now. It is time to
get this done.
f
H.R. 1
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, as I
alluded to earlier this week, I have a
feeling this conference is just getting
started discussing Speaker PELOSI’s
signature bill, H.R. 1. I, for one, am
eager to continue shining the spotlight
on the Democrat Politician Protection
Act and asking why, exactly, Wash-
ington Democrats are so intent on as-
signing themselves a whole lot more
power over what American citizens can
say about politics, how we can say it,
and how we cast our ballots.
Remember, among the many fairly
blatant power plays built into this leg-
islation is a naked attempt to turn our
neutral Federal Election Commission
into a partisan weapon. The FEC is a
body that, since Watergate and for ob-
vious reasons, has had an even-num-
bered membership and equal division
between the two parties. Enforcement
and penalty require both parties to
agree, or at least one Commissioner
from one party has to agree with three
Commissioners of the other party. This
is meant to ensure that complaints are
evaluated on their substance, not for
purely political considerations.
I guess Speaker PELOSI and her col-
leagues are tired of playing fair and
trying to persuade the old-fashioned
way because the Democrat Politician
Protection Act would take the FEC
down to a five-member body and give
sitting Presidents—listen to this one—
it would give sitting Presidents the
power to appoint the Chairperson.
They would turn the FEC into a na-
kedly partisan body and give the sit-
ting President the power to appoint the
Chairperson—where his or her party
would have a 3-to-2 advantage—who
holds the keys to determine whom to
investigate and what enforcement to
pursue.
The evenness of the FEC is a vital
way to ensuring that Americans’ polit-
ical speech and campaigns for public
office are regulated fairly and
evenhandedly. Of course, that needs to
be done on a bipartisan basis, but the
Democrats want to throw that right
out the window and carve out a par-
tisan majority on this crucial Commis-
sion.
This proposal is outrageous enough
on its face, but just wait until you hear
about all the new things the Democrat
Politician Protection Act would let
this newly partisan FEC actually do.
First, they turn it over to the party
of the President, so they have a clear
majority to go after the minority. But
let’s see what they can do. There are
incredibly vague new standards that
seem tailor-made to give this partisan
FEC the maximum latitude to penalize
or silence certain speech. You begin to
get the picture. Of course, this partisan
FEC is going to want to silence the
voices of its opponents.
Let me give a few examples.
The newly partisan FEC would be
handed the ability to determine what
kind of speech is ‘‘campaign-related’’—
growing its jurisdiction and widening
its bureaucratic wingspan over more of
the public discourse, including issues of
the day and not just elections.
Private citizens, for example, would
be required to make the government
aware of times they spend even small
amounts of money in engaging in First
Amendment activities. Private citizens
have to notify the government if they
are going to engage in spending small
amounts of money on First Amend-
ment activities—on expressing them-
selves—or they will face penalties.
More speech would fall into this cat-
egory whereby Americans would have
to dutifully notify Federal bureaucrats
that they are speaking their minds or
else pay a fine. To put it another way,
it is free speech as long as you fill out
government forms and mail a couple of
carbon copies to Washington.
In other cases, the Democrats want
to impose stunningly vague, broad, and
potentially unconstitutional restric-
tions on the abilities of all kinds of ad-
vocacy groups—on all sides of the po-
litical spectrum—to exercise their con-
stitutional right to speak out about
elected politicians and their positions
on substantive issues.
Let’s go over that again because I
know this is a technical subject.
Under the guise of cracking down on
‘‘super PAC coordination,’’ the Demo-
crats want to give a partisan FEC new
powers to prohibit advocacy groups
from weighing in on politicians’ job
performances and the issues of the day
under a broad set of new conditions.
Washington Democrats want individual
American citizens, civic groups, trade
associations, labor unions, and non-
profits to face more restrictions, more
hurdles, and more potential penalties
for daring to have opinions about the
political races that decide who goes to
Washington in the first place.
Call me old-fashioned, but I remem-
ber when both political parties were
more interested in trying to win de-
bates than in trying to shut down de-
bates. This will be an FEC designed to
stifle free speech and tilt the playing
field in the direction of the President’s
party. I remember when constitu-
tionally minded leaders on both sides
of the aisle would have recoiled at ef-
forts to chill or even to prohibit a pri-
vate citizen’s ability to speak.
Let’s not forget, in every one of these
cases, when these fuzzy, new lines and
vague rules need enforcing, who has
the final say? Why, it is the newly par-
tisan Federal Election Commission
that determines who gets to speak and
who doesn’t. My Democratic colleagues
are trying to muddy the rule book and
mount a hostile takeover of the ref-
erees all at the same time.
Let me just close with this. Back in
1974, as the creation of the FEC was de-
bated here in this Chamber, California
Democratic Senator Alan Cranston
gave this warning: ‘‘The FEC has such
a potential for abuse in our democratic
society that the President should not
be given power over the Commission.’’
Wise words.
Back then, a California Democrat
was warning against a partisan take-
over of the American electoral system.
It is the distinguished Member of the
House from San Francisco, Speaker
PELOSI, who is now, today,
cheerleading for that very change.
The Democratic Party has changed
its views on this subject a lot in the
last 45 years, but the purpose of the
FEC has not changed one bit, and nei-
ther has the importance of the First
Amendment.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to resume
consideration of the following nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of William
Pelham Barr, of Virginia, to be Attor-
ney General.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, we
have a clear and obvious way to avoid
another government shutdown in 48
hours. The conference committee has
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.001 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1287
February 13, 2019
done its job. It has forged a bipartisan
agreement that would keep the govern-
ment open through September as well
as provide additional border security.
As with all bipartisan agreements, it
is the product of compromise. Each
side gave a little; each side got a little.
The conferees deserve our praise for
their hard work, their commitment,
and their success.
This agreement is the last train leav-
ing the station away from another
dreaded government shutdown. The
last time we were all in this situation,
the President signaled his support for a
government funding bill, only for him
to retreat at the last possible mo-
ment—precipitating the longest shut-
down in our history. It was the Trump
shutdown, and he now seems to admit
that again.
No one wants to see a rerun of that
movie. The President must not repeat
his mistakes of the recent past.
President Trump, sign this bill.
Neither side got everything it wanted
in this bill, but both sides wanted to
avoid another shutdown—Democrats
and Republicans, House and Senate.
President Trump, sign this bill.
The parameters of the deal are good.
It provides additional funding for
smart, effective border security. Let
me repeat that. It does not fund the
President’s wall, but it does fund smart
border security that both parties sup-
port. It also provides humanitarian as-
sistance and beefs up security at our
ports of entry. Though it hasn’t been
discussed much during the negotia-
tions, the passage of this agreement
clears the way for the six bipartisan
appropriations bills that have lan-
guished. These bills contain important
priorities, including more support for
infrastructure, housing, Tribal
healthcare, the census, and money to
combat the opioid crisis. I look forward
to passing all of these appropriations
bills, alongside the DHS agreement,
this week.
One of the last things that has to be
dealt with is the negotiating of a good
compromise to fix some of the prob-
lems that have been created by the
Trump shutdown. We are trying to get
the conferees to approve a proposal to
deal with Federal contractors. Thou-
sands of Federal contractors have not
been reimbursed from the 35-day shut-
down. This issue is still hanging in the
balance. The Republicans should join
the junior Senator from Minnesota and
the Democrats in approving this legis-
lation as soon as possible.
The contractors, many of them just
working people, are in the same boat as
government employees, except they
haven’t gotten their backpay. They
should. No one should stand in the way
of that. It is just not fair to them.
They were hostages, just like the gov-
ernment workers were hostages. So I
hope we can include that in these final
hours of negotiations. It is very impor-
tant.
Now, the only remaining obstacle to
avoiding a government shutdown is the
uncertainty of the President’s signa-
ture. So I repeat my request: President
Trump, say you will sign this bill. Re-
move the ax hanging over everyone’s
head. To make progress in our democ-
racy, you have to accept the give-and-
take. You have to accept some conces-
sions. You have to be willing to com-
promise.
Any American President who says
my way or no way does a real dis-
service to the American people. Presi-
dent Trump, in politics, to quote the
Rolling Stones, ‘‘You can’t always get
what you want.’’ It is time to put the
months of shutdown politics behind us.
NOMINATION OF MICHAEL PARK
Mr. President, on another matter,
today the Judiciary Committee is hold-
ing a confirmation hearing on the nom-
ination of Mr. Michael Park for the
Second Circuit Court of Appeals, which
covers my home State of New York.
I have always assessed judges on
three criteria: excellence, moderation,
diversity. While Michael Park satisfies
the first and third prongs of my test,
he fails miserably on the second—
modification.
Mr. Park has spent much of his ca-
reer working in opposition to civil
rights and seeking to advance the
rightwing agenda that lies at the very
core of the Federalist Society’s mis-
sion. Mr. Park is currently working to
defend the Trump administration’s ef-
fort to insert a citizenship question
into the 2020 census—a cynical effort to
discourage people from responding to
the census.
He has been on the frontlines of the
effort to dismantle affirmative action
policies in education. In 2012, he sub-
mitted an amicus brief to the Supreme
Court, writing on behalf of the peti-
tioner who sought to have the univer-
sity’s use of race, as one consideration
among many, in the admissions process
struck down as unconstitutional.
He is currently representing the
plaintiffs in a suit challenging Har-
vard’s affirmative action policy. He has
worked to deny women’s reproductive
freedoms when he represented the
State of Kansas against a challenge to
its attempt to defund Planned Parent-
hood and ban it from participating in
the State Medicaid Program.
In 2012, he submitted a brief to the
Supreme Court in NFIB v. Sebelius
urging the Court to strike down the en-
tire Affordable Care Act. This nominee
rather wants to get rid of the whole
ACA.
If the American people knew the kind
of nominees President Trump is nomi-
nating and the kind of nominees the
Republican majority is supporting, so
against everything they believe in—
America believes in Roe v. Wade,
America believes in keeping the ACA,
America believes in voting rights—if
they knew all these details, they would
be appalled, and our Republican col-
leagues rarely bring these things to the
floor legislatively. They know they
would be roundly defeated, but it is
sort of an end run—pick judges who in
the courts will uphold these unpopular
positions.
Mr. Park has a long and detailed
record of support for the most conserv-
ative legal causes. A judge is asked to
interpret the law rather than make the
law, to apply fairly the legal principles
set forth by precedent, not reread the
Constitution to fit the political cause
of the moment.
Mr. Park’s career does not give me
the confidence that he can be an impar-
tial arbiter on the Second Circuit. I
will oppose his nomination, and I will
urge my colleagues to do the same.
Now, in the not-so-distant past, my
objection to this nomination would
mean that the chairman of the Judici-
ary Committee would not move for-
ward with the nomination out of re-
spect for home State Senators in the
blue-slip tradition—but not in this
Congress, not with this Republican ma-
jority.
Since the election of President
Trump, Senate Republicans, led by
Leader MCCONNELL, Chairman GRASS-
LEY, and now Chairman GRAHAM, have
unceremoniously discarded the blue-
slip tradition. My colleagues on the
other side will say it is because we
haven’t worked with them in a timely
manner to fill these vacancies, but let’s
not kid ourselves. This is about one
thing and one thing alone—the desire
of the Republican majority to ram
through more of the Federalist Soci-
ety’s handpicked, hard-right judges.
Last Congress, the majority con-
firmed two judges over the blue-slip ob-
jections of Democratic Senators BALD-
WIN and CASEY. A third, Ryan Bounds,
would have been confirmed over the ob-
jections of Senators WYDEN and
MERKLEY if not for Senator SCOTT’s
principled objection to Bounds’ past
racist writings.
The practice continues, unfortu-
nately, in this Congress. Last week,
the Judiciary Committee voted along
party lines to advance an additional
four circuit court nominees over the
blue-slip objections of five Democratic
Senators—BROWN, MURRAY, CANTWELL,
BOOKER, MENENDEZ—and in the coming
weeks, the committee will move for-
ward with two additional court nomi-
nees over the objections of Ranking
Member FEINSTEIN and Senator HATCH.
Last Congress, we worked with the
White House to move eight New York
judges—one circuit, seven district—
through the Judiciary Committee in a
bipartisan way. That is how it should
work. I would like to cooperate on New
York judges this Congress, but the con-
tinued consideration of Michael Park,
combined with the majority’s clear in-
tentions to ignore the blue-slip tradi-
tion, makes this very difficult, if not
impossible. I know the leader is proud
of what he is doing on judges. I don’t
think history will look very kindly on
it; A, putting such hard-right judges, so
against what the American people be-
lieve, in office. History will not look
kindly on that as their decisions come
down; but second, eliminating the last
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.002 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1288 February 13, 2019
vestiges of bipartisanship as we select
judges.
NOMINATION OF WILLIAM BARR
Mr. President, finally, the Senate
will soon resume debate on the nomi-
nation of William Barr to be the Attor-
ney General. I oppose this for many
reasons, and later today I will join my
Democratic colleagues during debate
time to lay out my opposition to this
nominee.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from California.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I
thank the leader for his comments. I
want to just say that the Democrats on
the Judiciary Committee agree with
him, and on their behalf, I would like
to make the following comments.
Last week, the Judiciary Committee
voted on the nomination of William
Barr to be Attorney General of the
United States. All Democrats voted
against the nomination. There are rea-
sons.
There is no question that Mr. Barr is
qualified. He previously served as At-
torney General from 1991 to 1993, and
he has had a long legal career, but the
question before us is whether Mr. Barr
is the right choice to lead the Justice
Department, at this time, with this
President, when there are currently
several active investigations that im-
plicate this President, his campaign,
his advisers, and/or his inner circle.
The answer for me and the Judiciary
Committee Democrats is no. Let me
explain why. Five months before being
named for the Attorney General posi-
tion, Mr. Barr wrote an extensive 19-
page, single-spaced memo in which he
provided great detail and legal argu-
ments for his view of the President’s
absolute authority. Mr. Barr then
shared and discussed that memo with
the White House Counsel and the Presi-
dent’s defense lawyers.
In this memo, Mr. Barr outlined his
views on Special Counsel Mueller’s in-
vestigation into possible obstruction of
justice, the unitary executive, and
whether a President can, in fact, be in-
dicted.
One example, Mr. Barr argued that
Special Counsel Mueller should not be
allowed to question the President
about obstruction of justice—point 1.
He concluded that the law does not
apply to the President if it conflicts
with a broad view of Executive author-
ity, and that view is often referred to
as the unitary executive.
Under this belief, conflict of interest
laws cannot and do not apply to the
President of the United States because,
as Mr. Barr writes in his memo, ‘‘to
apply them would impermissibly
‘disempower’ the President from super-
vising a class of cases that the Con-
stitution grants him the authority to
supervise. Under the Constitution, the
President’s authority over law enforce-
ment matters is necessarily all-encom-
passing.’’
Read the memo. This is on page 11.
Further, Mr. Barr asserted that ‘‘the
Constitution, itself, places no limit on
the President’s authority to act on
matters which concern him or his own
conduct.’’
Mr. Barr went on to explain that, in
his view, President Trump would have
virtually unlimited authority over the
Executive branch. As he said in his
memo, the President ‘‘alone is the Ex-
ecutive branch. As such, he is the sole
repository of all Executive powers con-
ferred by the Constitution. Thus, the
full measure of law enforcement au-
thority is placed in the President’s
hands, and no limit is placed on the
kinds of cases subject to his control
and supervision.’’
That is page 11 of the memo.
Importantly, based on these conclu-
sions, Mr. Barr asserts that certain
Presidential actions—including firing
FBI Director James Comey or telling
the FBI to go easy on Michael Flynn—
is never obstruction of justice.
In fact, Mr. Barr even said that ‘‘the
President’s discretion in these areas
has long been considered ‘absolute,’
and his decisions exercising this discre-
tion are presumed to be regular and are
generally deemed nonreviewable.’’
That is page 10 in the memo.
This is a stunning legal argument.
Taken to its natural conclusion, Mr.
Barr’s analysis squarely places this
President above the law. To argue that
the President has no check on his au-
thority flies in the face of our constitu-
tional principles of checks and bal-
ances and should be concerning to
Democrats and Republicans.
Mr. Barr’s views about the power of
the President are especially troubling
in light of his refusal to commit to
making the special counsel’s findings
and the report publicly available, and
his refusal to agree to protect the
other investigations into President
Trump.
When I asked Mr. Barr about this at
the hearing, he said, in his own words,
that he would ‘‘make as much informa-
tion available as I can consistent with
the rules and regulations that are part
of the special counsel regulations.’’
When others pressed him, he changed
his answer to suggest that he may in-
stead release a summary of the special
counsel’s findings. This is not accept-
able. There is nothing in existing law
or regulations that prevents the Attor-
ney General from sharing the special
counsel’s report and underlying factual
findings with the American public.
Many of us believe this report is sem-
inal to the Presidency, and the public
must be able to read it.
In addition, as part of our oversight
responsibilities, Congress routinely re-
quests and receives confidential infor-
mation related to closed investiga-
tions. In fact, recently Congress asked
for and received investigative informa-
tion, including transcripts of FBI
interviews of witnesses involved in the
examination of Secretary Clinton’s
emails. This matter should be treated
no differently.
After Mr. Barr’s hearing, I sent him
two letters. First, I asked him to pro-
vide Congress and the American public
with the full accounting of the Mueller
investigation, including any report pre-
pared by the special counsel himself.
Secondly, I asked him in writing to
commit to protecting all investiga-
tions into matters surrounding Presi-
dent Trump and the 2016 election.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that these two letters be printed
in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
U.S. SENATE,
Washington, DC, January 17, 2019.
MR. BARR: I very much appreciated your
responses to questions before the Committee
and hearing directly from you on many im-
portant issues. As I noted during the hear-
ing, ensuring access to Mueller’s findings
and recommendations—unchanged—is of ut-
most importance. To this end, I and others
asked you about releasing the report as
drafted from the Special Counsel. When I
first asked you, you clearly stated you would
provide the report. Specifically, I asked,
‘‘Will you commit to making any report
Mueller produces at the conclusion of his in-
vestigation available to Congress and to the
public? And you responded, ‘‘As I said in my
statement, I am going to make as much in-
formation available as I can consistent with
the rules and regulations that are part of the
special counsel regulations.’’
I then asked, ‘‘Will you commit to making
any report on the obstruction of justice pub-
lic?’’ You responded, ‘‘That is the same an-
swer. Yes.’’
Later as others pressed you on these an-
swers you expanded by saying:
‘‘As the rules stand now, people should be
aware that the rules I think say that the
Special Counsel will prepare a summary re-
port on any prosecutive or declination deci-
sions, and that that shall be confidential and
shall be treated as any other declination or
prosecutive material within the Depart-
ment.’’
In fact the regulations state, ‘‘At the con-
clusion of the Special Counsel’s work, he or
she shall provide the Attorney General with
a confidential report explaining the prosecu-
tion or declination decisions reached by the
Special Counsel.’’
As you may be aware, there is nothing in
the regulations saying the report should be
‘‘treated as any other’’ Department mate-
rial, nor is there anything defining confiden-
tial. Finally, there is no language in the reg-
ulations indicating that Congress cannot
have access—especially when the materials
in question relate to a completed investiga-
tion.
It is also worth noting that in the most re-
cent past practice, the Department has pro-
vided Congress with investigative reports
and other materials, including notes and
summaries of witness interviews. Specifi-
cally, with regard to the investigation into
Secretary Clinton the Department provided
investigative reports, as well as notes and
summaries of witness interviews. As you tes-
tified ‘‘the country needs a credible resolu-
tion of these issues’’ which argues in favor of
complete transparency and public disclosure
of as much information as possible, con-
sistent with national security and active law
enforcement needs.
I would appreciate your response on this as
quickly as possible, and prior to the Commit-
tee’s consideration of your nomination in
our Executive Business meetings.
Sincerely,
DIANNE FEINSTEIN,
U.S. Senator.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.003 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1289
February 13, 2019
U.S. SENATE,
Washington, DC, February 7, 2019.
WILLIAM P. BARR,
Kirkland & Ellis LLP,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. BARR: I am writing to follow up
on my January 17 letter about Special Coun-
sel Mueller’s investigation, and regarding
other investigations that implicate the
President’s interests. As you know, you were
asked numerous questions about both the
Mueller investigation as well as investiga-
tions in the Southern District of New York,
Eastern District of Virginia, and District of
Columbia.
As raised at your hearing, it is imperative
that all of these investigations be free from
any interference and allowed to continue. In
your June 2018 memo, you took the position
that ‘‘no limit is placed on the kinds of cases
subject to [the President’s] control and su-
pervision,’’ including ‘‘matters in which he
has an interest.’’ While you testified that
you would not stop these investigations, you
qualified your answer by saying ‘‘if I thought
it was a lawful investigation.’’ When asked if
the President could fire prosecutors on these
cases, you responded that ‘‘the President is
free to fire his, you know, officials that he
has appointed.’’
This gives you, and the President, consid-
erable discretion and power over these inves-
tigations. I therefore ask for your commit-
ment that these investigations will be al-
lowed to proceed without interference, and
for an explanation of how you will safeguard
their independence and integrity, if con-
firmed.
Thank you for your attention to these im-
portant matters.
Sincerely,
DIANNE FEINSTEIN,
U.S. Senator.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. I did not receive
the courtesy of a response to either let-
ter.
Here is a man seeking approval of his
appointment. The ranking member of
the Judiciary Committee sends him a
letter asking two very valid questions,
and there is no response. That told me
something very loud and clear.
Over the past year, we have seen sev-
eral other investigations arising out of
the Southern District of New York, the
Eastern District of Virginia, and the
District of Columbia, where prosecu-
tors are looking into crimes involving
foreign donations into the Trump inau-
guration committee, money laun-
dering, campaign finance violations, as
well as possible efforts by Russian
agents to assist the Trump campaign
during the election. When asked about
these investigations at his hearing, Mr.
Barr refused to pledge they would be
protected from interference. He refused
to pledge that these valid investiga-
tions would be protected from inter-
ference.
For example, Senator COONS asked,
‘‘If the President ordered you to stop
the [Southern District of New York] in-
vestigation in which someone identi-
fied as individual one is implicated,
would you do that?’’
Mr. Barr responded that ‘‘every deci-
sion within the department has to be
made based on the attorney general’s
independent conclusion and assessment
that it’s in accordance with the law, so
I would not stop a bona fide lawful in-
vestigation.’’
However, this qualification of ‘‘a
bona fide, lawful investigation’’ is all
important. In his 19-page memo, Mr.
Barr clearly wrote this: ‘‘The full
measure of law enforcement authority
is placed in the President’s hands, and
no limit is placed on the kinds of cases
subject to his control and supervision,’’
including ‘‘matters in which he has an
interest.’’ I really see why he was nom-
inated. This is the offering of complete
protection from the law by the Attor-
ney General—future Attorney General,
if he should become one.
Mr. Barr went on to argue that if the
President determined ‘‘an investiga-
tion was bogus, the President ulti-
mately had legitimate grounds for ex-
ercising his supervisory powers to stop
the matter.’’ This would mean that the
President could stop the Mueller inves-
tigation, which the President has re-
peatedly described as a ‘‘witch hunt’’
and ‘‘hoax.’’
It also means that if Donald Trump
decided the Southern District of New
York’s investigation was, in Mr. Barr’s
words, ‘‘bogus,’’ the President would
have the right to stop the investiga-
tion. Think about that. Think about
the ramifications of that.
When Senator BLUMENTHAL asked
Mr. Barr during his hearing, ‘‘If the
President fired a United States attor-
ney, would you support continuing that
investigation, even under the civil
servants, the career prosecutors, who
would remain?’’
Mr. Barr replied, ‘‘Yeah . . . I be-
lieve, regardless of who or what outside
the department is trying to influence
what is going on, every decision within
the department relating to enforce-
ment, the attorney general has to de-
termine independently that—that it is
a lawful action.’’
Think about that. The Attorney Gen-
eral becomes the arbiter, independ-
ently, of what a lawful action com-
prises. But, again, according to this
memo, firing a U.S. attorney, even if it
implicates the President’s own per-
sonal interests, is a lawful action by
the President.
During this hearing, Mr. Barr stated
that ‘‘the President can fire a U.S. at-
torney. They are a presidential ap-
pointment.’’
The meaning of this is clear: Pros-
ecutors in these cases can be fired arbi-
trarily by the President of the United
States under his plenary authority.
As I said at the outset, the question
is whether Mr. Barr is the right person
for the job at this time. The memo that
I am quoting from I spent a full day
reading and thinking about, and it was
the most extreme case for Presidential
power that I have ever read. In and of
itself, it gives me cause to believe this
is why—I could be wrong, but this is
why he received that nomination.
Given the broad implications of Pres-
idential power and unlimited control
Mr. Barr believes this President has
over law enforcement matters, I cannot
support this nominee to serve as Attor-
ney General. At this critical time in
our Nation’s history, we must have an
Attorney General who is objective and
who is clearly committed to protecting
the interests of the people, the coun-
try, and the Constitution.—not the
President.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from North Dakota.
S. 47
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, we are
doing a number of important things in
the Senate this week.
Last night, we passed the Natural Re-
sources Management Act. This is a bi-
partisan package of more than 100 indi-
vidual bills that will help protect our
natural resources, spur economic devel-
opment, increase access to public
lands, and much more.
I was very pleased that my Custer
County Airport Conveyance Act, which
I introduced with the other Members of
the South Dakota delegation, was in-
cluded in this bill. This legislation will
give Custer County Airport full owner-
ship of the land on which it operates
and allow the airport to make improve-
ments to its facilities.
Custer County Airport supports busi-
ness and recreational aviation and fire
suppression efforts in the Black Hills
region, and I am pleased that this bill
will increase the airport’s ability to
serve this area of South Dakota.
I am grateful to Chairman MUR-
KOWSKI for her leadership on this im-
portant lands package, as well as to
Ranking Member MANCHIN and all of
those who worked on these bills at the
committee level.
NOMINATION OF WILLIAM BARR
Mr. President, last night, the Senate
moved forward on William Barr’s nomi-
nation to be Attorney General. We will
have the final vote on that nomination
later this week.
The President made an outstanding
choice with Mr. Barr. Mr. Barr is emi-
nently qualified to be Attorney Gen-
eral. In fact, he has already been Attor-
ney General—under President George
H.W. Bush. He also served as Assistant
Attorney General in the Office of Legal
Counsel at the Department of Justice
and as Deputy Attorney General.
He has won respect from both sides of
the aisle. He has been confirmed by the
Senate without opposition—not once,
not twice, but three times. He was
unanimously confirmed as Attorney
General under George H.W. Bush in a
Democrat-controlled Senate. Then-Ju-
diciary Committee Chairman Joe
Biden described him as ‘‘a heck of an
honorable guy.’’
Senator LEAHY also spoke at that
time, expressing his belief that Mr.
BARR would be ‘‘an independent voice
for all Americans.’’
Today, Mr. Barr continues to earn re-
spect from Democrats. The ranking
member on the Judiciary Committee
noted in January:
He’s obviously very smart. He was attor-
ney general before. No one can say he isn’t
qualified.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE6.001 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1290 February 13, 2019
Mr. Barr is extremely smart and emi-
nently qualified. He would be a judi-
cious, thoughtful, and independent At-
torney General, whose allegiance would
be to, as he said, ‘‘the rule of law, the
Constitution, and the American peo-
ple.’’ I hope the Senate will quickly
confirm him in a bipartisan fashion.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. President, the final order of busi-
ness this week is funding the govern-
ment. I am very pleased and encour-
aged that Chairman SHELBY and his
counterparts have reached an agree-
ment ‘‘in principle’’ to fully fund the
government and fund important border
security measures.
No one wants another government
shutdown. I am very glad Democrats
abandoned their efforts to force a cap
on the number of individuals that Im-
migration and Customs Enforcement
could detain in the interior of the
country. If Democrats’ enforcement
cap had been adopted, Immigration and
Customs Enforcement would have been
forced to release criminals already in
detention onto our Nation’s streets. I
am pleased that Democrats decided to
separate themselves from the radical
anti-border-security wing of their
party. Instead, the deal will now give
Immigration and Customs Enforcement
the flexibility it needs to address
surges of illegal immigration at our
southern border.
I am also very glad Democrats moved
from their insistence on zero funding
for physical barriers at the border. Bar-
riers are an essential element of border
security, and I am pleased this com-
promise will allow 55 new miles of
physical barriers in the Rio Grande
Valley’s sector, which is a high-pri-
ority area for the Border Patrol. That
is double the number of new miles pro-
vided in fiscal year 2018 and nearly
three times as many as would have
been available under a continuing reso-
lution.
I thank Chairman SHELBY and Mem-
bers of both parties who have been
working on a funding and border secu-
rity deal, as well as the staffers who
have worked nights and weekends, to
help develop this agreement. I look for-
ward to reviewing the final language
and voting on a final funding and bor-
der security package later this week.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I appre-
ciate the bipartisan conversation that
is going on with the chair, and I hope
more of that will go on. That really is
a little bit of why I rise today, because
I hope and pray that if there—while we
have many legitimate policy dif-
ferences in this body, one thing we
ought to have absolute, complete
agreement on is that the United States
of America cannot afford another gov-
ernment shutdown.
The last shutdown, which President
Trump was so proud to initiate, cost
our economy—and this is the lowest es-
timate we could find so we don’t look
like we are overstating—an estimated
$6 billion.
The truth is, that number hardly re-
flects the human cost of this self-in-
flicted disaster our country was led
into. A recent survey found that 62 per-
cent of Federal workers depleted most
or all of their emergency savings, 42
percent of Federal workers took on
debt to pay bills or other expenses, and
25 percent tapped their retirement ac-
counts. If you tap your IRA, you pay
tax penalties, and you get none of that
reimbursed.
Listen to this: 25 percent of our Fed-
eral workers who were the victims of
this shutdown—25 percent of our Fed-
eral workers, during this shutdown,
had to visit a food bank. If you work
for the United States of America, the
greatest Nation in the world, and you
are asked to show up to work without
pay, you should not have to visit a food
bank.
I spent most of my career in the pri-
vate sector, and I am proud of those ac-
tivities, but I know very few folks who
work for any of my companies who
would have continued to show up day
in and day out to do their jobs if they
were going for 35 days without pay—
and 35 days without pay where, frank-
ly, you had some Members of the so-
called board, the Congress, who showed
no appreciation at all for their suf-
fering and many who said they didn’t
mind if that shutdown continued in-
definitely.
Those fellow Americans are Federal
workers, contractors, private busi-
nesses that support Federal installa-
tions or the campground outside the
Shenandoah National Park or the res-
taurant outside Petersburg National
Battlefield—not just Federal employ-
ees, folks in the private sector as well
endured tremendous hardship because
the President decided to use their live-
lihoods as a bargaining chip. That
can’t happen again.
While I want to always try to be opti-
mistic and appreciate the bipartisan
agreement that has been reached by
the budget negotiators, unfortunately,
we find ourselves in the same spot
right now—potentially just days away
from another Trump shutdown.
The President said he is not happy,
but he won’t say whether he will sign
the bipartisan deal that came from the
conference committee. Let’s be clear.
The uncertainty itself is having a nega-
tive impact on the operation of the
Federal Government and costing tax-
payer dollars each and every day that
this cloud hangs over the government.
Agencies are already interrupting in-
vestigations and canceling trainings
and meetings. They are being forced to
act as if the government will once
again be shut down at the end of this
week. This is just plain mismanage-
ment of government by the Trump ad-
ministration. It is another example of
the disrespect this White House has
shown to our Federal workforce.
In Virginia, over the past few weeks,
Senator KAINE and I have spent a lot of
time listening to Federal workers. We
heard from Federal workers who had to
pull their kids out of daycare and send
them away to relatives because they
couldn’t meet those daycare expenses if
they weren’t getting paid and folks
who missed student loan payments or
literally had to choose between their
medications and paying rent. Now,
these workers have started to receive
some of their backpay, and many of
them have not received all of their
backpay from the shutdown.
The truth is, those Federal workers
who drew down their savings or in-
curred a tax penalty from taking
money from their IRA or who took an
advance on their credit card are not
made whole by receiving backpay be-
cause they have incurred penalties that
will never be made up, beyond the psy-
chic damage that is taking place with
their families.
But even if we accept that most of
the Federal workers will ultimately
get their backpay, that is not the case
for thousands of Federal contractors in
Virginia and around the country. Quite
honestly, the nightmare is not over.
The President’s decision to finally re-
open the government didn’t magically
undo 35 days of missed pay. Unfortu-
nately, no one from the White House
could be bothered to meet with any of
these folks, whether it be Federal
workers or contractors who were hurt
by this government shutdown. If they
had, they would know how much pain
this President’s shutdown continues to
inflict on Federal contractors, particu-
larly low- and middle-income workers.
I spent the last couple of months, the
last month and a half listening to these
folks describe the anxiety of not know-
ing when their next paycheck will
come or if it will come at all.
Sometimes when we think about Fed-
eral contractors, we think about high-
priced folks, many of whom do a good
job working for our government, many
in my State. Sometimes that is the
image of a Federal contractor. I won-
der if most of the Members of this body
realize that the people who clean the
toilets at the Smithsonian or serve the
food at the cafeteria in the Smithso-
nian are Federal contractors, and for
the 35 days of the government shut-
down—they have no recourse at this
moment in time. They are struggling
as we speak, and they will continue to
struggle if Congress doesn’t take ad-
vantage of this opportunity—if we get
this deal signed by Friday and keep the
government open—to make good on our
commitment to those contractors as
well. If we end up with the alternative
and the government shuts down again,
these folks’ lives—at least their eco-
nomic lives—will be in jeopardy.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.007 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1291
February 13, 2019
A number of small businesses—
women-owned businesses, minority
businesses, veteran-owned businesses—
that tried, through this last 35-day
shutdown, to keep their workers on
payroll had to take that money out of
their business pockets to try to make
ends meet. But after a couple of weeks,
a lot of them couldn’t afford to do that.
Those businesses have shut down.
Years and in certain cases decades of
work down the drain, not because they
did something that was mismanage-
ment, not because they did something
that was irresponsible, not because
they weren’t providing the taxpayers
with the full value of their work, but
because we here in Congress and the
White House couldn’t come to a com-
mon agreement on the most basic re-
sponsibility of government, which is to
keep the doors open and the lights on.
I held a roundtable recently with a
contractor in Springfield, VA. A con-
tractor there named Barbara told me
she is behind on her rent and had to
take her granddaughter out of daycare
because she can’t pay the bills. Now,
she is glad she is back at work, but
that 35 days with no pay—unless we
rectify that with this deal that may
come to pass before the weekend, she is
still left in the cold. Another at that
same roundtable told me she had to
choose between food and medicine.
A couple of weeks ago, I met a con-
tractor named John, an Afghanistan
veteran, who was picking up groceries
at the food bank in Arlington because
the shutdown wiped out his savings. We
had some press, but John didn’t want
to go on camera. He was a little bit em-
barrassed that he had to pick up food
at the food bank. This is someone who
is a veteran. This is someone who con-
tinued to serve in terms of protecting
the country. Thirty-five days without
pay. With the status quo—he will never
get those lost earnings back if we don’t
rectify that this week.
Another contractor named Joseph,
who works as a custodian at the De-
partment of the Interior, told me this:
We work just as hard as anyone else. We
need our backpay so we can catch up on our
bills and survive.
The remarkable thing is, for some of
these janitors and custodial workers,
on buildings that were open, they had
to continue to work and still don’t get
backpay.
One of the most heartbreaking things
was listening to these contractors talk
about the shame—the shame of being
treated as if their work does not have
value. The truth is, these folks take
pride in their work because they love
their country. That same contractor,
Joseph, says he thinks of the building
he cleans as the President’s house, and
he works hard because he wants to
make it shine every day. What a dis-
grace that this government can’t even
honor his service with back wages so
that he can pay his bills and get his
personal finances in order.
Many other contractors take pride in
their work because it represents their
independence. Over 45,000 disabled
Americans work as Federal contractors
through the AbilityOne Program. I
know this program is very successful in
Delaware. The Senator from Delaware
will speak on it shortly.
I have met contractors who are dou-
ble amputees, veterans with PTSD, and
folks with physical and intellectual
disabilities. They are able to live nor-
mal lives and contribute to society be-
cause of these Federal contractor jobs.
For many of them, these jobs are more
than about pay. It is about respect. It
is about being valued and part of a
community, part of a team at the of-
fices they work in. They suffer more
than just about anyone when their life-
line—that source of income, independ-
ence, and dignity—is cut off because of
a government shutdown.
I will close with something a Federal
contractor named Constance told me
last week. Even though she and her
team of custodians still face tremen-
dous financial hardship, she told me
that she remains hopeful. She is hope-
ful because she and her coworkers are
now back to work, and she is hopeful
because people in this Chamber are fi-
nally starting to listen to folks like
her.
I share her hope that the Senate will
have the decency and the basic human-
ity to make sure, one, that we don’t
close down this government come Fri-
day, and two, that when we come to
this deal, we take that moment—and I
see colleagues from both sides of the
aisle. We have gotten the CBO score. It
is scored to make sure the backpay for
the contractors, with an emphasis to-
ward low-income contractors, under
$50,000—the cost would be at $1 billion.
That is the CBO score. We ought to
make sure that these people’s lives—
that the work they do is valued.
I hope, as we have this bipartisan
deal to avoid the shutdown, that we
can also make it right for the folks
who oftentimes many of us don’t see—
who clean the buildings, serve the food,
many folks from the disabled commu-
nity—who rely upon us to do the right
thing.
Congress should pass this backpay
for Federal contractors legislation. The
President should sign it, and if the
President doesn’t, the Congress should
override his veto.
Let’s make sure, as we did with Fed-
eral workers, that they will always be
assured that they will get their back-
pay. Let’s make sure that contractors
get that same decency. It is time to do
the right thing.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Delaware.
NOMINATION OF WILLIAM BARR
Mr. COONS. Mr. President, I rise
today to offer briefly my remarks on
the nomination of William Barr to
serve as Attorney General of the
United States.
This past Thursday, when the Judici-
ary Committee of the Senate consid-
ered him, I was absent, being the co-
chair of the National Prayer Breakfast.
I would like to offer my conclusions
briefly here on the floor.
I have weighed carefully over several
weeks William Barr’s nomination to
serve as the next Attorney General.
Initially, I have to say, I was greatly
encouraged that the President nomi-
nated a nominee whose service had in-
cluded leadership roles in the Justice
Department, including Attorney Gen-
eral of the United States.
However, I believe my responsibility
to assess Mr. Barr’s candidacy requires
me to consider his entire record, in-
cluding his recent writings, his state-
ments, and his work, and to focus on
his ability to actually meet the test of
our current time. Having met with him
in person, having questioned him dur-
ing the Judiciary Committee’s con-
firmation hearing, having reviewed his
record, and having reviewed his written
answers to questions submitted for the
record, I ultimately believe Mr. Barr
does not meet this test. I am not con-
fident that he will uphold the Attorney
General’s critical role in defending the
Department of Justice as an institu-
tion and in ensuring that the special
counsel’s investigation proceeds with
independence and, by so doing, restores
the trust of the American people in the
rule of law.
In weighing his nomination, the
memo Mr. Barr chose to author in June
2018—and to submit—criticizing the
special counsel’s investigation into ob-
struction of justice, I concluded was
significant and could not be ignored.
Mr. Barr tried to narrow or minimize
the import of this memo by saying it
was a specific application to a par-
ticular statute. The fact remains that
his memo is rooted in and embraces an
exceptionally broad theory of execu-
tive power that could threaten not
only the special counsel’s investigation
but a lot of our current understanding
of the scope and reach of Executive
power.
When I asked him if he had sent
other lengthy, detailed legal memos he
had researched and written himself to
the Department of Justice as a private
citizen, he could only cite that one
memo from this year, dealing critically
with the special counsel’s investiga-
tion.
At his nomination hearing in the
committee, I sought simple and con-
crete assurances from Mr. Barr that he
would give the special counsel’s ongo-
ing investigation the independence and
separation from partisan politics it
needs and deserves. In some instances I
was genuinely encouraged by his an-
swers. I was glad to hear a forceful an-
swer from Mr. Barr that he would not
fire the special counsel without cause
and would resign rather than do so, if
so ordered.
On other issues, however, he failed to
give the sort of simple and clear com-
mitment that former Attorney General
Elliot Richardson gave at his confirma-
tion hearing before the Senate Judici-
ary Committee during the period of an
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.009 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1292 February 13, 2019
important investigation in the 1970s.
Mr. Barr would not commit to fol-
lowing the guidance of career DOJ eth-
ics officials on whether he should
recuse himself. He would not commit
to deferring to special counsel
Mueller’s investigative decisions. Fi-
nally, he would not commit to making
special counsel Mueller’s final report
public. In essence, Mr. Barr is asking
the American people and those of us
who represent them to trust him to do
the right thing. There are reasons to
believe that he will, but there are, as I
have laid out briefly, reasons to be
gravely concerned that he will not.
Something my predecessor here in
the Senate, Senator Joe Biden, ex-
pressed in voting to confirm him back
in 1991, was his grave concerns about
his expansive view of Executive power,
but that was a very different time in
our history, with a different Court and
a different context.
I think we must be clear-eyed about
the moment our country faces and the
Attorney General’s potentially pivotal
role in ensuring the integrity of the
rule of law and the institutions of our
democracy. I believe it is my responsi-
bility in the Senate to protect the spe-
cial counsel investigation, to ensure
that other ongoing Federal investiga-
tions are not interfered with because of
a narrow or partisan purpose, and to
safeguard the rule of law.
If Mr. Barr is confirmed, I hope he
will prove me wrong. I hope he will
demonstrate to the American people of
all parties and backgrounds that he
will put the interests of our democracy
above the moment and partisan prior-
ities. I hope he will prove to be a ter-
rific, solid, and reliable steward for the
ongoing investigation Special Counsel
Mueller is leading into Russian inter-
ference in the 2016 election. If so, I will
gladly put aside our policy differences
to work with him for the good of the
American people during this critical
time, but I regret I have reached the
conclusion that I cannot support his
nomination this week.
Thank you, Mr. President.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
BORDER SECURITY
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, on Mon-
day, I was in El Paso, TX, to talk with
some of my constituents about the
challenges that exist along our south-
west border and how we can work to-
gether to address them.
It is almost surreal to have people
here in Washington, DC, who have
never been to the border and whose,
perhaps, only supposed knowledge is
from novels they have read or movies
they have seen. Having spent quite a
bit of time along the border of Texas
and Mexico, myself, I can tell you it is
a unique part of our country and cer-
tainly a unique part of my State.
The people you learn the most from
are not the elected officials who serve
here in Washington but rather from the
Border Patrol, the sheriffs, the mayors,
and countless others who live and work
along the border. They can provide, I
think, the kind of expert knowledge
that we need in order to address the
challenges that exist.
What they tell me and what I have
learned is that there is no one-size-fits-
all, because you can look at urban en-
vironments, like El Paso, or you can go
out to Big Bend, which has thousands-
of-feet-high cliffs overlooking the Rio
Grande. Obviously, a physical barrier
in one place, like in highly trafficked
urban areas, is one situation, but put-
ting it atop a 3,000-foot cliff is another.
So no one-size-fits-all solution works.
That is why it is important to listen
to the stakeholders who live and work
in these communities, and this is key
to actually doing something with the
feedback they provide. What I have
constantly been reminded of is that
border security is a combination of
three parts: physical barriers in some
hard-to-control locations, personnel,
and technology. What is best for a
high-trafficked urban area, as I said, is
probably much different than what is
good for the vast expanses between the
ports of entry. Figuring out what we
need or where we need it is not a deci-
sion that ought to be micromanaged in
Washington. It should come from the
experts who know the threats and chal-
lenges along every mile of the border.
While I was in El Paso, we also
talked—as we must—about the impor-
tant role the border plays with our
economy. Border communities in Texas
depend on people and goods moving le-
gally through our ports.
For example, in Laredo, TX, alone,
about 14,000 trucks pass each day
through the ports of entry. It is one of
the largest if not the largest land-based
port in the United States. These goods
need to move legally through our
ports, and any disruption in legitimate
international commerce can have a
swift impact on these communities.
For the people of El Paso, for exam-
ple, border security means much more
than just safety. It means economic se-
curity as well. Just as it is important
to keep the bad actors out, it is equally
important to promote efficient transit
through our ports for legitimate trade
and commerce.
On Monday, I also had a chance to re-
connect with my friend Mayor Dee
Margo, the Mayor of El Paso. Among
other things, we talked about the im-
portance of ensuring that in our efforts
to create a strong border, we are not
neglecting our ports of entry.
In recent months, a number of El
Paso Sector Customs officers have been
sent to other high-need areas along the
U.S.-Mexico border. The personnel
shortage has resulted in increased wait
times for both pedestrian traffic and
commerce. Certainly, fewer CBP
agents mean a reduced vigilance in
terms of screening out contraband and
other things that we don’t want com-
ing into the country. The goods moving
through the ports in El Paso fuel not
just the local economy, as I said, but
also that of the entire State of Texas—
and, I would argue, of the Nation. I
share the mayor’s concerns on the
harmful impact these slowdowns at the
ports of entry can have.
As we debate the importance of se-
curing our borders to stop the illegal
movement of people and goods, we
shouldn’t neglect the importance of fa-
cilitating legal movement through our
ports. We need to do both, whether that
means providing additional funding for
infrastructure improvements or scan-
ning technology to make sure the ports
of entry aren’t exploited by drugs in
vehicles or other places where they are
hard to find. In the absence of scanning
technology, if we are unable to find
them, the cartels win, and the Amer-
ican people lose. We also know that in
addition to that technology, we need
additional personnel.
I hope my colleagues listen to the
feedback that we have all gotten from
the experts and these local stake-
holders and take seriously the eco-
nomic impact on our ports of entry as
well.
As I said yesterday, I look forward to
reviewing the details of the funding
agreement struck by the conference
committee, and I hope that, in addition
to physical barriers where appropriate,
it reflects these principles of smart
border security, because when we listen
to the experts—the law enforcement of-
ficials who work along the border and
in the communities—that is when we
move in the right direction, spending
money in a responsible and smart way
rather than just pursuing political
agendas from Washington.
NOMINATION OF WILLIAM BARR
Mr. President, we are also going to be
voting—perhaps today, maybe tomor-
row—on the nomination of William
Barr to serve as the next Attorney
General of the United States. The role
of Attorney General is unique in the
President’s Cabinet because while you
are a political appointee of the Presi-
dent, you are also the Nation’s chief
law enforcement officer and, obviously,
are obligated to put your highest loy-
alty in upholding the rule of law.
I asked Mr. Barr about this unique
role during his confirmation hearing.
He told me that over the years he has
received a number of calls from people
who were being considered for appoint-
ment to the position of Attorney Gen-
eral. He told them that if they wanted
to pursue any political future, they
would be crazy to accept the job of At-
torney General. He said: ‘‘If you take
this job, you have to be ready to make
decisions and spend all your political
capital and have no future because you
have to have that freedom of action.’’
He assured me that he is in a position
now in his life where he can do what he
needs to do without fear of any con-
sequences.
I was glad to hear that because I be-
lieve that is the most fundamental
quality of an Attorney General. The
Department of Justice must be able to
operate above the political fray and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.010 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1293
February 13, 2019
prioritize the rule of law above all else,
and to do that it needs a strong and
principled leader like Bill Barr—par-
ticularly, on the heels of Loretta
Lynch’s and Eric Holder’s administra-
tions as Attorneys General of the
United States during the Obama term
of office, where we know that, unfortu-
nately, politics pervaded the actions
not only of the Department of Justice
but also the FBI in things ranging from
the Hillary Clinton email investigation
to the counterintelligence investiga-
tion of some of the people associated
with the Trump campaign.
Of course, this isn’t the only reason
he is the right person for the job. We
know that he can faithfully execute
the duties of the office because he has
done it before.
More than two decades ago, Presi-
dent George Herbert Walker Bush rec-
ognized the talent in this promising
young attorney and nominated him to
three increasingly important positions
in the Department of Justice. For all
three positions, Assistant Attorney
General for the Office of Legal Counsel,
Deputy Attorney General, and, finally,
Attorney General, he was unanimously
confirmed by the Senate. I would hope
that he would be unanimously con-
firmed as Attorney General once again,
but I have my doubts.
After hearing Mr. Barr speak about
his views of the role of Attorney Gen-
eral, I have no question as to why not
a single Senator opposed his nomina-
tion during those three previous con-
firmation votes. He spoke of the impor-
tance of acting with professionalism
and integrity, of ensuring that the
character of the Department of Justice
is maintained and can withstand even
the most trying political times, and of
serving with independence, providing
no promises or assurances to anyone on
anything other than faithfully admin-
istering the rule of law.
When Mr. Barr was nominated for At-
torney General the first time, then-Ju-
diciary Chairman Joe Biden noted that
Mr. Barr, a nominee from the opposing
political party, would be a ‘‘fine Attor-
ney General.’’ I agree, and I thank Mr.
Barr for agreeing to serve, once again,
this country in this critical position. I
look forward to voting yes on his nomi-
nation.
I would just add that I am saddened
by the way the politics of the mo-
ment—the desire to defeat any legisla-
tion or oppose any nominee by this
President—has led some of our col-
leagues across the aisle to oppose this
nomination. I don’t know whether it is
out of fear of the most radical fringe of
their political party or by their antip-
athy for this President, but it is regret-
table.
I do believe, however, that Mr. Barr
will be confirmed, as he should be, as
the next Attorney General of the
United States. I look forward to cast-
ing a ‘‘yes’’ vote on that nomination.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Hawaii.
Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, once
again, I would like to respond to the
Senator from Texas as he continues to
hold the position that the Democrats
on this side of the aisle simply oppose
all of the President’s nominees because
they happen to be this lying Presi-
dent’s nominees. That is not the case
at all.
Donald Trump has consistently
thought to nominate people to his Cab-
inet who he believes will do his bidding
and protect his interests. Once con-
firmed, if these Cabinet Secretaries
displease him, out they go—Jeff Ses-
sions, Jim Mattis, Rex Tillerson.
The President believes William Barr
will be an Attorney General who will
protect him. Why does the President
believe that? Because William Barr
auditioned for this position. How? Mr.
Barr wrote a highly unusual and factu-
ally unsupported, unsolicited 19-page
memo to the Sessions Justice Depart-
ment, arguing that Special Counsel
Robert Mueller should not be per-
mitted to interrogate the President
about obstruction of justice. Nobody
asked him to weigh in.
He admits he didn’t have any facts or
inside information, and, in fact, Dep-
uty Attorney General Rod Rosenstein
chose not to discuss the matter with
him, but Mr. Barr felt compelled not
only to put his views in writing and
send them to the Department of Jus-
tice, but he also made sure the Presi-
dent’s lawyers knew his views. His
memo sent a clear message to this
President that he would protect Donald
Trump from the Mueller probe.
Once Donald Trump did nominate
him for Attorney General, after having
earlier offered him a job as his personal
attorney—virtually the same job in
Donald Trump’s mind—Mr. Barr came
to the Judiciary Committee and con-
tinued to signal his willingness to
shield Trump from scrutiny.
First, he refused to commit to follow
the advice of career ethics officials on
the question of recusal from the Trump
investigations. He didn’t want to make
the same mistake Jeff Sessions did and
open himself up to Presidential humil-
iation, no matter what the ethics ex-
perts recommended.
Second, he refused to commit to
make public Special Counsel Mueller’s
report. In both instances, he said he
wanted to keep his options open, leave
himself room to make his own deci-
sions, and trust his ultimate judgment.
While these answers were reassuring
to the President, they certainly were
not to those of us who want an Attor-
ney General independent of a President
who does not believe the rule of law ap-
plies to him. When asked at his hear-
ing, Mr. Barr should have affirmatively
committed to allowing all active inves-
tigations to continue until the prosecu-
tors say they are done. That includes
the special counsel’s investigation, as
well as the probes being conducted by,
again, at least three U.S. attorney’s of-
fices. Instead, he gave his usual equiv-
ocal response.
Of course, these are all active inves-
tigations having to do with Mr. Trump
and his activities. Barr’s position on
these investigations is consistent with
his views on the unitary Executive. He
has long endorsed a view that the
President is an all-powerful Executive,
restrained by very little, least of all by
Congress. This is a very dangerous view
for the Attorney General to have, espe-
cially at a time when we have a Presi-
dent who attacks and undermines the
rule of law.
Mr. Barr’s views on the Trump inves-
tigations and the unitary Executive
aren’t the only reason he should not be
confirmed as Attorney General. His
agreement with this administration’s
immigration policy also, in my view,
disqualifies him. There was no daylight
between Donald Trump and Jeff Ses-
sions on immigration. Mr. Barr has
given every indication that he will fol-
low the lead of Jeff Sessions and of
Matthew Whitaker in aggressively im-
plementing, basically, Stephen Miller’s
extreme immigration policies.
As George H.W. Bush’s Attorney Gen-
eral, Barr played a key role in the Jus-
tice Department’s policy in the early
1990s of detaining HIV-positive Haitian
refugees at Guantanamo Bay. These
refugees were held in prison-like living
conditions and denied medical treat-
ment until a Federal court ruled that
their indefinite detention was illegal.
More recently, in November 2018, Mr.
Barr cowrote an op-ed with the title
‘‘We Salute Jeff Sessions,’’ full of
praise for Sessions’ tenure at DOJ, in-
cluding on immigration. Mr. Barr
praised Sessions for ‘‘attack[ing] the
rampant illegality that riddled our im-
migration system, breaking the record
for prosecution of illegal-entry cases,’’
and increasing prosecution of ‘‘immi-
grants who reentered the country ille-
gally’’ by 38 percent.
These statements are deeply con-
cerning because as Attorney General,
Mr. Sessions implemented policies that
are abhorrent and in direct opposition
to American values.
Sessions instituted the zero-toler-
ance policy—a stain on our Nation that
resulted in thousands of children being
separated from their families, many of
whom may never be reunited. This
country, under Jeff Sessions, made in-
stant orphans out of thousands of chil-
dren. That is hardly a value that I
think any of us can support.
At his hearing, Mr. Barr also em-
braced key aspects of the Trump-Miller
immigration agenda, including endors-
ing Donald Trump’s vanity wall; at-
tacking cities that refused to under-
mine their own anti-crime efforts by
cooperating with the Federal Govern-
ment’s draconian policies; agreeing
with the Trump administration’s atro-
cious treatment of legal asylum seek-
ers; joining President Trump in criti-
cizing judges for blocking the Presi-
dent’s Muslim travel ban; and astound-
ingly, refusing to say whether birth-
right citizenship is guaranteed by the
Constitution, telling me, when I asked
him this, that he hadn’t ‘‘looked at
that legally.’’ What is there to look at?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.012 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1294 February 13, 2019
The Fourteenth Amendment plainly
states that all persons ‘‘born or natu-
ralized in the United States . . . are
citizens of the United States and of the
State wherein they reside.’’ Nullifying
birthright citizenship would violate the
Constitution and impact millions, but
it is certainly something the President
wants done.
Mr. Barr’s record and position on
some of DOJ’s other important respon-
sibilities, such as enforcing civil rights
laws, defending laws enacted by Con-
gress, and protecting established con-
stitutional rights, are unacceptable to
me in the Nation’s top law enforcement
officer.
Some examples include: Mr. Barr’s
refusal to admit that voter fraud is in-
credibly rare and his focusing on so-
called voter fraud problems rather than
voter suppression problems. States are
very busy continuing to pass laws that
should be attacked as a silly veiled ef-
fort at voter suppression, but that is
not where Mr. Barr is; his stand that
LGBTQ people are not protected from
employment discrimination under Fed-
eral civil rights laws, contrary to what
the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission and two Federal courts
have held; his personal involvement in
two challenges to major premises of
the Affordable Care Act; his record of
belief that Roe v. Wade was wrongly
decided, including his statement that
this landmark Supreme Court case
guaranteeing a woman’s right to
choose, as he put it, was a ‘‘secularist’’
effort to ‘‘eliminate laws that reflect
traditional norms.’’ At a time when the
newest Trump-appointed Justices on
the Supreme Court have demonstrated
a hostility toward a woman’s constitu-
tional right to an abortion, such an
anti-choice Attorney General is a dan-
ger to women.
In some of his academic writings,
William Barr expressed his dismay at
the moral decay of American society,
but when I asked him at his hearing, he
testified that he didn’t have any prob-
lems with a President who lies every
single day and has undermined so
many of America’s most important in-
stitutions such as the FBI, the Justice
Department, and the intelligence com-
munity.
An Attorney General is a member of
the President’s Cabinet and is entitled
to enforce the administration’s poli-
cies, but in this instance, the policies
this President pursues are often pushed
beyond the constitutional breaking
point and just as often are plain cruel;
i.e., the separation of children from
their parents at the border, making
them instant orphans.
The Attorney General’s independence
is critical in normal times, but it is ab-
solutely essential in these times that
are anything but normal that his inde-
pendence cannot be questioned. Sadly,
I cannot say that.
I cannot support William Barr’s nom-
ination. I urge my colleagues to vote
against his confirmation.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk pro-
ceeded to call the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
LANKFORD). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
Mr. DURBIN. What is the pending
business before the Senate?
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Barr
nomination is pending before the Sen-
ate.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I rise to
speak about the nomination of William
Barr to be the next Attorney General
of the United States.
Mr. Barr has an admirable record of
public service in his career. He has dra-
matically more qualifications and ex-
perience than many of his predecessors
and, certainly, the Acting Attorney
General. We can see he brings more ex-
perience to the job.
I respect Mr. Barr and his family. I
have told him as much to his face. He
has a wonderful family, and he brought
them with him to the hearing, and
many of them have chosen public serv-
ice careers, as he has.
I carefully reviewed his record, try-
ing to consider him in not only the
context of this awesome responsibility
of being Attorney General, but at this
awesome moment in history.
When it comes to the ongoing inves-
tigation of President Trump’s cam-
paign by Robert Mueller, I fear that
Mr. Barr has said and done things that
raise questions about his objectivity.
He has clearly indicated to President
Donald Trump and to all of us how he
would oversee this investigation if he
is confirmed. Just look at the unsolic-
ited—unsolicited—19-page memo that
William Barr sent to Special Counsel
Mueller’s supervisors and to the Trump
legal defense team just in June of 2018.
It is notable that Mr. Barr did not
send this memo to Special Counsel
Mueller himself, and he did not make
it public.
This was the only time Mr. Barr had
sent a memo like this to the Justice
Department, and he did not disclose in
his memo that he had personally inter-
viewed with the President the previous
year about serving on the President’s
defense team.
This memo is critical for its sub-
stance. In it, Mr. Barr argued that Bob
Mueller, the investigator, the special
counsel, should not be permitted to ask
the President any questions about ob-
struction of justice, even though Mr.
Barr’s analysis focused only on one
narrow obstruction theory.
The memo calls into serious question
Mr. Barr’s ability to impartially over-
see the obstruction of justice issues in
the Mueller investigation at a moment
in history when that is an essential
question. Mr. Barr has made no com-
mitment to recuse himself from such
questions. That is worrisome.
That William Barr would volunteer a
19-page legal memo with dramatic ef-
forts at research and verification, give
this to the President’s defense team
and to Mr. Mueller’s supervisors at the
Department of Justice, and basically
make arguments diminishing the au-
thority of the special counsel to move
forward in the investigation raises a
serious question about his impar-
tiality.
Just as important, I am alarmed by
Mr. Barr’s continued hedging about
what he will do when Mr. Mueller com-
pletes his investigation and has a pres-
entation of his conclusions, his evi-
dence, and his findings.
Make no mistake. Special Counsel
Mueller’s findings and conclusions
should be shared with the American
people and with the U.S. Congress. Cur-
rent Department of Justice regulations
and policies allow for such a release. I
am concerned that Mr. Barr will exer-
cise his discretion under those regula-
tions narrowly and issue a cursory re-
port that does not take the findings of
the Mueller investigation in their en-
tirety and make them available to the
American people. This investigation is
too critical to seal its result in some
vault at the Department of Justice.
I believe we can trust Bob Mueller to
be impartial and unbiased. I don’t
know if he will find the President or
people around him guilty of wrong-
doing beyond the indictments and con-
victions that have already come down
or whether he will conclude that there
is no further responsibility or culpa-
bility, but I trust his findings, what-
ever they are. He is a true professional.
It is important, after we have gone
through a year or two of investigation,
that the American people hear the de-
tails, hear the information that may be
part of the Mueller investigation.
I am also concerned that Mr. Barr
will continue his predecessor’s harsh
approach on immigration instead of
charting a different course.
It was just last year, I believe in
April in 2018, when the Attorney Gen-
eral Jeff Sessions announced some-
thing called the zero-tolerance policy.
Do you remember it?
The zero-tolerance policy said that
the U.S. Government would forcibly re-
move infants, toddlers, and children
from their parents at our border.
The inspector general’s reports say
that it had been going on for a year be-
fore it was publicly announced.
Twenty-eight hundred children were
removed from their parents. What hap-
pened to them next is shameful. There
was no effort made to trace these chil-
dren and the parents who were forced
to give them up.
It was only when a Federal judge in
San Diego stepped forward and re-
quired the Department of Homeland
Security and Department of Health and
Human Services to make an account-
ing of how many children were still not
united with their parents that they
took the effort to do so months—
months—after those children had been
separated from their parents.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.014 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1295
February 13, 2019
I saw those kids in an immigration
court in Chicago in a large office build-
ing that you would never guess was a
court building in the Loop in Chicago.
There it was, the immigration court
taking up most of one floor in this of-
fice building. People were stacked
three and four deep in the corridors,
waiting for their hearing. But the
judge—and she was a good person, a
real professional—couldn’t get her
hearing underway. She had a problem
with those who were appearing before
her court that day. The problem was
this: She had said that before they
could start the proceeding, those who
were appearing had to sit down. One of
the clients who was in there for a hear-
ing that day had some difficulty. I was
there to witness it. The difficulty was
she was 2 years old. She wasn’t tall
enough to crawl up in that chair with-
out somebody lifting her.
The other client who had a hearing
that day, who had been removed under
this zero-tolerance policy, was a little
more skillful. He spotted a Matchbox
car on the top of the table, and this 4-
year-old boy got up in the chair to play
with it.
Those were two of the clients before
this immigration judge in this office
building in the Loop in Chicago. They
had been forcibly removed from their
parents, and they were up for a hear-
ing. It was in August.
As a result of the hearing, as with
most of the hearings, they said: We are
going to postpone this until we get fur-
ther evidence. The next hearing will be
in December—December.
I would ask any parent, any grand-
parent: What would you think about
being separated from that little girl,
that 2-year-old girl, whom you love so
much, for 6 months, 8 months, 9
months?
That was the policy of this Trump
administration with zero tolerance—a
policy created and announced by Attor-
ney General Jeff Sessions.
So when I asked Mr. Barr: You are
going to take over this job. What is
your view on this type of policy? Sadly,
I didn’t get a direct answer.
I am concerned that in many respects
Mr. Barr could continue the harsh ap-
proach to immigration that we have
seen by the Trump administration in-
stead of charting a different course, a
course more consistent with America’s
values and history.
We are in fact a nation of immi-
grants. Throughout American history,
immigration has strengthened and re-
newed our country. I stand here today,
the son of an immigrant girl who came
to this country from Lithuania at the
age of 2. Her son grew up and got a full-
time government job right here in the
Senate. It can happen. It is my story.
It is my family’s story. It is America’s
story.
When I listened to the diatribes by
this President in the State of the
Union Address about immigrants com-
ing to this country—of course there are
bad people. We don’t want any of them
in this country, and if they are here,
we want them to leave. But think of all
of the good people who have come to
this country and made America what it
is today. The President dismisses those
folks, doesn’t take them as seriously as
he should, as far as I am concerned.
I want to know if this Attorney Gen-
eral, Mr. Barr, subscribes to the Presi-
dent’s theories on immigration. For
the past 2 years, President Trump and
Attorney General Jeff Sessions did ev-
erything in their power to make Amer-
ica’s immigration policy harsh and
unwelcoming.
Mr. Barr’s comments and history
make me fear that he will bring the
full weight of the Justice Department
to advance the President’s anti-immi-
gration agenda. Mr. Barr has refused to
disavow the cruel and un-American
zero-tolerance policy, which I just de-
scribed, that led to thousands of chil-
dren being forcibly removed from their
parents, and he has fully and repeat-
edly echoed President Trump’s call for
a border wall after the debate we have
been through over the last several
months, falsely arguing that it will
help to combat the opioid epidemic.
That is a ludicrous argument. In fact,
the Drug Enforcement Administration,
which Mr. Barr would supervise, has
found that the vast majority of deadly
narcotics coming into America through
the Mexican border are coming in
through ports of entry. They are not
being carried in backpacks by people
scaling fences. That is where our secu-
rity efforts should be made, not with
some medieval wall.
Mr. Barr also falsely and repeatedly
was critical of our asylum laws for a
host of problems. Our asylum laws,
which have historically had broad bi-
partisan support until this President
came along, simply ensure that we
honor our legal and moral obligation to
provide safe haven to families and chil-
dren who are fleeing persecution.
Who are these families seeking asy-
lum and refugee status in the United
States? You can find members of those
families right here on the floor of the
United States Senate. You can find
three Cuban-American U.S. Senators—
one Democrat and two Republicans—
whose families came here as refugees
from Castro’s Cuba. Are we having sec-
ond thoughts now about whether they
are a valuable part of America? I am
not. These people, these Cuban-Ameri-
cans, have become an integral part of
our Nation. They were once refugees
and asylees. Now, they are party of
America’s future, and we are better off
for it.
I could tell that story so many dif-
ferent ways. Soviet Jews trying to es-
cape persecution in the old Soviet
Union and the Vietnamese who stood
by us and fought by our men and
women in uniform during the Vietnam
war, who had to escape an oppressive
regime, came to the United States as
refugees and asylees. We are now see-
ing under President Trump the lowest
level of refugees in modern memory.
We are walking away from our obliga-
tion to the world.
And Mr. Barr called for withholding
of Federal funds to force cities to co-
operate with the Trump administra-
tion’s immigration agenda, even
though courts have repeatedly struck
down that approach.
Perhaps most troubling is Mr. Barr’s
comment to me that he thinks it is ab-
solutely appropriate for the Attorney
General to change the immigration
rules to help advance a President’s
campaign. He said he did it to help the
campaign of President Bush in 1992.
The idea of an Attorney General let-
ting campaign politics drive immigra-
tion enforcement is unacceptable re-
gardless of the President.
I am also concerned with the views
Mr. Barr expressed on something
known as the unitary executive theory
and his expansive view of Presidential
power. He put it bluntly in that 19-page
memo I mentioned before, when he said
the President alone is the executive
branch. We need an Attorney General
who recognizes the need for checks and
balances, but he did not believe that
this President should be held account-
able for many of the actions he has
taken. I may be naive, but I don’t be-
lieve any American is above the law,
including the President of the United
States.
This is not an ordinary time in the
history of the Justice Department.
President Trump has criticized the Ju-
diciary, individual Federal judges, our
intelligence Agencies, and the Depart-
ment of Justice when they continued
an investigation into his campaign. He
has undermined their independence and
integrity with his storm of tweets
every single day.
William Barr said he sees the Attor-
ney General as ‘‘the President’s law-
yer’’—in his words—but the chief law
enforcement officer of the United
States is supposed to be the lawyer for
the people of the United States. We
need an Attorney General who will lead
the Justice Department without fear or
favor and who will serve the Constitu-
tion of the American people even if it
means standing up to a President.
If he is confirmed, I hope Mr. Barr
will prove me wrong and that he will be
a good Attorney General who came at
the right moment in history, but I
have not received the reassurances I
was looking for from him to give him a
vote to reach that position. I will be
voting no on the Barr nomination.
I see my colleague and friend Senator
LEAHY on the floor. I will withhold two
other statements for the RECORD to
yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Vermont.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I applaud
the Senator from Illinois, the senior
Senator from Illinois, for his com-
ments. He knows what it is to have im-
migrants in your family, as do I. I was
fortunate to have a little more under-
standing as my paternal grandparents
immigrated to Vermont from Italy,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.016 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1296 February 13, 2019
and my wife’s parents immigrated to
Vermont from French-speaking Can-
ada. I still struggle with the Italian I
knew as a child. I have done a little
better with French, in order to speak
to Marcelle’s family. But I see the di-
versity that came of it. I see it in our
State of Vermont, and I hope our coun-
try is better for it. So I thank the Sen-
ator from Illinois.
The last time William Barr was be-
fore the Senate was 28 years ago, dur-
ing the George H.W. Bush administra-
tion, and I voted for him to be Attor-
ney General. I did so despite having
some reservations that I shared with
him and the Senate at the time. Mr.
Barr and I did not see eye to eye on
many issues. We did not then, and we
do not now. But he was clearly quali-
fied for the position, and he had earned
the confidence of the Senate. So I felt
free to vote for him.
I am concerned by some of the re-
marks that Senator DURBIN has re-
ferred to which seem to indicate that
Mr. Barr may feel that he is the lawyer
for the President, not only the Attor-
ney General of the United States. He is
there to represent everybody—every-
body—and to make sure the laws are
upheld for everybody.
Now we find ourselves considering his
nomination under extraordinarily dif-
ferent circumstances than we did when
my friend President Bush had nomi-
nated him. Multiple criminal inves-
tigations loom over the Trump Presi-
dency. In fact, these investigations
may ultimately define the Trump Pres-
idency, and the President has reacted
to it with apparently the only way he
knows how. He just attacks relent-
lessly. He doesn’t respond to them, but
attacks. That includes attacking inves-
tigators, witnesses, even the justice
system itself. That also includes firing
both the FBI Director and his previous
Attorney General for not handling one
of the investigations as the President
wanted, but instead as the law re-
quired.
The President views the Justice De-
partment as an extension of his power.
He has repeatedly called on it to target
his political opponents. He has even re-
portedly told his advisers that he ex-
pects the Attorney General to protect
him personally. I have been here with
eight Presidents. I have never known a
President, either Republican or Demo-
crat, to have such an outrageous and
wrong—wrong—view of the Department
of Justice.
The integrity of the Justice Depart-
ment has not been so tested since the
dark days of Watergate. Yet when the
Judiciary Committee considered the
nomination of Elliot Richardson to be
Attorney General in the midst of that
national crisis, nominated by Richard
Nixon, the nominee made numerous,
detailed commitments to the com-
mittee. Mr. Richardson did so, in his
words, to ‘‘create the maximum pos-
sible degree of public confidence in the
integrity of the process.’’ That same
principle applies equally today.
Indeed, that may be the only way the
Justice Department escapes the Trump
administration with its integrity in-
tact. In large part due to the relentless
politicizing of the Department by the
President, millions of Americans will
see bias no matter which way the De-
partment resolves the Russia inves-
tigation. Because of seeing such bias,
our country is diminished. The justice
system is greatly diminished. In my
view, the Department has only one way
out—transparency. The American peo-
ple deserve to know the facts, whatever
they may be. That requires the special
counsel’s report, and the evidence that
supports it, be made public.
Unfortunately, despite efforts from
both Republicans and Democrats in the
Senate, Mr. Barr has repeatedly re-
fused to make that commitment.
Worse, much of his testimony before
the Judiciary Committee left us with
more doubts. Will Mr. Barr allow Presi-
dent Trump to make a sweeping, un-
precedented claim of Executive privi-
lege that allows him to hide the re-
port? Will Mr. Barr, relying on a De-
partment policy to avoid disparaging
uncharged parties, not disclose poten-
tial misconduct by the President sim-
ply due to another policy to not indict
sitting Presidents? We don’t know the
answer, but we do know that Mr. Barr’s
testimony on these issues could lay the
groundwork for potentially no trans-
parency at all.
Mr. Barr also repeatedly refused to
follow the precedent of Attorney Gen-
eral Jeff Sessions and commit to follow
the advice of career ethics officials on
whether he needs to recuse himself
from the Russia investigation. He even
declined my request to commit to sim-
ply sharing their recommendation with
the Judiciary Committee. That is crit-
ical because there is reason to question
whether an appearance of a conflict ex-
ists.
Prior to his nomination, Mr. Barr
made his unorthodox views on the spe-
cial counsel’s obstruction of justice in-
vestigation very clear. He did that with
a 19-page memo sent directly to the
President’s lawyers. Mr. Barr spoke
dismissively about the broader Russia
investigation. He even claimed that a
conspiracy theory involving Hillary
Clinton was far more deserving of a
Federal investigation than possible
collusion, and this was notwith-
standing the fact that, by that time,
that conspiracy had been debunked. He
was asked, in effect, whether this
memo was a job application, because it
is difficult to imagine that these views
escaped the attention of the President.
That makes it all the more critical
that Mr. Barr follow the precedent of
prior Attorneys General and commit to
following the advice of career ethics of-
ficials on recusal.
I am also concerned that, if con-
firmed, Mr. Barr would defend policies
that I believe are both ineffective and
inhumane. We heard Senator DURBIN
speak eloquently about the horrible,
horrible program of separating families
at the border, and I think the Nation is
still reeling from that systematic sepa-
ration. But, in light of that, Mr. Barr
praised Jeff Sessions for ‘‘breaking the
record for prosecution’’ of the mis-
demeanor offenses that forced families
to be separated. In other words, on a
misdemeanor, you take the child away
from the parents and separate them.
Nobody seems to know where every-
body goes after that.
Ask a 4-year-old: What are your par-
ents’ name? They will say, in whatever
language: Mommy and daddy.
Where do you live?
We live in the house next to so-and-
so.
They don’t know the addresses. They
rely on their parents, and now they
have been separated from them.
It makes me think Attorneys Gen-
eral should be able to stand up for the
rule of law. I remember a time when
former Acting Attorney General Sally
Yates stood up for the rule of law. She
refused to defend President Trump’s
first iteration of his Muslim ban as a
deeply flawed order. It was stained
with racial animus, that even applied
to individuals who were lawful perma-
nent residents and had valid visas, Mr.
Barr described Ms. Yates’s decision as
‘‘obstruction’’ and a ‘‘serious abuse of
office.’’
My God, this country should not have
religious tests. If we did, my grand-
parents would not have been able to
come to this country.
Relevant to each of my concerns is
Mr. Barr’s extremely broad views of ex-
ecutive power. He is an advocate of the
unitary executive theory, believing
that the Constitution vests nearly all
executive power ‘‘in one and one only
person—the President.’’ He has said
that an Attorney General has ‘‘no au-
thority and no conceivable justifica-
tion for directing the department’s
lawyers not to advocate the president’s
position in court.’’ This expansive view
of a President’s power would concern
me no matter whose administration it
was. In fact, if you go way back in his-
tory, it conflicts with Supreme Court
Justice James Iredell’s observation in
1792 that the Attorney General ‘‘is not
called the Attorney General of the
President, but Attorney General of the
United States.’’
I find Mr. Barr’s deferential view of
Executive power especially concerning.
We already know much of what Presi-
dent Trump intends to do. It includes
taking billions of dollars that Congress
has already appropriated and diverting
it toward a wasteful and ineffective
vanity wall. What would Mr. Barr do
when confronted with such an order?
He has essentially told us: Mr. Barr has
argued that Congress’s appropriations
power provided under Article I, Section
9 of the Constitution is ‘‘not an inde-
pendent source of congressional power’’
to ‘‘control the allocation of govern-
ment resources.’’ That would come as
great news to everybody—Republicans
and Democrats—who has been an ap-
propriator in any session of Congress.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.018 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1297
February 13, 2019
He even believes, that if a President
‘‘finds no appropriated funds within a
given category’’ but can find such
money ‘‘in another category,’’ he can
spend those funds as he wishes so long
as the spending is within his broad
‘‘constitutional purview.’’ Such views
should concern all of us here—Repub-
licans and Democrats alike—who be-
lieve, as the Founders of this country
believed, that Congress possesses the
power of the purse.
Unfortunately, I fear that Mr. Barr’s
long-held views on Executive power
would essentially be weaponized by
President Trump—a man who we know
derides any limits on his authority.
Over the past two years, we have seen
the erosion of our institutional checks
and balances in the face of creeping
authoritarianism. That can’t continue.
In conclusion, let me be clear. I re-
spect Mr. Barr. I voted for him when
President George H. W. Bush nomi-
nated him. As Attorney General, I do
not doubt that he would stand faith-
fully by his genuinely held convictions,
but I fear this particular administra-
tion needs somebody who would give
him a much tighter leash, as Attorneys
General have in the past. So because of
that, I will vote no on Mr. Barr’s nomi-
nation.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, while
Senator LEAHY is still on the floor, I
want to thank him for his extraor-
dinary work on the conference com-
mittee to try to resolve our budget im-
passe. I know he has been working
night and day. He has shared with
many of us the work he has been doing
on behalf of getting a budget that re-
flects the will of this body and of the
House, and hopefully it will be com-
pleted before midnight on Friday.
So I want to personally thank the
distinguished Senator, the senior Sen-
ator from Vermont, Mr. LEAHY, for the
work he has done to keep the govern-
ment open, to provide security for our
borders, and to make sure we get all of
our appropriations bills done.
Mr. LEAHY. Thank you.
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to proceed as in
morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
BLACK HISTORY MONTH
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, 54 years
ago, 600 nonviolent protesters set off to
march from Selma to Montgomery, AL,
to protest the disenfranchisement of
Black voters in the South.
They got as far as the Edmund
Pettus Bridge when they saw police of-
ficers lined up on the other end, wait-
ing with tear gas, clubs, and dogs. The
iconic bridge stood between the police
and protesters like a physical barrier
between hope and violence, democracy
and second-class citizenship.
Although the 13th, 14th, and 15th
Amendments—which cemented into
law the freedom, citizenship, and vot-
ing rights of Black Americans—passed
nearly 100 years earlier across the
country, literacy tests, poll taxes, vio-
lence, and intimidation stood in the
way of this constitutional promise.
This was especially true in Alabama.
According to the 1961 Civil Rights
Commission report, at the time of the
famous protests, fewer than 10 percent
of the voting-age Black population was
registered in Alabama’s Montgomery
County. This infamous march from
Selma was intended to right the wrong
and to shine light on the injustice of
all the many laws that kept voting
from being accessible to Black Ameri-
cans.
For months leading up to it, a com-
munity of activists—led by Martin Lu-
ther King, Jr., and of course our es-
teemed colleague Representative JOHN
LEWIS—carried out voting registration
drives and nonviolent demonstrations,
all against the resistance of the local
government and members of the Ku
Klux Klan. These efforts laid the
groundwork for the march from Selma,
which ended with Alabama State
troopers attacking the protesters.
The images of the State-sponsored vi-
olence were shown across the country,
galvanizing the American public in
favor of voting rights in a day that has
since become known as Bloody Sunday.
Five months later, on August 6, 1965,
the Voting Rights Act was signed into
law. The bill is one of the crowing vic-
tories of the civil rights movement and
for our American democracy.
This monumental legislation out-
lawed the malicious barriers to the
polls and held States accountable for
the discriminatory obstacles imposed
on citizens who sought to fulfill their
constitutional right. It opened doors
for Black citizens across the South to
register, to cast a vote, or to run for of-
fice in higher numbers than ever be-
fore.
As we celebrate this February as
Black History Month, we must remem-
ber that Black history is American his-
tory. We must remember that too often
in our Nation’s past, the work to create
a more perfect Union has fallen upon
the shoulders of Americans whose full
rights of citizenship were discounted
simply because of the color of their
skin. The right to vote is a funda-
mental American tenet. Yet it has his-
torically been denied to men and
women of color.
We must remember that when we tell
stories of those who fought and strug-
gled to secure voting rights in our Na-
tion’s past, it is because their stories
serve as a precursor to our own.
Today voting rights are still under
attack. Many who survived the brutal
attack on Bloody Sunday and lived to
see the passage of the Voting Rights
Act have also lived to see the same
monumental bill weakened by the 2013
Shelby County Supreme Court deci-
sion.
They have watched our President and
Republican legislators tout myths of
voter fraud to justify strict voter ID
laws, partisan gerrymandering, and
limited access to voting information.
These efforts undoubtedly disadvan-
tage Black Americans more than most
and put a scourge on the system that
defines our democracy. It is an insult
to those who were robbed of their free-
dom and oftentimes their lives to cre-
ate a more equal future.
One such example of modern voter
disenfranchisement can be found in the
fact that the United States denies vot-
ing rights to citizens with felony con-
victions. We are one of the exceedingly
few Western democracies that perma-
nently strip citizens of their right to
vote as a punishment for their crimes.
Let’s be clear. We are not talking
about voting rights for felons currently
incarcerated; we are talking about vot-
ing rights for those who have served
their time and have since been re-
leased, attained jobs, raised a family,
paid taxes, and moved on with their
lives. Under the current law in 34
States, these individuals are still de-
nied the right to vote, and that is sim-
ply unfair and undemocratic.
Black History Month demands that
we bring this injustice to light because
felony disenfranchisement dispropor-
tionately affects men and women of
color. One out of thirteen Black Ameri-
cans is currently unable to vote be-
cause of a prior conviction for which
they have already served time—a rate
that is more than four times greater
than the non-Black Americans.
Right now, in total, more than 2 mil-
lion Americans are unable to vote be-
cause of prior convictions, despite hav-
ing already served their time and pay-
ing their debt to society. That is why
this year I will again be introducing
the Democracy Restoration Act, a bill
that would restore voting rights to in-
dividuals after they have been released
and returned to their community.
I am committed to seeing this legis-
lation passed. My hope is that Black
History Month inspires all of my col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle to
join me.
We must also combat efforts to in-
timidate and disenfranchise voters.
That is why last year I introduced leg-
islation that would prohibit and penal-
ize knowingly spreading misinforma-
tion, such as incorrect polling loca-
tions, times, or the necessary forms of
identification. This Deceptive Prac-
tices and Voter Intimidation Act will
prohibit and penalize intentionally and
knowingly spreading misinformation
to voters that is intended to suppress
the vote, including the time and place
of an election and restrictions on voter
eligibility.
Reliably, these tactics always seem
to target minority neighborhoods and
are blatant attempts to reduce turn-
out. Such tactics undermine and cor-
rode our very democracy and threaten
the integrity of our electoral system.
In Stacey Abrams’ response to the
State of the Union last week, she said
that ‘‘the foundation of our moral lead-
ership around the globe is free and fair
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.019 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1298 February 13, 2019
elections, where voters pick their lead-
ers—not where politicians pick their
voters.’’ This is precisely why I have
chosen to speak out about voting
rights this month—because this issue
defines our moral and democratic char-
acter as a nation and because it is an
area where we still have so much work
left to do.
Casting a vote is one of the most
basic and fundamental freedoms in any
democracy, and Congress has the re-
sponsibility to ensure the right is pro-
tected.
Congress has the responsibility to re-
move barriers to voting and make it
easier for people to register to vote,
cast their vote, and make sure their
votes are counted. No one can appre-
ciate the need for us to meet this re-
sponsibility better than Black Ameri-
cans whose collective story is one of
triumph over racist laws and undemo-
cratic norms.
On Black History Month, Congress
must vow to follow their example and
work together across party lines to
make voting easier, fairer, and more
accessible to all.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. ROM-
NEY). The Senator from Minnesota.
Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
NOMINATION OF WILLIAM BARR
Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I
want to join my colleagues today in
making some brief remarks on William
Barr’s nomination to serve as Attorney
General of the United States.
I had the opportunity to meet with
Mr. Barr one-on-one in my office. We
had a very good meeting, and we talked
in some detail about securing our elec-
tions from foreign interference, some-
thing that is a major priority of mine,
and we really are close in passing a bi-
partisan bill, which Senator LANKFORD
and I have, called the Secure Elections
Act. We just need a little help and sup-
port from the administration.
We also talked about modernizing
our antitrust enforcement to fit the
challenges that we have today and to
make our laws as sophisticated as the
trillion-dollar companies we are now
seeing and the mergers we are seeing
all across the United States. So we had
a good discussion about that.
We also talked about his family and
working in the Justice Department.
During the hearing, I gave an oppor-
tunity for him to talk to those workers
who were, through no fault of their
own, furloughed or not getting paid,
and he clearly showed respect for the
people in the Justice Department. I ap-
preciate all of that. I think that is im-
portant to have in an Attorney Gen-
eral.
But I have some serious concerns
about this nominee. I had already an-
nounced I was opposing him during our
Judiciary Committee vote, but I have
some serious concerns when you look
at the context in which he has come
before us.
His nomination comes at a time
when there are investigations by a spe-
cial counsel and multiple U.S. attor-
ney’s offices in New York into cam-
paign finance violations and an at-
tempt, as we know, by a foreign adver-
sary to interfere in our elections. This
special counsel’s investigation has led
to indictments or guilty pleas from
over 30 people and three companies, in-
cluding seven former advisers to the
President.
These investigations, as we know, go
to the heart of the integrity of our
elections, our government, and our in-
stitutions, and it is why it is essential,
first of all, that Special Counsel
Mueller and the U.S. attorney’s offices
be allowed to finish their work free of
political interference.
The President, as we know, has made
past statements and sent out tweets
about Attorney General Sessions: I am
critical of him for allowing these inves-
tigations to go forward. This is the
context we are in. He has made it very
clear as to what he is looking for in an
Attorney General. He wants someone
who will be his lawyer. He wants some-
one to use the Justice Department, in
a way, to protect him.
I think this should worry us because,
yes, the Attorney General works for
the President, but, more importantly,
who the Attorney General really works
for are the people, the people of the
United States.
The Attorney General of the United
States is the people’s lawyer and
pledges to uphold the rule of law and
apply the law equally no matter who
you are.
Mr. Barr has made clear, one, that he
respects Mr. Mueller, which I truly ap-
preciate. He said that both in my pri-
vate meeting and on the record at the
hearing. But he has also said that he
intends to take over supervision of the
special counsel’s investigation.
He wouldn’t commit, at his nomina-
tion hearing—despite having written
that 19-page memo, he wouldn’t com-
mit to following the advice of career
ethics lawyers at the Department
about whether he should be recused.
Why did that concern me? Well, be-
cause he had actually commended the
Deputy Attorney General for following
those rules, and he had commended
Senator and then-Attorney General
Sessions for following these rules. So
that concerns me.
We know that if he is confirmed, he
will be in a position to oversee the spe-
cial counsel’s budget, the scope of the
investigation, and he will, ultimately—
and this is key—receive the results of
investigation under law.
He will get to decide whether the re-
sults are released to the public or, per-
haps, as he suggested during the hear-
ing, are not released at all, and that is
in addition to those related investiga-
tions he will oversee. These U.S. Attor-
ney’s investigations don’t have the spe-
cial counsel regulations to protect
them, so he is in direct line to oversee
those.
Even though many of my colleagues
asked him to pledge to make Special
Counsel Mueller’s report public, he
wouldn’t commit to do so. He always
had a way to kind of dodge a commit-
ment to do so, instead of, in my mind,
making a full-throated endorsement of
releasing that report.
If he is confirmed, he will also have
room to make his own interpretation
of what the law allows. In fact, as At-
torney General, he can make the De-
partment’s rules and regulations and
issue guidance that would make the
difference between transparency and
obscurity. That is why we have to look
at his judgment on this particular
issue.
Maybe if we were in a different time,
in a different moment, we would be
talking about things like the opioid
epidemic and what the Attorney Gen-
eral is doing, which is very important,
and I know he does care about that; or
we would be devoting our moment,
which I wish we could be doing, to anti-
trust and upgrading the way those laws
are enforced and what we should do; or
we would be talking, which we should
be doing, about the SECOND STEP Act
and not just the FIRST STEP Act.
All of those questions were asked in
the hearing—immigration reform, very
important issues—but we are where we
are. We are where we are, and we have
to look at his judgment to see what
kind of Attorney General he would be
at this time with respect to law and
order, which, to me, right now, is not
just about law and order in our com-
munities—very important—but it is
also about law and order when it comes
to our entire justice system.
Like many of the nominees from the
President, Mr. Barr has demonstrated,
just as Justice Kavanaugh did, just as
Justice Gorsuch did, an expansive
view—an unprecedentedly expansive
view of Presidential power. We don’t
have to look far to see how those views
would impact the special counsel’s in-
vestigation.
Just a few months before he was
nominated as a private citizen—I don’t
have many constituents who would do
this, but, for some reason, Mr. Barr de-
cided to send in this 19-page memo as a
private citizen. It was no ordinary
memo. This memo was 19 pages, single-
spaced, and addressed to the leadership
of the Justice Department, but it was
sent to all of these people—conserv-
ative activists and all kinds of people
all over the place, the lawyers at the
White House Counsel’s office, and the
President’s personal lawyers. I don’t
think my constituents would really
have their addresses or emails, but it
was sent to all of these people.
It argued that a portion of the spe-
cial counsel’s obstruction of justice in-
quiry was ‘‘fatally misconceived.’’ He
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.020 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1299
February 13, 2019
said that it was based on a legally in-
supportable reading of the law.
Now, that makes you pause. How can
we be sure, how can we think he can
impartially evaluate the special coun-
sel’s investigation if, before he has
even seen its result, he writes exten-
sively that part of it, not all of it, was
legally insupportable and fatally mis-
conceived?
It is not just those statements that
are troubling. He goes on to state, not
for the first time, his alarming views
about the President’s powers. Here is
one of them: ‘‘[T]he President’s law en-
forcement powers extend to all mat-
ters, including those in which he had a
personal stake.’’
Mr. Barr doesn’t cite laws or cases
from the Supreme Court or the history
of our Nation’s founding or even the
Federalist Papers when making his
claims. He just says it as if it is obvi-
ous.
Let me be clear about what he means
by this. Mr. Barr believes that a Presi-
dent gets to supervise an investigation
into his or her own conduct. As a
former prosecutor, I know that it is a
fundamental value in our country that
no one—no one—is above the law, and
it is a fundamental principle in our
legal system that no one should be a
judge in their own case, not even the
President of the United States.
I also have grave doubts about Mr.
Barr’s respect for Congress, a coequal
branch of government, and our duty to
provide oversight of the executive
branch.
Mr. Barr is a proponent of the uni-
tary executive theory, which is the
idea that the President has expansive
powers, even in the face of Congress’s
constitutional duties. His writings on
the topic raise serious questions about
how Mr. Barr will approach congres-
sional oversight of the administration.
I am concerned that Mr. Barr will
rely on the broad interpretation of Ex-
ecutive power to support the White
House’s reported efforts to exert Exec-
utive privilege to prevent the release of
the special counsel report, its findings,
or its conclusions.
If that happens, Congress must be
ready to assert our responsibility to
make sure the public and, especially,
State election officials who are work-
ing to secure our elections have the
facts about what happened.
How are we going to fix this in the
next election if we don’t know what
happened? How are we going to have
accountability for our government if
the public is shut out in viewing what
happened?
This is not the time to install an At-
torney General who has repeatedly es-
poused a view of unfettered Executive
power. Congress cannot abdicate its re-
sponsibilities or shirk its duties—not
when it comes to national security,
foreign relations, the budget, or, as is
key today, oversight into law and
order.
A few years ago, I went to Atlanta to
make a speech, and, of course, I took a
little trip over to the Carter Presi-
dential Library. Of course, I wanted to
see this library—I had never seen it—to
learn more about President Carter, but
as a Minnesotan, I really wanted to
look for all the Mondale memorabilia.
I may have been the only one there
looking for Joan’s dress and other
things related to the Mondale half of
the Carter-Mondale team.
One of the things I noticed that to
me was most prominent was a quote of
Walter Mondale’s etched on the wall.
At the time, I liked it. I thought it was
simple. I wrote it down, and I put it in
my purse. But I never knew how rel-
evant it would be today. The quote
came from Mondale’s reflections on his
service with President Carter after
they had lost their reelection but had
served their country for 4 years. He
said:
We told the truth. We obeyed the law. We
kept the peace.
I believe that is the minimum stand-
ard we should expect of any adminis-
tration. We told the truth. We obeyed
the law. We kept the peace. Every
President faces great challenges, many
of which are unforeseen and require dif-
ficult decisions, but at the minimum,
an administration should tell the
truth, obey the law, and do all they can
to keep the peace.
That is where I will end. What con-
cerns me about this nominee is not the
vast experience he has or the work he
would do on a few of the things that I
mentioned; it is his views on Executive
power, his views on Congress’s power to
be a check and balance to the Execu-
tive, his views on what the Executive
can do right as we face this crucial
time in history, when coming right at
us is this major report from the special
counsel. I want someone who will make
sure that whoever is in the White
House obeys the law and tells the
truth.
Sadly, I cannot support this nominee.
I do hope that I am wrong in some of
my conclusions based on what I have
read and heard. I would like nothing
more.
I appreciate so much the work of Rod
Rosenstein as Deputy Attorney Gen-
eral and many of the other people in
the Justice Department who have
worked with him to allow this inves-
tigation to continue. I hope that will
be the case if this nominee does go
through this Chamber, that he will do
the same.
Thank you, Mr. President.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Michigan.
S. 429
Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, cyber
attacks are one of the greatest threats
to our national security today. As our
world becomes increasingly connected,
bad actors are trying to infiltrate our
most critical networks, from our mili-
tary systems and our electrical grid to
our financial institutions and our
small businesses.
We face a rising number of cyber at-
tacks that have the potential to expose
our sensitive, personal information or
disrupt nearly every aspect of our
lives. These cyber security vulnerabili-
ties cut across every industry. Whether
you are a small business trying to pro-
tect your customers’ credit card de-
tails, a doctor’s office with private
medical insurance information, or even
a sophisticated tech startup that needs
to safeguard your customers’ pass-
words, cyber security protections are
absolutely vital to your success.
We have seen the dangerous con-
sequences of attacks that exposed the
private data of millions of Americans—
from companies like Equifax and Tar-
get to Federal Agencies like the Office
of Personnel Management and the IRS.
Government Agencies of all sizes are at
risk of a breach that could jeopardize
the sensitive information they are
trusted with, and these threats will
only continue to grow.
We need a skilled cyber workforce of
professionals to shore up our cyber pro-
tections, fortify our legacy systems,
and build new and innovative infra-
structure with safety and security in
mind. Despite the glaring need for
more cyber security professionals, we
face a serious shortage of highly
trained cyber experts to fill these posi-
tions. Estimates indicate there is a
global shortage of approximately 3 mil-
lion desperately needed cyber security
professionals, including nearly half a
million in North America, where gov-
ernment and the private sector are
competing to hire the best talent.
The Federal Government faces seri-
ous challenges in this competition.
Agencies often cannot offer the same
top salaries and benefits that Silicon
Valley uses to entice and to retain em-
ployees. Our cyber workforce is on the
frontlines of every aspect of our digital
security, and we need policies that ad-
dress that reality and sustain and grow
our ranks.
While thousands of dedicated public
servants choose to work in government
because they are motivated by the mis-
sion of serving our country, there is
more we can do to grow the pool of
cyber workers and recruit them to gov-
ernment service. Congress has made
strides in recent years to improve in-
centives and attract skilled cyber pro-
fessionals to join the ranks.
Moving forward, we can make cyber
positions in government more attrac-
tive by providing cyber professionals
with unique opportunities to enhance
their careers while they help protect
our country’s security. That is why I
introduced the Federal Rotational
Cyber Workforce Program Act with
Senator HOEVEN. Our bipartisan legis-
lation helps the Federal Government
develop an integrated cyber security
workforce that retains high-skilled em-
ployees by establishing a civilian per-
sonnel rotation program specifically
for cyber professionals. It is based on
similar joint duty programs for the
military services and the intelligence
community.
The Rotational Cyber Workforce Pro-
gram will provide civilian employees in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.022 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1300 February 13, 2019
cyber roles opportunities to enhance
their careers, broaden their profes-
sional experience, and foster collabo-
rative networks by experiencing and
contributing to the cyber mission be-
yond their home Agencies. By offering
these kinds of dynamic and rewarding
opportunities, this legislation will help
retain highly talented cyber profes-
sionals and strengthen our govern-
ment’s security by developing greater
interagency awareness and collabora-
tion.
I am pleased that this morning the
Homeland Security and Government
Affairs Committee unanimously ap-
proved this legislation. It moves us
closer to closing the cyber security
workforce gap.
In addition to taking commonsense
steps like we did today in committee,
Congress needs to look ahead and plan
for long-term solutions to ensure that
we always have a strong, competitive
pool of cyber security talent to draw
on. We need policies that encourage
students of all ages and educational
levels to seek out STEM fields, such as
computer science, so they are prepared
to fill these in-demand jobs and be our
first line of defense against these
emerging and rapidly evolving threats.
I look forward to continuing to work
with my Republican and Democratic
colleagues to get this bill signed into
law and to advance other commonsense
legislation that strengthens our Na-
tion’s cyber capabilities and safeguards
the weakest links in the cyber security
chain from harm.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
TAX FILING SEASON
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I
come to the floor for two reasons: No.
1, to speak about the tax bill of 1 year
ago, and then, for a longer period of
time, to address the issue before the
Senate, which is the nomination of Mr.
Barr.
The tax filing season began just over
2 weeks ago. Despite the disruption of
the temporary partial government
shutdown, the IRS is reporting to the
Nation that all systems are go. Tax re-
turns are being processed as normal,
and refunds are being sent out. While
there are lingering effects from the
shutdown, overall, the IRS and Treas-
ury have done a pretty good job of
minimizing the effects of the shutdown
on tax filers.
This season is receiving additional
scrutiny as it is the very first time
that tax filers are filing under the tax
cuts and reforms enacted last year. My
colleagues on the other side of the aisle
and some in the media appear to be ob-
sessed with finding anything they can
manufacture to declare the filing sea-
son under the new law a failure. Of
course, that is after only 2 weeks of tax
filing—not a long enough period of
time to draw too many conclusions.
Case in point: Last week the IRS re-
leased preliminary filing data covering
the first weeks of the filing season. Im-
mediately, naysayers began focusing
on data that suggests that tax refunds
in the first week were down slightly
over last year, as well as focusing on
anecdotal social media posts. Never
mind that the current refund numbers
are based on only a few days of data, or
that refund statistics can vary widely
from one week to the next. Never mind
that most of the social media posts are
unverified. Many have the markings of
a coordinated effort by liberal activists
who have regularly used hashtag ‘‘GOP
tax scam’’ to attack the law on Twit-
ter, despite a vast majority of tax-
payers paying less in taxes.
Yet our journalists, who are well edu-
cated and ought to know better, fall for
it—hook, line, and sinker—including
such tweets in articles with no ques-
tions asked or verifying the veracity of
these claims.
To be fair, oftentimes buried deep in
such articles, well below a sensational
headline, is an attempt to demonstrate
some semblance of unbiased reports,
noting that under the tax law, most
taxpayers will see tax cuts. That is
right. Most taxpayers will see tax cuts.
You most assuredly wouldn’t know this
from the headlines bemoaning a reduc-
tion in tax refunds, but the vast major-
ity of taxpayers experienced a tax cut
last year, and will this year, as well.
Every analysis—from the non-
partisan Joint Committee on Taxation
to the right-leaning Tax Foundation,
to the liberal Tax Policy Center—dem-
onstrates that taxpayers are sending
less of their hard-earned money to
Washington this year.
As an example, an Iowa family of
four with the State’s family median in-
come of around $75,000 stands to see
their tax bill cut by more than half, or
about $2,100 in savings. This is real tax
relief that began appearing in many
taxpayers’ paychecks at the start of
2018. That is a very important point.
The government could have chosen to
deprive this taxpayer of this extra
$2,100 last year until they filed their
taxes during this tax season.
This may have been the best thing to
do if you are someone who starts with
the assumption that their money
would be better off in the hands of the
government interest-free. But I do not
believe that is the best thing to do.
I believe taxpayers know better how
to spend their hard-earned money than
Washington does. It should be up to the
individual taxpayer whether it is in his
or her interest to put that extra
$2,100—or about $175 a month—in a sav-
ings account or spend it on buying
school supplies for their children or
maybe even making a car payment.
That is a decision 157 million taxpayers
can make and not 535 Members of Con-
gress or the bureaucrats who are out
spending the money.
In early 2018, Treasury and the IRS
implemented updated withholding ta-
bles to give taxpayers that option of
deciding whether to save or spend and
what to spend it on or how to save it.
A chief priority for the new with-
holding tables was accuracy. The IRS’
goal was to help taxpayers get the
right amount withheld from their pay-
check. However, common sense ought
to tell us that no withholding table
will ever be perfect—at least not per-
fect for 157 million different taxpayers.
If they were, there would be no need for
tax refunds. Only what was necessary
to satisfy a taxpayer’s tax obligation
would need to be taken from their pay-
checks.
But that is unlikely. Every taxpayer
is affected a little differently under the
Tax Code based on their personal cir-
cumstances, and some taxpayers’ in-
comes may fluctuate throughout the
year. This makes exact withholding
based on general tables nearly impos-
sible. As a result, the amount of a tax-
payers’ refund is unlikely to be exactly
the same as it was under the old law
compared to our new law. Yes, some
taxpayers may see a smaller refund,
but others may see a larger refund. The
size of one’s refund tells you nothing
about whether a specific taxpayer ben-
efited from last year’s tax law.
Given this fact, the best way for any
taxpayer to see how tax reform af-
fected their bottom line is to compare
this year’s tax return with last year’s
tax return, rather than making that
judgment based upon what the refund
is.
Tax preparers and tax return soft-
ware often will provide an analysis
comparing the current and previous
year’s tax return. I encourage tax-
payers to compare the total amount of
taxes paid this year with the total
taxes paid last year, or, if your income
materially changed from last year,
compare your effective tax rate. That
is the taxes paid as a percentage of
your adjusted gross income. If your tax
preparer does not already provide you
with this information, simply ask them
for that information.
If taxpayers take this approach, the
vast majority will see that their tax
bill has gone down. This is what mat-
ters, not the size of their refund. The
size of the refund tells you nothing be-
yond the degree to which a taxpayer
has overpaid their taxes over the
course of the year. I hope Americans
will take the time to check so they
know the real effects that last year’s
tax cuts had on their lives and their
family.
NOMINATION OF WILLIAM BARR
Mr. President, I will now turn my at-
tention to the vote that will happen
shortly today or tomorrow on William
Barr to be Attorney General for the
United States.
Mr. Barr is a highly accomplished at-
torney and an experienced public serv-
ant with an outstanding record. The
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.024 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1301
February 13, 2019
Justice Department needs good, effec-
tive leadership, and we should act
quickly to fill this top spot.
I believe that Mr. Barr will be a good
leader for the Justice Department as
he has demonstrated in the past. In my
opinion, at his Judiciary Committee
nomination hearing, Mr. Barr was very
candid with Senators. I believe he did
his best at answering questions on his
views on a wide variety of topics, as
well as addressing concerns, including
my own.
For example, at the beginning of this
confirmation process, I had concerns
regarding Mr. Barr’s prior negative
statements on a subject that I have
been working on for 4 years with Sen-
ator DURBIN and Senator LEE—crimi-
nal justice reform.
In particular, I was concerned about
a 1992 Justice Department report re-
leased when he was Attorney General
entitled ‘‘The Case for More Incarcer-
ation.’’ That title ought to tell you
that he is tough on law enforcement. I
was also concerned about a letter he
signed in 2015 opposing the bill that we
then entitled the Sentencing Reform
and Correction Act of 2015. Obviously,
if I think we need criminal justice re-
form for the first time in a generation,
and the Attorney General puts out a
letter against the part of it that Sen-
ator DURBIN and I were working so
hard on—by the way, the President
signed that just before Christmas—
then, I think it is legitimate that I ask
him these questions.
As Attorney General, Mr. Barr will
be responsible for implementing the re-
cently passed FIRST STEP Act of 2018,
which 89 Members of this body sup-
ported. These Members also worked
tirelessly for its passage. The FIRST
STEP Act is the title of the bill that I
call criminal justice reform. This is
why one of my first questions during
his confirmation hearing was to di-
rectly and clearly ask Mr. Barr if he
would commit to fully implementing
the FIRST STEP Act, considering the
fact that he had written a letter 3
years ago against the concept.
His answer was very clear and con-
vincing to me, and that was one word—
‘‘yes.’’ He went on to say: ‘‘I have no
problem with the approach of reform-
ing the prison structure and I will
faithfully implement the law.’’ Later
in the hearing, other Senators pointed
to Mr. Barr’s past stances on criminal
justice and sentencing reform. Those
Members asked for Mr. Barr’s current
views on the subject. They also asked
for assurances that Mr. Barr would du-
tifully implement the FIRST STEP
Act, just like I asked that question.
Mr. Barr expressed his current mis-
givings about high sentences for drug
offenders established in the 1990s. Each
time, he answered very clearly that he
would dutifully implement the FIRST
STEP Act and work to ensure that the
intent of Congress was realized. Mr.
Barr’s answers regarding the FIRST
STEP Act relieved my concerns of his
past statements.
While I will continue to use the over-
sight powers of Congress to ensure that
the FIRST STEP Act is applied and im-
plemented as required by law, I believe
Mr. Barr’s testimony, and I look for-
ward to working with him on both the
implementation of the current law and
future steps in criminal justice reform.
I want to go on to another issue of
importance to me, which was Mr.
Barr’s position on the False Claims
Act. If you remember my participation
in the False Claims Act, going back to
1986, that act has brought in $59 billion
of fraudulently taken money from the
Federal taxpayers. Leaders and top
prosecutors of both sides of the aisle
have now praised the law as the most
effective tool the government has to
detect, to prosecute, and actually to
recover public money lost to fraud.
Most of the $59 billion has come as a
result of patriotic whistleblowers who
found the fraud and brought the cases
at their own risk.
To let you know why I am concerned
about Mr. Barr’s opinion, in the past he
was extremely critical of the False
Claims Act, even after it was signed by
President Reagan. He called it uncon-
stitutional. At one time, he said it was
an ‘‘abomination.’’ So at his nomina-
tion hearing, I pointedly asked Mr.
Barr whether he believed the False
Claims Act is unconstitutional. He
said: ‘‘No, Senator. It’s been upheld by
the Supreme Court.’’
Mr. Barr also stated that he would
fully and faithfully implement this
very important law. He acknowledged
the benefits of the False Claims Act
and said: ‘‘I will diligently enforce the
False Claims Act.’’
I also asked Mr. Barr about his
stance on something called the
‘‘Granston Memo.’’ That memo pro-
vides a long list of reasons that the
Justice Department can use to dismiss
False Claims Act cases. Some of these
reasons are pretty vague, such as ‘‘pre-
serving government resources.’’ Just
think as to how that can be used by
some faceless bureaucrat to avoid some
issue, like maybe he doesn’t want to go
after fraudulent money or doesn’t like
some whistleblower. Obviously, those
words could mean anything the govern-
ment wants it to mean.
Of course, the government ought to
be able to dismiss, obviously, meritless
cases, but we don’t want to give broad
discretion to the administration with-
out good justification. Even when the
Justice Department declines to partici-
pate in a False Claims Act case, the
whistleblower can and, in many cases,
still does recover taxpayers’ money.
Although Mr. Barr had not yet read
the memo, he pledged to sit down with
me if problems arose. These are posi-
tive steps and positive statements.
However, actions speak louder than
words. So I want Mr. Barr to know that
I am going to monitor aggressively
how he enforces and protects the False
Claims Act to ensure that he follows
through on his promises.
On another matter, during his con-
firmation hearing, I pressed Mr. Barr
about transparency with regard to the
special counsel’s report. I made very
clear that I want the report to be made
public because taxpayers deserve to
know what their money is being spent
on—in this case, maybe $25 million to
$35 million. I am not sure we have an
exact figure, but it is a lot of money.
The only way the American taxpayers
and Congress can hold the government
accountable is through transparency.
You have heard me say many times
that transparency brings account-
ability. Of course, there are some tradi-
tional reasons for withholding certain
information even in a special counsel’s
report, such as national security or
people’s privacy, but there should be as
much transparency as possible regard-
ing the release of the report.
During his hearing, Mr. Barr said
that he would place a high priority on
transparency, particularly with
Mueller’s report, and there is no reason
to think that Mr. Mueller will not be
allowed to finish his work. Mr. Barr
told me and other members of this
committee that he would ‘‘provide as
much transparency as [he] can con-
sistent with the law and the Depart-
ment’s longstanding practices and poli-
cies.’’ There is a lot of room there for
him to work within, I suppose, and to
still be honest in these answers. At this
point, I can tell you I have no reason to
doubt Mr. Barr’s sincerity or his com-
mitment to transparency and the law.
If he is confirmed, I will be sure to
hold Mr. Barr to his word on trans-
parency. Yet I also realize that there
are some differences of opinion around
here on what is currently required
under the Justice Department’s special
counsel regulations. That is why Sen-
ator BLUMENTHAL and I recently intro-
duced S. 236, the Special Counsel
Transparency Act. This bill would re-
quire by statute that a special counsel
provide a report to Congress and the
American people at the conclusion of
an investigation, not just Mueller’s
special counsel report but special coun-
sels’ reports into the future. This is
commonsense transparency and ac-
countability under any administration,
not just under the Trump administra-
tion. I look forward to working with
my colleagues and Mr. Barr, if he is
confirmed, on this important legisla-
tion.
I also pressed the nominee on a num-
ber of other issues that were related to
transparency and accountability, in-
cluding the Freedom of Information
Act—or, as we call it around here,
FOIA—and the Foreign Agents Reg-
istration Act. Around here, we refer to
that as FARA. When I served as chair-
man of the Judiciary Committee, I
helped to steer the FOIA Improvement
Act of 2016 into law, which creates a
very important point—a ‘‘presumption
of openness’’ standard. The Justice De-
partment oversees the Federal Govern-
ment’s compliance with FOIA. So that
is why we discussed it with Barr. It is
critical that the nominee, if confirmed
to lead the Justice Department, takes
FOIA and transparency seriously.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:20 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.027 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1302 February 13, 2019
When you talk about a presumption
of openness, it ought to be this simple:
Any of the public’s business ought to
be public, and you presume it to be
public. Let the government give a jus-
tification as to why it ought to be kept
secret or not be open to the public
under the Freedom of Information Act.
I asked Mr. Barr if he agreed that
FOIA were an important tool for hold-
ing the government accountable. Natu-
rally, he said yes. I also asked the
nominee if he would commit to ensur-
ing the faithful and timely implemen-
tation of the 2016 FOIA amendments.
He said: ‘‘Yes, we will work hard on
that.’’ I also think that the entire
FOIA process would be improved if
Americans didn’t have to fight tooth
and nail for disclosure in the first
place. Let me repeat that—fight tooth
and nail for disclosure. That is why we
have a presumption of openness when
it comes to the Freedom of Informa-
tion Act.
Getting the public’s information out
to the public automatically should be a
top priority. So I asked Mr. Barr if he
would help to advocate for the more
proactive disclosure of government
records. Again, he said he would. I ap-
preciate Mr. Barr’s assurances. Of
course, as I have said so many times
during these remarks on different
issues, I expect to hold him true to his
word.
Then, I went to the Foreign Agents
Registration Act, or FARA. I asked
him about the importance of it. My
oversight work has highlighted the
Justice Department’s historically lax
enforcement of that act. I think we had
a hearing on it and found out that
since 1937 there have been fewer than a
dozen prosecutions under it. Now, all of
a sudden, with Russia, Ukraine, and
Turkey and a lot of other places, it has
come to my attention that there are a
lot of people who even recently haven’t
registered under it. On the other hand,
I will bet people are hastening to reg-
ister very fast.
Yet the law has some shortcomings.
In an age in which we are witnessing
more foreign government efforts to in-
fluence the American public and pol-
icymakers, we should see more trans-
parency and more enforcement against
bad actors, not less enforcement. So I
asked Mr. Barr if he agreed that FARA
was an important national security
and accountability tool, and he said
yes.
I asked Mr. Barr if he would be sure
to make FARA enforcement a top pri-
ority under his leadership. Again, he
said he would.
I also asked Mr. Barr if he would
commit to working with me on my bill
to improve FARA. This bill before Con-
gress is called the Disclosing Foreign
Influence Act, and it seeks to better
ensure transparency and account-
ability. Again, he said yes. Again, Mr.
Barr can expect that I will hold him to
his word.
I also asked Mr. Barr about his posi-
tion on antitrust enforcement—specifi-
cally, whether he would ensure that
healthcare and prescription drug anti-
trust issues would be a top priority for
the Justice Department.
The nominee responded: ‘‘Competi-
tion is an important factor in con-
taining the costs of healthcare’’ and
that he would ‘‘work with the Anti-
trust Division to ensure appropriate
and effective criminal and civil en-
forcement to protect Americans’ inter-
ests in low-cost, high-quality
healthcare.’’ He stated that if con-
firmed, antitrust enforcement in the
healthcare and pharmaceutical sectors
‘‘will remain a priority’’ for the Justice
Department.
I also expressed to the candidate my
concerns about agriculture competi-
tion. He indicated that enforcing the
antitrust laws in the agriculture sector
will remain a priority.
The topics I just discussed are just
some of the areas that I asked Mr. Barr
about at the confirmation hearing and
in written questions for the record, and
my Judiciary Committee colleagues
questioned Mr. Barr at length on a va-
riety of topics. I take Mr. Barr at his
word. I don’t believe he would bow to
any kind of pressure, even from the
President, if he thought there were a
problem with the legality, constitu-
tionality, or ethics of an issue. He is an
excellent nominee—extremely com-
petent and experienced.
Mr. Barr previously led the Justice
Department and has proven his strong
leadership abilities. Recall that back
in 1991 the Senate Judiciary Com-
mittee unanimously reported Mr.
Barr’s nomination to be Attorney Gen-
eral under President George H.W. Bush.
Can you believe it? The Senate con-
firmed him by a voice vote.
What has changed after 25 years?
I don’t know, except that there is
something some people think is wrong
if a person by the name of Trump
nominates somebody to some office.
The only difference I can see is that
even in the last 25 years, he has proven
himself to be in the private sector what
he did so well as a public servant. He is
a very capable attorney and a straight
shooter. He is willing to engage in pro-
ductive discussions with Congress.
That is a key quality that we want in
anybody who runs the Justice Depart-
ment, and I have had enough trouble
with the Justice Department.
I hope he will respond to my requests
for oversight information more than
the Democrats and Republicans had
who preceded him. He is committed to
working with me on my oversight re-
quests, and I think my colleagues know
that that is a responsibility that I take
seriously.
He will uphold the law and the Con-
stitution. Mr. Barr deserves our sup-
port, and one can tell from my remarks
that I am, obviously, proud to vote for
him.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
PERDUE). The Senator from Missouri.
Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, as the
former chairman of the Judiciary Com-
mittee, the Senator from Iowa, has just
pointed out, the Senate will soon vote
on the nomination of William Barr to
serve as Attorney General.
As has also been pointed out, this is,
undoubtedly, one of the most qualified
nominees to come before the Senate in
his having already held the same posi-
tion under President George H.W.
Bush. He has also served as an intel-
ligence analyst at the CIA, as an As-
sistant Attorney General in the De-
partment of Justice’s Office of Legal
Counsel, and as Deputy Attorney Gen-
eral before he served as Attorney Gen-
eral.
His confirmation hearing lasted more
than 12 hours, during which time he
and other witnesses answered hundreds
of questions on a wide variety of issues
he might confront as Attorney Gen-
eral. He was straightforward and forth-
coming. He earned high praise even
from the ranking Democrat on that
committee—our colleague, Senator
FEINSTEIN from California—who said:
He’s obviously very smart. He was Attor-
ney General before. . . . No one can say he
isn’t qualified. I was thinking last night, ob-
viously Mr. Barr is qualified. He is bright. He
is capable.
She could have said more, but one of
the things she said after that is, ‘‘I
won’t be voting for him.’’
This is an important job for the
American people. There are a lot of
jobs out there to be filled. It is hard to
argue that any of them are more im-
portant than this one, but it is also
hard to argue that there is not some-
thing wrong with a process where that
is the comment that could be made,
followed not too long after that by: I
won’t be voting for him.
Senator GRASSLEY pointed out that
the last time Bill Barr was confirmed
to be Attorney General, it was by voice
vote. It seems as if that must have
been a long time ago. It hasn’t been
that long ago; it is just the way the
Senate used to work. That is why the
Rules Committee that I chair voted out
a Senate resolution earlier today deal-
ing with this issue. This should not be
the problem that it is. It shouldn’t be
an issue, but, frankly, the nomination
process is broken.
In every election in this country, one
thing has been certain: At least one
party will not be happy with the result.
I certainly understand why our Demo-
cratic colleagues weren’t happy with
the results of the 2016 election. There
have been elections I have not been
happy about and some that I have been
happier about than others even when I
was happy. This is a process that
makes it easy not to be pleased with
what voters decide to do, but that
doesn’t give you the right to stand in
the way of what voters try to do, and
that is exactly what our friends on the
other side of the aisle have done.
Over the past 2 years, we have had
unprecedented obstruction when it
comes to just trying to put a govern-
ment in place, unprecedented obstruc-
tion to confirming a President’s nomi-
nees.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:20 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.028 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1303
February 13, 2019
During the first Congress President
Trump was in office, the previous 2
years, he submitted 1,136 nominees for
jobs across the Federal Government.
During that same period of time, Presi-
dent Obama submitted 1,132 nominees.
By the way, President Trump is
sometimes criticized for not getting
the nominees up here quickly enough.
He actually got four more nominees up
during that period of time than Presi-
dent Obama did, but the Senate con-
firmed 920 of President Obama’s nomi-
nees during that first 2 years, and the
Senate only confirmed 714 of President
Trump’s nominees—barely half for
President Trump and about 70 percent,
75 percent for President Obama. There
is a nearly 200-person difference, but
more important, maybe, than the dif-
ference is the obvious effort for us not
to be able to get other work done.
At the end of the last Congress, we
returned the largest number of nomi-
nees from any President since Ronald
Reagan. There are really only two rea-
sons for that. One is to, frankly, stall
the confirmation process and make it
difficult for the President to do the job
of being President. If you don’t get the
people to help you do the job you are
elected to do, you can’t do the job as
effectively as you would otherwise.
We just had a government shutdown,
which I think all of us were dis-
appointed by. That is bad policy. We
don’t want to repeat it again. We didn’t
want to repeat it that time. But we
have a partial shutdown of many of
these Agencies and parts of the govern-
ment every single day because we don’t
have the people necessary to put the
rules in place.
There was a lot of discussion during
the government shutdown about farm-
ers who weren’t able to get the loan
guarantees they needed because the of-
fice was closed. Well, to some extent, it
is the same way when the door is open
but the people aren’t there, when the
door is open but the rules for the new
farm bill haven’t been issued, and when
the door is open but the trade regula-
tions that need to be made for the tax
bill aren’t out there.
The other reason, by the way, the
second reason, is just to use up floor
time. There are only so many things
we can do here on the Senate floor. The
majority leader is fond of saying that
the most precious commodity in the
Senate is floor time. If we are required
to drag out this process, as the minor-
ity has insisted we do for the last 2
years, things don’t happen otherwise.
During the first 2 years of the Trump
administration, there were 128 cloture
votes right here—128 cloture votes.
That is where a Democrat—usually the
minority leader—insists that we are
going to have to get a majority of
votes to even have the debate on a can-
didate. Once you file that, that takes a
day before you can even begin to have
the debate, and then the debate is 30
hours. So half a week is gone before the
week starts just trying to confirm one
person for one thing. That could be as
important as a Supreme Court Justice,
or it could be the lowest level of con-
firmation in any of the Agencies of
government.
By the way, those are the people who
haven’t been put in place because obvi-
ously lifetime judges matter, and both
parties would prioritize that.
There have been 128 cloture votes. In
the first 2 years of the past three Presi-
dents, there were cloture votes a total
of 24 times—24 times. That is an aver-
age of 8 compared to 128. There is a lot
of difference between 8 and 128.
Because the tradition of the Senate—
as a matter of fact, I think if President
Bush were on here, President George H.
W. Bush—that number was zero. No
time. And that was much more tradi-
tional, up until that time, than now.
When President Reagan was Presi-
dent, once a nominee got out of com-
mittee, it was an average of 5 days be-
fore that nominee had a vote here on
the Senate floor. It was normally the
same kind of voice vote that Senator
GRASSLEY mentioned that Bill Barr
had the last time. The average was 5
days. With President Trump, it was 55
days before a nominee could get a vote
once they got out of committee.
Remember, if you have agreed to
serve in one of these jobs, you have
given all of your financial information,
you have given all of your personal in-
formation, and you have been inves-
tigated through and through. You have
appeared before a committee, and they
have asked you every question they
could think of to ask you. They have
voted you out of that committee. And
then 24 people, at the end of last year,
were sent back to the White House, at
the end of that conference—I think it
was over 24 people, over two dozen peo-
ple—who had been waiting 1 year to be-
come maybe the Deputy Assistant Sec-
retary of Interior.
This will not work. This is not how
our system is supposed to work, and we
need to move forward. And it is not
like when this happens—when these 128
cloture votes happen—there is a huge
debate. There are 30 hours, plus the in-
tervening day, but that doesn’t mean
there is any big debate. In fact, usually
there is almost no debate at all on
these nominees. When the nominees
were voted on, 48 percent of the nomi-
nees got over 60 votes and 37 percent of
the nominees got over 70 votes. So
clearly this is not about holding back
somebody who could be confirmed; it is
about using up time that should be
used for other things.
There are two jobs in the Senate. One
of them is the personnel business. One
of them is confirming people the Presi-
dent nominates. But the other is the
legislating business. The other is the
funding the government business. The
other is the talking about foreign pol-
icy business. The other is talking
about the economy and trade and
taxes. Every hour we spend on this is
an hour we can’t spend on that.
The resolution we passed out today
was one I introduced with my colleague
from Oklahoma, Senator LANKFORD,
who has been working on this issue for
2 years now, and others of us have as
well. We introduced this bill to cut the
amount of time back to what had been
a temporary standing order when Re-
publicans were in the minority, and we
agreed to this temporary standing
order. The Democrats were in the ma-
jority. There was a Democrat in the
White House. We agreed to essentially
this same framework: 2 hours for most
nominees, 30 hours for circuit judges
and Supreme Court Justices and Cabi-
net officers. Seventy-eight Senators
voted for that temporary order.
Usually when you do you a tem-
porary order, it is to see if it works.
Well, it worked, but we didn’t do it
again. So we are now saying, let’s
make that temporary order a perma-
nent part of the way the Senate ap-
proaches this part of its job. We are
moving in that direction. We had a de-
bate this morning in committee. The
time we are spending on the floor—if
there is a nominee who needs 30 hours,
they are almost certainly going to be
in that category that gets 30 hours. If
there is a nominee who would be in the
2-hour category, they are going to have
been through committee, they are
going to have been thoroughly vetted,
and the committee will have decided
they should be reported out. We need
to get back to where 5 days after that,
the Senate lets this person go on to fill
a job that is, in all likelihood, not
going to last beyond one administra-
tion and maybe not even that.
It won’t be long before nobody is
willing to sign up if a year later, after
you have put your life on hold, you find
out that the Senate somehow can’t get
to the job you have agreed to serve on
because we have to take time that the
Senate never took before.
I hope my colleagues on both sides of
the aisle look at that standing order
that could change our rules in a way
that allows people who are willing to
serve to be thoroughly vetted, thor-
oughly questioned, and then voted on.
This can’t happen unless they get
voted on. Clearly, the current process
of voting on people is a process that
has been abused.
While the Senate is a place that rec-
ognizes the rights of the minority,
those rights have only been upheld
when the minority viewed them for
what they are—rights of the minority
rather than tools of the minority to ob-
struct the elected Government of the
United States of America and the work
of the Senate.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:20 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.030 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1304 February 13, 2019
S. 47
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, we
have finally completed our work on S.
47, the Natural Resources Management
Act. We had a good day yesterday. We
had a good day here in the U.S. Senate.
We passed this significant bill—really,
a landmark piece of legislation—out of
the Senate by a vote of 92 to 8. That is
pretty strong. You don’t see a lot of
that in the Senate anymore—every
now and again, and this was one of
those every now and agains. I appre-
ciate all the work.
We have now sent this over to the
House of Representatives, and it has
some good momentum. We are looking
forward to being able to work with the
House. I encourage them to move
quickly on this important measure and
see it enacted into law.
I want to take just a few moments
this afternoon, while I can, to thank so
many who have been key in getting us
to this point. I want to start my com-
ments with acknowledging the former
ranking member of the Energy and
Natural Resources Committee, Senator
CANTWELL from Washington. We have
spent a lot of time together. We have
spent a lot of time over the years
working on these lands bills. We did it
in the public forum through the com-
mittee process. We had hearings on
hundreds of bills. We worked to refine
and reach agreement on them and to
report them from committee. So there
was all of that process, which went on
throughout the committee, and then
the two of us sitting down with our
staffs on noncommittee time, just
working through these particulars, in
many meetings in my office and in her
office. We really did this on a bipar-
tisan basis. We stuck together. There
were times when the prospects for this
package did not look so good, and then
there were moments when it looked
even worse than not so good. But we
kind of pulled one another along. I
think that is a tribute to the commit-
ment we made as colleagues and part-
ners in this to advance not just to a
message but to a product. I truly think
that is a tribute to Senator CANTWELL
and her willingness to work together to
find a path forward.
Then we weren’t able to finish things
at the end of the year. Senator CANT-
WELL moved over to another com-
mittee, and I had an opportunity to
pick up with Senator MANCHIN. He
picked up.
Here he comes in, a new ranking
member, and he has a bill to help man-
age on the floor with some 100-plus
bills. But he helped us in a way that I
am most, most grateful for. He kept us
on track and helped us secure a very
strong final tally here.
I am also very grateful to my other
corners, the chairman and ranking
member of the Natural Resources Com-
mittee on the House side, Chairman
GRIJALVA and Ranking Member BISHOP.
I thank them for their exceptional, ex-
ceptional work on this package and
look forward to working with them as
we finish this out.
Next on my list are Leader MCCON-
NELL and Senator SCHUMER. The minor-
ity leader is here. We had a conversa-
tion on the floor just about where he is
sitting—this was back in December.
But the two leaders gave their commit-
ment to take this bill up early this
year. They kept that commitment.
They made it happen. I thank them for
what they did in recognizing that this
public lands, resources, and waters bill
deserved early attention in this new
Congress.
I mentioned on the floor that there
were many colleagues on both sides:
Senator HEINRICH, Senator GARDNER,
Senator DAINES from Montana, Senator
WYDEN from Oregon, all of whom have
been great partners here on the floor.
It is important to briefly mention
the staffs, who put in the long hours—
the work and the family life they gave
up.
The first person on my list to recog-
nize is my deputy chief counsel, Lucy
Murfitt, who is truly an expert, a true
expert on the lands issue. She has
poured her heart and soul into these
issues, and it is no exaggeration to say
they would not have happened without
her efforts.
I also thank my staff director, Brian
Hughes; my chief counsel, Kellie Don-
nelly; the members of my lands team,
Annie Hoefler, Lane Dickson, and
Michelle Lane; our communications
team, Nicole Daigle, Michelle Toohey,
and Tonya Parish; our support staff, in-
cluding Melissa Enriquez and Sean
Solie; then Brianne Miller and Isaac
Edwards, who basically kept the com-
mittee running while everyone else was
focusing on this bill.
While I am proud of my team, we had
great partners on the other side of the
aisle. Sarah Venuto and Lance West
joined the committee with Senator
MANCHIN, and they have been great to
work with. Sam Fowler, David Brooks,
Rebecca Bonner, Bryan Petit, Camille
Touton, Mary Louise Wagner, and
Amit Ronen also played key roles.
Then on the House side, we had David
Watkins and Brandon Bragato of Chair-
man GRIJALVA’s staff, along with Par-
ish Braden and Cody Stewart, who has
now left the Hill, of Ranking Member
BISHOP’s staff.
I have to give a shout-out for the
floor staff. Laura Dove and her team
were fabulous. We also appreciate our
Parliamentarians, Elizabeth
McDonough and Leigh Hildebrand;
Terry Van Doren with Leader MCCON-
NELL; and Aniela Butler at the Senate
Budget Committee.
Two of the individuals who probably
put the most time into this package,
Heather Burnham and Christina Ken-
nelly, are in the Office of Senate Leg
Counsel. I also thank Janani
Shankaran, Kim Cawley, and Aurora
Swanson at CBO.
Great members, great team—we
could not have done this great work
without them.
To Senator SCHUMER, I say thank you
for allowing me to complete this in its
entirety. I appreciate your indulgence.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, let me
thank the chair of the Energy Com-
mittee, the senior Senator from Alas-
ka, for the wonderful work she always
does around here. She has the respect
of Members on both sides of the aisle.
She tries to do the right thing and ends
up there so often. This lands bill
wouldn’t have happened without a lot
of the people she mentioned, but at the
top of the list would certainly, cer-
tainly, be the senior Senator from
Alaska.
Once again, I tip my hat to the junior
Senator from Washington State, who
worked so long and hard on this. The
two of them were a great team, and
JOE MANCHIN filled in when he became
ranking member. We are all very glad
that this wonderful lands bill, with so
many good things in it, will, barring
any unforeseen mishap, become law
very soon.
NOMINATION OF WILLIAM BARR
Mr. President, I rise this afternoon to
address the nomination of Mr. William
Barr to be the next Attorney General
of the United States.
We take all these nominations very
seriously. Each member of the Presi-
dent’s Cabinet holds immense influence
within our government, with the power
to affect the lives of millions. At this
moment in time, the Attorney General
might be the very most critical of all
of the Cabinet officials in our govern-
ment.
Not only will the Attorney General
assume the traditional responsibilities
of the office, but the next Attorney
General would also oversee one of the
most sensitive investigations in our
Nation’s history—the special counsel’s
investigation into Russian influence in
the 2016 elections. Just to say those
words, ‘‘Russian influence in the 2016
elections,’’ makes your hair stand on
end a little bit.
Under normal circumstances, the po-
sition of Attorney General demands an
individual of unimpeachable integrity,
impartiality, and independence. Under
these circumstances, that bar is more
important and probably higher than
ever. Why? Because as we have all seen,
President Trump has demonstrated
utter contempt for the rule of law. He
has expressed a view of the Department
of Justice that is completely counter
to the history of this grand Depart-
ment as an independent Agency of the
law. Rather, he views the Justice De-
partment as an Agency that should
protect him personally and one he can
compel to protect his friends and pros-
ecute his enemies. That sounds like a
third-world country, not the United
States of America.
In the process of attempting to dis-
credit the special counsel’s investiga-
tion, the President has run roughshod
over the norms of the executive
branch’s relationship with the Justice
Department. President Trump has de-
meaned the public servants of the Jus-
tice Department. He has questioned its
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:20 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.033 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1305
February 13, 2019
motives, up to and including the up-
grading and belittling of the former At-
torney General on Twitter—an Attor-
ney General that he himself appointed.
As the special counsel continues to
investigate the connections between
the most senior members of the Trump
administration and the Kremlin, it is
an extraordinarily important and ex-
traordinarily dangerous moment for
the Justice Department. That is the
maelstrom into which the next Attor-
ney General will step.
Certainly, Mr. Barr is intelligent.
Certainly, Mr. Barr has experience. In
fact, he already did the job. Let me say
that I have always respected his public
service and believed him to be a good
man, but what so many of us find lack-
ing in Mr. Barr’s nomination this time
around is his fundamental lack of
awareness about the moment we are in.
Only a few months ago, it was uncov-
ered that he authored an unsolicited
memo to the Justice Department criti-
cizing—criticizing—the special coun-
sel’s investigation. He wasn’t involved
with the Justice Department in any ca-
pacity at the time. He was a private at-
torney. He could not have had access to
any of the facts in the case. Yet he de-
cided to write this memo, which, in ad-
dition to making unevidenced claims
about the investigation, outlined an
extremely broad—in my judgment—
overreaching vision of Executive
power. Writing that memo showed poor
judgment and, worse, it showed bias at
a time when the country could not af-
ford either in its Attorney General.
I felt the memo alone was disquali-
fying at a time when we have a Presi-
dent who scorns the rule of law, but I
believed Mr. Barr deserved the chance
to change my mind so I met with him
privately a few weeks ago. Our con-
versation focused on three questions.
First, I asked him very directly if he
would recuse himself if the ethics offi-
cials at the Justice Department said he
should. He would not commit to doing
this. Instead, he said he would make
his own decision.
Second, I asked him if he would re-
lease the special counsel’s full report
on Russian influence in the 2016 elec-
tion, with, of course, appropriate
redactions that the intelligence serv-
ices would require. His response was to
say: ‘‘I’m for transparency.’’ That is
not good enough.
He is a good lawyer. Everyone knows
when you can make an ironclad com-
mitment or when you have words that
seem good but don’t make such a com-
mitment. To say you are for trans-
parency doesn’t say very much. I asked
for an unequivocal and public commit-
ment to release the report. He would
not give that assurance.
Finally, I asked Mr. Barr to commit
that he would not interfere in any way
with the special counsel’s investiga-
tion, whether by denying subpoenas,
limiting the scope of the investigation,
or restricting funding. He referred to
the special counsel regulations and
said he wanted to see Mueller finish his
investigation. Again, that is not good
enough—not with any President and
certainly not with this one.
With this President, we need an At-
torney General who can assure the
Senate and the American public that
he will stand up to a President who is
dead set on protecting his political in-
terests above all norms and rules of
conduct. The President wants a Roy
Cohn to be his Attorney General, but
this moment calls for another Elliot
Richardson.
The next Attorney General must be a
public servant in the truest sense, with
the integrity, the force of will, and the
independence to navigate the Justice
Department—and maybe our democ-
racy—through treacherous waters.
Mr. Barr’s attitude of ‘‘leave it to
me’’ is not good enough—not for any
nominee and certainly not for a nomi-
nee President Trump has chosen.
The authorship of the memo, fol-
lowed by the inability to commit to re-
lease the report or let the investigation
continue unimpeded—those are three
strikes. Mr. Barr should be out. He
does not recognize or appreciate the
moment we are in. Again, his ‘‘leave it
to me’’ attitude does not measure
where we are with a President like
this.
Now, I hope I am wrong. I hope Mr.
Barr, who we know is likely to be con-
firmed—our Republican colleagues
show none of the independence that is
required—will rise to the occasion, but
I remain unconvinced that Barr is pre-
pared to meet this moment. So I will
be voting, with strong conviction, no
on this amendment. I hope Mr. Barr
disproves my view, but his words make
me very much worried that this will
not happen.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the order for the quorum call
be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. COT-
TON). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
Mr. BOOKER. Mr. President, I rise
today to speak on the nomination of
William Barr to be the next Attorney
General of the United States of Amer-
ica.
Last Thursday, I voted against his
nomination in the Senate Judiciary
Committee, as did nine of my fellow
Committee Members. I voted against
his nomination because of some very
serious concerns I have with his record
on everything from criminal justice to
environmental justice, to defending the
economic rights of Americans, the
rights of immigrants, LGBTQ rights,
and women’s rights.
I want to go through those concerns
here on the floor today, but I also want
to be clear that Mr. Barr has been nom-
inated at a time of extraordinary chal-
lenge when it comes to defending
rights in this country. This is a crisis.
We are in a moment in history when,
after years of attacks on civil rights by
this President and Attorney General
Jeff Sessions, some of our most funda-
mental democratic principles—the rule
of law, separation of powers, equal pro-
tection under the law—are hanging in
the balance. We now face a full-blown
crisis when it comes to rolling back the
rights of Americans.
From community to community
across the country, we see what it
looks like when the Department of Jus-
tice fails to pursue justice for all
Americans.
It looks like hate crimes in this
country are on the rise for the third
year in a row but a Department of Jus-
tice that rolls back protections for
LGBTQ Americans instead of strength-
ening them.
It looks like more than one-third of
all the LGBTQ youth in the country
missing school because they feel unsafe
but a DOJ that refuses to fight for
them and protect them against State
laws that target transgender students.
It looks like unchecked voter sup-
pression of Black Americans in Geor-
gia, Native Americans in North Da-
kota, and the voter ID and voter purge
laws across the country that tried to
target and suppress minority voters
but a Justice Department that has
stood by and failed to take on one sin-
gle voting rights case during the last 2
years.
It looks like communities that are
being poisoned by corporate polluters
pushing their costs of doing business
onto neighborhoods least able to defend
themselves, making their land and air
and water toxic but a DOJ that has
made it easier for polluters to get set-
tlement agreements while cutting its
own enforcement capacity to hold
those corporate polluters accountable.
It looks like corporate malfeasance
continuing to target the most vulner-
able while DOJ enforcement of cor-
porate penalties drops by 90 percent
during the first 2 years of the Trump
administration.
It looks like doubling down on the
failed war on drugs, which is known to
be not a war on drugs but a war on the
American people—disproportionately
low-income Americans, disproportion-
ately mentally ill Americans, dis-
proportionately addicted Americans,
and disproportionately Black and
Brown people—which is exactly what
Jeff Sessions did when he directed all
Federal prosecutors to ‘‘charge and
pursue the most serious, readily prov-
able offense’’ and seek the highest pen-
alties in nonviolent drug crimes.
It looks like unarmed Black men
being killed by officers in their own
homes and backyards, Americans of
color being disproportionately stopped
and arrested without adequate systems
of accountability, but having a DOJ
that limits the use of consent decrees
that can prevent systemic abuses of
power by law enforcement and can ac-
tually help to make law enforcement
better, more accountable, more effec-
tive, rebuilding and repairing the trust
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:20 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.034 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1306 February 13, 2019
between law enforcement and commu-
nities necessary to create safe and
strong communities.
Of course, it looks like children flee-
ing violence, being ripped from the
arms of their parents, of their mothers
at the southern border, 6-year-olds
being thrown into cages, and an untold
number of children who still have not
been reunited with their families be-
cause of the DOJ’s so-called zero-toler-
ance policy.
Right now we see a Justice Depart-
ment whose leadership over the past 2
years has failed countless commu-
nities, from low-income Americans
who are being victimized by large cor-
porations with bad actors to individual
Americans who are trying to have their
basic, fundamental rights protected.
The Justice Department has failed
the American people, and, most of all,
it has failed to seek that ideal we all
hold dear, which is equal justice under
the law. That is why, at this moment
in history, during this crisis of con-
science, during this crisis of moral
leadership, we need an Attorney Gen-
eral who grasps the urgency of the mo-
ment, who is aware of the impact of
the Department of Justice on commu-
nities across this country, and who is
willing and prepared to protect our
most fundamental rights in every com-
munity for every American. That is the
ideal of justice; that is the ideal of pa-
triotism.
What is patriotism but love of coun-
try? You cannot love your country un-
less you love your fellow country men
and women. What does love look like in
public? Justice, justice, justice.
I appreciate that Mr. Barr took the
time to sit down and meet with me. It
was after the hearings; yet at my re-
quest, he finally agreed to come and
meet with me. There was no staff in
the room. It was an honorable ges-
ture—a gesture of courtesy. We had a
chance to have dialogue about his
record, his experiences, his perspec-
tives as well as mine. I appreciate that.
It is a constructive first step.
I appreciate his willingness to listen
to me and talk about his record of
mass incarceration. I even appreciate
his willingness to accept the book I
gave him—I hope he reads it—titled
‘‘The New Jim Crow’’ by Michelle Alex-
ander.
I continue to have concerns about
Mr. Barr’s ability and willingness to be
the kind of Attorney General this
country needs at this pivotal moment
in American history. I am concerned
because throughout his career, time
and again, and during his confirmation
process, Mr. Barr has demonstrated not
only that he holds troubling views but
also that he has an alarming lack of
knowledge about the crises that make
our justice system so broken right
now, at a time when the United States
continues to lead the globe, to lead the
planet Earth and all of humanity in
the sheer number of people we incar-
cerate.
One out of every four people incarcer-
ated on the planet Earth is right here
in the United States, the land of the
free. One out of every three incarcer-
ated women on the planet Earth is
right here in America, the land of the
free. I say, again, that they are not the
wealthy; they are not the privileged.
As my friend Bryan Stevenson says: We
have a nation that treats you better if
you’re rich and guilty than if you’re
poor and innocent.
Since 1980, our prison population in
this country alone has grown on the
Federal level by 800 percent. You can
tell a lot about a nation by whom they
incarcerate. In Russia they incarcerate
political prisoners. In Turkey they in-
carcerate members of the media. In
this country we incarcerate the poor.
We incarcerate Americans with mental
illnesses, Americans with disabilities,
Americans who are survivors of sexual
assault, Americans who are struggling
with addiction, people who have faced
harm and need help, who often in the
system get hurt and experience ret-
ribution and not restorative justice.
We have a nation where we are locking
people up for doing things that two of
the last three Presidents admitted to
doing.
Mr. Barr has a record of actively
pushing the policies that have led to
mass incarceration, that have driven
up our Nation’s prison populations at a
time when we need an Attorney Gen-
eral who is willing to follow the lead of
this body, which passed criminal jus-
tice reform.
When Mr. Barr served as Attorney
General during the first Bush adminis-
tration, he literally wrote the book on
mass incarceration. He commissioned a
report titled ‘‘The Case for More Incar-
ceration’’ and wrote the forward en-
dorsing it. He is an architect of the
criminal justice system that is so dis-
proportionate—out of proportionality—
that is ruthless, doing things that
other countries, until this body acted,
called torture, like juvenile solitary
confinement.
At his hearing, Mr. Barr said he rec-
ognized that some things have changed
over the last quarter century, but he
failed to explain how his views on
criminal justice have actually evolved.
He was describing more of what he was
seeing this body and others do, but he
didn’t talk about his own evolution. He
didn’t say: Hey, that was my perspec-
tive then, and it has changed now.
On the issue of implicit racial bias, I
asked him if he acknowledged its well-
documented existence in our criminal
justice system. Implicit racial bias has
been pointed out by both sides of the
aisle in this body, by big city police
chiefs and a former FBI Director. Time
and again, it has been documented by
university studies. It is actually in our
Justice Department’s policies to train
people in implicit racial bias. This isn’t
something that is new. This is some-
thing we understand.
When asked about it, Mr. Barr said:
I have not studied the issue of implicit ra-
cial bias in our criminal justice system. . . .
Therefore, I have not become sufficiently fa-
miliar with the issue to say whether such
bias exists.
I find this incredibly alarming. There
are widely documented instances of ra-
cial disparities throughout our crimi-
nal justice system from police stops to
sentencing, to charges. Racial bias ex-
ists even in our school pipeline; with
Black kids and White kids having com-
mitted the same infractions in school,
African-American kids are more likely
to be suspended for them.
There is no difference, for example,
between Blacks and Whites in the
United States of America for using
drugs—no differences for Blacks,
Whites, Latinos. We have a drug prob-
lem in America, and it is equally seen,
regardless of race. Whites are more
likely than Blacks, in many studies, to
deal drugs. Yet, despite this, we live in
a country where Blacks are about three
times more likely to be arrested for
using drugs and almost four times
more likely to be arrested for selling
drugs.
What does it do when you apply a
justice system to certain communities
and not to others? It has a multiplier
effect of impact. It affects voting
rights because States still eliminate
the right to vote for nonviolent drug
charges. It is called felony disenfran-
chisement. It affects economic oppor-
tunity because if you have one crimi-
nal conviction for doing the same
things that past Presidents have ad-
mitted to doing and Members of this
body have admitted to doing, then you
can’t get a job, you can’t get business
licenses. Doors are shut to you; oppor-
tunity is closed. When you have a jus-
tice system that disproportionately
impacts certain Americans, those com-
munities then face serious, serious con-
sequences.
As a Villanova study shows, overall,
we would have about 20 percent less
poverty in America if our incarceration
rates were the same as those of our in-
dustrial peers. Poverty is more in-
flicted on those communities of color
when they are more likely to be ar-
rested, charged, and convicted because
of the existence of implicit racial bias.
But the nominee for the top law en-
forcement position in our country says
he is not sure ‘‘whether such bias ex-
ists.’’
This should be deeply troubling to all
Americans because we believe in an
ideal of equal justice under the law.
This should be troubling to all Ameri-
cans because we believe, as King said,
‘‘Injustice anywhere is a threat to jus-
tice everywhere.’’
This should be deeply troubling to all
Americans because there is a deep lack
of faith that people have in our crimi-
nal justice system. They are losing
faith that they will receive equal treat-
ment.
When the justice system does not op-
erate in good faith, it is hampered in
doing its most sacred duty.
Right now there is a lack of belief
that people will be treated fairly, a
lack of belief that the system works
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:20 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.035 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1307
February 13, 2019
the way it is supposed to. Mr. Barr’s re-
sponse and his record show me that he
will do nothing to address these legiti-
mate concerns in communities all
across this country. At a time when he
could be a leader, a champion, a light
of justice and hope for those who have
lost hope, for those who have lost faith,
for those who feel left out and left be-
hind, he almost doubles down with a
dangerous lack of knowledge about
what we all know exists.
If confirmed, Mr. Barr would also be
charged with implementing what this
body collectively has done to start to
reform, for the first time in American
history, mass incarceration and in-
creased sentencing.
For the first time since 1994’s crime
bill, we in this body, with wisdom and
in a bipartisan way, have started to go
back to more proportionate sentencing.
Through the FIRST STEP Act, this
body put more justice back into our
justice system. It is the first step, but
it is the first step in the right direction
in decades in our country’s history.
I am proud of what we did together.
The bipartisan criminal justice reform
that this body just passed into law, by
an overwhelming vote, is incredible,
but it is critical that the FIRST STEP
Act be fully and fairly implemented by
the Justice Department. Mr. Barr has
not demonstrated his commitment to
the law or to fixing any part of the bro-
ken criminal justice system I have out-
lined.
Then, of course, we have industries,
from the private prison industry to
phone companies charging exorbitant
fees in prisons and jails, making a prof-
it off of these injustices, making a
profit off policies that penalize and
criminalize low-income communities
and communities of color and that tar-
get refugees of color.
What is happening in our country’s
criminal justice system today is a
human rights crisis. Think about a jus-
tice system right now that has people
sitting in prison for months before
they even get a trial because they can’t
afford bail or a lawyer. We have a
human rights crisis in this country.
We need an Attorney General who
recognizes the problem and has a will-
ingness to do something about it, not
one who says they are not sure we even
have a crisis. This is an extraordinarily
challenging time in our history. This
Nation was formed under ideals of jus-
tice and fairness and equality. It was
formed at a time when we mutually
pledged to each other—as it says in our
Declaration of Independence—‘‘our
lives, our fortunes, and our sacred
honor.’’ This is a country where we are
all in this together. This is a country
where our values and ideals have to be
real for all and not just a select few.
After 2 years, we have seen the Jus-
tice Department’s relentless attacks on
basic fundamental rights by our Presi-
dent and Attorney General. We now
need an Attorney General who will
work to uphold the values that are
most in danger. We need an Attorney
General who will fight for equal justice
for all, not just the privileged few. We
need an Attorney General who knows
the difference between ensuring justice
is done and does not automatically
seek the harshest penalty in every
case, with a blind eye to cir-
cumstances, or facts, or extenuating
circumstances.
We need an Attorney General who
will stand up for all of our children,
LGBTQ rights, for voting rights, envi-
ronmental justice, and a fairer justice
system. We need an Attorney General
who will refocus on the mission of the
Department of Justice in seeking jus-
tice for every young person who is
afraid to go to school because of preju-
dice and policies that discriminate. We
need one who is seeking justice for
every elderly man who lived through
Jim Crow only to be blocked from exer-
cising his voting rights because of ra-
cially targeted voter ID laws.
We need an Attorney General who is
seeking justice for Americans who have
become entrapped in our broken crimi-
nal justice system, whether it is a kid
from a community like the one I live
in who is being targeted by our ineffec-
tive drug laws or kids who have been
picked up on the southern border and
thrown into a privately run detention
center.
We need an Attorney General who is
seeking justice for communities whose
soil, air, and water are being polluted
by massive corporations and that feel
no one will fight for them. We need an
Attorney General who will live up to
the purpose of the Justice Department.
This is the call of our country. This is
the leadership we need. This is the At-
torney General we must insist on, one
who will seek justice for everyone in
every community from the gulf coast
to the Great Lakes, from sea to shining
sea.
Mr. Barr has not demonstrated that
he understands the fierce urgency of
this moment in our history and the im-
perative for the Attorney General to be
deeply disturbed by injustice and to ur-
gently seek justice. For this main rea-
son, I will be voting against his nomi-
nation, but if confirmed, I will perform
my constitutional duty and provide
oversight and accountability. I will
continue to work to ensure that our
Justice Department lives up to its de-
mands.
I hope this Attorney General, should
he be confirmed, learns, sees the vul-
nerable, understands the challenges of
the meek, and understands commu-
nities in crisis; that he gets to know
people; that he reaches out and sits
down with folks to learn and to develop
a more courageous empathy, but I will
not wait on that.
I will fight every day to make sure
our Justice Department seeks justice.
If Mr. Barr tries to double down on the
failures of a broken criminal justice
system, tries to roll back basic rights,
or fails to protect voting rights and
civil rights, I will fight against his ef-
forts at every step. I will fight for jus-
tice that doesn’t just take the side of
the powerful few but seeks justice for
all Americans. That is our obligation—
all of us. Whether you sit in this body
or you sit in communities across this
country, we have gotten to where we
are because we all sought justice. Even
if it didn’t affect our families directly,
we knew the call of our country must
be about all of us understanding that
injustice for one is an injustice for all.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President,
in just a matter of hours, we are ex-
pected to vote on the nomination of
William Barr to be Attorney General of
the United States. This office is one of
paramount importance to the people of
this country, and as a former U.S. at-
torney, the chief Federal prosecutor in
Connecticut, I have deep respect—in-
deed, reverence—for this office and the
legal authority it commands and the
moral powers it embodies.
So the stakes of this nomination, es-
pecially at this point in our history,
could not be higher.
I believe William Barr should not be
confirmed, and it has more to do with
the role of the Attorney General of the
United States than with his specific po-
sitions or policies on issues where we
may disagree.
I do disagree with William Barr on
positions he has taken on civil rights,
women’s healthcare, reproductive
rights, and the powers of the Presi-
dency.
At this moment in time, at this hour
of our history, an imperial Presidency,
such as envisioned by many of the doc-
trines that William Barr has espoused,
in my view, would be an absolute ca-
tastrophe. Giving the President the
power, in effect, to override statutes or
refuse to enforce them or disregard Su-
preme Court precedent, especially with
this President, would be a recipe for
disaster.
An imperial Presidency at any point
in our history is unwise. At this mo-
ment in our history, it would be cata-
strophic. That view of a unitary Execu-
tive and all that comes with it is one of
the reasons I would have reservations
about this nominee, but for me, the
transcendent issue—as it was with Jeff
Sessions, our former colleague—is
whether this nominee will be the peo-
ple’s lawyer or the President’s lawyer.
Will he put first the interests of the
American people or of President Don-
ald Trump? Will he have foremost in
mind the public interests or the per-
sonal interests of the President who
appointed him?
Unfortunately, I am left with deep
concerns, doubts, and questions that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:20 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.036 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1308 February 13, 2019
are disqualifying. The best example is
his position on the release and disclo-
sure of the special counsel’s report.
There were doubts—and there continue
to be—among some of my colleagues
about whether he will, in fact, allow
the special counsel to do his job. He
said that he would resist firing the spe-
cial counsel and that he would allow
Robert Mueller to finish his investiga-
tion, but he was pretty careful to avoid
specifically committing that he would
permit subpoenas to be issued, indict-
ments to be brought, resources to be
provided, and other essential factors
that go into the effectiveness of the
special counsel.
Even giving him the benefit of the
doubt on those issues, there remains
his refusal to commit that he will pro-
vide the evidence and findings of the
special counsel directly to Congress
and directly to the American people.
For me, that refusal to commit is one
of the factors that are disqualifying.
The American people want trans-
parency for the special counsel, as they
do in their government generally. Just
yesterday, the Washington Post re-
leased a poll indicating that 81 percent
of Americans believe the Mueller re-
port should be released. That number
includes 79 percent of Republicans. The
simple, stark fact is, the public has a
right to know. The American people
paid for the special counsel’s report.
They deserve to know everything that
is in it, and they deserve not only the
conclusion but also the findings of fact
and his prosecutorial decisions and the
underlying evidence that he considered
in making those decisions. The clear
specter arises that he will choose to
bring no indictment against the Presi-
dent or other officials and that there
will be no disclosure of the report,
which would be tantamount to a cover-
up. What we may be watching is the
Saturday Night Massacre in slow mo-
tion.
The reason this issue is of such para-
mount importance to this nomination
relates to the obligation that the At-
torney General has to promote trans-
parency. In his responses to me, he said
he would follow all the rules and regu-
lations without delving into all the
words and technical issues relating to
those rules and regulations. The simple
fact is, they provide near complete dis-
cretion to the Attorney General.
The American public has a right to
see the Mueller report, not the Barr re-
port. We have a right to see not what
William Barr in his discretion permits
us to know but, in fact, what the find-
ings and evidence are—the Mueller re-
port, not the Barr report. My fear is
that despite his very vague references
to wanting transparency, his refusal to
commit to making that report public
reveals his state of mind: that he will
abridge, edit, conceal, redact parts of
the report that may be embarrassing to
the President. In effect, he will act as
the President’s lawyer, not as the peo-
ple’s lawyer.
During a hearing, I asked William
Barr point blank, if he were presented
with evidence beyond a reasonable
doubt that the President committed a
crime, would he approve an indictment.
He declined to answer the question di-
rectly or clearly. He pointed to two Of-
fice of Legal Counsel opinions saying
that a sitting President cannot be in-
dicted. I asked what he thought, not
what the OLC thought. Would he per-
mit an indictment against a President
if presented with incontrovertible evi-
dence of criminal wrongdoing? And he
said he saw no reason to change the
policy embodied in those OLC memos.
The assumption is wildly held that
Robert Mueller will follow those OLC
memos, and William Barr confirmed
those assumptions.
There is also Department of Justice
policy that prosecutors do not speak
publicly about people they are inves-
tigating but are not prepared to indict.
I followed those policies as U.S. attor-
ney. I know them well. In the normal
case, they are fully applicable, but
these two policies taken in combina-
tion lead to a truly frightening out-
come: If the President cannot be in-
dicted but has committed crimes, the
American people may never know.
That is, in effect, tantamount to a
coverup. The American people may
never know about that proof beyond a
reasonable doubt. They may never see
those findings in evidence. They may
never have the benefit of the full re-
port. Even though it may leak in dribs
and drabs, in parts, they will never
have the full and complete picture.
That is why I believe so strongly in
the legislation that Senator GRASSLEY
and I have offered to require trans-
parency. It is called the Special Coun-
sel Transparency Act. It would require
that there be a report. If the special
counsel is transferred or fired or if he
resigns or at any point completes his
investigation, there would be a report,
and it would be required that that re-
port be provided to the American peo-
ple. It would be mandatory, not discre-
tionary.
I believe this issue is a transcendent
one in this era—the public’s right to
know the truth about the 2016 election
and the President’s responsibility for
any obstruction of justice or any collu-
sion with the Russians. Again, it is
about the public’s right to know and
about the Attorney General’s responsi-
bility for enabling the public’s right to
know. His answers were evasive and
deeply troubling, and instead of pro-
viding straightforward and forth-
coming answers, he was, in effect,
evading and avoiding the question.
In addition to the special counsel’s
investigation, there are at least two
U.S. Attorney’s Offices—the Southern
District of New York and the Eastern
District of Virginia—that have concur-
rent investigations into Trump cam-
paign activities during this same pe-
riod of time and beyond. In the South-
ern District of New York, the President
has been essentially named as an
unindicted coconspirator. He is indi-
vidual No. 1, an unindicted cocon-
spirator. That is a distinction he
shares with only one other President—
Richard Nixon.
The unencumbered continuation of
these investigations is of vital public
interest. That is why I asked Mr. Barr
whether he would impose any restric-
tions on these prosecutors. Again his
answer was evasive and deeply trou-
bling. Instead of issuing a simple no, he
stated that the Attorney General has
the responsibility and discretion to su-
pervise U.S. attorneys, and he declined
to say that he would defer to them. He
declined in the hearing, and he did
again in our private meeting. That an-
swer gives me no confidence that, if
confirmed, William Barr will avoid
interfering in the investigations now
underway in those two additional juris-
dictions, where, in fact, they may pose
an even more dire danger that his cul-
pability will be revealed and perhaps
prosecuted. It should not give the pub-
lic any greater degree of confidence ei-
ther.
On other issues—the emoluments
clause, for example. When I asked him,
he said: I haven’t even looked up the
word ‘‘emolument.’’ That is a direct
quote. There are a number of very
high-profile cases against the Presi-
dent involving the emoluments clause
of the U.S. Constitution because the
President has been violating it. The
chief anti-corruption provision in Fed-
eral law is the emoluments clause.
Litigation is underway. Decisions have
been rendered in the district courts in
favor of the standing of 200 of us Mem-
bers of Congress who have challenged
the President’s lawbreaking. I am
proud that that case—Blumenthal v.
Trump; Blumenthal and Nadler v.
Trump—is proceeding. William Barr
has a responsibility to know about that
case and to say whether he would
recuse himself from it since he was ap-
pointed by the defendant in that case,
and if not, what justification there can
be for continuing to make decisions
about it.
Again, William Barr is a distin-
guished attorney. He has a strong
background and qualifications. He
served in this position before. He has
very impressive credentials. He and I
differ on issues of policy, but the main
question relates to disclosure and
transparency, to fidelity and priority,
to the American people’s interests—
putting them unquestionably above the
President’s. Because I have such deep
reservations and concerns about his de-
termination to do so, I will oppose him
as Attorney General, and I urge my
colleagues to do the same.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). The Senator from West
Virginia.
Mr. MANCHIN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent to enter into a
colloquy with the Senators from Ohio,
West Virginia, Virginia, and Pennsyl-
vania.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:20 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.039 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1309
February 13, 2019
S. 27
Mr. MANCHIN. Madam President,
once again, I stand here on behalf of
our hard-working and patriotic coal
miners. We have been here before, and
we are going to stay here until we get
the job done.
Right now, retired coal miners’
healthcare, pensions, and black lung
benefits are on the chopping block
again, and, once again, there are 1,200
new coal miners and dependents who
will lose their healthcare coverage due
to coal company bankruptcies. This
could happen later this month if the
court, as expected, allows Westmore-
land to shed their Coal Act liabilities.
This has happened time after time
because of the bankruptcy laws—the
inadequate bankruptcy laws—to pro-
tect the hard-working men and women
who do all the work.
At the end of last year, Westmore-
land indicated they would provide 8
months of healthcare funding to the
UMWA, but there was a condition. It
was dependent upon the sale of certain
mines for which they have received no
qualified bids, according to documents
filed in court.
Our broken bankruptcy laws are
about to let another coal company
shirk their responsibilities and get out
of paying for healthcare and pensions
the coal miners have earned and de-
served. They have worked for this.
They have negotiated. They are not
asking for a handout. They are asking
to get what they paid for, what they
negotiated for, and what they didn’t
take home to their families.
We have to keep our promise that
was signed into law in the Krug-Lewis
agreement. This goes back to 1946—
1946. It is the only one of its kind. The
agreement makes sure we protect our
patriotic coal miners’ healthcare and
pensions.
We have the chance today to pass my
bill that was cosponsored with my col-
leagues, the American Miners Act, that
will ensure that none of these coal
miners or their beneficiaries would lose
their healthcare, pensions, or black
lung benefits.
The American Miners Act uses the
same funding mechanism that the Min-
ers Protection Act did to protect re-
tired miners’ healthcare. It is the same
funding mechanism Congress has used
time and again to protect our miners’
hard-earned healthcare after our bank-
ruptcy courts have ripped them away.
This is not going to be a drain on the
Treasury. It does not cost the tax-
payers money. We have pay-fors, and
this will be taken care of, as we have
taken care of our healthcare benefits.
I am asking you to keep the promise
just the way we did when we passed the
Miners Protection Act and saved the
healthcare for 22,600 miners. We need
to finish this job. Save the healthcare
of these miners suffering from new
bankruptcies, protect the pensions of
87,000 miners nationwide, and do it by
passing the American Miners Act,
which would also ensure the future of
the Black Lung Trust Fund, a lifeline
for the growing number of miners with
black lung.
I don’t know if you all understand
the background or if you have heard
about what happened, but with the pas-
sage of the bills we are working on, it
cuts the black lung fund from $1.10
down to 50 cents. You would think that
if you were reducing it, we had found a
cure, and there is less need for the
money to save our coal miners and to
heal them. That is contrary to what is
happening. If anything, it is exacer-
bating, and it is growing quicker, fast-
er, and younger people are getting this
horrible disease more than ever before.
What we are asking for—my col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle—is to
join us here today to demonstrate our
commitment to our promise. That is
all it is.
I am asking the President of the
United States, President Trump, please
join in, Mr. President. I know you
know the miners. I know you have spo-
ken eloquently about the miners and
your support for the miners. This is
one way to truly support the miners, to
make sure they get what they worked
for and what they have earned—what
they worked for and what they have
earned. We have it paid for. It does not
add one penny to the Nation’s debt. Ev-
erything is ready to go. Please call
Senator MCCONNELL and tell him to
put this on the agenda. You put it on
the agenda, Mr. President, and you
have Senator MCCONNELL put in the
amendment—a Senator from Kentucky
who has an awful lot of coal miners in
his State also. I will assure you we will
get it passed, and we will do the job we
should have done a long time ago for
the people and families who have given
everything they have, who have patri-
otically committed themselves to the
energy this country has needed, and
who have defended this country every
step of the way.
With that, I yield to my friend from
Ohio, Senator BROWN.
Mr. BROWN. Madam President, I say
thank you to Senator MANCHIN. We are
joined by Senator CAPITO, Senator
WARREN, and I know, in spirit, a num-
ber of others. I think Senator CASEY
will be here in a few minutes. I join
them to remind this body—it is a con-
stant reminder—that more than 86,000
miners—86,000 miners—are on the verge
of facing massive cuts to the pensions
and healthcare they earned.
This body doesn’t always remember
what collective bargaining is all about.
Collective bargaining is when union
members sit down and give up wages
today to have something for the future,
to have healthcare and to have retire-
ment in the future.
Of those 86,000 miners, 1,200 miners
and their families could lose their
healthcare this month because of the
Westmoreland and Mission Coal bank-
ruptcies. The bankruptcy courts could
allow these corporations to ‘‘shed their
liabilities,’’ which is a fancy way of
saying walk away from paying miners
the pensions and the healthcare bene-
fits they absolutely earned.
Senator MANCHIN is working to fix
this. I thank him for his efforts, and I
thank others in this body. We know the
mine workers aren’t alone. The retire-
ment security of hundreds of thousands
of teamsters, ironworkers, carpenters,
bakery workers, and so many other re-
tirees is at risk.
We know this affects, in my State
alone, 250 businesses, mostly small con-
struction and transportation compa-
nies, 60,000 workers in my State alone,
and the health of communities. Mine
worker communities are especially
hurt by this because so many of them
live in the same community—local
stores and local businesses.
As we know, Congress pretty much
tried to ignore these workers and these
retirees. Senator MANCHIN and I saw
that day after day and week after
week, but they fought back. We saw
workers rally. They rallied in very hot
weather on the Capitol lawn, and they
rallied in very cold weather on the Cap-
itol lawn. They rallied. They called.
They wrote letters. We have seen those
camo UMWA T-shirts around the Cap-
itol. Many of them are veterans. They
fought for their country. We owe it to
them to fight for them.
We made progress on the bipartisan
Pensions Committee that Senator
MANCHIN and I sat on. Thanks to Sen-
ator PORTMAN, also from my State, and
members of both parties who put in
months of good work in good faith on
this.
I am committed to these miners and
workers. We will not give up. That is
why I brought Rita Lewis as my guest
to the State of the Union Address down
the hall last week. Rita Lewis is the
widow of Butch Lewis, the teamster
who died from a heart attack a couple
of years ago, in large part, we think—
she thinks, his family thinks brought
on by the pressure of fighting for his
union, his Teamsters 100—1 million
members around the country.
It is about the dignity of work. When
work has dignity, we honor the retire-
ment security people have earned.
As I said, people in this town don’t
always understand the collective bar-
gaining process. People give up money
today to earn those pensions. If you
love your country, you fight for people
who make it work, people like these
mineworkers.
Mr. MANCHIN. Madam President, I
want to mention one more thing and
then I will turn it over to my col-
league, my friend from West Virginia,
Senator CAPITO.
The reason this is so urgent, our min-
ers’ pensions are in dire need. It goes
first. They come to insolvency by 2022.
What happens is we are one bankruptcy
away—one bankruptcy from one coal
company—of this thing tumbling down
in 2019. When it starts tumbling, then
you have the Central States that will
come right behind it, the PBGC be-
comes insolvent, and then we have seri-
ous problems. That is why we are
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:20 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.041 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1310 February 13, 2019
working with urgency for this to be
adopted and fixed now.
With that, I want to go ahead and
turn it over to my friend and colleague,
the Senator from West Virginia, Mrs.
CAPITO.
Mrs. CAPITO. Madam President, I
am really pleased to be here to join in
the colloquy with my fellow Senators,
Mr. MANCHIN, Senator BROWN from
Ohio, and Senator WARNER from Vir-
ginia.
This is important. This is really im-
portant. I could say I look around the
room, and it is important to us, but it
is important even more granularly to
some other folks who are right here
watching what we are doing.
Many of us have worked together
previously in order to save retiree
health benefits for 22,000 retired miners
in 2017, following the bankruptcies of
Patriot, Alpha, and Walter Resources.
Today we are back together to advo-
cate for another over 1,000 retirees and
beneficiaries whose healthcare is im-
pacted by the Westmoreland Coal
bankruptcy, as Senator MANCHIN de-
scribed.
It is also critical that we redouble
our efforts to find a solution to the 1974
UMWA Pension Fund. If we do noth-
ing—if we do nothing, which I don’t be-
lieve is an option—this pension fund,
which provides 83,000 current bene-
ficiaries with their pensions, will be in-
solvent by 2022. That is getting close,
and insolvency can come even sooner,
depending on market conditions.
So combined with the 20,000 people
who have a vested right to future bene-
fits, more than 100,000 people are cov-
ered by this pension plan. As Senator
MANCHIN said, these are hard-working
people who were promised and who, in
the course of their working lives, gave
up something so they could have a bet-
ter peace of mind later on. They
worked hard day in and day out. They
powered our communities and indus-
tries and helped our country achieve
greatness, even in the toughest times,
and they did that with the promise of
healthcare and a pension that would
allow them to live with dignity in re-
tirement.
We are not talking about lavish pen-
sions. I think this is an important
point. The average benefit paid by this
fund is $560 per month. These retirees
are not getting rich on their pension
plans, and they are not taking lavish
expenditures, but without this monthly
benefit, many of them would be living
on the edge of poverty, if they are not
already.
One miner from Logan, WV, who
worked in the mines for 36 years wrote:
Please keep fighting for our pension. I re-
ceive $303.34 monthly. We need this badly to
help pay for food, medicine, and other bills.
Another retired miner from
Richwood, WV, who worked in the
mines for 17 years, wrote that his
monthly check of $192 ‘‘is not a lot of
money, but it means a lot,’’ and on top
of that, he earned it. It helps him make
his ends meet.
Another miner from Kistler, WV, who
mined for over 35 years, expressed con-
cern that he might not be able to pay
his expenses or help his daughter in
college without that monthly pension
check.
Failing to fix the pension fund would
have a terrible impact on communities
where many of these miners live. More
than 25,000 pension fund beneficiaries
live in the State of West Virginia, and
they received $200 million in benefits
last year. If they didn’t spend that
money in their community supporting
businesses and other jobs in our coal-
field communities—if you subtract
those funds out of the community, you
would have a significant economic
blow.
We have a solution that will prevent
the insolvency of the pension fund and
protect our retired miners, their fami-
lies, and their communities. We should
pass legislation that expands the use of
the same transfer of payments used to
support retiree healthcare to make the
pension fund solvent. I have supported
various forms of that kind of legisla-
tion over the years, but as we come
closer to the time—2022—when the pen-
sion fund will become insolvent, we
must redouble our efforts. That is why
I appreciate Senator MANCHIN’s advo-
cacy. I appreciate his sense of urgency,
and I share that.
At the same time, our West Virginia
representatives, along with representa-
tives from the States—DAVID MCKIN-
LEY, ALEX MOONEY, and CAROL MIL-
LER—are leading a bipartisan effort in
the House to fix this problem as well.
I will keep fighting alongside all of
you and all of them and others I see
until we enact a solution that keeps
the promise of our hard-working coal
miners.
Thank you.
I yield back.
Mr. MANCHIN. Madam President, at
this time, I would like for the former
Governor of the Commonwealth of Vir-
ginia and the senior Senator from Vir-
ginia to please have the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Virginia.
Mr. WARNER. First of all, Madam
President, I want to thank my col-
league from West Virginia, Senator
CAPITO, for her comments. I know
shortly we are going to hear from the
Senator from Pennsylvania. We heard
from the Senator from Ohio.
This is sometimes hard for me to say
as a former Governor of Virginia to a
former Governor of West Virginia, but
I want particularly those who are fol-
lowing this issue to know that no one
in this body has fought for miners
harder, longer, more passionately,
more consistently than JOE MANCHIN.
It was only through his repeated ef-
forts—and this man is like a dog with
a bone in his mouth who will not let it
go. At times he is stiff in the spine
with folks on this side of the aisle
when they wanted to say: Well, maybe
no. We ought to move to something
else. He has come back and back and
back again.
So I am honored to stand with him
one more time. Let me again say that
it is with some challenge that someone
from the Commonwealth of Virginia
has to say these many nice things
about somebody from West Virginia,
but the folks in the Gallery ought to
know there has been no one who has
been a better advocate for miners than
the Senator from West Virginia.
I don’t think there is a Member of
the Senate—I know at least on this
side of the aisle—who has not heard at
least a half dozen times about the
promises Harry Truman made to the
miners in 1946 and how it is our obliga-
tion to keep that word and to keep
that promise.
The Senator from West Virginia has
indicated why this is timely. Again, it
is because we have the challenges
around the pension fund. We have other
challenges, but we have a crisis right
now.
We talked about Westmoreland—the
Westmoreland bankruptcy, 1,200 min-
ers, 500 of those live in Virginia. If we
can’t get a solution on this deal right
now on the American Miners Act, then
a lot of those miners and their families
are going to go bankrupt because their
day of reckoning is already upon us.
I want to echo what the Senator from
West Virginia said to urge the majority
leader and, for that matter, the minor-
ity leader that there is a way—if we do
the rational, sensible thing and not
shut down the government on Friday,
we ought to take advantage of making
sure the American Miners Act is part
of that provision. I can think of noth-
ing better, as we go into the work pe-
riod, than to try to give miners some
certainty.
Let me just mention one other item
that the American Miners Act had, and
that is the strengthening of the Black
Lung Disability Trust Fund. This is
also an issue that, if we don’t get it re-
solved, the amount of contributions
that go into that trust fund will drop
in half.
I don’t think many folks realize—and
I think this is particularly the case in
West Virginia and Southwest Vir-
ginia—black lung is still a real, enor-
mous medical challenge. As a matter of
fact, we have now seen growth in large
populations in my State, and I know in
West Virginia, as well, of advanced
black lung cases called complicated
black lung, which has an even more
devastating effect.
If this trust fund is cut in half, based
upon legislation that took place at the
end of calendar year 2018, the ability of
the trust fund to meet the needs of
these miners and their families, who
are still hard hit by a debilitating dis-
ease—we are not going to be able to
give them, again, the high-quality care
they deserve. It is way past time to fix
this problem. Let’s take that step.
We have one of these large pieces of
legislation, hopefully, that the Presi-
dent will not decide to veto, that we
will get through. Wouldn’t it be—I ask
the Senator from West Virginia this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:14 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.042 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1311
February 13, 2019
before I cede to the Senator from Penn-
sylvania, but sometimes, with these
giant bills, strange things pop out at
the end of the day, and you kind of
wonder how they got in. Wouldn’t it be
great if, on this mini giant bill, one of
the things that popped out might be
the promised relief for our miners in
terms of healthcare and their pensions?
This is something I believe, we, as a
country, owe to the miners—back, yes,
to President Truman’s promise in 1946.
I stand with all of my colleagues on
this issue. I particularly thank, again,
my friend the Senator from West Vir-
ginia for his great leadership and his
willingness to stand tall time and
again. Let’s see if we can get it done
this time.
With that, Madam President, I yield
to the Senator from West Virginia.
Mr. MANCHIN. Madam President, I
thank, first of all, the Senator from
Virginia for fighting for his coal min-
ers in Southwest Virginia.
They have been out there fighting in
Westmoreland, and we have 1,200 min-
ers about ready to lose everything that
we had to fight for to gain. They are
going to lose their pensions. They are
going to lose, also, the healthcare. We
have to get them in the bill. We have
to get our trust fund on the black lung
restored.
Mr. WARNER. Right, all we have to
try to do with the trust fund is to get
it back to the status quo.
Mr. MANCHIN. I am going to make
one more plea to the President. I will
do that after my good friend and senior
Senator from Pennsylvania speaks
about his miners, whom he supports.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Pennsylvania.
Mr. CASEY. Madam President, I
thank the senior Senator from West
Virginia for his time today, but, more
importantly, as the Senator from Vir-
ginia, Mr. WARNER, said, Senator
MANCHIN has fought harder than any-
one in this Chamber on behalf of men
and women, whether they are coal min-
ers or their families or their spouses.
This is a very simple debate. It is not
a debate about some far-off, complex
issue. This is about a promise—a prom-
ise that was made to coal miners and
their families in the 1940s.
The only question—a real simple
question—is that we are either going to
keep the promise or not. It is as simple
as that. Both parties, both Houses, and
the administration—this is not com-
plicated. We made substantial progress,
but it took far too long, and there are
some people in this Chamber who have
been blocking it for far too long on
healthcare. We got that done. That is
the good news.
The bad news is, the pension issue is
still unresolved. There is still a lot of
suffering, a lot of uncertainty, a lot of
trauma because two branches of gov-
ernment haven’t done enough for these
families.
I come from a State where large por-
tions of our State were dependent upon
the sweat and the blood of working
men and women, especially coal min-
ers. Stephen Crane, the great novelist,
wrote an essay in the early 1900s—actu-
ally late 1800s—about all of the dangers
in a coal mine and all of the ways a
miner could die. He described the mine
as a place of ‘‘inscrutable darkness’’
and ‘‘a soundless place of tangible lone-
liness.’’ That is how he described the
work of the coal miner.
I know we made progress in the in-
tervening generation since then, but
that work has always been difficult. It
has always been dark and dangerous,
but the people who did it kept their
promise. They kept their promise to
their employer to work every day and
kept their promise to their family.
Many of them kept their promise to
their country when they served in
World War II or Korea or Vietnam or
any conflict after that, even up to the
present day—but especially those who
were serving in those years.
The only question is whether this
government and all of us here—and
both parties are on the hook here—
whether we are going to keep our
promise along with this administration
and any future administration. It is as
simple as that.
We have some work to do here to
make sure that promise is fulfilled.
These families, these miners have al-
ready kept their promise. They are
done. This isn’t something extra we are
giving them.
All we are doing is our part. We are
obligated here, and I am grateful that
the senior Senator from West Virginia
and others have worked together to
make sure that this issue is front and
center, even as we are dealing with a
range of other issues.
I yield the floor.
Mr. MANCHIN. Madam President, I
will wrap up now, and I want to, first of
all, thank the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania and the Senators from West Vir-
ginia and Ohio for speaking so elo-
quently for the people who have
worked so hard for our country.
This has been a bipartisan move-
ment. This has been bipartisan. I thank
all of my Republican colleagues for
supporting the hard-working people
they all had in their States. We all ben-
efited from the energy they produced
for our great country, to defend our-
selves in two wars. We had the greatest
economy—the only superpower in the
world—because of what they have done
every day and the sacrifices they have
made for us.
Mr. President, if you are watching, if
you get a copy of this tape, I am plead-
ing with you. I am pleading with you,
Mr. President, on behalf of 87,000 retir-
ees: Please help us. One phone call
from you to Majority Leader MCCON-
NELL to support and adopt the Amer-
ican Miners Act of 2019, which is S. 27—
ask him to take this up immediately.
We can put it on the bill that we are
about ready to open to keep the gov-
ernment open or he can take imme-
diate action. But, Mr. President, you
can make a difference. These are peo-
ple who supported you, and I know you
support them, and this is the way you
can show it.
They are only asking for what they
worked for. It does not cost the govern-
ment one penny of debt—not one penny
of debt for the taxpayers. We have pay-
fors. It has been bipartisan. It came
out of the Finance Committee in a bi-
partisan movement under the leader-
ship of Senator HATCH. I am very grate-
ful for that.
You will see the miners going
around; they make an effort every
week, faithfully, to come here. There
are real faces, real people, real families
who are involved and affected by our
inaction. We are asking for your help,
Mr. President.
I yield the floor, respectfully.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Nebraska.
MAINTAINING AIR FORCE STRENGTH
Mrs. FISCHER. Madam President, I
rise today to support the Air Force’s
plan to expand the 386 operational
squadrons.
Since the earliest days of flight, the
United States has been an aviation
leader. From the time of the U.S. Army
Air Corps through today’s modern U.S.
Air Force, our Nation has always been
at the forefront of air combat.
From air-to-air combat to aerial re-
fueling, to the intelligence, surveil-
lance, and reconnaissance conducted by
the planes of Nebraska’s own 55th
Wing, the U.S. Air Force is renowned
as the dominant force in the sky.
Recent developments have put that
advantage at risk. Around the world,
nations are rapidly modernizing their
capabilities by investing millions in
their air forces and air defenses,
threatening our ability to claim and
maintain air superiority.
Rapid advances in anti-access/area-
denial technology and a coordinated,
calibrated effort by nations like China
and Russia pose a significant threat to
our ability to operate in contested air-
space.
For decades, we have been accus-
tomed to flying unconstrained, fighting
adversaries on the ground that lack
modern technology and the ability to
seriously threaten our freedom to con-
duct aerial missions.
The face of 21st century warfare is
changing. Competitors are rapidly clos-
ing the gap, and while our Air Force re-
mains the most professional and effec-
tive air combat force in the world,
these nations are pouring hundreds of
millions of dollars into matching and
exceeding our capability.
We have a choice. If we fail to react,
we risk falling behind and losing the
air dominance that has been essential
to U.S. national security for decades.
We cannot sit back and accept that
possibility.
We must meet this challenge head-
on. The United States must adapt, in-
vest, and show the world that we will
never cede control of the skies to our
enemies.
Recently, the Air Force conducted a
rigorous analysis of future air combat
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:14 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.044 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1312 February 13, 2019
scenarios that we could face in the
coming decades. Utilizing over 2,000
simulations based on the latest intel-
ligence to assess force performance
against strategic competitors, the Air
Force produced a model of the require-
ments necessary to fulfill the goals of
the national defense strategy.
This analysis found that we will need
an array of advanced capabilities to
counter ongoing and robust military
modernization by our competitors. The
assessment determined that we must
focus our own modernization around
several key areas to ensure our contin-
ued ability to defend the homeland and
to defeat strategic threats.
Perhaps most critically, this anal-
ysis, which the Air Force calls ‘‘the Air
Force We Need,’’ has determined that
to be effective in achieving these goals,
we must grow the Air Force to 386
operational squadrons.
Given the growing threats we face,
the Air Force will play a key role in
any future conflict. That is why I be-
lieve it is imperative that we act on
this analysis and align the necessary
resources to bridge the gap between the
Air Force we have and the Air Force
we need and reach that goal of 386
squadrons.
The need to grow the Air Force is not
some arbitrary desire for more planes.
The reality is that, even today, our Air
Force is too small, and it is stretched
too thin to properly execute all of its
missions.
Right now, the Air Force has 39 per-
cent fewer aircraft and 58 percent fewer
combat-coded fighter squadrons than it
did during Operation Desert Storm,
and it is struggling to maintain a rap-
idly aging fleet. All the while, Russia
and China continue to invest hundreds
of millions of dollars into new tech-
nology and equipment that is designed
to seize control of the sky.
That is why it is imperative that we
act to provide the resources necessary
to grow to 386 operational squadrons.
We simply cannot face these challenges
with one of the smallest Air Forces we
have ever had. That is a recipe for dis-
aster. It is a recipe for defeat.
Instead, we must rebuild the fleet.
We must increase flying hours, improve
training, add pilots and maintainers,
and retain the best airmen we have. We
have to act now, without delay.
While the ‘‘Air Force We Need’’ adds
significantly to the physical capability
of our Air Force, it is about more than
simply adding equipment to the flight
line. This plan will also modernize the
way we fight. With an increased focus
on ‘‘jointness’’ and integration with
advanced technology like unmanned
systems and artificial intelligence, we
can continue adapting to stay ahead of
our enemies, all of whom have spent
years watching and learning from us in
the field.
As a senior member of the Senate
Armed Services Committee, I commend
the Air Force for putting forward a
bold vision for the future. I believe if
we truly are to execute the goals of the
national defense strategy, this is the
kind of analysis and planning that has
to happen, and it must be followed by
action from Congress.
That is why I urge my colleagues in
the Senate to join me in supporting a
robust defense budget and investing in
the enhanced capability the Air Force
needs to continue its mission of pro-
tecting the American people.
At this critical juncture in the Na-
tion’s history and amid a fundamental
shift in the type of threats we face,
now is not the time to let partisanship
get in the way of what must be done to
continue supporting our airmen and
maintainers. Let’s work together so
that we can build the Air Force that we
need so that, above all else, the world
knows that the U.S. Air Force will
never allow any adversary to dictate
how, when, and where we fly.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAMER). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
NOMINATION OF WILLIAM BARR
Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, I rise
this afternoon to speak regarding the
nomination of William Barr to serve as
the next Attorney General of our coun-
try.
First, I want to take a few minutes
to reflect on the circumstances sur-
rounding this vacancy. I believe that
every Member of this Chamber should
use this occasion to decide, ultimately,
whether we believe Mr. Barr will be the
Attorney General for all Americans or
whether Mr. Barr will be the Attorney
General, really, for one American.
When President-elect Trump selected
then-Senator Jeff Sessions, our col-
league from Alabama, to serve as At-
torney General for this country, it
brought me no joy to vote against our
long-time colleague and friend. The
truth was, though, that our views too
often diverged on too many important
issues that included immigration,
healthcare, civil rights, voting rights,
LGBT rights, environmental protec-
tion, and more.
After considerable prayer and reflec-
tion, I reached the conclusion that
Senator Sessions would not be an At-
torney General for all Americans.
Unfortunately, during his tenure at
the Department of Justice, he went on
to preside over a number of divisive
policies and decisions, including the
Muslim ban, overturning protections
for Dreamers and asylum seekers, en-
acting a cruel policy of family separa-
tion at our southern border, and failing
to defend the constitutionality of the
Affordable Care Act in court.
I have not been shy about expressing
my disagreement with these decisions,
and others, made by the Department of
Justice during the current administra-
tion. However, one area where I strong-
ly agreed with Attorney General Ses-
sions was his decision to recuse himself
from the special counsel’s investiga-
tion into Russian interference in our
2016 elections.
One of my core values is to figure out
what is the right thing to do and to try
to do it—not what is politically expe-
dient, not what is easy but what is the
right thing to do. After it became clear
that then-Senator Sessions provided
testimony to the Senate Judiciary
Committee that called into question
his impartiality on matters relating to
Russia and the 2016 election, Attorney
General Sessions recused himself from
all matters related to the 2016 Presi-
dential election. That was the right
thing to do. It certainly wasn’t what
our President wanted him to do. The
President has said as much repeatedly.
I should say that, maybe, he has
tweeted as much repeatedly.
The President repeatedly admonished
Attorney General Sessions for doing
what I think many of us believe was
the right thing to do. Here is what the
President tweeted on June 5, 2018:
The Russian Witch Hunt Hoax continues,
all because Jeff Sessions didn’t tell me he
was going to recuse himself . . . I would have
quickly picked someone else. So much time
and money wasted, so many lives ruined . . .
and Sessions knew better than most that
there was No Collusion!
Let me be clear, Special Counsel
Robert Mueller’s investigation is not a
witch hunt. It is, in fact, the unani-
mous opinion of the U.S. intelligence
Agencies and law enforcement commu-
nity that Russia attacked our democ-
racy and interfered in our 2016 elec-
tions.
As a result of the special counsel’s
ongoing investigation, 34 individuals
and 3 companies have been indicted or
pled guilty to a range of crimes. This
includes the Trump campaign manager,
the Trump deputy campaign manager,
Mr. Trump’s National Security Advi-
sor, and, most recently, President
Trump’s longtime political advisor.
Special Counsel Mueller is a lifelong
Republican who served with distinction
in the Vietnam war. I think I am the
last Member of this body who served in
the Vietnam war, but he served there
with real distinction. He served with
distinction as our FBI Director fol-
lowing the September 11 attacks. He is
not conducting a partisan witch hunt.
He and the team he leads are striving
to find out the truth and, in doing so,
help us prevent future attacks on our
democracy.
I believe we should be doing every-
thing in our power to allow Special
Counsel Mueller and his team to con-
duct and complete this investigation
free from political interference and
partisan games.
During the years I was privileged to
serve as chairman of the Homeland Se-
curity Committee, Bob Mueller was the
head of the FBI. I had a chance to work
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:14 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.046 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1313
February 13, 2019
with him and to get to know him. My
wife and I know his wife. He is among
the finest people I have ever known in
the military, outside of the military, in
government service, and outside of gov-
ernment service.
Unfortunately, President Trump does
not view political independence as a
prerequisite for the job of Attorney
General. Instead, he tends to view po-
litical independence as a disloyal act,
an offense for which one should be
fired. Just ask former Acting Attorney
General Sally Yates. Just ask former
FBI Director Comey, whom I also came
to know well during the time I served
on the Homeland Security Committee,
including as its chairman. Just ask
former Attorney General Sessions.
Recall with me, if you will, after the
November election, President Trump
fired Attorney General Sessions and
named the Attorney General’s Chief of
Staff, Matt Whitaker, as Acting Attor-
ney General. This was a curious deci-
sion, as well as a legally questionable
decision. Why would the President go
outside the line of succession at the
Department of Justice? I fear it is be-
cause of Mr. Whitaker’s public com-
ments regarding the Mueller investiga-
tion.
Mr. Whitaker previously likened the
special counsel’s investigation to a
‘‘fishing expedition,’’ and a ‘‘witch
hunt’’ and implied that following the
truth ‘‘could be damaging to the Presi-
dent of the United States and his fam-
ily—and by extension, to our country.’’
Really? Could he have been serious in
saying that getting to the bottom of
all this could be damaging to the Presi-
dent of the United States and his fam-
ily and, by extension, to our country?
Another President, a long time ago,
Thomas Jefferson, used to say these
words: If the people know the truth,
they won’t make a mistake.
Those are hardly the views of our
current President. It saddens me to say
that.
Despite publicly expressing these
views that clearly call into question
his impartiality, Mr. Whitaker did not
recuse himself from the Mueller inves-
tigation when he assumed of the role of
Acting Attorney General, even though
he received a recommendation to
recuse himself from ethics officials at
the Department of Justice.
Mr. Whitaker’s staggering unfitness
for the job is a big part of the reason
why my initial reaction was positive
when President Trump nominated Wil-
liam Barr to be our Attorney General.
After all, Mr. Barr previously served as
Deputy Attorney General and Attorney
General during the administration of
George Herbert Walker Bush, someone
I revered. I think many of us revered
him.
By all accounts, Mr. Barr is a well-
qualified nominee, someone who has
been a fine public servant throughout
many years of public service. I strongly
believe that we need Senate-confirmed
leadership at the Department of Jus-
tice. I want to make it clear that dur-
ing normal times, I might be inclined
to support Mr. Barr’s nomination. In
fact, I probably would.
But these are not normal times.
These are extraordinary times. In addi-
tion to firing the Attorney General and
the FBI Director for their views on the
Russia inquiry, President Trump has
reportedly asked those around him why
he didn’t have an Attorney General
who is looking out for his personal in-
terests. According to reports, the
President has said, ‘‘Where’s my Roy
Cohn?’’ during moments of crisis. For
those who may not know Roy Cohn, he
was President Trump’s personal lawyer
and fixer, who pushed legal tactics to
the limits and also served with Senator
Joe McCarthy during a very dark pe-
riod in our Nation’s history and a very
dark period in this Senate’s history.
This is how President Trump views
the role of Attorney General—not as a
lawyer to defend the rights of all
Americans but as a fixer who will look
out for him. Moreover, in his State of
the Union address last week, President
Trump highlighted what he sees as ‘‘ri-
diculous, partisan investigations.’’ He
went on to say: ‘‘If there is going to be
peace and legislation, there cannot be
war and investigations.’’
It is against this extraordinary back-
drop that we must ask ourselves: What
are Mr. Barr’s views on Presidential
power, and what are his views on the
investigation led by Robert Mueller?
As it turns out, we don’t have to
guess what the answer is to that ques-
tion. In an unsolicited 19-page memo
that Mr. Barr sent to Deputy Attorney
General Rod Rosenstein and President
Trump’s personal lawyers, Mr. Barr
shares his views, and they are clearly
hostile to the special counsel’s inves-
tigation.
In a memo entitled ‘‘Mueller’s Ob-
struction Theory,’’ Mr. Barr raises
doubt about the special counsel’s abil-
ity to follow the truth while going on
to defend President Trump’s actions
and even suggesting that the President
has the power to limit the scope of this
inquiry.
In that same memo, Mr. Barr states
that the special counsel’s investigation
into obstruction of justice may do
‘‘lasting damage to the presidency.’’
I believe that reasonable people can
disagree, as I frequently did with my
friend, former Senator, and then-Attor-
ney General, Jeff Sessions.
It is clear to me, however, that de-
spite whatever your views may be to-
ward the special counsel’s investiga-
tion, the views expressed in his memo
not only warrant Mr. Barr’s recusal
from the special counsel’s investiga-
tion, but they cry out for it.
Attorney General Sessions did the
right thing when confronted with a
similar decision. However, despite ex-
pressing these biased views from Presi-
dent Trump’s own personal lawyers,
Mr. Barr says he will not recuse him-
self from the special counsel’s inves-
tigation if he is confirmed. To make
matters worse, Mr. Barr refuses to
commit to making the special coun-
sel’s final report public.
Earlier, I asked for us to consider
whether Mr. Barr will be the Attorney
General for all Americans or whether
Mr. Barr will be the Attorney General
for one American. That one American
happens to go by another name, Indi-
vidual 1, which is the legal moniker
given to President Trump in the South-
ern District of New York for directing
his personal attorney to violate Fed-
eral campaign finance law.
Like Mr. Whitaker’s public com-
ments prior to his elevation to Acting
Attorney General, I fear that Mr.
Barr’s memo may have been an audi-
tion for the job and that his selection
may not have been a coincidence. Dur-
ing his Senate hearing in 1989, Mr. Barr
plainly stated that the Attorney Gen-
eral ‘‘is the President’s lawyer.’’
Colleagues, these are extraordinary
times for our Nation. We must make it
clear to the American people that the
Attorney General is not the President’s
lawyer. We need independence at the
Department of Justice now more than
ever. While I hope I am wrong—very
wrong—it is my belief that Trump used
this appointment as an opportunity to
protect himself rather than to protect
the constitutional rights of all Ameri-
cans.
Ultimately, for all of these reasons I
have laid out, I have concluded that de-
spite his earlier service to our Nation—
distinguished service in many in-
stances—Mr. Barr does not, in this in-
stance, meet the standard that is nec-
essary to be the Attorney General for
our country now.
Sadly, on that note, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oklahoma.
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, in
the next 24 hours, the Senate will do
what it should do, which is to actually
go through the process of advice and
consent with a nominee—this time, for
an Attorney General—William Barr.
William Barr is eminently qualified.
It has been interesting to hear my col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle
talk all day long today about how
qualified William Barr is but then al-
ways pause with a ‘‘but’’ and take off
on the Mueller investigation.
Let me explain what this means by
‘‘eminently qualified.’’ He has had an
exceptionally impressive legal career.
He serves in one of the top U.S. firms.
He began his legal career decades ago
as, actually, an analyst and as legisla-
tive counsel for the CIA. He worked on
domestic policy for Ronald Reagan. He
served as the Deputy Attorney General
from 1990 to 1991, and then he served as
the Attorney General of the United
States for George Herbert Walker Bush
from 1991 to 1993.
When he was appointed as the Attor-
ney General in 1991, his nomination
passed out of the Judiciary Committee
with a unanimous vote of 14 to 0. The
Judiciary chairman at the time—a gen-
tleman named Joe Biden—called him a
fine Attorney General. He was over-
whelmingly confirmed by the Senate in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:14 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.048 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1314 February 13, 2019
1991—a less partisan time. It was when
Democrats and Republicans both
looked at his qualifications, not at a
political agenda.
We have a unique moment in which
to look at someone who was a good At-
torney General for the United States,
one who served faithfully but then had
a season away from that, only to turn
around and do it again. How many of us
wouldn’t want to redo something we
did years ago and say: I did it, and it
went well, but if I were to have a little
more time and could do it over again,
I would do things better. We have that
chance with William Barr. It is a
unique moment for us as a nation to be
able to bring somebody like that back
again.
What happened under his watch?
During that time period, he believed
and still believes that the personal se-
curity of the citizens of the United
States is the primary, first duty of the
government’s and of the U.S. Attorney
General’s. Despite what is being
smeared about him on this floor over
and over again—with people saying he
is being hired to be the President’s per-
sonal attorney—for those who have ac-
tually met with him and talked with
him, he speaks openly about law en-
forcement in the United States. He
talks about working with local law en-
forcement and with U.S. attorneys to
actually prosecute crime and go after
the issues that distract from American
values and that keep the American
people from living the American
dream.
During his tenure as Attorney Gen-
eral, he spearheaded the initiative
called the Weed and Seed Program,
which removed violent drug offenders
from the streets. Under Attorney Gen-
eral Barr, in the 1990s, violent crime in
the United States went down because
they were aggressively prosecuting for
crime.
He is also the Attorney General who
supervised the enforcement and imple-
mentation of the Americans with Dis-
abilities Act. It was an incredibly dif-
ficult legal process to have gone
through and to have implemented na-
tionwide in order to have protected the
rights of individuals who had been
overlooked in our country for two cen-
turies—those with disabilities. It was a
major feature of what he did during
that time period.
He brings this unique, important per-
spective from his dealings with law en-
forcement, his background, his experi-
ence. All of those things look like they
would make a slam dunk with which to
come to this floor and have wide, bipar-
tisan support except for this—that he
is being used as a message in the
Mueller investigation. It is not that he
said: I am going to stop the Mueller in-
vestigation. It is not that he said any-
thing else about that. He did write a 19-
page letter as an attorney in the law
practice that is helping President
Trump get through this process.
He wrote: Hey, as former Attorney
General, here are all of the things of
which you should be advised. When you
are working with the President, here
are the key features.
It seems like a kind thing to do for
any President. He wrote the letter with
all of that information in it, and he
gave those details. Fine.
He has also said over and over again
that he is not going to undercut the
Mueller investigation. Yet some of my
Democratic colleagues have said: No, it
has to be more than that. He has to
recuse himself like Jeff Sessions did.
He has to recuse himself. If he doesn’t
recuse himself, he can’t be there.
May I remind you that the reason
Jeff Sessions had to recuse himself was
that he was on the campaign team for
the President, and when he got into the
position of Attorney General, the eth-
ics team from the Department of Jus-
tice advised him: Hey, since you were
on the campaign team, you can’t be the
investigator for the campaign team. At
that time, Attorney General Jeff Ses-
sions agreed and said that it would vio-
late ethics for a person on the team to
help investigate the team, so he
recused himself. That was not William
Barr. There is all of this talk that he
has to recuse himself like Jeff Sessions
did, but it is a completely different sit-
uation. Why should he recuse himself?
Apparently, people don’t want the
Mueller investigation to have any su-
pervision, which, again, I find fas-
cinating politically because I dis-
tinctly remember, during the Clinton
administration, that many of my
Democratic colleagues who are still in
this Chamber now were furious with
Ken Starr. They can’t believe Donald
Trump would say he is frustrated with
the Mueller team, but they had no
problem with the Clinton White
House’s literally saying: We are going
to go to war against Ken Starr. The
term ‘‘witch hunt’’ is not new. The
Clinton administration used that same
term against Ken Starr. This is a fas-
cinating side-by-side to me, to be able
to look at this.
Here is what I would advise: Let the
Mueller investigation finish its job. It
has a job. Let it do its job. Quite frank-
ly, the Attorney General shouldn’t be
in the day-to-day operations of the
Mueller investigation. That is why we
have a special counsel. Yet, at some
point, the special counsel has to turn
information over to someone. William
Barr is not going to be the one writing
all of the information from the special
counsel. He should neither have this in-
credibly high standard nor be held to
some standard of doing something that
he is not going to do—try to interfere
in this process. He has made that very
clear.
He has also made it very clear ver-
bally, in committee settings, and in
written statements that he is going to
release whatever comes out, as under
the law, from the Mueller investiga-
tion. I think some people believe that
the Mueller investigation is going to
release a big, giant written report like
the Senate Intel Committee will do.
Yet the Mueller investigation’s task is
not to release some big, giant report;
its task is for them, as prosecutors, to
go through and recommend indict-
ments. If they choose to write a report,
that is up to them. Now, this Congress
could try to mandate that, but that is
not their requirement. They are a spe-
cial counsel. This is a group of attor-
neys that is making recommendations.
That is all it is.
Don’t judge an Attorney General
nominee based on some accusation
from some thought of what might hap-
pen and what he might do. Judge him
on what he actually says and what he
has done. Hold him to that standard.
I have also had some folks back in
my State say they have heard that Wil-
liam Barr supports the possibility of
some States having red flag laws on
the Second Amendment. Now, I spoke
to William Barr. He came to my office.
We spent about 45 minutes together.
We went through a whole litany of
questions and answers about his back-
ground and the issues he has dealt
with, his passions, his dealings with
local law enforcement, his cooperation
with State prisons, consent decrees, re-
ligious liberty. We talked of drug trials
and processing. We talked about the
whole issue of gang violence—on and
on and on—including the Second
Amendment.
He again reiterated he is supportive
of the Second Amendment in every
area. If someone loses his Second
Amendment rights, it will only be
based on due process, which is with a
court’s being involved. That has always
been the standard for us as a country.
I have seen some of the things that
have been written about him, one being
that he is not supportive of the Second
Amendment. That is absolutely false,
and I can say those things based on my
personal conversation with him after
having asked him those questions. See
not the things that have been written
about him but the things that he has
actually written and said about the
Second Amendment. He is a protector
of our rights under the Constitution. It
is one of the things to which he has
sworn under oath to protect as the pre-
vious Attorney General and would have
to swear to again under oath.
This is a simple thing for us. We are
looking at a qualified nominee who has
an excellent background, the experi-
ence, and a passion to protect our
country; who has shown a passion for
law enforcement, protecting our Na-
tion, and reducing violent crime in our
country. I look forward to his stepping
in and taking the lead in the Depart-
ment of Justice.
May I make a side note on this?
Again, this nomination reminds me of
why it is so important that this Senate
fix its nomination process. We have a
broken nomination process—period.
If you take the last six Presidents
combined, when they were putting
their staffs together in their first 2
years of office, it was 25 times that
someone in the Senate asked for addi-
tional time to debate that person. It
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:14 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.054 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1315
February 13, 2019
could be any one of 100. For the last six
Presidents, it was a total of 25 times
that one person asked for additional
time to debate. In this body, it was 25
times that somebody said for the last
six Presidents combined that we need a
little more time to debate this person.
They asked for additional what is
called postcloture debate time. That is
a full intervening day—24 hours—plus
an additional 30 hours after that just to
debate. That is fine. For highly con-
troversial nominees, it is entirely ap-
propriate.
Yet, in the first 2 years of President
Trump’s Presidency, that request has
been made 128 times—25 times for the
last 6 Presidents combined versus 128
times for this President. It is not be-
cause they have been all that con-
troversial as nominees, although I am
fully aware that President Trump has
nominated some folks who have cre-
ated heated debate on this floor, but it
was certainly not 128 times. In fact,
many of the times after we had had
that postcloture intervening day, plus
another 30 hours, those people passed
either unanimously or with 90-plus
votes. They were not controversial. It
was an attempt to shut down this Sen-
ate and shut down this President to
keep him from hiring his staff. That
has never happened before. There has
never been a time that the Senate has
tried to prevent an elected President
from hiring his own team—until now.
In May of 2017, I made a proposal to
fix our postcloture vote debate time,
seeing what would happen. I continued
that conversation over and over again
with many of my Democratic col-
leagues.
The last session, we brought in front
of the Rules Committee a proposal that
was made by Harry Reid and then was
passed under Harry Reid’s time and his
leadership in the Senate—that is, to
limit postcloture debate time to
streamline that process.
I brought that exact same proposal
back out and said: Republicans voted
with Democrats to make sure this
process would work in 2013 and 2014.
Now will Democrats vote with Repub-
licans on the exact same language?
And we will do this together to fix this
process.
The Democrats gave me the Heisman
at that point and said: No. It was good
of you to vote with us, but we are not
going to vote with you.
That was all last session.
I brought up another proposal that
went through the Rules Committee
today. It is a simple proposal. Histori-
cally in this body, there hasn’t been a
lot of postcloture debate time on nomi-
nees, especially not on nominees like
district court judges or Deputy Assist-
ant Secretaries of some entity.
I met today with the person who will
be the IRS counsel, the counsel of the
IRS, which I dare guess no one in this
room could name right now, and cer-
tainly most people in America
couldn’t, but they have been blocked
for a year, so the IRS does not have a
Chief Counsel. Not a controversial
nominee—will probably pass unani-
mously or near unanimously. Just to
prevent the IRS from having a counsel,
they have been slowed down.
My proposal is simple. We can still
have postcloture debate. If anyone in
this body wanted to slow down any
nominee, they could still do that. They
could request a full additional day, 24
hours, and then in the next day, in-
stead of adding an additional 30 hours,
it would be just an additional 2 hours.
So instead of getting a full day plus 30
hours, they would get a full day plus 2
hours. That is still a lot of time.
Quite frankly, only 25 times in the
last six Presidents have there been any
requests for any additional time. So
that would still allow a long period of
time, but it would expedite the process
so at least we could go through this.
If we don’t fix this now, this will be-
come the habit of the Senate from here
on out. When the next Democratic
President is elected, I can assure you
that we will have the same issue with
nominees that President Trump is hav-
ing because it only takes one Senator
to say: No. I want a whole intervening
day plus 30 hours for every one of your
nominees.
By the way, the President puts 1,200
people through the process of nomina-
tion—1,200. So count the times that
will happen in the days ahead.
I know this is part of the ‘‘resist
Trump’’ movement and to shut down
the operation of his Presidency, but it
actually is going to shut down the op-
eration of every President from here on
out if we don’t fix this rule.
I am asking my Democratic col-
leagues to look long, to not look right
in front of us, to look at the future of
where this is really headed and what is
really happening to this Senate. The
precedent that is being set right now
on debate will be the standard in the
days ahead. Let’s fix it now so we can
get this resolved long term for the sake
of our country and do this right.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Washington.
Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I come
to the floor this afternoon to express
my deep opposition to the nomination
of Mr. William Barr to be our Nation’s
next Attorney General.
His nomination comes at a very try-
ing time for our country. As our own
President frequently twists the truth
and constantly pushes the limits of the
law, the American people deserve to
know that the Attorney General—the
top law enforcement officer in the
country—is committed, above all else,
to seeking truth, defending their civil
and constitutional rights, admin-
istering justice on their behalf, and
safeguarding our country against
threats to our democracy.
I wish Mr. Barr were the person who
could right the ship and stand up for
the American people no matter what. I
wish he were the person who could help
guide our country through this critical
juncture when questions about illegal
payments involving both the Trump
campaign and the Trump inaugural
committee and Russia’s interference in
our elections and its attempts to influ-
ence millions of our friends and fami-
lies must be fully explained to the pub-
lic.
We know this is an administration
that finds it so difficult to follow the
law that it is being investigated in
multiple jurisdictions at the Federal
level—all of which would be overseen
by Mr. Barr.
Sadly, it has become abundantly
clear that Mr. Barr is incapable of
being the impartial Attorney General
people in communities across our coun-
try need and deserve and someone who
stands up to the President when he is
wrong.
Based on what I have seen over the
past 2 years and despite the critical
time we are in, I don’t expect many of
my Republican colleagues to join me
on the floor today in order to defeat
this nomination. Although people
across the country have been raising
red flags on this nomination, my Re-
publican colleagues have been busy
building the glidepath for Mr. Barr’s
nomination. In fact, just last week, the
majority leader, standing here on the
Senate floor, left little doubt about
whether the majority would try to get
this nomination sewn up. The leader
referred to Mr. Barr as a ‘‘tried and
true public servant’’ and a ‘‘proven pro-
fessional’’ who was applying for the
same job he got in 1991 under President
George H. W. Bush. The job descrip-
tion, the majority leader said, ‘‘re-
mains exactly the same as it was years
ago.’’ But that is the problem. Senate
Republicans are still operating as
though it is the early 1990s, as if the
world around them has not changed, as
if what we have experienced for the
past 2 years is normal.
Well, on behalf of the American peo-
ple, I urge us all to wake up. For the
past 2 years, we have had a President
whose only consistent agenda items are
self-preservation and self-dealing,
whether that means flouting the law or
disregarding ethics, acting with impu-
nity, violating norms and destroying
relationships with our allies, firing
those who challenge him and bullying
those he can’t, threatening jail time
for political opponents, or changing
Federal policy by tweet and based on
his current mood.
On top of all that, President Trump
faces a number of investigations, in-
cluding serious questions about wheth-
er he has obstructed justice in order to
make the special counsel’s investiga-
tion into Russia’s meddling in our elec-
tions go away. That is the same special
counsel investigation that has already
resulted in 34 indictments or guilty
pleas to date. Despite what the Presi-
dent would like us to believe, that is
far from a witch hunt.
When President Trump’s first choice
to be the next Attorney General is
someone with highly questionable
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:14 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.056 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1316 February 13, 2019
views on Executive power, we have to
be on alert.
When that nominee, Mr. Barr, can’t
adequately explain why, out of the
blue—out of the blue—he sent a memo
to the White House in order to criticize
the special counsel investigation, ab-
solve the President of questions about
obstruction of justice, and make a case
for less accountability with this Presi-
dent, we ought to be on alert.
When Mr. Barr writes that President
Trump has ‘‘complete authority to
start or stop a law enforcement pro-
ceeding,’’ we ought to be on alert.
Mr. Barr’s memo makes no sense un-
less it was an audition for this job, and
that is absolutely not how any Presi-
dent should select an Attorney Gen-
eral.
When we know that, if confirmed,
Mr. Barr would be in charge of the spe-
cial counsel investigation and would
decide what, if anything, the public
gets to know about the findings on
Russia’s 2016 election meddling, we
ought to be on alert.
Someone who has written such an ob-
viously flawed analysis of the inves-
tigation should not be put in charge of
overseeing the investigation. That is
just common sense.
People across this country sent us
here to Congress not to shield the
President from the law but to help re-
store integrity and independence to the
Federal Government and to provide a
check on the Executive branch, as out-
lined in the Constitution. And the idea
that any Member of this Senate would
support an Attorney General nominee
who has openly and unequivocally ad-
vocated for less accountability when it
comes to President Trump—that is just
wrong, and the American people will
not stand for it.
So to any of my colleagues who plan
to support this nomination, I have a
message: Seize this opportunity while
you can to make it very clear to Mr.
Barr and the Trump administration
that you believe the American people
deserve to know for sure that the find-
ings on Russia’s 2016 election meddling
will be made public in order to get
them the answers they deserve and
that any attempt to cover up or hinder
or otherwise muddy the waters around
the Mueller investigation would be a
serious disservice to the people we rep-
resent and will only lead to the further
erosion of trust in our institution and
our ability to work on their behalf.
The President is not above the law—
not in the White House, not in New
York, not anywhere. So Mr. Barr may
be the Attorney General this President
wants—someone to shield him from se-
rious questions about abuse of power,
someone who believes the President
should be able to do more or less what-
ever he or she wants—but Mr. Barr is
certainly not, in my opinion, the At-
torney General this country needs,
which is someone who will stand up for
the rights of everyone else.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island.
THE GREEN NEW DEAL
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I
came here this afternoon to give my
customary weekly climate speech urg-
ing that it is time to wake up here, and
I was planning to speak about a legal
brief that a number of scientists, led by
Robert Brulle and Naomi Oreskes, filed
in the Ninth Circuit detailing the long
history of the oil industry knowing
about climate change, doing its own re-
search to confirm what it knows about
climate change, telling the public
something they knew was false, and
yet taking what they knew to be true
and using it in their own internal plan-
ning. But something even better than
that came up, so I come here to react
to the—well, for starters, the Wall
Street Journal editorial calling for a
vote on the Green New Deal.
Let’s go back a bit as to what the
Wall Street Journal editorial page has
been up to for the last, say, 20 years on
climate change.
The Wall Street Journal editorial
page has been a mouthpiece for the fos-
sil fuel industry’s climate denial. The
messages of the fossil fuel industry are
echoed and amplified through the Wall
Street Journal editorial page. All the
way up until 2011, if I recall correctly,
they were simply denying that this was
a problem. They constantly behave like
what I would call the one-eyed ac-
countant—looking only at the costs of
responding to climate change, never
the costs of climate change.
On this subject, for those who may be
interested, I would actually like to in-
corporate by reference two previous
climate speeches I gave on this com-
pletely bogus effort that has been
maintained by the Wall Street Journal
editorial page. The first was my speech
of April 19, 2016, and then I went back
at them again on July 24, 2018. They
have been making it up for a very long
time, and sure enough, up comes this
latest in which just yesterday, Feb-
ruary 12, they said: Let’s have a vote in
Congress on the Green New Deal as
soon as possible. Then they went on
with a lot of their usual one-eyed ac-
countant stuff, never looking at the
costs of climate change, only looking
at the costs of preventing those harms,
and they concluded: ‘‘Let’s not hesi-
tate. Take the Green New Deal resolu-
tion and put it to a vote forthwith.’’
Along the way, they went into some
of their usual canards about renew-
ables, saying that ‘‘solar costs remain
about 20 percent higher than natural
gas while offshore wind is two-thirds
more expensive’’ without subsidies—
well, unless you look at the subsidy for
fossil fuel, which of course they don’t,
and the subsidy for fossil fuel has been
quantified by the International Mone-
tary Fund at $700 billion per year—$700
billion per year in the United States—
propping up the fossil fuel industry. By
contrast, the little tiny tax adjust-
ments that we get for solar and wind,
which the fossil fuel industry is always
pushing back against, are nothing.
There is a monster of a subsidy in the
energy space, and it is the fossil fuel
subsidy, but will the dear old Wall
Street Journal editorial page ever
admit that? Not a chance.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the article be printed in the
RECORD at the end of my remarks.
That came out in the Wall Street
Journal that morning. Then Leader
MCCONNELL went out here to the Ohio
Clock for his midday press conference,
and guess what he said:
I’ve noted with great interest the Green
New Deal, and we’re going to be voting on
that in the Senate. That’ll give everybody an
opportunity to go on record and see how they
feel about the Green New Deal.
I am in the habit of pointing out here
how the string-pulling takes place and
how the fossil fuel industry directs cer-
tain things and the mouthpieces say
certain things and then we behave cer-
tain ways, but this may be the land
speed record for a response. The Wall
Street Journal says it wants a congres-
sional vote, and that very day the vote
gets announced. It is almost funny, if
the topic weren’t so serious.
The whole idea that this is the Re-
publican response to climate change is
really classic. It is really classic. Since
the Citizens United decision, which
powered up the fossil fuel industry to
have real bullying dominance in Con-
gress—at least over the Republican
Party—no Senator here today has been
on any bill to meaningfully reduce car-
bon dioxide emissions. It is never a
topic. Nobody wants to talk about it. It
is like the unwelcome, embarrassing
guest at the dinner party: Oh, my gosh.
Climate change. No, we can’t possibly
talk about that.
Never mind that NASA—which, by
the way, RIP, Opportunity. The Oppor-
tunity has been driving around on the
surface of Mars for 15 years, sending
back information to us about that
planet. NASA scientists built that
thing, sent it to Mars, landed it safely
on Mars, and has been driving it
around for 15 years. My God, what a
project that was. What a brilliant
thing. So when NASA scientists say,
‘‘Oh, and by the way, climate change is
serious. You ought to listen,’’ and we
don’t, that behavior is hard to explain.
When we are listening to the flacks of
the fossil fuel industry and not the sci-
entists of NASA—and, by the way, 13 or
14 Federal Agencies in the latest report
that came out under the Trump admin-
istration—we are way past there being
any serious factual or scientific dispute
here. There are just political demands
by the industry with the biggest con-
flict of interest ever that we can’t
bring this up.
For pretty much 10 years, since Citi-
zens United, nobody has brought up a
serious piece of legislation to limit car-
bon dioxide emissions on the Repub-
lican side. Not one. Zero. Now, the ma-
jority leader is going to break this
streak and bring up the first carbon-re-
lated bill. It is actually not a real bill.
It is a resolution, but he is going to
bring it up with the intention of voting
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:14 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.051 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1317
February 13, 2019
against it. I kid you not. The majority
leader has announced the intention of
bringing up a resolution with the in-
tention of voting against it. Who does
that and why? Who had that brain-
storm and where?
We will never understand this until
we understand better how the anony-
mous dark money stuff flows around
Washington. We need to clean that up.
We need to pass the DISCLOSE Act. We
need to make sure people know who is
behind spending, who is behind adver-
tising. We have to do all of that, but in
the meantime, you do get these amaz-
ing moments in which the Wall Street
Journal says—the editorial page, by
the way. I think their correspondents,
their reporters, are totally legitimate,
and they do terrific work. It is the edi-
torial page that is the problem child
here.
So the Wall Street Journal editorial
page says we need to have a vote on the
Green New Deal. It takes less than a
day for the majority leader to say we
are going to have a vote on the Green
New Deal, and he is calling up the first
piece of climate legislation they have
ever called up in the majority here, and
they are calling it up to vote against
it.
Isn’t it finally time to have a real
conversation about this? Isn’t it finally
time for there to be a Republican pro-
posal? It has been nearly 10 years since
Citizens United. I get it. The fossil fuel
industry has enormous sway, but there
comes a time when you even have to
tell the biggest influencers in Congress
that your day is over. It is time for us
to treat with the facts and to work in
a bipartisan fashion and to do what the
people sent us here to do, which is to
legislate.
So where is the Republican proposal?
Where is the Republican plan? There
isn’t one. Nothing. Nada. Zip. Nihil.
Nitchevo. They are going to call this
up. They are going to call this up for a
vote. I can hardly wait for this discus-
sion. Bring it on, please.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[From the Wall Street Journal, Feb. 11, 2019]
VOTE ON THE GREEN NEW DEAL
(By The Editorial Board)
Every Member of Congress should step up
and be counted.
Democrats rolled out their Green New Deal
last week, and by all means let’s have a na-
tional debate and then a vote in Congress—
as soon as possible. Here in one package is
what the political left really means when it
says Americans need to do something ur-
gently about climate change, so let’s see who
has the courage of those convictions.
Thanks to the resolution introduced last
week by New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-
Cortez and Massachusetts Sen. Ed Markey,
there’s already official language. While it’s
nonbinding, the 14 pages give a clear sense of
direction and magnitude in calling for a ‘‘10-
year national mobilization’’ to exorcise car-
bon from the U.S. economy.
President Obama’s Clean Power Plan looks
modest by comparison. The 10-year Green
New Deal calls for generating 100% of power
from renewables and removing greenhouse
gas emissions from manufacturing and trans-
portation to the extent these goals are
‘‘technologically feasible.’’ Hint: They’re
not.
The plan also calls for ‘‘upgrading all ex-
isting buildings in the United States and
building new buildings to achieve maximal
energy efficiency, water efficiency, safety,
affordability, comfort and durability, includ-
ing through electrification.’’ That’s all exist-
ing buildings, comrade.
Millions of jobs would have to be destroyed
en route to this brave new green world, but
not to worry. The resolution says the gov-
ernment would also guarantee ‘‘a job with a
family-sustaining wage, adequate family and
medical leave, paid vacations, and retire-
ment security to all people of the United
States.’’ Good that they’re starting small.
Sorry to mention unhappy reality, but re-
newable sources currently make up only 17%
of U.S. electric-power generation despite
enormous federal and state subsidies. Wind
and solar energy have become more competi-
tive over the last decade as costs have
plunged. But without subsidies, solar costs
remain about 20% higher than natural gas
while offshore wind is two-thirds more ex-
pensive. The bigger problem is solar and
wind don’t provide reliable power, so backup
plants that burn fossil fuels are required to
run on stand-by.
Germany has been gracious enough to show
what can go wrong. Despite aggressive emis-
sions goals, Germany’s carbon emissions
have been flat for most of the last decade as
the country had to fall back on coal to bal-
ance off-shore wind generation. Last year
Germany derived 29% of its power from wind
and solar, but 38% from coal.
Meantime, taxes and rising power-genera-
tion costs have made Germany’s electric
rates the highest in Europe, slamming small
manufacturers and consumers.
‘‘The drag on competitiveness is particu-
larly severe for small and middle-sized
firms,’’ Eric Schweitzer, President of Ger-
many’s Chambers of Commerce, told
Bloomberg News last year. German manufac-
turing has become less competitive due to
soaring energy costs. Electric and natural
gas prices in Germany are two to three times
higher than in the U.S.
By contrast, the U.S. is having a modest
manufacturing renaissance as shale drilling
has created a cheap source of lower-carbon
energy. Natural-gas prices have plunged by
half over the last decade as production has
increased 50%, mostly in the Marcellus and
Utica formations in Pennsylvania, Ohio and
West Virginia. Carbon emissions from power
generation have fallen by 30% since 2005,
mostly due to the substitution of coal with
natural gas.
Meantime, oil production in Texas’s Per-
mian and North Dakota’s Bakken shale de-
posits has soared 80%. Demand for drills,
pipelines and other mining equipment has
also boosted U.S. growth.
The Green New Deal means that all of this
carbon energy and all of these jobs would
have to be purged—at least in the U.S. China
would suffer no such limits on its fossil-fuel
production. Conservatives have long sus-
pected that progressives want to use climate
change to justify a government takeover of
the free-market economy, but we never
thought they’d be this candid about it.
Yet, remarkably, the Green New Deal has
been met with hosannas from liberal interest
groups and in Congress. It already has 67 co-
sponsors in the House and the support of 11
Democrats in the Senate including presi-
dential candidates Kamala Harris, Cory
Booker, Elizabeth Warren and Amy Klo-
buchar.
So let’s not hesitate. Take the Green New
Deal resolution and put it to a vote forth-
with on the House and Senate floor.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. With that, I yield
the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, I also
ask unanimous consent that I be able
to address the Senate as if in morning
business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
PRESIDENT RONALD REAGAN AND ALZHEIMER’S
Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, I wish to
speak this afternoon in recognition of
our late President, Ronald Reagan. I
want to speak also about his wife
Nancy, and I want to highlight their
honest and passionate work to educate
Americans about the real effects of
Alzheimer’s.
Last Wednesday, February 6, would
have been President Reagan’s 108th
birthday, and we paused then to reflect
not only on the life and legacy of Presi-
dent Ronald Reagan, but we also re-
member the way he carried himself,
the vision he set for our country, and
the direction he steered our Nation.
Years after he left the White House,
the President and Nancy Reagan con-
tinued their public service to our Na-
tion with grace and class, and that was
true even as President Reagan was di-
agnosed with Alzheimer’s disease.
In November of 1994, President
Reagan wrote a handwritten letter to
Americans announcing this diagnosis
that ultimately took his life.
I read lots of biographies, I read lots
of history, and this past week I fin-
ished a book, ‘‘Reagan: An American
Journey,’’ written by Bob Spitz. The
story of his circumstance with Alz-
heimer’s captured my attention.
The book quotes President Reagan
telling his daughter, Patti: ‘‘I have this
condition . . . I keep forgetting
things.’’
The doctors finally put a name to it. On
November 4, 1994, a doctor from the Mayo
Clinic informed Nancy Reagan that, having
had an adequate chance to observe the presi-
dent, the diagnosis was conclusive: he had
Alzheimer’s.
According to Fred Ryan, a staff
member for the President and Mrs.
Reagan, ‘‘She was quite upset, emo-
tional.’’ She spoke at length later that
evening: ‘‘So we’re going to tell him to-
morrow,’’ she said, ‘‘and I’d like you to
be there.’’
The next morning, a Saturday, they gath-
ered in the library, a small, comfortable
room at the front of the house where the
Reagans typically received guests. The presi-
dent seemed puzzled when the doctor and
Ryan arrived. ‘‘Honey, come over here and
sit down,’’ Nancy said, directing him to a
couch opposite the two men. ‘‘The doctor has
something he wants to talk about.’’
The doctor didn’t beat around the bush.
‘‘We think you have Alzheimer’s,’’ he told
Reagan.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.057 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1318 February 13, 2019
‘‘Okay,’’ he responded faintly. ‘‘What
should I expect?’’
‘‘We don’t know much about it,’’ the doc-
tor admitted. ‘‘It’s a degenerative disorder.’’
He ran down a few of the effects that Alz-
heimer’s patients experienced while Nancy
Reagan struggled to control her emotions.
She tried her utmost to be supportive, but
was overcome hearing about the devasta-
tions of the disease. . . . He acknowledged,
quite bluntly, ‘‘There is no cure.’’
‘‘Can I ask a few questions?’’ Ryan inter-
jected.
While he and Nancy discussed how to han-
dle the president’s activities—his schedule,
office hours, appointments, and appear-
ances—Reagan wandered over to a small
round table in a corner and sat down, staring
hypnotically into the yard. After a few min-
utes, he picked up a pen and began to write.
When he finished, he handed two sheets of
paper filled with his cramped handwriting to
[his staffer]. ‘‘Why don’t we get this typed up
and put it out,’’ Reagan suggested.
It was a letter dated that November
5, 1994.
My Fellow Americans—
It began—
I have recently been told that I am one of
the millions of Americans who will be af-
flicted with Alzheimer’s disease. . . . At the
moment I feel just fine. I intend to live the
remainder of the years God gives me on the
earth doing things I have always done. . . .
Unfortunately, as Alzheimer’s Disease pro-
gresses, the family often bears a heavy bur-
den. I only wish I could spare Nancy from
this painful experience. When the time
comes I am confident that with your help
she will face it with faith and courage.
And with faith and courage, indeed,
President and Nancy Reagan faced the
disease together.
Together, they founded the Ronald
and Nancy Reagan Research Institute
at the Alzheimer’s Association in Chi-
cago, IL, focused on researching, un-
derstanding, and treating Alzheimer’s
disease.
Over the past several decades, this
research institute has awarded millions
of dollars in Alzheimer’s research
grants and has continued to see break-
throughs in our understanding of this
aggressive and disastrous disease.
Congress has also rightfully come to-
gether in a nonpartisan manner to
fight this disease head-on. For exam-
ple, last December, just a few months
ago, with legislation that was spon-
sored by our colleague from Maine,
Senator SUSAN COLLINS, Congress
passed and the President signed our
BOLD Infrastructure for Alzheimer’s
Act, which aims to combat Alzheimer’s
through a collaborative public health
framework. The BOLD Act will create
an Alzheimer’s public health infra-
structure at the direction of the Cen-
ters for Disease Control and Preven-
tion, which will establish Alzheimer’s
centers for excellence across the coun-
try, award funding to public health de-
partments to increase early detection
and diagnosis, and increase data collec-
tion, analysis, and reporting through
cooperative agreements with public
and nonprofit entities.
I am a member of the Senate Appro-
priations Subcommittee on Health and
Human Services, led by my colleague
from Missouri, Senator BLUNT. I have
advocated and successfully worked
with my colleague Senator BLUNT and
the members of the committee to pro-
vide $2.3 billion for Alzheimer’s disease
research in FY 2019, finally reaching
the $2 billion funding goal for research
laid out by the National Plan to Ad-
dress Alzheimer’s.
I am the cochair of the Senate NIH
Caucus, and I am optimistic that these
funding increases, combined with NIH
initiatives to map the human brain and
further develop personalized medicine,
will, I hope, lead us closer to an Alz-
heimer’s treatment and a cure.
Eleven years after President Rea-
gan’s death, Nancy Reagan continued
her Alzheimer’s advocacy work, help-
ing to dramatically increase the atten-
tion and resources paid to the research
of this disease. She recognized that de-
generative diseases like Alzheimer’s
not only pose a financial burden to our
Nation and health system but, more
importantly and more significantly,
these diseases threaten families with
significant financial difficulty and tre-
mendous emotional hardship.
As President Reagan’s primary care-
giver during his battle with Alz-
heimer’s, Nancy reminded us of the im-
portance of caretakers and families
and the struggles they themselves go
through while watching loved ones suf-
fer.
As we continue our work to treat,
cure, and prevent Alzheimer’s and
other degenerative diseases, we will
also continue looking for ways to ease
the financial and mental turmoil on
caretakers, for they suffer so much as
well.
When President Reagan announced
his Alzheimer’s disease, he did so much
more than just admitting to having the
disease. He fought it, and he
destigmatized it not only for himself
but for those who came after him and
for those still to come who may be
faced with this same circumstance.
In the closing letter that President
Reagan wrote—and, incidentally, when
he handed it to the staffer and said,
‘‘Type it up and send it out,’’ they read
it and said, ‘‘Let’s just send it in your
handwriting, Mr. President.’’ So that is
what happened, and in that closing let-
ter, President said this:
Let me thank you, the American people,
for giving me the great honor of allowing me
to serve as your President. When the Lord
calls me home, whenever that may be, I will
leave with the greatest love for this country
of ours and eternal optimism for its future.
I now begin the journey that will lead me
into the sunset of my life. I know that for
America there will always be a bright dawn
ahead.
I, too, believe that America’s best
days are ahead of us, and I implore
Washington to reflect upon President
Reagan’s enduring optimism.
Civil in disagreement and often will-
ing to cross party lines to work toward
solutions, I hope we can all remember,
like President Reagan, to focus on the
real issues facing our Nation, and I
hope that all Members of the Congress,
from all walks of life, will be bold in
leveraging their life experiences to
achieve greatness for our Nation, just
as President Reagan and Nancy Reagan
did, deepening America’s resolve to
fight this terrible disease.
I honor President Reagan and his
wife Nancy. I thank them for their
service to our country, and I thank
them for their attention to this dis-
ease, Alzheimer’s. May we also have
the courage and will to continue the
battle to rid our country, its citizens,
and the world of this affliction.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska.
RECOGNIZING ALASKA
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, as
many of my colleagues here on the
Senate floor know, tomorrow is Valen-
tine’s Day, and yesterday, my col-
league and my good friend, for whom I
have so much respect, Senator ERNST
from Iowa, was asking Members of this
body to come down to the floor and
talk about love. Some of you may have
seen that.
Now, I have to admit that I am very
close to Senator ERNST. I think she is
one of the best Senators in the whole
body. But I was a little bit leery. To be
honest, talking about love on the Sen-
ate floor is really not my thing. I am
not sure I have done that in 4 years
here. As a matter of fact, I know I
haven’t done that in 4 years.
Then, I thought, well, you know, it is
Valentine’s Day. I thought, of course,
immediately about my family and my
beautiful wife Julie, the love of my
life. I thought I could talk about that.
I thought I could talk about my three
daughters, all young Alaskan women,
strong. They make me proud each and
every day.
That was easy, thinking about Valen-
tine’s Day and love that way—Julie,
Meghan, Isabella, and Laurel, who, by
the way, celebrated her 18th birthday
yesterday. They are the loves of my
life.
But then my staff told me: Wait a
minute. This isn’t that kind of speech.
What Senator ERNST wanted us to do
was to speak about the love of your
State and how we all love our State.
Now, that is easy for everybody here
because we all do love our State. Then,
I realized, well, you know what, Sen-
ator ERNST wanted that. It is Valen-
tine’s Day, and, of course, it is toward
the end of the week, and I typically do
my ‘‘Alaskan of the Week’’ speech
every Thursday or Wednesday.
This is a little bit of a jazzed up Val-
entine’s Day version of Alaskan of the
Week, with the ERNST hashtag
‘‘homestatelove,’’ which is what she
put out, and I think some other Sen-
ators did.
I thought this would be a combina-
tion this evening of a little bit of a love
story to Alaska, my constituents, com-
bined with the Alaskan of the Week,
and, of course, to support what Senator
ERNST wanted a bunch of us to do.
I certainly love coming down to the
floor every week to talk about the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.058 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1319
February 13, 2019
Alaskans of the Week. It is one of my
favorite things to do. So, today, I just
want to say a little bit about some of
those Alaskans of the Week, not really
one or two but just kind of a combo—
literally, dozens and dozens of Alas-
kans, since I started here in the Senate
4 years ago, where I have had the op-
portunity to come down and talk about
them.
They are as old as 100 and as young
as 8. Last week we had an 8-year-old.
Boy, was he really a fine young man
from Juneau. They come from the Far
North, the Arctic, and the misty tem-
perate southeast of Alaska. They live
surrounded by tundra, by the churning
seas, by mountains, by rainforests.
These are all those who have earned
the title Alaskan of the Week. They
come from what we call urban Alaska
and from some of the 200 small commu-
nities and villages that dot my State,
which are not connected by roads. It is
a big challenge we have in Alaska.
They are librarians, artists, former
Governors, reporters, healthcare work-
ers, whalers, counselors, pastors, law-
yers, athletes, students, teachers, and
nearly every profession imaginable.
Some of them have retired. Some of
them are just starting school and
aren’t even of working age.
They are a diverse group of people, as
you can imagine, but they all have one
thing in common. They love Alaska.
They love their country. They have the
fire, the drive, and the heart to use
whatever skills they have, whatever
experiences they have to help others.
Isn’t that what Valentine’s Day is all
about, what the hashtag
‘‘homestatelove’’ is all about, and, cer-
tainly, what the Alaskan of the Week
is all about?
Now, when I talk about the Alaskan
of the Week, sometimes these people
have seen and gotten and deserve a lot
of attention in Alaska and even nation-
ally. Other times, they are less well
known but no less impactful. Let me
give you a couple of examples: someone
who has been picking up trash on the
side of the road for years, just doing it
every day; helping people to find a pet
to love; making meals for the sick;
starting and contributing to non-
profits; writing beautiful prose; helping
people overcome addictions; estab-
lishing iconic businesses; working their
whole lives to do what they think is
right for their community, for their
State, and the communities they love.
Of course, they are all inspiring to
us, and what I try to do once a week is
to come down and not just inspire the
pages, who, I know, look forward to
this speech, but anyone in America
who is listening. By the way, you have
to come up to Alaska and you, too, will
love, and I mean ‘‘love’’ Alaska when
you come up to visit.
Now, they are inspiring to all of us in
Alaska, but, as I mentioned, all around
the country last year. For example, I
got to talk about the Alaska Pacific
University’s ski team—world re-
nowned, gold medalists, Olympic med-
alists—inspiring young people all
across the globe to race faster and race
better.
Last year, I had the opportunity to
talk about a young teenager from
Gambell, Chris Apassingok. He made
national headlines for his insistence,
despite tremendous backlash from
some extreme groups outside of Alas-
ka, to continue his cultural heritage of
hunting whales to feed his community
through subsistence.
Here is another example that will go
straight to the heart of my colleague,
Senator ERNST from Iowa. In Decem-
ber, Carol Seppilu from Nome, who has
overcome tremendous difficulties and
disabilities and pain in her life, ran 85
miles of a 100-mile race in Council
Bluffs, IA, and she is training for an-
other race.
That kind of training isn’t easy in
Nome, where she has to walk through
blizzards just to get on a treadmill.
Carol has the racing community—the
long racing community, 100-mile
races—in Alaska and Iowa and, lit-
erally, around the country in awe of
her, if you know her story, and rooting
for her.
Sometimes we have a lot of negative
news here in DC. I always say there is
a lot more going on bipartisan that our
friends in the media, who sit above the
Presiding Officer’s desk there, don’t
often report, but it can be negative. I
think sometimes it can be easy to for-
get that we live in the greatest country
in the world—no doubt about it—the
greatest country in the history of the
world, in my view, filled with good peo-
ple who wake up every morning deter-
mined to do what is right, to give back
to their communities, whether in Alas-
ka or North Dakota, like the Presiding
Officer.
I want to thank Senator ERNST for
bringing us down to the floor yesterday
and even today to talk a little bit
about love—good initiative there for
Valentine’s Day. I thank all of the peo-
ple of my State. This is a love story,
not just of my wife and daughters but
of all these great Alaskans of the Week
who have been doing such a great job
for Alaska and their country. So, to all
of them, Happy Valentine’s Day.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
NOMINATION OF DONALD W.
WASHINGTON
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I do
not object to the nomination of Donald
W. Washington, PN202.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE ON RULES
AND ADMINISTRATION
Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, the Com-
mittee on Rules and Administration
has adopted rules governing its proce-
dures for the 116th Congress. Pursuant
to rule XXVI, paragraph 2, of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, on behalf
of myself and Senator KLOBUCHAR, I
ask unanimous consent that a copy of
the committee rules be printed in the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
RULES OF PROCEDURE
MEETINGS OF THE COMMITTEE
Rule 1. The regular meeting dates of the
Committee shall be the second and fourth
Wednesdays of each month, at 10:00 a.m., in
room SR–301, Russell Senate Office Building.
Additional meetings of the Committee may
be called by the Chairman as he may deem
necessary or pursuant to the provision of
paragraph 3 of rule XXVI of the Standing
Rules of the Senate.
Rule 2. Meetings of the committee, includ-
ing meetings to conduct hearings, shall be
open to the public, except that a meeting or
series of meetings by the committee on the
same subject for a period of no more than 14
calendar days may be closed to the public on
a motion made and seconded to go into
closed session to discuss only whether the
matters enumerated in subparagraphs (a)
through (f) would require the meeting to be
closed followed immediately by a recorded
vote in open session by a majority of the
Members of the committee when it is deter-
mined that the matters to be discussed or
the testimony to be taken at such meeting
or meetings:
(a) will disclose matters necessary to be
kept secret in the interests of national de-
fense or the confidential conduct of the for-
eign relations of the United States;
(b) will relate solely to matters of the com-
mittee staff personnel or internal staff man-
agement or procedure;
(c) will tend to charge an individual with
crime or misconduct, to disgrace or injure
the professional standing of an individual, or
otherwise to expose an individual to public
contempt or obloquy, or will represent a
clearly unwarranted invasion of the privacy
of an individual;
(d) will disclose the identity of any in-
former or law enforcement agent or will dis-
close any information relating to the inves-
tigation or prosecution of a criminal offense
that is required to be kept secret in the in-
terests of effective law enforcement;
(e) will disclose information relating to the
trade secrets or financial or commercial in-
formation pertaining specifically to a given
person if:
(1) an Act of Congress requires the infor-
mation to be kept confidential by Govern-
ment officers and employees; or
(2) the information has been obtained by
the Government on a confidential basis,
other than through an application by such
person for a specific Government financial or
other benefit, and is required to be kept se-
cret in order to prevent undue injury to the
competitive position of such person; or
(f) may divulge matters required to be kept
confidential under the provisions of law or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:38 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G13FE6.060 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1320 February 13, 2019
Government regulations. (Paragraph 5(b) of
rule XXVI of the Standing Rules.)
Rule 3. Written notices of committee meet-
ings will normally be sent by the commit-
tee’s staff director to all Members of the
committee at least a week in advance. In ad-
dition, the committee staff will telephone or
e-mail reminders of committee meetings to
all Members of the committee or to the ap-
propriate assistants in their offices.
Rule 4. A copy of the committee’s intended
agenda enumerating separate items of legis-
lative business and committee business will
normally be sent to all Members of the com-
mittee and released to the public at least 1
day in advance of all meetings. This does not
preclude any Member of the committee from
discussing appropriate non-agenda topics.
Rule 5. After the Chairman and the Rank-
ing Minority Member, speaking order shall
be based on order of arrival, alternating be-
tween Majority and Minority Members, un-
less otherwise directed by the Chairman.
Rule 6. Any witness who is to appear before
the committee in any hearing shall file with
the clerk of the committee at least 3 busi-
ness days before the date of his or her ap-
pearance, a written statement of his or her
proposed testimony and an executive sum-
mary thereof, in such form as the chairman
may direct, unless the Chairman and the
Ranking Minority Member waive such re-
quirement for good cause.
Rule 7. In general, testimony will be re-
stricted to 5 minutes for each witness. The
time may be extended by the Chairman,
upon the Chair’s own direction or at the re-
quest of a Member. Each round of questions
by Members will also be limited to 5 min-
utes.
QUORUMS
Rule 8. Pursuant to paragraph 7(a)(1) of
rule XXVI of the Standing Rules, a majority
of the Members of the committee shall con-
stitute a quorum for the reporting of legisla-
tive measures.
Rule 9. Pursuant to paragraph 7(a)(1) of
rule XXVI of the Standing Rules, one-third
of the Members of the committee shall con-
stitute a quorum for the transaction of busi-
ness, including action on amendments to
measures prior to voting to report the meas-
ure to the Senate.
Rule 10. Pursuant to paragraph 7(a)(2) of
rule XXVI of the Standing Rules, 2 Members
of the committee shall constitute a quorum
for the purpose of taking testimony under
oath and 1 Member of the committee shall
constitute a quorum for the purpose of tak-
ing testimony not under oath; provided, how-
ever, that in either instance, once a quorum
is established, any one Member can continue
to take such testimony.
Rule 11. Under no circumstances may prox-
ies be considered for the establishment of a
quorum.
VOTING
Rule 12. Voting in the committee on any
issue will normally be by voice vote.
Rule 13. If a third of the Members present
so demand a roll call vote instead of a voice
vote, a record vote will be taken on any
question by roll call.
Rule 14. The results of roll call votes taken
in any meeting upon any measure, or any
amendment thereto, shall be stated in the
committee report on that measure unless
previously announced by the committee, and
such report or announcement shall include a
tabulation of the votes cast in favor of and
the votes cast in opposition to each such
measure and amendment by each Member of
the committee. (Paragraph 7(b) and (c) of
rule XXVI of the Standing Rules.)
Rule 15. Proxy voting shall be allowed on
all measures and matters before the com-
mittee. However, the vote of the committee
to report a measure or matter shall require
the concurrence of a majority of the Mem-
bers of the committee who are physically
present at the time of the vote. Proxies will
be allowed in such cases solely for the pur-
pose of recording a Member’s position on the
question and then only in those instances
when the absentee committee Member has
been informed of the question and has af-
firmatively requested that he be recorded.
(Paragraph 7(a)(3) of rule XXVI of the Stand-
ing Rules.)
AMENDMENTS
Rule 16. Provided at least five business
days’ notice of the agenda is given, and the
text of the proposed bill or resolution has
been made available at least five business
days in advance, it shall not be in order for
the Committee to consider any amendment
in the first degree proposed to any measure
under consideration by the Committee un-
less such amendment has been delivered to
the office of the Committee and by at least
5:00 p.m. the day prior to the scheduled start
of the meeting and circulated to each of the
offices by at least 6:00 pm.
Rule 17. In the event the Chairman intro-
duces a substitute amendment or a Chair-
man’s mark, the requirements set forth in
Rule 16 shall be considered waived unless
such substitute amendment or Chairman’s
mark has been made available at least five
business days in advance of the scheduled
meeting.
Rule 18. It shall be in order, without prior
notice, for a Member to offer a motion to
strike a single section of any bill, resolution,
or amendment under consideration.
Rule 19. This section of the rule may be
waived by agreement of the Chairman and
the Ranking Minority Member.
DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO COMMITTEE
CHAIRMAN
Rule 20. The Chairman is authorized to
sign himself or by delegation all necessary
vouchers and routine papers for which the
committee’s approval is required and to de-
cide on the committee’s behalf all routine
business.
Rule 21. The Chairman is authorized to en-
gage commercial reporters for the prepara-
tion of transcripts of committee meetings
and hearings.
Rule 22. The Chairman is authorized to
issue, on behalf of the committee, regula-
tions normally promulgated by the com-
mittee at the beginning of each session.
DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO COMMITTEE
CHAIRMAN AND RANKING MINORITY MEMBER
Rule 23. The Chairman and Ranking Minor-
ity Member, acting jointly, are authorized to
approve on behalf of the committee any rule
or regulation for which the committee’s ap-
proval is required, provided advance notice
of their intention to do so is given to Mem-
bers of the committee.
f
ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section
36(b) of the Arms Export Control Act
requires that Congress receive prior no-
tification of certain proposed arms
sales as defined by that statute. Upon
such notification, the Congress has 30
calendar days during which the sale
may be reviewed. The provision stipu-
lates that, in the Senate, the notifica-
tion of proposed sales shall be sent to
the chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee.
In keeping with the committee’s in-
tention to see that relevant informa-
tion is available to the full Senate, I
ask unanimous consent to have printed
in the RECORD the notifications which
have been received. If the cover letter
references a classified annex, then such
annex is available to all Senators in
the office of the Foreign Relations
Committee, room SD–423.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
DEFENSE SECURITY
COOPERATION AGENCY,
Arlington, VA.
Hon. JAMES E. RISCH,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: Pursuant to the re-
porting requirements of Section 36(b)(1) of
the Arms Export Control Act, as amended,
we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No.
19–05 concerning the Army’s proposed Let-
ter(s) of Offer and Acceptance to the Govern-
ment of Israel for defense articles and serv-
ices estimated to cost $238 million. After this
letter is delivered to your office, we plan to
issue a news release to notify the public of
this proposed sale.
Sincerely,
CHARLES W. HOOPER,
Lieutenant General, USA, Director.
Enclosures.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–05
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act, as amended
(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of
Israel.
(ii) Total Estimated Value:
Major Defense Equipment* $0 million.
Other $238 million.
Total $238 million.
(iii) Description and Quantity or Quan-
tities of Articles or Services under Consider-
ation for Purchase:
Major Defense Equipment (MDE): None.
Non-MDE:
Two hundred forty (240) Namer Armored
Personnel Carrier (APC–MT883) Power
Packs, Less Transmission (NPPLT) in Full
Configuration.
Thirty (30) Namer Armored Personnel Car-
rier (APC–MT883) Power Pack, Less Trans-
mission (NPPLT) in Light Configuration.
One hundred seventy-nine (179) Control and
Diagnostic Systems (CDS).
Also included is an Integrated Logistics
Support package that includes: special tools
for C-Level maintenance; oil spray nozzle
test bench; preservation and packaging; con-
tainers; configuration management; tech-
nical manuals, spare parts catalogs, other
documentation and publications, and other
related elements of logistics and program
support.
(iv) Military Department: Army (IS-B-
ZZD).
(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: None.
(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Of-
fered, or Agreed to be Paid: None.
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained
in the Defense Article or Defense Services
Proposed to be Sold: None.
(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress:
February 12, 2019.
*As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms
Export Control Act.
POLICY JUSTIFICATION
Israel—Namer Armored Personnel Carrier
(APC–MT883) Power Packs Less Trans-
missions (NPPLT) and Integrated Logistics
Support
The Government of Israel has requested to
buy two hundred forty (240) Namer Armored
Personnel Carrier (APC–MT883) Power
Packs, Less Transmission (NPPLT) in Full
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE6.007 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1321
February 13, 2019
Configuration; thirty (30) Namer Armored
Personnel Carrier (APC–MT883) Power
Packs, Less Transmission (NPPLT) in Light
Configuration; and one hundred seventy-nine
(179) Control and Diagnostic Systems (CDS).
Also included is an Integrated Logistics Sup-
port package that includes: special tools for
C-Level maintenance; oil spray nozzle test
bench; preservation and packaging; con-
tainers; configuration management; tech-
nical manuals, spare parts catalogs, other
documentation and publications, and other
related elements of logistics and program
support. The total estimated program cost is
$238 million.
The United States is committed to the se-
curity of Israel, and it is vital to U.S. na-
tional interests to assist Israel to develop
and maintain a strong and ready self-defense
capability. This proposed sale is consistent
with those objectives.
The proposed sale will improve Israel’s ca-
pability to meet current and future threats
in the defense of its borders. These upgraded
power packs will be used on their Armored
Personnel Carriers (APC–MT883) that were
fielded in 2008. Israel will have no difficulty
absorbing this equipment into its armed
forces.
The proposed equipment and support will
not alter the basic military balance in the
region.
The prime contractor will be MTU Amer-
ica, Novi, MI. MTU America is the North
American subsidiary of Rolls Royce Power
Systems. There are no known offset agree-
ments proposed in connection with this po-
tential sale.
Implementation of this proposed sale will
not require the assignment of any additional
U.S. Government or contractor representa-
tives to Israel.
There will be no adverse impact on U.S. de-
fense readiness as a result of this proposed
sale.
f
TRIBUTE TO ALFRED K. NEWMAN
Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, today I
wish to pay tribute to Alfred K. New-
man, one of last remaining Navajo code
talkers, who passed away on January
13 of this year.
Mr. Newman was born in Coolidge,
NM, on July 21, 1924. He was
Naaneesht’ézhi Dine’é—Zuni Clan—and
born for Tsi’naajı́nii—Black Streak
Wood People Clan. One of six children,
his mother wove rugs that were sold at
the Coolidge Trading Post and his step-
father worked as a silversmith there.
When Mr. Newman was about 8 years
old, his family sent him to the Reho-
both Mission School, where he boarded
during the 9 month school year and
rarely saw his parents. During the
summers, he herded sheep. At one
point, they had a herd of 200, and the
young shepherd loved watching the liz-
ards, birds, and bugs that surrounded
him as he herded.
Mr. Newman grew up knowing both
Navajo and English. However, the
boarding students were not allowed to
speak Navajo at the school. One time,
when he spoke in Navajo, in order to
help another Navajo student who knew
no English, he was punished by having
to write ‘‘I must not speak Navajo’’ 500
times.
While the missionaries at the Reho-
both Mission School forbade Mr. New-
man and other Navajo students from
speaking their language, as did Federal
Government Indian boarding schools,
the U.S. military came to greatly ap-
preciate the strategic advantage the
unwritten Dine language held.
Mr. Newman enlisted in the Marines,
in 1943, when he was 18, inspired to de-
fend the Nation in light of the attack
on Pearl Harbor. He, along with an es-
timated 44,000 other Native Americans,
served in World War II, even though
they couldn’t vote in U.S. elections and
faced discrimination within the mili-
tary.
Soon after Mr. Newman enlisted, he
was assigned to a secret mission, as
part of the Navajo code talkers. He at-
tended code school, learning the com-
plex code by memory, and learned how
to operate communications equipment.
Serving in the 1st Battalion, 21st Ma-
rine Regiment, 3rd Marine Division, Al-
fred was stationed in New Caledonia,
Guadalcanal, Bougainville Island,
Guam, and Iwo Jima, among other
duty stations. He saw battle at the lat-
ter three locations and was stationed
in Iwo Jima during 28 days of the fa-
mous battle and was there the day the
Americans raised the flag over Mount
Suribachi. Mr. Newman was honorably
discharged with the rank of corporal in
December 1945.
After his discharge, he came back to
New Mexico, and married his sweet-
heart, Betsy Eleanore Denetsone. He
worked as an ammunition inspector at
Fort Wingate and then at an open-pit
mine overseeing blasting at Kirkland
Field. Together, he and Betsy have 5
children, 13 grandchildren, and 3 great-
grandchildren and were married 69
years before his passing.
The Japanese famously never broke
the Navajos’ code, and Navajo code
talkers are credited with playing a de-
cisive role in key World War II battles,
including Iwo Jima. The Navajo code
talker mission was kept secret until
1968, when it was declassified. In 2000,
Congress awarded the Congressional
Silver Medal to the Navajo code talk-
ers. Like so many others, Mr. Newman
was humble about his bravery in serv-
ice and modest about his medals. Dur-
ing a 2010 interview for an oral history
project, Mr. Newman was asked, ‘‘How
did [the war] change you?’’ He replied
that, ‘‘Before the war, I was just going
just like any other non-Navajo. Peace-
ful, no worries. Doing what I like. But
when the war came, it was a different
story. So I had to do what needed to be
done.’’
We are forever grateful to Mr. New-
man and all his fellow courageous code
talkers for doing ‘‘what needed to be
done’’ to defend our country. We will
always honor and will never forget
their service and sacrifice to the Na-
tion.
f
150TH ANNIVERSARY OF WOMEN’S
SUFFRAGE
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President,
today, Wyoming Governor Mark Gor-
don will sign a joint resolution of the
Wyoming Legislature recognizing De-
cember 10, 2019, as Wyoming Women’s
Suffrage Day.
On December 10, 1869, the Wyoming
Territory passed the first law in U.S.
history granting women the right to
vote and hold public office. This right
became so important to the people of
Wyoming that, when the State sought
statehood, it refused to enter the
Union if this right was not protected.
In 2015, I came to the floor to speak
in honor of the 125th anniversary of
Wyoming statehood. I shared with the
Senate the challenge Wyoming faced
from Congress in its quest to become a
member of the Union. I believe it is
timely to share that story again.
The debate in Congress was conten-
tious, with the arguments centering on
one of our most proud accomplish-
ments: a decision made long before Wy-
oming became a State. On December
10, 1869, the Wyoming Territory was
the first in the United States to grant
women the right to vote.
Efforts to attain statehood finally
came to fruition 20 years later. It was
incumbent on our delegate to the U.S.
House of Representatives, Joseph M.
Carey, to convince his colleagues to
support the statehood bill.
On March 26, 1890, the day of the
statehood bill debate, Joseph Carey
spoke passionately about Wyoming.
His words still hold true today. He said
that Wyoming was rich in agricultural
possibilities. He explained Wyoming
was one of nature’s great storehouses
of minerals. Joseph Carey also talked
about grazing development, edu-
cational leadership, widespread railway
construction, the model Constitution,
and the unique opportunities for
women.
Yet opponents to our statehood did
not support women having the right to
vote. On the same day as Joseph
Carey’s impassioned speech, Represent-
ative William Oates of Alabama argued
against our admittance to the Union.
He said, ‘‘Mr. Speaker, I do not hesi-
tate to say that in my judgment the
franchise has been too liberally ex-
tended. Should we ever reach universal
suffrage this Government will become
practically a pure democracy and then
the days of its existence are num-
bered.’’
The U.S. House of Representatives
narrowly passed Wyoming’s statehood
bill with a vote of 139 to 127. The U.S.
Senate passed the bill on June 27, 1890.
Wyoming officially became the 44th
State on July 10, 1890, and became the
first state to allow women the right to
vote and hold public office.
I ask unanimous consent to have
printed in the RECORD Enrolled Joint
Resolution No. 1 of the Sixty-Fifth
Legislature of the State of Wyoming
recognizing December 10, 2019, as Wyo-
ming Women’s Suffrage Day.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE6.006 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1322 February 13, 2019
ENROLLED JOINT RESOLUTION NO. 1, SENATE
SIXTY-FIFTH LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF
WYOMING
2019 GENERAL SESSION
A Joint Resolution recognizing December
10, 2019 as Wyoming Women’s Suffrage Day.
1Whereas, Wyoming is often referred to as
the ‘‘Cowboy State,’’ its more apt sobriquet
is the ‘‘Equality State’’; and
Whereas, women, like all persons, have al-
ways inherently held the right to vote and
participate in their government; and
Whereas, Wyoming was the first govern-
ment to explicitly acknowledge and affirm
women’s inherent right to vote and to hold
office; and
Whereas, this inherent right, at the found-
ing of the United States, was inhibited; and
Whereas, women, at the founding of the
United States, were also prevented from
holding office; and
Whereas, women’s suffrage—the basic en-
franchisement of women—began to burgeon
in the United States in the 1840s and contin-
ued to gain momentum over the next dec-
ades, despite the oppressive atmosphere in
which women were not allowed to divorce
their husbands or show their booted ankles
without risk of public scandal or worse; and
Whereas, during the 1850s, activism to sup-
port women’s suffrage gathered steam, but
lost momentum when the Civil War began;
and
Whereas, in the fall of 1868, three (3) years
after the American Civil War had ended,
Union Army General Ulysses S. Grant was
elected President, and chose John Campbell
to serve as Governor of the Wyoming Terri-
tory; and
Whereas, Joseph A. Carey, who was there-
after appointed to serve as Attorney General
of the Wyoming Territory, issued a formal
legal opinion that no one in Wyoming could
be denied the right to vote based on race;
and
Whereas, the first Wyoming Territorial
Legislature, comprised entirely of men, re-
quired consistent and persistent inveigling
to warm to the notion of suffrage; and
Whereas, abolitionist and woman suffrage
activist, Esther Hobart Morris, was born in
Tioga County, New York, on August 8, 1812,
and later became a successful milliner and
businesswoman; and
Whereas, Esther Hobart Morris, widowed in
1843, moved to Peru, Illinois, to settle the
property in her late husband’s estate and ex-
perienced the legal hardships faced by
women in Illinois and New York; and
Whereas, Esther Hobart Morris married
John Morris, a prosperous merchant, and in
1869 moved to the gold rush camp at South
Pass City, a small valley situated along the
banks of Willow Creek on the southeastern
end of the Wind River Mountains in the Wyo-
ming Territory just north of the Oregon
Trail; and
Whereas, William Bright, a saloonkeeper,
also from the once bustling frontier mining
town South Pass City, was elected to serve
in the Territorial Legislature and was elect-
ed as president of the Territorial Council;
and
Whereas, the Territorial Legislature met
in 1869 in Cheyenne and passed bills and reso-
lutions formally enabling women to vote and
hold property and formally assuring equal
pay for teachers; and
Whereas, William Bright introduced a bill
to recognize the right of Wyoming women to
vote; and
Whereas, no records were kept of the de-
bate between Wyoming territorial law-
makers, although individuals likely asserted
a myriad of motivations and intentions in
supporting women’s suffrage; and
Whereas, the Wyoming Territory popu-
lation at the time consisted of six adult men
for every adult woman, some lawmakers per-
chance hoped suffrage would entice more
women to the state; and
Whereas, some lawmakers may have be-
lieved that women’s suffrage was consistent
with the goals articulated in post-Civil War
Amendment XV to the United States Con-
stitution guaranteeing the ‘‘right of citizens
of the United States to vote shall not be de-
nied or abridged by the United States or by
any state on account of race, color, or pre-
vious condition of servitude’’; and
Whereas, some lawmakers inherently knew
that guaranteeing the right of women to
vote was, simply, the right thing to do; and
Whereas, the Territorial Legislature ad-
vanced a suffrage bill stating, ‘‘That every
woman of the age of twenty-one years, resid-
ing in this territory, may, at every election
to be holden under the laws thereof, cast her
vote. And her rights to the elective franchise
and to hold office shall be the same under
the election laws of the territory, as those of
electors’’ and that ‘‘This act shall take effect
and be in force from and after its passage’’;
and
Whereas, when invited to join the Union,
demanding that women’s suffrage be re-
voked, the Wyoming Legislature said, ‘‘We
will remain out of the Union one hundred
years rather than come in without the
women’’; and
Whereas, in July 1890, Esther Hobart Mor-
ris presented the new Wyoming state flag to
Governor Francis E. Warren during the
statehood celebration, making Wyoming the
44th state to enter the Union and the first
with its women holding the right to vote and
serve in elected office; and
Whereas, the United States did not endorse
women’s suffrage until 1920 with the ratifica-
tion of the 19th Amendment to the U.S. Con-
stitution; and
Whereas, despite the passage of the 19th
Amendment, women of color continued to
face barriers with exercising their right to
vote, as American Indian men and women
were not recognized as United States citizens
permitted to vote until the passage of the In-
dian Citizenship Act of 1924, and ongoing ra-
cial discrimination required the passage and
implementation of the Voting Rights Act of
1965; and
Whereas, achieving voting rights for all
women required firm and continuing resolve
to overcome reluctance, and even fervent op-
position, toward this rightful enfranchise-
ment; and
Whereas, Wyoming, the first to recognize
women’s suffrage, blazed a trail of other
noteworthy milestones, such as Louisa
Swain, of Laramie, casting the first ballot by
a woman voter in 1870; and
Whereas, in 1870 the first jury to include
women was in Wyoming and was sworn in on
March 7 in Laramie; and
Whereas, Esther Hobart Morris was ap-
pointed to serve as justice of the peace in
February 1870, making her the first woman
to serve as a judge in the United States; and
Whereas, Wyoming women become the
first women to vote in a presidential election
in 1892; and
Whereas, in 1894 Wyoming elected Estelle
Reel to serve as the state superintendent of
public instruction, making her one of the
first women in the United States elected to
serve in a statewide office; and
Whereas, the residents of the town of Jack-
son in 1920 elected a city council composed
entirely of women – dubbed the ‘‘petticoat
government’’ by the press – making it the
first all-women government in the United
States; and
Whereas, in 1924 Wyoming elected Nellie
Tayloe Ross to serve as governor of the great
state of Wyoming, making her the first
woman to be sworn in as governor in these
United States; and
Whereas, all these milestones illuminate
and strengthen Wyoming’s heritage as the
‘‘Equality State’’; and
Whereas, December 10, 2019 marks the
150th anniversary of the date women’s suf-
frage became law.
Now, therefore, be it resolved by the members
of the Legislature of the State of Wyoming:
Section 1. That the Wyoming legislature
commemorates 2019 as a year to celebrate
the one hundred fiftieth (150th) anniversary
of the passage of women’s suffrage.
Section 2. That the Wyoming legislature is
proud of its heritage as the first state to rec-
ognize the right of women to vote and hold
office, hereby affirming its legacy as the
‘‘Equality State.’’
Section 3. That the Secretary of State of
Wyoming transmit a copy of this resolution
to the National Women’s Hall of Fame in
support of Esther Hobart Morris’ induction
into the Women of the Hall.
Section 4. That the Wyoming legislature
encourages its citizens and invites its visi-
tors to learn about the women and men who
made women’s suffrage in Wyoming a re-
ality, thereby blazing a trail for other states,
and eventually the federal government, to
recognize the inherent right of men and
women alike to elect their leaders and hold
office.
f
RECOGNIZING OLD GLORY HONOR
FLIGHT
Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. President, today
I rise to recognize the Old Glory Honor
Flight organization, as it makes its
maiden flight to Vietnam to bring 53
veterans back to the place where they
risked their lives for our Nation. I am
honored to pay tribute to this impor-
tant first flight and to honor their sac-
rifices.
The all-volunteer organization, Old
Glory Honor Flight, was founded in
2009 by individuals who had a dream of
creating an honor flight experience for
military veterans in northeast Wis-
consin. A dedicated board of volunteers
launched the first official flight on Oc-
tober 27, 2009, when they hosted 95
World War II veterans on a trip to our
Nation’s Capital to experience first-
hand the national memorials honoring
American military servicemembers.
The honor flight’s mission is to cre-
ate a safe and memorable experience
for veterans who call Wisconsin home.
Until now, each honor flight has taken
place within a single day, sending vet-
erans to Washington, DC, to thank
them for all they sacrificed to keep our
Nation safe and free. Since its incep-
tion, Old Glory Honor Flight has flown
more than 3,500 veterans on more than
40 missions.
Through the generous support of in-
dividuals and businesses, Old Glory
Honor Flight has grown tremendously
in the past decade. This month, for the
first time in its 10-year existence, the
organization is sending 53 veterans who
served in Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos,
and Thailand back to Vietnam for 2
weeks.
Wisconsinites owe a debt of gratitude
to these servicemembers who answered
our country’s call to serve and defend
the United States. These veterans
served with honor and endured the hor-
rors of war. When they returned home,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE6.009 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1323
February 13, 2019
they were shunned and denied their
rightful hero’s welcome. We must vow
to never let this happen again and to
always honor those who serve in our
Armed Forces. Let this flight be a re-
minder that we can all do our part to
keep the sacred trust we have with our
veterans. Let it be a reminder that
there is still more work to do to honor
their service, and let us be inspired by
their selfless and heroic service to a
grateful nation.
I am honored to recognize the very
first Wisconsin Honor Flight to Viet-
nam and I commend Old Glory Honor
Flight on this extraordinary mission to
honor our Wisconsin military veterans.
It is my sincere hope that this momen-
tous trip will bring some peace to these
brave men traveling back to Vietnam.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
RECOGNIZING PHIL BATT
∑ Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, along
with my colleagues Senator JAMES E.
RISCH, Representative MIKE SIMPSON,
and Representative RUSS FULCHER, I
pay tribute to former Idaho Governor
Phil Batt for his immense service to
our State.
As his last official act in the Gov-
ernor’s Ceremonial Office in the Idaho
State Capitol, outgoing Idaho Governor
C.L. Butch Otter co-presented, with
current Idaho Governor Brad Little,
the 2019 Idaho Medal of Achievement to
Governor Phil Batt for his many ac-
complishments and years of service to
the State of Idaho. The award is con-
sidered the highest civilian honor be-
stowed by the State. Phil Batt is the
third recipient of this great honor, for
which many nominations from across
our State have been made by the pub-
lic.
Governor Batt has an extensive ca-
reer of service to our State and Nation.
He served as our State’s 29th Governor
from 1995 to 1999. Prior to his service as
Governor, he served as Idaho Repub-
lican Party Chairman, Lieutenant Gov-
ernor of Idaho, and president pro tem-
pore of the Idaho Senate. He served in
the Idaho Senate for approximately 15
years after serving in the Idaho House
of Representatives from 1965 to 1967. He
also served in the U.S. Army from 1945
to 1946 after growing up on a farm in
Wilder, ID.
Idaho has benefited greatly from
Governor Phil Batt’s sensible voice,
commitment to service, and out-
standing leadership. Governor Batt’s
principal role in advancing human
rights in Idaho is among his many
achievements on behalf of Idahoans. He
led efforts to establish a Commission
on Human Rights and pushed for bene-
fits for Idaho farmworkers.
Governor Batt, you have much to be
proud of and reflect on for your out-
standing service over your exemplary
life. You have stood against inequities
and, in so doing, helped make others’
paths better. Your mentorship, encour-
agement, and guidance have been in-
strumental in helping current and fu-
ture leaders in our great State get a
start. Thank you for you your leader-
ship, friendship, humor, and extraor-
dinary service to our State and Na-
tion.∑
f
REMEMBERING BILL BURGESS
∑ Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I am
here to speak today with a heavy heart
from the sudden and untimely passing
of my dear friend and confidant, Bill
Burgess of Lawton, OK.
Bill spent his entire life in service to
Oklahoma and the Nation, and his loss
will be felt throughout the State.
Bill was a talented attorney, busi-
nessman, and civic leader. Among
many different titles Bill held through-
out his career, he served the State he
loved on the Oklahoma Board of Re-
gents for Higher Education and the
University of Oklahoma Board of Re-
gents.
Bill was widely recognized and re-
spected as one of Oklahoma’s out-
standing leaders, and he was inducted
into both the Oklahoma Hall of Fame
and the Oklahoma Higher Education
Hall of Fame.
As a businessman who developed the
largest software engineering company
in Oklahoma and the owner and pub-
lisher of the Lawton Constitution, Bill
was admired for his entrepreneurial
ability and success. A tireless advocate
for Oklahoma business, he served stints
as chairman of both the Oklahoma
State Chamber of Commerce and the
Oklahoma Business Roundtable.
I worked closely with Bill in his role
as civilian aide to the Secretary to the
Army and am so thankful to have a
man of such integrity, character, and
grit in this position.
If you spent any time at all around
Bill, you were sure to know that he was
the son of a sergeant major, the ‘‘back-
bone of the Army.’’ Friends say that
growing up in the house of a non-com-
missioned officer gave him a love not
only for the Army but also for the en-
listed men and women who serve their
country.
Bill was incredibly proud of his dad’s
service to our Nation and continued
that tradition of service. No one loved,
admired, and supported our men and
women in uniform more than Bill.
Kay and I are praying for Bill’s fam-
ily, friends, and many loved ones in
this extremely hard time. Bill was an
exceptional leader, a loving father, and
an incomparable friend.
I am blessed to have known him, and
he will be sorely missed by myself and
the rest of Oklahoma.∑
f
RECOGNIZING JL MARINE
SYSTEMS, INC.
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, it is my
privilege to honor a Florida small busi-
ness that exemplifies innovation and
how thinking outside of the box to
solve problems can create techno-
logical breakthroughs. As chairman of
the Senate Committee on Small Busi-
ness and Entrepreneurship, each week I
recognize a small business that em-
bodies the unique American entrepre-
neurial spirit. This week, it is my dis-
tinct privilege to honor JL Marine Sys-
tems, Inc., as the Senate Small Busi-
ness of the Week.
Located in Tampa, FL, JL Marine
Systems is known in fishing commu-
nities throughout the country as the
manufacturer of the Power-Pole shal-
low water anchor. John Oliverio, the
creator of the Power-Pole, has been an
angler for all his life and used this ex-
perience to create a more practical ap-
proach to shallow water fishing. As a
flats fisherman, he was frustrated that
bringing his boat to a stop with a push
pole or an anchor required him to lose
sight of fish. In 1998, John devised the
concept for an anchor that he could
lower from anywhere, allowing him to
keep his eyes on fish. Today, the
Power-Pole is a premier shallow water
anchor, featuring sophisticated tech-
nology for more effective shallow
water fishing.
JL Marine Systems’ Power-Pole
technology is available in five different
models, at more than 3,500 dealers,
manufacturers, and retailers. These
quality products have helped JL Ma-
rine Systems to build strong partner-
ships in the boating and fishing indus-
tries and has earned accolades at pro-
fessional fishing tournaments, in mag-
azines, and on television shows. The
Power-Pole won Best New Boating Ac-
cessory at the International Conven-
tion of Allied Sportsfishing Trades in
2011, 2012, and 2013 and won awards for
its electronics at the International
Boatbuilders Exhibition and Con-
ference in 2017.
JL Marine Systems’ commitment to
a higher standard is not only seen in
their innovative products and customer
service, but also in how the company
gives back to its community. JL Ma-
rine Systems is a proud supporter of
the Florida Aquarium, the Coastal
Conservation Association, the National
Pediatric Cancer Foundation, and nu-
merous other organizations. The com-
pany also supports its community by
hosting hurricane relief fundraisers
and by sponsoring Tampa-area youth
sports teams and high school and col-
lege fishing teams.
John Oliverio’s work to develop and
produce the Power-Pole shallow water
anchor represents the innovation that
Floridian entrepreneurs are known so
well for. Through hard work and perse-
verance, John and his team at JL Ma-
rine Systems have revolutionized the
shallow water anchor and have set an
excellent example of ingenuity. I would
like to congratulate John and the en-
tire team at JL Marine Systems for
being named the Senate Small Busi-
ness of the Week. I wish them good
luck and look forward to watching
their continued growth and success.∑
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:27 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE6.011 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1324 February 13, 2019
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR
The following bill was read the sec-
ond time, and placed on the calendar:
S. 464. A bill to require the treatment of a
lapse in appropriations as a mitigating con-
dition when assessing financial consider-
ations for security clearances, and for other
purposes.
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST TIME
The following bill was read the first
time:
S. 483. A bill to enact into law a bill by ref-
erence.
The following joint resolution was
read the first time:
S.J. Res. 8. Joint resolution recognizing
the duty of the Federal Government to cre-
ate a Green New Deal.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–315. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, a report relative to operation of
the Exchange Stabilization Fund (ESF) for
fiscal year 2018; to the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–316. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Indiana; Negative
Declarations for Commercial and Industrial
Solid Waste Incineration and Sewage Sludge
Incineration Units for Designated Facilities
and Pollutants’’ (FRL No. 9989–36–Region 5)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on February 12, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–317. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Indiana; Reason-
able Further Progress Plan and Other Plan
Elements for the Chicago Nonattainment
Area for the 2008 Ozone Standard’’ (FRL No.
9989–33–Region 5) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on February 12, 2019;
to the Committee on Environment and Pub-
lic Works.
EC–318. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval: North Carolina;
Ozone NAAQS Update’’ (FRL No. 9989–38–Re-
gion 4) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on February 12, 2019; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–319. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval: OR: Lane County
Outdoor Burning and Enforcement Procedure
Rules’’ (FRL No. 9989–56–Region 10) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on February 12, 2019; to the Committee on
Environment and Public Works.
EC–320. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Attainment Plan for the Lake Coun-
ty SO2 Nonattainment Area’’ (FRL No. 9989–
48–Region 5) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on February 12, 2019;
to the Committee on Environment and Pub-
lic Works.
EC–321. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) and (d) of the Arms Export Con-
trol Act, the certification of a proposed li-
cense for the manufacture of significant
military equipment and the export of fire-
arms, parts, and components, including tech-
nical data and defense services, abroad con-
trolled under Category I of the U.S. Muni-
tions Lists to Brazil to support the manufac-
ture of components for sporting handguns
and rifles in the amount of $1,000,000 or more
(Transmittal No. DDTC 18–017); to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
EC–322. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) and (d) of the Arms Export Con-
trol Act, the certification of a proposed li-
cense for the manufacture of significant
military equipment and the export of defense
articles, including technical data and de-
fense services, abroad to Italy, Turkey, and
the Netherlands to support the manufacture
of the F–35 Lightning II’s Center Fuselage
and related assemblies, subassemblies, and
components associated with all variants of
the F–35 Aircraft in the amount of
$100,000,000 or more (Transmittal No. DDTC
17–076); to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
EC–323. A communication from the Direc-
tor, Office of Congressional Affairs, Federal
Election Commission, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, a report relative to the Commis-
sion’s competitive sourcing efforts during
fiscal year 2018; to the Committee on Rules
and Administration.
EC–324. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the Department of Veterans
Affairs Vehicle Fleet Report on Alternative
Fuel Vehicles for fiscal year 2018; to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
EC–325. A communication from the Deputy
Chief, Enforcement Bureau, Federal Commu-
nications Commission, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Amendment of Section 1.80(b) of the Com-
mission’s Rules; Forfeiture Proceedings’’
(DA 18–1272) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on February 12, 2019;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
EC–326. A communication from the Pro-
gram Analyst, National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Federal
Motor Vehicle Theft Prevention Standard,
Final Listing of the 2017 Light Duty Truck
Lines Subject to the Requirements of This
Standard and Exempted Vehicle Lines for
Model Year 2017’’ (RIN2127–AL72) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Feb-
ruary 8, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–327. A communication from the Regu-
latory Ombudsman, Federal Motor Carrier
Safety Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Commer-
cial Learner’s Permit Validity’’ ((RIN2126–
AB98) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on February 8, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–328. A communication from the Regu-
latory Ombudsman, Federal Motor Carrier
Safety Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Fees for
the Unified Carrier Registration Plan Agree-
ment’’ ((RIN2126–AC12) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on February 8, 2019;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
EC–329. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Establish-
ment of Class E Airspace; Maurice, IA’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0671))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on February 8, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–330. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Establish-
ment of Class E Airspace; Hardinsburg, KY’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0486))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on February 8, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–331. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Removal
of Class E Airspace; Mercury, NV’’ ((RIN2120–
AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2017–1148)) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Feb-
ruary 8, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–332. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class E Airspace; Leitchfield, KY’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0485))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on February 8, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–333. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class E Airspace; Pago Pago, Amer-
ica Soma’’ ((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No.
FAA–2018–0082)) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on February 8, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–334. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class E Airspace; Mesquite, NV’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0007))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on February 8, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–335. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class E Airspace; Bethel, ME’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0883))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on February 8, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–336. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:27 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE6.015 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1325
February 13, 2019
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class D Airspace; Appleton, WI’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0006))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on February 8, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–337. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class D and E Airspace; Casper, WY’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2017–0223))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on February 8, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–338. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class D and E Airspace; Moses Lake,
WA’’ ((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2017–
1033)) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on February 8, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–339. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class D and E Airspace; Aspen, CO’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0016))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on February 8, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–340. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class D and E Airspace, and Revoca-
tion of Class E Airspace; Jackson, MI’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2017–1187))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on February 8, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–341. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class D and E Airspace, and Re-
moval of Class E Airspace; Lompoc, CA’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2017–1146))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on February 8, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–342. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Part 95 In-
strument Flight Rules; Miscellaneous
Amendments; Amendment No. 543’’
((RIN2120–AA63) (Docket No. 31228)) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Feb-
ruary 8, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–343. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; The Boeing Company Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–1066)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on February 8, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
f
PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS
The following petition or memorial
was laid before the Senate and was re-
ferred or ordered to lie on the table as
indicated:
POM–5. A petition from a citizen of the
State of Texas relative to an amendment to
the United States Constitution; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. BLUNT, from the Committee on
Rules and Administration, without amend-
ment:
S. Res. 50. A resolution improving proce-
dures for the consideration of nominations in
the Senate.
S. Res. 70. An original resolution author-
izing expenditures by committees of the Sen-
ate for the periods March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019, October 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2020, and October 1, 2020
through February 28, 2021.
f
EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF
COMMITTEES
The following executive reports of
nominations were submitted:
By Mr. WICKER for the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
*Janice Miriam Hellreich, of Hawaii, to be
a Member of the Board of Directors of the
Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a
term expiring January 31, 2024.
*Robert A. Mandell, of Florida, to be a
Member of the Board of Directors of the Cor-
poration for Public Broadcasting for a term
expiring January 31, 2022.
*Don Munce, of Florida, to be a Member of
the Board of Directors of the Corporation for
Public Broadcasting for a term expiring Jan-
uary 31, 2024.
*Bruce M. Ramer, of California, to be a
Member of the Board of Directors of the Cor-
poration for Public Broadcasting for a term
expiring January 31, 2024.
*Coast Guard nomination of Alexander C.
Foos, to be Captain.
By Mr. JOHNSON for the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
*Julia Akins Clark, of Maryland, to be a
Member of the Merit Systems Protection
Board for the term of seven years expiring
March 1, 2021.
*Dennis Dean Kirk, of Virginia, to be a
Member of the Merit Systems Protection
Board for the term of seven years expiring
March 1, 2023.
*Dennis Dean Kirk, of Virginia, to be
Chairman of the Merit Systems Protection
Board.
*Nomination was reported with rec-
ommendation that it be confirmed sub-
ject to the nominee’s commitment to
respond to requests to appear and tes-
tify before any duly constituted com-
mittee of the Senate.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. WARNER (for himself, Mr.
CARDIN, Mrs. SHAHEEN, and Ms. BALD-
WIN):
S. 466. A bill to provide that certain guid-
ance related to waivers for State innovation
under the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act shall have no force or effect; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI, Mr. UDALL, Mr. SULLIVAN,
Mr. SANDERS, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Ms. SMITH, Mr. KING,
Mr. TESTER, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Ms.
HIRONO, Mr. SCHATZ, Mr. HEINRICH,
Mr. MERKLEY, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
and Ms. ROSEN):
S. 467. A bill to amend section 520E of the
Public Health Service Act to require States
and their designees receiving grants for de-
velopment and implementation of statewide
suicide early intervention and prevention
strategies to collaborate with each Federally
recognized Indian tribe, tribal organization,
urban Indian organization, and Native Ha-
waiian health care system in the State; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr. WAR-
NER, Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina,
and Mr. BENNET):
S. 468. A bill to amend title II of the Higher
Education Act of 1965 to provide for teacher,
principal, and other school leader quality en-
hancement; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Ms. CORTEZ MASTO (for herself,
Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. WYDEN, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Ms. SMITH,
Mr. BROWN, Mr. CASEY, Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN, Mr. MENENDEZ, Ms. DUCKWORTH,
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. KAINE, and Ms.
ROSEN):
S. 469. A bill to allow penalty-free distribu-
tions from retirement accounts in the case of
certain Federal contractors impacted by
Federal Government shutdowns; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Mr.
BROWN, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
CARDIN, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr. DURBIN,
Ms. HARRIS, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. MERKLEY,
Mr. PETERS, Mr. REED, Mrs. SHAHEEN,
Ms. SMITH, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, and Mr. HEINRICH):
S. 470. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for an option
for any citizen or permanent resident of the
United States age 50 to 64 to buy into Medi-
care; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mr.
TILLIS, Mr. CORNYN, and Mr. SASSE):
S. 471. A bill to amend title 28, United
States Code, to increase transparency and
oversight of third-party litigation funding in
certain actions, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself and Mr.
BLUMENTHAL):
S. 472. A bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, to ensure that revenues col-
lected from passengers as aviation security
fees are used to help finance the costs of
aviation security screening by repealing a
requirement that a portion of such fees be
credited as offsetting receipts and deposited
in the general fund of the Treasury; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Mr.
PORTMAN):
S. 473. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to include certain Federal posi-
tions within the definition of law enforce-
ment officer for retirement purposes, and for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:27 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE6.018 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1326 February 13, 2019
other purposes; to the Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. CARPER, Mr. COONS, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr.
MENENDEZ, Ms. STABENOW, and Mr.
TESTER):
S. 474. A bill to amend title XI of the So-
cial Security Act to require drug manufac-
turers to publicly justify unnecessary price
increases; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. BEN-
NET, Mr. CARDIN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr.
MERKLEY, and Mr. WHITEHOUSE):
S. 475. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to prevent catastrophic
out-of-pocket spending on prescription drugs
for seniors and individuals with disabilities;
to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. CARPER, and Mr.
TESTER):
S. 476. A bill to amend title XI and XVIII
of the Social Security Act to provide greater
transparency of discounts provided by drug
manufacturers; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Ms. HAR-
RIS, Ms. WARREN, Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr.
WYDEN, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. SAND-
ERS, Mr. CARDIN, Ms. HIRONO, and Mr.
LEAHY):
S. 477. A bill to authorize the National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration to es-
tablish a Climate Change Education Pro-
gram, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
By Mr. SANDERS (for himself, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. BOOK-
ER, and Ms. HARRIS):
S. 478. A bill to enhance Social Security
benefits and ensure the long-term solvency
of the Social Security program; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. TOOMEY (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, and
Mr. DURBIN):
S. 479. A bill to revise section 48 of title 18,
United States Code, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Mr. GARDNER, Mr. MARKEY,
Mr. CORNYN, and Mr. COTTON):
S. 480. A bill to require an unclassified
interagency report on the political influence
operations of the Government of China and
the Communist Party of China with respect
to the United States, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and
Mr. HOEVEN):
S. 481. A bill to encourage States to require
the installation of residential carbon mon-
oxide detectors in homes, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. GRAHAM (for himself, Mr.
MENENDEZ, Mr. GARDNER, Mr. CARDIN,
and Mrs. SHAHEEN):
S. 482. A bill to strengthen the North At-
lantic Treaty Organization, to combat inter-
national cybercrime, and to impose addi-
tional sanctions with respect to the Russian
Federation, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. ROBERTS (for himself, Ms.
STABENOW, and Mr. UDALL):
S. 483. A bill to enact into law a bill by ref-
erence; read the first time.
By Ms. CORTEZ MASTO (for herself,
Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. MARKEY, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
VAN HOLLEN, Ms. WARREN, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, and Mr. UDALL):
S. 484. A bill to require additional disclo-
sures relating to donations to the Presi-
dential Inaugural Committee, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mr. MCCONNELL:
S.J. Res. 8. A joint resolution recognizing
the duty of the Federal Government to cre-
ate a Green New Deal; read the first time.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. BURR (for himself and Mr.
MANCHIN):
S. Res. 68. A resolution designating April 5,
2019, as ‘‘Gold Star Wives Day’’ ; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BURR (for himself and Mr.
MANCHIN):
S. Res. 69. A resolution designating March
29, 2019, as ‘‘Vietnam Veterans Day’’ ; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BLUNT:
S. Res. 70. An original resolution author-
izing expenditures by committees of the Sen-
ate for the periods March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019, October 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2020, and October 1, 2020
through February 28, 2021; from the Com-
mittee on Rules and Administration; placed
on the calendar.
By Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself and Mr.
COTTON):
S. Con. Res. 3. A concurrent resolution rec-
ognizing the rich history, heritage, and stra-
tegic importance of the Republic of the Mar-
shall Islands and the Marshallese population
residing in the United States; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 22
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 22, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to
provide for coverage of dental services
under the Medicare program.
S. 63
At the request of Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
the name of the Senator from Virginia
(Mr. KAINE) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 63, a bill to implement the rec-
ommendations of the Joint Select
Committee on Budget and Appropria-
tions Process Reform.
S. 74
At the request of Mr. DAINES, the
names of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) and the Senator
from Indiana (Mr. BRAUN) were added
as cosponsors of S. 74, a bill to prohibit
paying Members of Congress during pe-
riods during which a Government shut-
down is in effect, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 91
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. COTTON) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 91, a bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to authorize per diem pay-
ments under comprehensive service
programs for homeless veterans to fur-
nish care to dependents of homeless
veterans, and for other purposes.
S. 135
At the request of Mr. THUNE, the
name of the Senator from South Da-
kota (Mr. ROUNDS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 135, a bill to prioritize the
allocation of H–2B visas for States with
low unemployment rates.
S. 152
At the request of Mr. COTTON, the
names of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. KENNEDY) and the Senator from
Connecticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL) were
added as cosponsors of S. 152, a bill to
direct the President to impose pen-
alties pursuant to denial orders with
respect to certain Chinese tele-
communications companies that are in
violation of the export control or sanc-
tions laws of the United States, and for
other purposes.
S. 172
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
PORTMAN) and the Senator from North
Dakota (Mr. CRAMER) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 172, a bill to delay the re-
imposition of the annual fee on health
insurance providers until after 2021.
S. 175
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 175, a bill to improve agri-
cultural job opportunities, benefits,
and security for aliens in the United
States, and for other purposes.
S. 178
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. LEAHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 178, a bill to condemn gross
human rights violations of ethnic
Turkic Muslims in Xinjiang, and call-
ing for an end to arbitrary detention,
torture, and harassment of these com-
munities inside and outside China.
S. 186
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
BRAUN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
186, a bill to ensure timely completion
of the concurrent resolution on the
budget and regular appropriations
bills, and for other purposes.
S. 201
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from California
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 201, a bill to amend title
13, United States Code, to make clear
that each decennial census, as required
for the apportionment of Representa-
tives in Congress among the several
States, shall tabulate the total number
of persons in each State, and to provide
that no information regarding United
States citizenship or immigration sta-
tus may be elicited in any such census.
S. 225
At the request of Mr. ISAKSON, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mr. WICKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 225, a bill to provide for partner-
ships among State and local govern-
ments, regional entities, and the pri-
vate sector to preserve, conserve, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:27 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE6.023 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1327
February 13, 2019
enhance the visitor experience at na-
tionally significant battlefields of the
American Revolution, War of 1812, and
Civil War, and for other purposes.
S. 266
At the request of Mr. REED, the name
of the Senator from Michigan (Ms.
STABENOW) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 266, a bill to provide for the long-
term improvement of public school fa-
cilities, and for other purposes.
S. 285
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
names of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. KENNEDY) and the Senator from
Oklahoma (Mr. LANKFORD) were added
as cosponsors of S. 285, a bill to require
U.S. Immigration and Customs En-
forcement to take into custody certain
aliens who have been charged in the
United States with a crime that re-
sulted in the death or serious bodily in-
jury of another person, and for other
purposes.
S. 287
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from Utah (Mr.
LEE) was added as a cosponsor of S. 287,
a bill to amend the Trade Expansion
Act of 1962 to impose limitations on
the authority of the President to ad-
just imports that are determined to
threaten to impair national security,
and for other purposes.
S. 293
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
name of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. KENNEDY) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 293, a bill to enhance border
security to reduce drug trafficking and
related money laundering.
S. 296
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. HOEVEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 296, a bill to amend XVIII
of the Social Security Act to ensure
more timely access to home health
services for Medicare beneficiaries
under the Medicare program.
S. 362
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 362, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to reform tax-
ation of alcoholic beverages.
S. 380
At the request of Mr. JOHNSON, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
380, a bill to increase access to agency
guidance documents.
S. 415
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 415, a bill to provide im-
migration status for certain battered
spouses and children.
S. 459
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 459, a bill to protect the
American people from undetectable
ghost guns, and for other purposes.
S. CON. RES. 1
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, his
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
Con. Res. 1, a concurrent resolution
calling for credible, transparent, and
safe elections in Nigeria, and for other
purposes.
S. RES. 65
At the request of Mr. JOHNSON, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mr. WICKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 65, a resolution congratu-
lating the Hellenic Republic and the
Republic of North Macedonia on ratifi-
cation of the Prespa Agreement, which
resolves a long-standing bilateral dis-
pute and establishes a strategic part-
nership between the 2 countries.
S. RES. 66
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 66, a resolution re-
jecting the use of Government shut-
downs.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. MCCONNELL:
S.J. Res. 8. A joint resolution recog-
nizing the duty of the Federal Govern-
ment to create a Green New Deal; read
the first time.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the text of
the joint resolution be printed in the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the joint resolution was ordered to be
printed in the RECORD, as follows:
S.J. RES. 8
Resolved by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. FINDINGS.
Congress finds that—
(1) the October 2018 report entitled ‘‘Spe-
cial Report on Global Warming of 1.5 C’’ by
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change and the November 2018 Fourth Na-
tional Climate Assessment report found
that—
(A) human activity is the dominant cause
of observed climate change over the past
century;
(B) a changing climate is causing sea levels
to rise and an increase in wildfires, severe
storms, droughts, and other extreme weather
events that threaten human life, healthy
communities, and critical infrastructure;
(C) global warming at or above 2 degrees
Celsius beyond pre-industrialized levels will
cause—
(i) mass migration from the regions most
affected by climate change;
(ii) more than $500,000,000,000 in lost annual
economic output in the United States by the
year 2100;
(iii) wildfires that, by 2050, will annually
burn at least twice as much forest area in
the western United States than was typi-
cally burned by wildfires in the years pre-
ceding 2019;
(iv) a loss of more than 99 percent of all
coral reefs on Earth;
(v) more than 350,000,000 more people to be
exposed globally to deadly heat stress by
2050; and
(vi) a risk of damage to $1,000,000,000,000 of
public infrastructure and coastal real estate
in the United States; and
(D) global temperatures must be kept
below 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industri-
alized levels to avoid the most severe im-
pacts of a changing climate, which will re-
quire—
(i) global reductions in greenhouse gas
emissions from human sources of 40 to 60
percent from 2010 levels by 2030; and
(ii) net-zero global emissions by 2050;
(2) because the United States has histori-
cally been responsible for a disproportionate
amount of greenhouse gas emissions, having
emitted 20 percent of global greenhouse gas
emissions through 2014, and has a high tech-
nological capacity, the United States must
take a leading role in reducing emissions
through economic transformation;
(3) the United States is currently experi-
encing several related crises, with—
(A) life expectancy declining while basic
needs, such as clean air, clean water, healthy
food, and adequate health care, housing,
transportation, and education, are inacces-
sible to a significant portion of the United
States population;
(B) a 4-decade trend of wage stagnation,
deindustrialization, and anti-labor policies
that has led to—
(i) hourly wages overall stagnating since
the 1970s despite increased worker produc-
tivity;
(ii) the third-worst level of socioeconomic
mobility in the developed world before the
Great Recession;
(iii) the erosion of the earning and bar-
gaining power of workers in the United
States; and
(iv) inadequate resources for public sector
workers to confront the challenges of cli-
mate change at local, State, and Federal lev-
els; and
(C) the greatest income inequality since
the 1920s, with—
(i) the top 1 percent of earners accruing 91
percent of gains in the first few years of eco-
nomic recovery after the Great Recession;
(ii) a large racial wealth divide amounting
to a difference of 20 times more wealth be-
tween the average White family and the av-
erage Black family; and
(iii) a gender earnings gap that results in
women earning approximately 80 percent as
much as men, at the median;
(4) climate change, pollution, and environ-
mental destruction have exacerbated sys-
temic racial, regional, social, environmental,
and economic injustices (referred to in this
section as ‘‘systemic injustices’’) by dis-
proportionately affecting indigenous peoples,
communities of color, migrant communities,
deindustrialized communities, depopulated
rural communities, the poor, low-income
workers, women, the elderly, the unhoused,
people with disabilities, and youth (referred
to in this section as ‘‘frontline and vulner-
able communities’’);
(5) climate change constitutes a direct
threat to the national security of the United
States—
(A) by impacting the economic, environ-
mental, and social stability of countries and
communities around the world; and
(B) by acting as a threat multiplier;
(6) the Federal Government-led mobiliza-
tions during World War II and the New Deal
created the greatest middle class that the
United States has ever seen, but many mem-
bers of frontline and vulnerable communities
were excluded from many of the economic
and societal benefits of those mobilizations;
and
(7) a new national, social, industrial, and
economic mobilization on a scale not seen
since World War II and the New Deal era is
a historic opportunity—
(A) to create millions of good, high-wage
jobs in the United States;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:27 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE6.026 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1328 February 13, 2019
(B) to provide unprecedented levels of pros-
perity and economic security for all people
of the United States; and
(C) to counteract systemic injustices.
SEC. 2. GREEN NEW DEAL POLICY.
It is the policy of the United States that—
(1) it is the duty of the Federal Govern-
ment to create a Green New Deal—
(A) to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas
emissions through a fair and just transition
for all communities and workers;
(B) to create millions of good, high-wage
jobs and ensure prosperity and economic se-
curity for all people of the United States;
(C) to invest in the infrastructure and in-
dustry of the United States to sustainably
meet the challenges of the 21st century;
(D) to secure for all people of the United
States for generations to come—
(i) clean air and water;
(ii) climate and community resiliency;
(iii) healthy food;
(iv) access to nature; and
(v) a sustainable environment; and
(E) to promote justice and equity by stop-
ping current, preventing future, and repair-
ing historic oppression of indigenous peoples,
communities of color, migrant communities,
deindustrialized communities, depopulated
rural communities, the poor, low-income
workers, women, the elderly, the unhoused,
people with disabilities, and youth (referred
to in this section as ‘‘frontline and vulner-
able communities’’);
(2) the goals described in subparagraphs (A)
through (E) of paragraph (1) (referred to in
this section as the ‘‘Green New Deal goals’’)
should be accomplished through a 10-year na-
tional mobilization (referred to in this sec-
tion as the ‘‘Green New Deal mobilization’’)
that will require the following goals and
projects—
(A) building resiliency against climate
change-related disasters, such as extreme
weather, including by leveraging funding and
providing investments for community-de-
fined projects and strategies;
(B) repairing and upgrading the infrastruc-
ture in the United States, including—
(i) by eliminating pollution and green-
house gas emissions as much as techno-
logically feasible;
(ii) by guaranteeing universal access to
clean water;
(iii) by reducing the risks posed by climate
impacts; and
(iv) by ensuring that any infrastructure
bill considered by Congress addresses cli-
mate change;
(C) meeting 100 percent of the power de-
mand in the United States through clean, re-
newable, and zero-emission energy sources,
including—
(i) by dramatically expanding and upgrad-
ing renewable power sources; and
(ii) by deploying new capacity;
(D) building or upgrading to energy-effi-
cient, distributed, and ‘‘smart’’ power grids,
and ensuring affordable access to electricity;
(E) upgrading all existing buildings in the
United States and building new buildings to
achieve maximum energy efficiency, water
efficiency, safety, affordability, comfort, and
durability, including through electrification;
(F) spurring massive growth in clean man-
ufacturing in the United States and remov-
ing pollution and greenhouse gas emissions
from manufacturing and industry as much as
is technologically feasible, including by ex-
panding renewable energy manufacturing
and investing in existing manufacturing and
industry;
(G) working collaboratively with farmers
and ranchers in the United States to remove
pollution and greenhouse gas emissions from
the agricultural sector as much as is techno-
logically feasible, including—
(i) by supporting family farming;
(ii) by investing in sustainable farming and
land use practices that increase soil health;
and
(iii) by building a more sustainable food
system that ensures universal access to
healthy food;
(H) overhauling transportation systems in
the United States to remove pollution and
greenhouse gas emissions from the transpor-
tation sector as much as is technologically
feasible, including through investment in—
(i) zero-emission vehicle infrastructure and
manufacturing;
(ii) clean, affordable, and accessible public
transit; and
(iii) high-speed rail;
(I) mitigating and managing the long-term
adverse health, economic, and other effects
of pollution and climate change, including
by providing funding for community-defined
projects and strategies;
(J) removing greenhouse gases from the at-
mosphere and reducing pollution by restor-
ing natural ecosystems through proven low-
tech solutions that increase soil carbon stor-
age, such as land preservation and
afforestation;
(K) restoring and protecting threatened,
endangered, and fragile ecosystems through
locally appropriate and science-based
projects that enhance biodiversity and sup-
port climate resiliency;
(L) cleaning up existing hazardous waste
and abandoned sites, ensuring economic de-
velopment and sustainability on those sites;
(M) identifying other emission and pollu-
tion sources and creating solutions to re-
move them; and
(N) promoting the international exchange
of technology, expertise, products, funding,
and services, with the aim of making the
United States the international leader on
climate action, and to help other countries
achieve a Green New Deal;
(3) a Green New Deal must be developed
through transparent and inclusive consulta-
tion, collaboration, and partnership with
frontline and vulnerable communities, labor
unions, worker cooperatives, civil society
groups, academia, and businesses; and
(4) to achieve the Green New Deal goals
and mobilization, a Green New Deal will re-
quire the following goals and projects—
(A) providing and leveraging, in a way that
ensures that the public receives appropriate
ownership stakes and returns on investment,
adequate capital (including through commu-
nity grants, public banks, and other public
financing), technical expertise, supporting
policies, and other forms of assistance to
communities, organizations, Federal, State,
and local government agencies, and busi-
nesses working on the Green New Deal mobi-
lization;
(B) ensuring that the Federal Government
takes into account the complete environ-
mental and social costs and impacts of emis-
sions through—
(i) existing laws;
(ii) new policies and programs; and
(iii) ensuring that frontline and vulnerable
communities shall not be adversely affected;
(C) providing resources, training, and high-
quality education, including higher edu-
cation, to all people of the United States,
with a focus on frontline and vulnerable
communities, so that all people of the United
States may be full and equal participants in
the Green New Deal mobilization;
(D) making public investments in the re-
search and development of new clean and re-
newable energy technologies and industries;
(E) directing investments to spur economic
development, deepen and diversify industry
and business in local and regional economies,
and build wealth and community ownership,
while prioritizing high-quality job creation
and economic, social, and environmental
benefits in frontline and vulnerable commu-
nities, and deindustrialized communities,
that may otherwise struggle with the transi-
tion away from greenhouse gas intensive in-
dustries;
(F) ensuring the use of democratic and
participatory processes that are inclusive of
and led by frontline and vulnerable commu-
nities and workers to plan, implement, and
administer the Green New Deal mobilization
at the local level;
(G) ensuring that the Green New Deal mo-
bilization creates high-quality union jobs
that pay prevailing wages, hires local work-
ers, offers training and advancement oppor-
tunities, and guarantees wage and benefit
parity for workers affected by the transition;
(H) guaranteeing a job with a family-sus-
taining wage, adequate family and medical
leave, paid vacations, and retirement secu-
rity to all people of the United States;
(I) strengthening and protecting the right
of all workers to organize, unionize, and col-
lectively bargain free of coercion, intimida-
tion, and harassment;
(J) strengthening and enforcing labor,
workplace health and safety, antidiscrimina-
tion, and wage and hour standards across all
employers, industries, and sectors;
(K) enacting and enforcing trade rules, pro-
curement standards, and border adjustments
with strong labor and environmental protec-
tions—
(i) to stop the transfer of jobs and pollu-
tion overseas; and
(ii) to grow domestic manufacturing in the
United States;
(L) ensuring that public lands, waters, and
oceans are protected and that eminent do-
main is not abused;
(M) obtaining the free, prior, and informed
consent of indigenous peoples for all deci-
sions that affect indigenous peoples and
their traditional territories, honoring all
treaties and agreements with indigenous
peoples, and protecting and enforcing the
sovereignty and land rights of indigenous
peoples;
(N) ensuring a commercial environment
where every businessperson is free from un-
fair competition and domination by domes-
tic or international monopolies; and
(O) providing all people of the United
States with—
(i) high-quality health care;
(ii) affordable, safe, and adequate housing;
(iii) economic security; and
(iv) clean water, clean air, healthy and af-
fordable food, and access to nature.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 68—DESIG-
NATING APRIL 5, 2019, AS ‘‘GOLD
STAR WIVES DAY’’
Mr. BURR (for himself and Mr.
MANCHIN) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 68
Whereas the Senate honors the sacrifices
made by the spouses and families of the fall-
en members of the Armed Forces of the
United States;
Whereas Gold Star Wives of America, Inc.
represents the spouses and families of the
members and veterans of the Armed Forces
of the United States who have died on active
duty or as a result of a service-connected dis-
ability;
Whereas the primary mission of Gold Star
Wives of America, Inc. is to provide services,
support, and friendship to the spouses of the
fallen members and veterans of the Armed
Forces of the United States;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:27 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE6.027 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1329
February 13, 2019
Whereas, in 1945, Gold Star Wives of Amer-
ica, Inc. was organized with the help of Elea-
nor Roosevelt to assist the families left be-
hind by the fallen members and veterans of
the Armed Forces of the United States;
Whereas the first meeting of Gold Star
Wives of America, Inc. was held on April 5,
1945;
Whereas April 5, 2019, marks the 74th anni-
versary of the first meeting of Gold Star
Wives of America, Inc.;
Whereas the members and veterans of the
Armed Forces of the United States bear the
burden of protecting the freedom of the peo-
ple of the United States; and
Whereas the sacrifices of the families of
the fallen members and veterans of the
Armed Forces of the United States should
never be forgotten: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates April 5, 2019, as ‘‘Gold Star
Wives Day’’;
(2) honors and recognizes—
(A) the contributions of the members of
Gold Star Wives of America, Inc.; and
(B) the dedication of the members of Gold
Star Wives of America, Inc. to the members
and veterans of the Armed Forces of the
United States; and
(3) encourages the people of the United
States to observe Gold Star Wives Day to
promote awareness of—
(A) the contributions and dedication of the
members of Gold Star Wives of America, Inc.
to the members and veterans of the Armed
Forces of the United States; and
(B) the important role that Gold Star
Wives of America, Inc. plays in the lives of
the spouses and families of the fallen mem-
bers and veterans of the Armed Forces of the
United States.
SENATE RESOLUTION 69—DESIG-
NATING MARCH 29, 2019, AS
‘‘VIETNAM VETERANS DAY’’
Mr. BURR (for himself and Mr.
MANCHIN) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 69
Whereas the Vietnam War was fought in
the Republic of Vietnam from 1955 to 1975
and involved regular forces from the Demo-
cratic Republic of Vietnam and Viet Cong
guerrilla forces in armed conflict with the
Armed Forces of the United States, the
armed forces of allies of the United States,
and the armed forces of the Republic of Viet-
nam;
Whereas the Armed Forces of the United
States became involved in Vietnam because
the United States Government wanted to
provide direct support by the Armed Forces
to the Government of the Republic of Viet-
nam to defend against the growing threat of
Communism from the Democratic Republic
of Vietnam;
Whereas members of the Armed Forces of
the United States began serving in an advi-
sory role to the Government of South Viet-
nam in 1955;
Whereas, as a result of the incidents in the
Gulf of Tonkin on August 2 and 4, 1964, Con-
gress approved the Gulf of Tonkin Resolu-
tion (Public Law 88–408) by an overwhelming
majority on August 7, 1964, which provided to
the President of the United States the au-
thority to use armed force to assist the Re-
public of Vietnam in the defense of its free-
dom against the Democratic Republic of
Vietnam;
Whereas, in 1965, ground combat units of
the Armed Forces of the United States ar-
rived in the Republic of Vietnam to join ap-
proximately 23,000 personnel of the Armed
Forces who were already present there;
Whereas, by September 1965, between
150,000 and 190,000 troops of the Armed Forces
of the United States were in Vietnam, and by
1969, the number of such troops reached a
peak of approximately 549,500, including
members of the Armed Forces who were sup-
porting the combat operations from Thai-
land, Cambodia, Laos, and aboard Navy ves-
sels;
Whereas, on January 27, 1973, the Agree-
ment on Ending the War and Restoring
Peace in Viet-Nam (commonly known as the
‘‘Paris Peace Accords’’) was signed, which re-
quired the release of all prisoners-of-war of
the United States held in North Vietnam and
the withdrawal of all Armed Forces of the
United States from South Vietnam;
Whereas, on March 29, 1973, the Armed
Forces of the United States completed the
withdrawal of combat units and combat sup-
port units from South Vietnam;
Whereas, on April 30, 1975, North Viet-
namese regular forces captured Saigon, the
capital of South Vietnam, effectively placing
South Vietnam under Communist control;
Whereas more than 58,000 members of the
Armed Forces of the United States lost their
lives in the Vietnam War, and more than
300,000 members of the Armed Forces of the
United States were wounded in Vietnam;
Whereas, in 1982, the Vietnam Veterans
Memorial was dedicated in the District of
Columbia to commemorate the members of
the Armed Forces of the United States who
died or were declared missing-in-action in
Vietnam;
Whereas the Vietnam War was an ex-
tremely divisive issue among the people of
the United States and a conflict that caused
a generation of veterans to wait too long for
the public of the United States to acknowl-
edge and honor the efforts and services of
those veterans;
Whereas members of the Armed Forces
who served bravely and faithfully for the
United States during the Vietnam War were
often wrongly criticized for the decisions of
policymakers that were beyond the control
of those members; and
Whereas designating March 29, 2019, as
‘‘Vietnam Veterans Day’’ would be an appro-
priate way to honor the members of the
Armed Forces of the United States who
served in South Vietnam and throughout
Southeast Asia during the Vietnam War:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates March 29, 2019, as ‘‘Vietnam
Veterans Day’’;
(2) honors and recognizes the contributions
of the veterans of the Armed Forces of the
United States who served in Vietnam during
war and during peace;
(3) encourages States and local govern-
ments to designate March 29, 2019, as ‘‘Viet-
nam Veterans Day’’; and
(4) encourages the people of the United
States to observe Vietnam Veterans Day
with appropriate ceremonies and activities
that—
(A) provide the appreciation that veterans
of the Vietnam War deserve;
(B) demonstrate the resolve that the peo-
ple of the United States shall never forget
the sacrifices and service of a generation of
veterans who served in the Vietnam War;
(C) promote awareness of the faithful serv-
ice and contributions of the veterans of the
Vietnam War—
(i) during service in the Armed Forces of
the United States; and
(ii) to the communities of the veterans
since returning home;
(D) promote awareness of the importance
of entire communities empowering veterans
and the families of veterans in helping the
veterans readjust to civilian life after serv-
ice in the Armed Forces; and
(E) promote opportunities for veterans of
the Vietnam War—
(i) to assist younger veterans returning
from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan in re-
habilitation from wounds, both seen and un-
seen; and
(ii) to support the reintegration of younger
veterans into civilian life.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 70—AUTHOR-
IZING EXPENDITURES BY COM-
MITTEES OF THE SENATE FOR
THE PERIODS MARCH 1, 2019
THROUGH SEPTEMBER 30, 2019,
OCTOBER 1, 2019 THROUGH SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2020, AND OCTOBER 1,
2020 THROUGH FEBRUARY 28, 2021
Mr. BLUNT submitted the following
resolution; which was from the Com-
mittee on Rules and Administration;
placed on the calendar:
S. RES. 70
Resolved,
SECTION 1. AGGREGATE AUTHORIZATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of carrying
out the powers, duties, and functions under
the Standing Rules of the Senate, and under
the appropriate authorizing resolutions of
the Senate, there is authorized for the period
March 1, 2019 through September 30, 2019, in
the aggregate of $62,440,527, for the period
October 1, 2019 through September 30, 2020, in
the aggregate of $107,021,881, and for the pe-
riod October 1, 2020 through February 28,
2021, in the aggregate of $44,592,452, in ac-
cordance with the provisions of this resolu-
tion, for standing committees of the Senate,
the Special Committee on Aging, the Select
Committee on Intelligence, and the Com-
mittee on Indian Affairs.
(b) AGENCY CONTRIBUTIONS.—There are au-
thorized to be paid from the appropriations
account for ‘‘Expenses of Inquiries and Inves-
tigations’’ of the Senate such sums as may
be necessary for agency contributions re-
lated to the compensation of employees of
the committees for the period March 1, 2019
through September 30, 2019, for the period
October 1, 2019 through September 30, 2020,
and for the period October 1, 2020 through
February 28, 2021.
(c) EXPENSES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), expenses of each standing
committee of the Senate, the Special Com-
mittee on Aging, the Select Committee on
Intelligence, and the Committee on Indian
Affairs under this resolution shall be paid
from the contingent fund of the Senate upon
vouchers approved by the chairman of the
applicable committee.
(2) VOUCHERS NOT REQUIRED.—Vouchers
shall not be required for—
(A) the disbursement of salaries of employ-
ees paid at an annual rate;
(B) the payment of telecommunications
provided by the Office of the Sergeant at
Arms and Doorkeeper;
(C) the payment of stationery supplies pur-
chased through the Keeper of the Stationery;
(D) payments to the Postmaster of the
Senate;
(E) the payment of metered charges on
copying equipment provided by the Office of
the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper;
(F) the payment of Senate Recording and
Photographic Services; or
(G) the payment of franked and mass mail
costs by the Sergeant at Arms and Door-
keeper.
SEC. 2. COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE, NUTRI-
TION, AND FORESTRY.
(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—In carrying out
its powers, duties, and functions under the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:23 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE6.028 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1330 February 13, 2019
Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance
with its jurisdiction under rule XXV of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, including
holding hearings, reporting such hearings,
and making investigations as authorized by
paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, the Com-
mittee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and For-
estry is authorized from March 1, 2019
through February 28, 2021, in its discretion—
(1) to make expenditures from the contin-
gent fund of the Senate;
(2) to employ personnel; and
(3) with the prior consent of the Govern-
ment department or agency concerned and
the Committee on Rules and Administration,
to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimburs-
able, basis the services of personnel of any
such department or agency.
(b) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2019.—The expenses of the com-
mittee for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019 under this section shall
not exceed $2,758,627, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $200,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $40,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(c) EXPENSES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 PE-
RIOD.—The expenses of the committee for the
period October 1, 2019 through September 30,
2020 under this section shall not exceed
$4,729,075, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $200,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $40,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(d) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING FEBRUARY
28, 2021.—The expenses of the committee for
the period October 1, 2020 through February
28, 2021 under this section shall not exceed
$1,970,448, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $200,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $40,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
SEC. 3. COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES.
(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—In carrying out
its powers, duties, and functions under the
Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance
with its jurisdiction under rule XXV of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, including
holding hearings, reporting such hearings,
and making investigations as authorized by
paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, the Com-
mittee on Armed Services is authorized from
March 1, 2019 through February 28, 2021, in
its discretion—
(1) to make expenditures from the contin-
gent fund of the Senate;
(2) to employ personnel; and
(3) with the prior consent of the Govern-
ment department or agency concerned and
the Committee on Rules and Administration,
to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimburs-
able, basis the services of personnel of any
such department or agency.
(b) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2019.—The expenses of the com-
mittee for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019 under this section shall
not exceed $4,162,229, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $51,333 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $19,250 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(c) EXPENSES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 PE-
RIOD.—The expenses of the committee for the
period October 1, 2019 through September 30,
2020 under this section shall not exceed
$7,135,250, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $88,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $33,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(d) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING FEBRUARY
28, 2021.—The expenses of the committee for
the period October 1, 2020 through February
28, 2021 under this section shall not exceed
$2,973,021, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $36,667 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $13,750 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
SEC. 4. COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND
URBAN AFFAIRS.
(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—In carrying out
its powers, duties, and functions under the
Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance
with its jurisdiction under rule XXV of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, including
holding hearings, reporting such hearings,
and making investigations as authorized by
paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs is authorized from March 1, 2019
through February 28, 2021, in its discretion—
(1) to make expenditures from the contin-
gent fund of the Senate;
(2) to employ personnel; and
(3) with the prior consent of the Govern-
ment department or agency concerned and
the Committee on Rules and Administration,
to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimburs-
able, basis the services of personnel of any
such department or agency.
(b) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2019.—The expenses of the com-
mittee for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019 under this section shall
not exceed $3,243,919, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $11,666 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $875 may be expended for
the training of the professional staff of such
committee (under procedures specified by
section 202(j) of that Act).
(c) EXPENSES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 PE-
RIOD.—The expenses of the committee for the
period October 1, 2019 through September 30,
2020 under this section shall not exceed
$5,561,004, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $20,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $1,500 may be expended for
the training of the professional staff of such
committee (under procedures specified by
section 202(j) of that Act).
(d) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING FEBRUARY
28, 2021.—The expenses of the committee for
the period October 1, 2020 through February
28, 2021 under this section shall not exceed
$2,317,085, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $8,334 may be expended for
the procurement of the services of individual
consultants, or organizations thereof (as au-
thorized by section 202(i) of the Legislative
Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 4301(i)));
and
(2) not to exceed $625 may be expended for
the training of the professional staff of such
committee (under procedures specified by
section 202(j) of that Act).
SEC. 5. COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET.
(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—In carrying out
its powers, duties, and functions under the
Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance
with its jurisdiction under rule XXV of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, including
holding hearings, reporting such hearings,
and making investigations as authorized by
paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, the Com-
mittee on the Budget is authorized from
March 1, 2019 through February 28, 2021, in
its discretion—
(1) to make expenditures from the contin-
gent fund of the Senate;
(2) to employ personnel; and
(3) with the prior consent of the Govern-
ment department or agency concerned and
the Committee on Rules and Administration,
to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimburs-
able, basis the services of personnel of any
such department or agency.
(b) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2019.—The expenses of the com-
mittee for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019 under this section shall
not exceed $3,534,372, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $15,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $18,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(c) EXPENSES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 PE-
RIOD.—The expenses of the committee for the
period October 1, 2019 through September 30,
2020 under this section shall not exceed
$6,058,924, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $40,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $30,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(d) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING FEBRUARY
28, 2021.—The expenses of the committee for
the period October 1, 2020 through February
28, 2021 under this section shall not exceed
$2,524,552, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $10,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $10,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:23 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE6.032 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1331
February 13, 2019
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
SEC. 6. COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE,
AND TRANSPORTATION.
(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—In carrying out
its powers, duties, and functions under the
Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance
with its jurisdiction under rule XXV of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, including
holding hearings, reporting such hearings,
and making investigations as authorized by
paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation is authorized from March 1, 2019
through February 28, 2021, in its discretion—
(1) to make expenditures from the contin-
gent fund of the Senate;
(2) to employ personnel; and
(3) with the prior consent of the Govern-
ment department or agency concerned and
the Committee on Rules and Administration,
to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimburs-
able, basis the services of personnel of any
such department or agency.
(b) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2019.—The expenses of the com-
mittee for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019 under this section shall
not exceed $4,155,132, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $50,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $50,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(c) EXPENSES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 PE-
RIOD.—The expenses of the committee for the
period October 1, 2019 through September 30,
2020 under this section shall not exceed
$7,104,057, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $50,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $50,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(d) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING FEBRUARY
28, 2021.—The expenses of the committee for
the period October 1, 2020 through February
28, 2021 under this section shall not exceed
$2,960,024, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $50,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $50,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
SEC. 7. COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL
RESOURCES.
(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—In carrying out
its powers, duties, and functions under the
Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance
with its jurisdiction under rule XXV of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, including
holding hearings, reporting such hearings,
and making investigations as authorized by
paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources is
authorized from March 1, 2019 through Feb-
ruary 28, 2021, in its discretion—
(1) to make expenditures from the contin-
gent fund of the Senate;
(2) to employ personnel; and
(3) with the prior consent of the Govern-
ment department or agency concerned and
the Committee on Rules and Administration,
to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimburs-
able, basis the services of personnel of any
such department or agency.
(b) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2019.—The expenses of the com-
mittee for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019 under this section shall
not exceed $3,348,303, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $17,500 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $8,750 may be expended for
the training of the professional staff of such
committee (under procedures specified by
section 202(j) of that Act).
(c) EXPENSES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 PE-
RIOD.—The expenses of the committee for the
period October 1, 2019 through September 30,
2020 under this section shall not exceed
$5,739,948, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $30,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $15,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(d) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING FEBRUARY
28, 2021.—The expenses of the committee for
the period October 1, 2020 through February
28, 2021 under this section shall not exceed
$2,391,645, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $12,500 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $6,250 may be expended for
the training of the professional staff of such
committee (under procedures specified by
section 202(j) of that Act).
SEC. 8. COMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENT AND PUB-
LIC WORKS.
(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—In carrying out
its powers, duties, and functions under the
Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance
with its jurisdiction under rule XXV of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, including
holding hearings, reporting such hearings,
and making investigations as authorized by
paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works is
authorized from March 1, 2019 through Feb-
ruary 28, 2021, in its discretion—
(1) to make expenditures from the contin-
gent fund of the Senate;
(2) to employ personnel; and
(3) with the prior consent of the Govern-
ment department or agency concerned and
the Committee on Rules and Administration,
to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimburs-
able, basis the services of personnel of any
such department or agency.
(b) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2019.—The expenses of the com-
mittee for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019 under this section shall
not exceed $3,183,482, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $4,666 may be expended for
the procurement of the services of individual
consultants, or organizations thereof (as au-
thorized by section 202(i) of the Legislative
Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 4301(i)));
and
(2) not to exceed $1,166 may be expended for
the training of the professional staff of such
committee (under procedures specified by
section 202(j) of that Act).
(c) EXPENSES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 PE-
RIOD.—The expenses of the committee for the
period October 1, 2019 through September 30,
2020 under this section shall not exceed
$5,457,399, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $8,000 may be expended for
the procurement of the services of individual
consultants, or organizations thereof (as au-
thorized by section 202(i) of the Legislative
Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 4301(i)));
and
(2) not to exceed $2,000 may be expended for
the training of the professional staff of such
committee (under procedures specified by
section 202(j) of that Act).
(d) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING FEBRUARY
28, 2021.—The expenses of the committee for
the period October 1, 2020 through February
28, 2021 under this section shall not exceed
$2,273,917, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $3,334 may be expended for
the procurement of the services of individual
consultants, or organizations thereof (as au-
thorized by section 202(i) of the Legislative
Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 4301(i)));
and
(2) not to exceed $834 may be expended for
the training of the professional staff of such
committee (under procedures specified by
section 202(j) of that Act).
SEC. 9. COMMITTEE ON FINANCE.
(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—In carrying out
its powers, duties, and functions under the
Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance
with its jurisdiction under rule XXV of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, including
holding hearings, reporting such hearings,
and making investigations as authorized by
paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, the Com-
mittee on Finance is authorized from March
1, 2019 through February 28, 2021, in its dis-
cretion—
(1) to make expenditures from the contin-
gent fund of the Senate;
(2) to employ personnel; and
(3) with the prior consent of the Govern-
ment department or agency concerned and
the Committee on Rules and Administration,
to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimburs-
able, basis the services of personnel of any
such department or agency.
(b) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2019.—The expenses of the com-
mittee for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019 under this section shall
not exceed $5,119,003, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $17,500 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $5,833 may be expended for
the training of the professional staff of such
committee (under procedures specified by
section 202(j) of that Act).
(c) EXPENSES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 PE-
RIOD.—The expenses of the committee for the
period October 1, 2019 through September 30,
2020 under this section shall not exceed
$8,775,434, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $30,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $10,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(d) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING FEBRUARY
28, 2021.—The expenses of the committee for
the period October 1, 2020 through February
28, 2021 under this section shall not exceed
$3,656,431, of which amount—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:23 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE6.032 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1332 February 13, 2019
(1) not to exceed $12,500 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $4,166 may be expended for
the training of the professional staff of such
committee (under procedures specified by
section 202(j) of that Act).
SEC. 10. COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS.
(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—In carrying out
its powers, duties, and functions under the
Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance
with its jurisdiction under rule XXV of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, including
holding hearings, reporting such hearings,
and making investigations as authorized by
paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations is authorized
from March 1, 2019 through February 28, 2021,
in its discretion—
(1) to make expenditures from the contin-
gent fund of the Senate;
(2) to employ personnel; and
(3) with the prior consent of the Govern-
ment department or agency concerned and
the Committee on Rules and Administration,
to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimburs-
able, basis the services of personnel of any
such department or agency.
(b) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2019.—The expenses of the com-
mittee for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019 under this section shall
not exceed $4,224,651, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $150,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $20,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(c) EXPENSES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 PE-
RIOD.—The expenses of the committee for the
period October 1, 2019 through September 30,
2020 under this section shall not exceed
$7,242,259, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $150,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $20,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(d) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING FEBRUARY
28, 2021.—The expenses of the committee for
the period October 1, 2020 through February
28, 2021 under this section shall not exceed
$3,017,608, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $150,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $20,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
SEC. 11. COMMITTEE ON HEALTH, EDUCATION,
LABOR, AND PENSIONS.
(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—In carrying out
its powers, duties, and functions under the
Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance
with its jurisdiction under rule XXV of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, including
holding hearings, reporting such hearings,
and making investigations as authorized by
paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions is authorized from March 1, 2019
through February 28, 2021, in its discretion—
(1) to make expenditures from the contin-
gent fund of the Senate;
(2) to employ personnel; and
(3) with the prior consent of the Govern-
ment department or agency concerned and
the Committee on Rules and Administration,
to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimburs-
able, basis the services of personnel of any
such department or agency.
(b) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2019.—The expenses of the com-
mittee for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019 under this section shall
not exceed $5,451,418, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $75,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $25,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(c) EXPENSES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 PE-
RIOD.—The expenses of the committee for the
period October 1, 2019 through September 30,
2020 under this section shall not exceed
$9,345,288, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $75,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $25,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(d) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING FEBRUARY
28, 2021.—The expenses of the committee for
the period October 1, 2020 through February
28, 2021 under this section shall not exceed
$3,893,870, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $75,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $25,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
SEC. 12. COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY
AND GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS.
(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—In carrying out
its powers, duties, and functions under the
Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance
with its jurisdiction under rule XXV of the
Standing Rules of the Senate and S. Res. 445,
agreed to October 9, 2004 (108th Congress), in-
cluding holding hearings, reporting such
hearings, and making investigations as au-
thorized by paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI
of the Standing Rules of the Senate, the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs is authorized from March
1, 2019 through February 28, 2021, in its dis-
cretion—
(1) to make expenditures from the contin-
gent fund of the Senate;
(2) to employ personnel; and
(3) with the prior consent of the Govern-
ment department or agency concerned and
the Committee on Rules and Administration,
to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimburs-
able, basis the services of personnel of any
such department or agency.
(b) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2019.—The expenses of the com-
mittee for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019 under this section shall
not exceed $5,591,653, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $75,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $20,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(c) EXPENSES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 PE-
RIOD.—The expenses of the committee for the
period October 1, 2019 through September 30,
2020 under this section shall not exceed
$9,585,691, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $75,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $20,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(d) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING FEBRUARY
28, 2021.—The expenses of the committee for
the period October 1, 2020 through February
28, 2021 under this section shall not exceed
$3,994,038, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $75,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $20,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(e) INVESTIGATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The committee, or any
duly authorized subcommittee of the com-
mittee, is authorized to study or inves-
tigate—
(A) the efficiency and economy of oper-
ations of all branches of the Government in-
cluding the possible existence of fraud, mis-
feasance, malfeasance, collusion, mis-
management, incompetence, corruption or
unethical practices, waste, extravagance,
conflicts of interest, and the improper ex-
penditure of Government funds in trans-
actions, contracts, and activities of the Gov-
ernment or of Government officials and em-
ployees and any and all such improper prac-
tices between Government personnel and
corporations, individuals, companies, or per-
sons affiliated therewith, doing business
with the Government, and the compliance or
noncompliance of such corporations, compa-
nies, or individuals or other entities with the
rules, regulations, and laws governing the
various governmental agencies and the Gov-
ernment’s relationships with the public;
(B) the extent to which criminal or other
improper practices or activities are, or have
been, engaged in the field of labor-manage-
ment relations or in groups or organizations
of employees or employers, to the detriment
of interests of the public, employers, or em-
ployees, and to determine whether any
changes are required in the laws of the
United States in order to protect such inter-
ests against the occurrence of such practices
or activities;
(C) organized criminal activity which may
operate in or otherwise utilize the facilities
of interstate or international commerce in
furtherance of any transactions and the
manner and extent to which, and the iden-
tity of the persons, firms, or corporations, or
other entities by whom such utilization is
being made, and further, to study and inves-
tigate the manner in which and the extent to
which persons engaged in organized criminal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:23 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE6.032 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1333
February 13, 2019
activity have infiltrated lawful business en-
terprise, and to study the adequacy of Fed-
eral laws to prevent the operations of orga-
nized crime in interstate or international
commerce, and to determine whether any
changes are required in the laws of the
United States in order to protect the public
against such practices or activities;
(D) all other aspects of crime and lawless-
ness within the United States which have an
impact upon or affect the national health,
welfare, and safety, including investment
fraud schemes, commodity and security
fraud, computer fraud, and the use of off-
shore banking and corporate facilities to
carry out criminal objectives;
(E) the efficiency and economy of oper-
ations of all branches and functions of the
Government with particular reference to—
(i) the effectiveness of present national se-
curity methods, staffing, and processes as
tested against the requirements imposed by
the rapidly mounting complexity of national
security problems;
(ii) the capacity of present national secu-
rity staffing, methods, and processes to
make full use of the Nation’s resources of
knowledge and talents;
(iii) the adequacy of present intergovern-
mental relations between the United States
and international organizations principally
concerned with national security of which
the United States is a member; and
(iv) legislative and other proposals to im-
prove these methods, processes, and relation-
ships;
(F) the efficiency, economy, and effective-
ness of all agencies and departments of the
Government involved in the control and
management of energy shortages including
their performance with respect to—
(i) the collection and dissemination of ac-
curate statistics on fuel demand and supply;
(ii) the implementation of effective energy
conservation measures;
(iii) the pricing of energy in all forms;
(iv) coordination of energy programs with
State and local government;
(v) control of exports of scarce fuels;
(vi) the management of tax, import, pric-
ing, and other policies affecting energy sup-
plies;
(vii) maintenance of the independent sec-
tor of the petroleum industry as a strong
competitive force;
(viii) the allocation of fuels in short supply
by public and private entities;
(ix) the management of energy supplies
owned or controlled by the Government;
(x) relations with other oil producing and
consuming countries;
(xi) the monitoring of compliance by gov-
ernments, corporations, or individuals with
the laws and regulations governing the allo-
cation, conservation, or pricing of energy
supplies; and
(xii) research into the discovery and devel-
opment of alternative energy supplies; and
(G) the efficiency and economy of all
branches and functions of Government with
particular references to the operations and
management of Federal regulatory policies
and programs.
(2) EXTENT OF INQUIRIES.—In carrying out
the duties provided in paragraph (1), the in-
quiries of this committee or any sub-
committee of the committee shall not be
construed to be limited to the records, func-
tions, and operations of any particular
branch of the Government and may extend
to the records and activities of any persons,
corporation, or other entity.
(3) SPECIAL COMMITTEE AUTHORITY.—For
the purposes of this subsection, the com-
mittee, or any duly authorized sub-
committee of the committee, or its chair-
man, or any other member of the committee
or subcommittee designated by the chairman
is authorized, in its, his, her, or their discre-
tion—
(A) to require by subpoena or otherwise the
attendance of witnesses and production of
correspondence, books, papers, and docu-
ments;
(B) to hold hearings;
(C) to sit and act at any time or place dur-
ing the sessions, recess, and adjournment pe-
riods of the Senate;
(D) to administer oaths; and
(E) to take testimony, either orally or by
sworn statement, or, in the case of staff
members of the Committee and the Perma-
nent Subcommittee on Investigations, by
deposition in accordance with the Com-
mittee Rules of Procedure.
(4) AUTHORITY OF OTHER COMMITTEES.—
Nothing contained in this subsection shall
affect or impair the exercise of any other
standing committee of the Senate of any
power, or the discharge by such committee
of any duty, conferred or imposed upon it by
the Standing Rules of the Senate or by the
Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946.
(5) SUBPOENA AUTHORITY.—All subpoenas
and related legal processes of the committee
and any duly authorized subcommittee of
the committee authorized under S. Res. 62,
agreed to February 28, 2017 (115th Congress)
are authorized to continue.
SEC. 13. COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY.
(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—In carrying out
its powers, duties, and functions under the
Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance
with its jurisdiction under rule XXV of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, including
holding hearings, reporting such hearings,
and making investigations as authorized by
paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary is authorized from
March 1, 2019 through February 28, 2021, in
its discretion—
(1) to make expenditures from the contin-
gent fund of the Senate;
(2) to employ personnel; and
(3) with the prior consent of the Govern-
ment department or agency concerned and
the Committee on Rules and Administration,
to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimburs-
able, basis the services of personnel of any
such department or agency.
(b) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2019.—The expenses of the com-
mittee for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019 under this section shall
not exceed $6,280,596, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $116,667 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $11,667 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(c) EXPENSES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 PE-
RIOD.—The expenses of the committee for the
period October 1, 2019 through September 30,
2020 under this section shall not exceed
$10,766,736, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $200,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $20,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(d) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING FEBRUARY
28, 2021.—The expenses of the committee for
the period October 1, 2020 through February
28, 2021 under this section shall not exceed
$4,486,140, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $83,333 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $8,333 may be expended for
the training of the professional staff of such
committee (under procedures specified by
section 202(j) of that Act).
(e) ADDITIONAL COMMITTEE AUTHORITY.—
For the purposes of carrying out its inves-
tigative powers, duties, and functions under
the Standing Rules of the Senate and in ac-
cordance with Committee Rules of Proce-
dure, the committee is authorized to require
by subpoena the attendance of witnesses at
depositions of the committee, which may be
conducted by designated staff.
SEC. 14. COMMITTEE ON RULES AND ADMINIS-
TRATION.
(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—In carrying out
its powers, duties, and functions under the
Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance
with its jurisdiction under rule XXV of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, including
holding hearings, reporting such hearings,
and making investigations as authorized by
paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, the Com-
mittee on Rules and Administration is au-
thorized from March 1, 2019 through Feb-
ruary 28, 2021, in its discretion, to—
(1) make expenditures from the contingent
fund of the Senate;
(2) employ personnel; and
(3) with the prior consent of the Govern-
ment department or agency concerned and
the Committee on Rules and Administration,
use on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable
basis the services of personnel of any such
department or agency.
(b) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2019.—The expenses of such com-
mittee for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019 under this section shall
not exceed $1,589,010, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $43,750 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $7,000 may be expended for
the training of the professional staff of such
committee (under procedures specified by
section 202(j) of that Act).
(c) EXPENSES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 PE-
RIOD.—The expenses of such committee for
the period October 1, 2019 through September
30, 2020 under this section shall not exceed
$2,724,017, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $75,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $12,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(d) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING FEBRUARY
28, 2021.—The expenses of such committee for
the period October 1, 2020 through February
28, 2021 under this section shall not exceed
$1,135,007, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $31,250 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $5,000 may be expended for
the training of the professional staff of such
committee (under procedures specified by
section 202(j) of that Act).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:23 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE6.032 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1334 February 13, 2019
SEC. 15. COMMITTEE ON SMALL BUSINESS AND
ENTREPRENEURSHIP.
(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—In carrying out
its powers, duties, and functions under the
Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance
with its jurisdiction under rule XXV of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, including
holding hearings, reporting such hearings,
and making investigations as authorized by
paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, the Com-
mittee on Small Business and Entrepreneur-
ship is authorized from March 1, 2019 through
February 28, 2021, in its discretion—
(1) to make expenditures from the contin-
gent fund of the Senate;
(2) to employ personnel; and
(3) with the prior consent of the Govern-
ment department or agency concerned and
the Committee on Rules and Administration,
to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimburs-
able, basis the services of personnel of any
such department or agency.
(b) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2019.—The expenses of the com-
mittee for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019 under this section shall
not exceed $1,708,807, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $25,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $10,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(c) EXPENSES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 PE-
RIOD.—The expenses of the committee for the
period October 1, 2019 through September 30,
2020 under this section shall not exceed
$2,929,383, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $25,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $10,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(d) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING FEBRUARY
28, 2021.—The expenses of the committee for
the period October 1, 2020 through February
28, 2021 under this section shall not exceed
$1,220,576, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $25,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $10,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
SEC. 16. COMMITTEE ON VETERANS’ AFFAIRS.
(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—In carrying out
its powers, duties, and functions under the
Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance
with its jurisdiction under rule XXV of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, including
holding hearings, reporting such hearings,
and making investigations as authorized by
paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs is authorized
from March 1, 2019 through February 28, 2021,
in its discretion—
(1) to make expenditures from the contin-
gent fund of the Senate;
(2) to employ personnel; and
(3) with the prior consent of the Govern-
ment department or agency concerned and
the Committee on Rules and Administration,
to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimburs-
able, basis the services of personnel of any
such department or agency.
(b) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2019.—The expenses of the com-
mittee for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019 under this section shall
not exceed $1,633,522, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $4,100 may be expended for
the procurement of the services of individual
consultants, or organizations thereof (as au-
thorized by section 202(i) of the Legislative
Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 4301(i)));
and
(2) not to exceed $16,500 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(c) EXPENSES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 PE-
RIOD.—The expenses of the committee for the
period October 1, 2019 through September 30,
2020 under this section shall not exceed
$2,800,323, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $7,000 may be expended for
the procurement of the services of individual
consultants, or organizations thereof (as au-
thorized by section 202(i) of the Legislative
Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 4301(i)));
and
(2) not to exceed $28,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(d) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING FEBRUARY
28, 2021.—The expenses of the committee for
the period October 1, 2020 through February
28, 2021 under this section shall not exceed
$1,166,801, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $3,000 may be expended for
the procurement of the services of individual
consultants, or organizations thereof (as au-
thorized by section 202(i) of the Legislative
Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 4301(i)));
and
(2) not to exceed $11,700 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
SEC. 17. SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON AGING.
(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—In carrying out
its powers, duties, and functions imposed by
section 104 of S. Res. 4, agreed to February 4,
1977 (95th Congress), and in exercising the
authority conferred on it by such section,
the Special Committee on Aging is author-
ized from March 1, 2019 through February 28,
2021, in its discretion—
(1) to make expenditures from the contin-
gent fund of the Senate;
(2) to employ personnel; and
(3) with the prior consent of the Govern-
ment department or agency concerned and
the Committee on Rules and Administration,
to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimburs-
able, basis the services of personnel of any
such department or agency.
(b) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2019.—The expenses of the com-
mittee for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019 under this section shall
not exceed $1,516,667, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $1,500 may be expended for
the procurement of the services of individual
consultants, or organizations thereof (as au-
thorized by section 202(i) of the Legislative
Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 4301(i)));
and
(2) not to exceed $3,000 may be expended for
the training of the professional staff of such
committee (under procedures specified by
section 202(j) of that Act).
(c) EXPENSES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 PE-
RIOD.—The expenses of the committee for the
period October 1, 2019 through September 30,
2020 under this section shall not exceed
$2,600,000, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $3,000 may be expended for
the procurement of the services of individual
consultants, or organizations thereof (as au-
thorized by section 202(i) of the Legislative
Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 4301(i)));
and
(2) not to exceed $3,000 may be expended for
the training of the professional staff of such
committee (under procedures specified by
section 202(j) of that Act).
(d) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING FEBRUARY
28, 2021.—The expenses of the committee for
the period October 1, 2020 through February
28, 2021 under this section shall not exceed
$1,083,333, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $1,250 may be expended for
the procurement of the services of individual
consultants, or organizations thereof (as au-
thorized by section 202(i) of the Legislative
Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 4301(i)));
and
(2) not to exceed $1,500 may be expended for
the training of the professional staff of such
committee (under procedures specified by
section 202(j) of that Act).
SEC. 18. SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE.
(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—In carrying out
its powers, duties, and functions under S.
Res. 400, agreed to May 19, 1976 (94th Con-
gress), as amended by S. Res. 445, agreed to
October 9, 2004 (108th Congress), in accord-
ance with its jurisdiction under sections 3(a)
and 17 of such S. Res. 400, including holding
hearings, reporting such hearings, and mak-
ing investigations as authorized by section 5
of such S. Res. 400, the Select Committee on
Intelligence is authorized from March 1, 2019
through February 28, 2021, in its discretion—
(1) to make expenditures from the contin-
gent fund of the Senate;
(2) to employ personnel; and
(3) with the prior consent of the Govern-
ment department or agency concerned and
the Committee on Rules and Administration,
to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimburs-
able, basis the services of personnel of any
such department or agency.
(b) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2019.—The expenses of the com-
mittee for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019 under this section shall
not exceed $3,707,448, of which not to exceed
$10,000 may be expended for the procurement
of the services of individual consultants, or
organizations thereof (as authorized by sec-
tion 202(i) of the Legislative Reorganization
Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 4301(i))).
(c) EXPENSES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 PE-
RIOD.—The expenses of the committee for the
period October 1, 2019 through September 30,
2020 under this section shall not exceed
$6,355,625, of which not to exceed $17,144 may
be expended for the procurement of the serv-
ices of individual consultants, or organiza-
tions thereof (as authorized by section 202(i)
of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946
(2 U.S.C. 4301(i))).
(d) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING FEBRUARY
28, 2021.—The expenses of the committee for
the period October 1, 2020 through February
28, 2021 under this section shall not exceed
$2,648,177, of which not to exceed $7,143 may
be expended for the procurement of the serv-
ices of individual consultants, or organiza-
tions thereof (as authorized by section 202(i)
of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946
(2 U.S.C. 4301(i))).
SEC. 19. COMMITTEE ON INDIAN AFFAIRS.
(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—In carrying out
its powers, duties, and functions imposed by
section 105 of S. Res. 4, agreed to February 4,
1977 (95th Congress), and in exercising the
authority conferred on it by that section,
the Committee on Indian Affairs is author-
ized from March 1, 2019 through February 28,
2021, in its discretion—
(1) to make expenditures from the contin-
gent fund of the Senate;
(2) to employ personnel; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:23 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE6.032 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1335
February 13, 2019
(3) with the prior consent of the Govern-
ment department or agency concerned and
the Committee on Rules and Administration,
to use on a reimbursable, or nonreimburs-
able, basis the services of personnel of any
such department or agency.
(b) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2019.—The expenses of the com-
mittee for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019 under this section shall
not exceed $1,231,690, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $20,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $20,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
such committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(c) EXPENSES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 PE-
RIOD.—The expenses of the committee for the
period October 1, 2019 through September 30,
2020 under this section shall not exceed
$2,111,468, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $20,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $20,000 may be expended
for training consultants of the professional
staff of such committee (under procedures
specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
(d) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING FEBRUARY
28, 2021.—The expenses of the committee for
the period October 1, 2020 through February
28, 2021 under this section shall not exceed
$879,778, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $20,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $20,000 may be expended
for training consultants of the professional
staff of such committee (under procedures
specified by section 202(j) of that Act).
SEC. 20. SPECIAL RESERVE.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—Within the funds in
the account ‘‘Expenses of Inquiries and In-
vestigations’’, there is authorized to be es-
tablished a special reserve to be available to
any committee funded by this resolution as
provided in subsection (b) of which amount—
(1) for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019, an amount shall be avail-
able, not to exceed 7 percent of the amount
equal to 7⁄12th of the appropriations for the
account that are available for the period Oc-
tober 1, 2018 through September 30, 2019;
(2) for the period October 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2020, an amount shall be avail-
able, not to exceed 7 percent of the appro-
priations for the account that are available
for that period; and
(3) for the period October 1, 2020 through
February 28, 2021, an amount shall be avail-
able, not to exceed 7 percent of the amount
equal to 5⁄12th of the appropriations for the
account that are available for the period Oc-
tober 1, 2020 through September 30, 2021.
(b) AVAILABILITY.—The special reserve au-
thorized in subsection (a) shall be available
to any committee—
(1) on the basis of special need to meet un-
paid obligations incurred by that committee
during the periods referred to in paragraphs
(1), (2), and (3) of subsection (a); and
(2) at the request of a Chairman and Rank-
ing Member of that committee subject to the
approval of the Chairman and Ranking Mem-
ber of the Committee on Rules and Adminis-
tration.
SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLU-
TION 3—RECOGNIZING THE RICH
HISTORY, HERITAGE, AND STRA-
TEGIC IMPORTANCE OF THE RE-
PUBLIC OF THE MARSHALL IS-
LANDS AND THE MARSHALLESE
POPULATION RESIDING IN THE
UNITED STATES
Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself and Mr.
COTTON) submitted the following con-
current resolution; which was referred
to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources:
S. CON. RES. 3
Whereas the Republic of the Marshall Is-
lands—
(1) is a sovereign country in free associa-
tion with the United States under the Com-
pact of Free Association between the Gov-
ernment of the United States and the Gov-
ernment of the Republic of the Marshall Is-
lands (referred to in this preamble as the
‘‘Compact’’), approved in the Compact of
Free Association Act of 1985 (Public Law 99–
239; 99 Stat. 1770) and amended by the Com-
pact of Free Association Amendments Act of
2003 (Public Law 108–188; 117 Stat. 2720),
which authorizes economic assistance,
through Federal grants and programs, to
persons in the Republic of the Marshall Is-
lands; and
(2) has full authority and responsibility
over security and defense matters relating to
the Republic of the Marshall Islands;
Whereas, under the Compact, eligible citi-
zens of the Republic of the Marshall Islands
may reside, work, and study in the United
States without a visa and may serve in the
Armed Forces of the United States;
Whereas an estimated 1⁄3 of the population
of the Republic of the Marshall Islands has
relocated to the United States; and
Whereas Marshallese individuals who live
in the United States—
(1) offer positive economic and cultural
benefits to the communities in which those
individuals live;
(2) pay Federal and State taxes but are not
eligible for benefits under—
(A) the Medicare program established
under title XVIII of the Social Security
Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.); or
(B) the Medicaid program established
under title XIX of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.); and
(3) were undercounted in the 2010 census
and, as a result, areas where those individ-
uals live are underserved by the Federal Gov-
ernment: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Rep-
resentatives concurring), That Congress—
(1) commends—
(A) the rich history and heritage of the Re-
public of the Marshall Islands; and
(B) citizens of the Republic of the Marshall
Islands who live in the United States for the
contributions of those individuals to—
(i) the communities in which those individ-
uals live; and
(ii) the national defense of the United
States through their service in the Armed
Forces of the United States;
(2) recognizes the strategic importance of
the Republic of the Marshall Islands; and
(3) encourages a continued commitment to
improve census data to better serve citizens
of the Republic of the Marshall Islands who
live in the United States.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mrs. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
have 9 requests for committees to meet
during today’s session of the Senate.
They have the approval of the Majority
and Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES
The Committee on Armed Services is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, February
13, 2019, at 9:30 a.m., to conduct a hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Briefing on cyber oper-
ations to defend the midterm elec-
tions.’’
COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND
TRANSPORTATION
The Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Wednesday, February 13,
2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing on
the following nominations: Janice Mir-
iam Hellreich, of Hawaii, Robert A.
Mandell, of Florida, Don Munce, of
Florida, and Bruce M. Ramer, of Cali-
fornia, each to be a Member of the
Board of Directors of the Corporation
for Public Broadcasting, and a routine
list in the Coast Guard.
COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND
TRANSPORTATION
The Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Wednesday, February 13,
2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing
entitled, ‘‘America’s infrastructure
needs: keeping pace with a growing
economy.’’
COMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC
WORKS
The Committee on Environment and
Public Works is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Wednesday, February 13, 2019, at 10
a.m., to conduct a hearing entitled
‘‘The invasive species threat: pro-
tecting wildlife, public health, and in-
frastructure.’’
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND
GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
The Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs is au-
thorized to meet during the session of
the Senate on Wednesday, February 13,
2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing on
pending legislation and the following
nominations: Dennis Dean Kirk, of Vir-
ginia, to be Chairman, and Julia Akins
Clark, of Maryland, and Andrew F.
Maunz, of Ohio, both to be a Member,
all of the of the Merit Systems Protec-
tion Board, and Ronald D. Vitiello, of
Illinois, to be an Assistant Secretary of
Homeland Security.
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY
The Committee on the Judiciary is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, February
13, 2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing
on pending legislation and the fol-
lowing nominations: Michael H. Park,
of New York, and Joseph F. Bianco, of
New York, both to be a United States
Circuit Judge for the Second Circuit,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:23 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE6.032 S13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1336 February 13, 2019
Greg Girard Guidry, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Louisiana, Michael T.
Liburdi, to be United States District
Judge for the District of Arizona, and
Peter D. Welte, to be United States
District Judge for the District of North
Dakota.
COMMITTEE ON RULES AND ADMINISTRATION
The Committee on Rules and Admin-
istration is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Wednes-
day, February 13, 2019, at 10:30 a.m., to
conduct a business meeting.
COMMITTEE ON SMALL BUSINESS AND
ENTREPRENEURSHIP
The Committee on Small Business
and Entrepreneurship is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Wednesday, February 13, 2019, at
10:30 a.m., to conduct a hearing enti-
tled, ‘‘Oversight of the U.S. Small
Business Administration.’’
SUBCOMMITTEE ON READINESS AND
MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
The Subcommittee on Readiness and
Management Support of the Com-
mittee on Armed Services is authorized
to meet during the session of the Sen-
ate on Wednesday, February 13, 2019, at
2 p.m., to conduct a hearing entitled
‘‘Conditions of the military housing
privatization initiative.’’
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST TIME
EN BLOC
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
understand there are two items at the
desk, and I ask for their first reading
en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the title of the bills en
bloc.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 483) to enact into law a bill by
reference.
A joint resolution (S.J. Res. 8) recognizing
the duty of the Federal Government to cre-
ate a Green New Deal.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I now ask for a
second reading, and I object to my own
request, all en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the bills will be
read for the second time on the next
legislative day.
f
ORDERS FOR THURSDAY,
FEBRUARY 14, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 10 a.m., Thursday, Feb-
ruary 14; further, that following the
prayer and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, and morning busi-
ness be closed; further, that following
leader remarks, the Senate proceed to
executive session and resume consider-
ation of the Barr nomination; finally,
that at a time to be determined by the
majority leader in consultation with
the Democratic leader, the Senate vote
on confirmation of the Barr nomina-
tion.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 6:35 p.m., adjourned until Thursday,
February 14, 2019, at 10 a.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:23 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE6.031 S13FEPT1
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E165
February 13, 2019
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. RON KIND
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. KIND. Madam Speaker, I was unable to
have my votes recorded on the House floor
Monday, February 11, 2019 due to unex-
pected family obligations in Wisconsin. Had I
been present, I would have supported the pas-
sage of both bills considered on the floor.
f
TRIBUTE TO NAT ‘‘KING’’ COLE
HON. ADAM B. SCHIFF
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. SCHIFF. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to celebrate the life of Nat ‘‘King’’ Cole, who
was born one hundred years ago on March
17, 1919 in Montgomery, Alabama.
Mr. Cole is recognized for being one of the
most distinguished and exemplary music re-
cording artists of all time and as a talisman for
the civil rights movement.
Nat King Cole began his music career with
a focus on jazz, having founded the Nat King
Cole Trio as a young man. The band quickly
became an influential melodic phenomenon.
He signed with Capitol Records in 1943, and
the release of his first album, The King Cole
Trio, followed in 1945. The album was widely
successful as it hit the top of Billboard’s inau-
gural album chart. The talented pianist and vo-
calist went on to record approximately 700
songs under Capitol Record’s label, including
150 singles that appeared on the R&B, Pop
and/or Country charts of Billboard. Mr. Cole’s
success caused Capitol Record’s legendary
Hollywood building on Vine Street to be infor-
mally nicknamed ‘‘The House That Nat Built.’’
In 1946, he hosted the nationally aired, fif-
teen-minute ‘‘King Cole Trio Time,’’ which was
the first broadcast of its kind to have an Afri-
can American musician as a host. Mr. Cole
made history once again in 1956 when he be-
came the first African American performer to
host his own network television show, NBC’s
‘‘Nat King Cole Show.’’ He also appeared in
numerous films, including St. Louis Blues and
Cat Ballou.
Along with his legendary musical career, Mr.
Cole is remembered for his milestone leader-
ship in the civil rights movement. After pur-
chasing a house in the all-white Hancock Park
neighborhood in 1948, he became a target of
the Ku Klux Klan who burned a cross on his
family’s lawn. This horrific incident spurred him
to help overturn a 1920’s City of Los Angeles
statute that allowed the neighborhood to be
segregated.
Before Mr. Cole’s premature death in 1965,
when he was just 45 years old, his final
album, L–O-V–E, reached number four on the
Billboard album chart. At that time, Capital
Records had sold more than nine million Nat
King Cole records. Nat King Cole received
many honors including being inducted into the
Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, receiving a Re-
cording Academy Lifetime Achievement Award
and being featured on a U.S. Postal Service
commemorative stamp.
Married in 1948, Mr. Cole and his wife,
Maria had five children: Natalie, Carole, Nat
Kelly, Casey and Timolin. In 2008, their twin
daughters, Timolin and Casey Cole, founded
Nat King Cole Generation Hope to help fund
music programs for schools across America.
I ask all Members of Congress to join me in
recognizing Nat King Cole on the one-hun-
dred-year milestone of his birth. Mr. Cole’s life
is a lesson in success despite adversity, the
triumph of respect, talent and civility coupled
with cultural, business and political savvy.
f
RECOGNIZING THE CITY OF
SUMAS, WASHINGTON
HON. SUZAN K. DelBENE
OF WASHINGTON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Ms. DELBENE. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor the City of Sumas, which was voted
to have the best-tasting water in Washington
State. I congratulate them on this exemplary
achievement.
On August 29, 2018, the Evergreen Rural
Water of Washington held its sixteenth annual
Water Taste Test, and the City of Sumas
placed first among twenty-three competitors
from across Washington state. The judges
graded the water samples on taste, odor, and
clarity. This is the second time in seven years
Sumas has won best-tasting water title in the
state.
By placing first in Washington State’s Water
Taste Test, the City of Sumas then qualified
for the Great American Water Taste Test,
hosted by the National Rural Water Associa-
tion in Washington, D.C. On February 6, 2019,
the City of Sumas’ water sample placed fifth in
the nation.
I am incredibly proud to see the City of
Sumas’ hard work and efforts be recognized
at the state and national levels.
Again, I congratulate the City of Sumas on
their accomplishments and look forward to en-
joying a glass of their water the next time I am
in town.
f
CELEBRATING THE RAMONA TOWN
HALL 125TH ANNIVERSARY
HON. DUNCAN HUNTER
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. HUNTER. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize a celebrated moment for one of
San Diego County’s true historical landmarks
located in my district. It is very rare to have a
piece of living history in our community, but
we are blessed with such a place on Main
Street in Ramona, California, with the Ramona
Town Hall. It is both a snapshot of the pio-
neering spirit of the Old West, as well as evi-
dence of a thriving community spirit. The Ra-
mona Town Hall is celebrating its 125th Anni-
versary this year and I would like to take a
moment to highlight this important achieve-
ment.
In 1894, property lots were donated to the
community on which to build a structure that
would serve the people of the Santa Maria
Valley. Designed by architect William S.
Hebbard, the Ramona Town Hall, also known
as Town Hall of Nuevo and Barnett Hall,
would become one of the largest, and oldest,
adobe structures in Southern California and
serve as Ramona’s first high school, bank, li-
brary, movie theater, justice court and commu-
nity dance hall.
Ramona Town Hall was also home to many
of the town’s religious groups while their
churches were being built, as well as the birth-
place of many other local organizations, in-
cluding the Ramona Grange, the Santa Maria
Masonic Lodge, the Ramona Pioneer Histor-
ical Society, the Ramona Chamber of Com-
merce, the Ramona Art Guild, the Town Hall
Players and the Ramona Council of Arts, Un-
limited. Events that took place at Ramona
Town Hall included temperance meetings, Tur-
key Days, voting polls, 4-H Youth benefits, po-
litical meetings, as well as community theater
and silent film festivals. The Ramona Town
Hall was listed on the National Register of His-
toric Places in 1994.
Despite this proud history, the fate of Ra-
mona Town Hall at times became seriously in
question. Since its inception, Ramona Town
Hall has operated solely on fundraisers, grant
monies, private donations and rent collected
for a variety of events. While always seem-
ingly in demand, there was a very real possi-
bility at one point of the Ramona Town Hall
closing its doors. Thankfully, the people of Ra-
mona have never allowed this to happen and,
due to the faithful service and dedication of
private citizens on the Ramona Town Hall
Board of Trustees, they help maintain and
manage the Town Hall to ensure that it re-
mains viable, available to the community, and
a continued source of local pride. I have had
the honor and pleasure myself of speaking
with my constituents on several occasions at
the Ramona Town Hall.
I want to congratulate the people of Ra-
mona, particularly the private citizens who vol-
unteer their time and resources toward ensur-
ing the Ramona Town Hall continues to serve
its intended purpose. Their commitment to-
ward this cause is a reflection of the Ramona
community as a whole and provides con-
fidence to us all that the Ramona Town Hall
will continue to be a local asset and treasure
for years to come.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE8.001 E13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E166 February 13, 2019
PASSING OF LORETTA JONES
HON. KAREN BASS
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Ms. BASS. Madam Speaker, I would like to
honor the life and memory of a pioneer in the
field of health policy, my long-time friend, col-
league and fellow organizer, Dr. Loretta
Jones, who passed away on November 22.
She was a founding member of the Commu-
nity Coalition for substance abuse Prevention
and Treatment. In fact, she was the first staff
person hired and developed the Coalition’s
Prevention Network. That network brought to-
gether social service providers from South LA
to address substance abuse in the community.
Loretta had a towering passion for justice
and a caregiver’s attention to detail. She
founded Healthy African American Families
(HAAF) in the wake of the 1992 Los Angeles
uprising to engage universities, think tanks,
and community members together to seek so-
lutions to longstanding health problems, in-
cluding the scourge of pre-term births in the
African American community. For this work
she received two honorary doctorates and,
last year, she received the UCLA Medal, the
university’s highest honor, for her career of
working to address inequalities in health and
health outcomes.
She is best known for co-developing meth-
ods that give underserved communities a
greater role in planning and implementing aca-
demic research. Community-Partnered
Participatory Research (CPPR) calls for trans-
parency, accountability and equal power-shar-
ing between academics and communities. In
2007, with UCLA professor Kenneth Wells,
she published the CCPR model in the Journal
of the American Medical Association.
In doing so, she demonstrated another tenet
of CPPR—that community members co-author
research publications alongside academics.
Loretta had that rare ability to serve as a
bridge between the worlds of policy and re-
search, and the everyday lives of the people
she cared about most. She mentored hun-
dreds of physicians, nurses, public health
practitioners, social scientists and community
members to do the same. Those people went
on to become tenured faculty members at
medical schools, state officials and senior ad-
visers in Congress and the White House.
A native of Massachusetts, she earned a
BA in psychology in 1963 and Master’s degree
in criminal justice in 1972, both from North-
eastern University in Boston. She had been
community faculty member at Charles R. Drew
University of Medicine and Science since
2010. A former foster youth herself, she fos-
tered 20 children in addition to raising her
daughter. She made a real difference in the
world during her 77 years.
Loretta always insisted that ‘‘Everyone de-
serves the right to live, everyone deserves
good health care, and we are all responsible
for making it happen.’’ I mourn her passing
with all of those who loved her. I am grateful
for her compassion, her dedication, and the
work to which she dedicated her life: to em-
power families to lead truly healthy lives.
TRIBUTE TO MS. SOMHITA
CHATTERJEE AND RECOGNIZING
THE UNI-CAPITOL WASHINGTON
INTERNSHIP PROGRAMME
HON. ANDRÉ CARSON
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. CARSON of Indiana. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor the Uni-Capitol Wash-
ington Internship Programme, (UCWIP). Our
great nation has benefited from the cross-cul-
tural exchange and dedication to public serv-
ice that a group of remarkable Australian col-
lege students have demonstrated during their
time on Capitol Hill.
The Uni-Capitol Washington Internship Pro-
gramme champions the positive growth of
Australian undergraduate students through
leadership and development on key political
issues and in crucial policy areas. For two
decades, UCWIP has matched some of the
most outstanding young leaders with offices in
the United States Congress. I am honored,
once again, to be a host this year. Though
each program participant is unique, I am
proud to say that the reaction to working with
them is universally positive. Our interns are
known for being extremely bright, and their
meaningful contributions regularly exceed our
expectations. This has been especially true for
our UCWIP intern, Somhita Chatterjee.
Somhita came to us from the University of
Melbourne, as an honor student pursuing Poli-
tics, International Studies, Media and Commu-
nications. Over the past month, I have
watched Somhita work as an incredible leader,
making assessments that are logical and well-
thought out. She is dedicated and not afraid to
champion issues that are important to her.
She has also taught us so much about her
home country and the many values we have
in common. I have absolutely no doubt that
Somhita’s dynamic personality and skillset will
help her to be the best that she can be in all
her future endeavors. Somhita’s generosity in
serving Hoosiers, hard work, and positive
presence have all been an incredible asset to
our office, and we look forward to seeing her
future success.
Moreover, the program would not be where
it is without a dedicated leader with a strong
vision, and an unwavering spirit, making it all
possible. I would like to thank Eric Federing
for his continued leadership as the director
and founder of the Uni-Capitol Washington In-
ternship Programme. Under Eric’s supervision,
we see individual U.S.–Australia relationships
are thriving, forging new friendships that are a
testament to our shared prosperity. Today’s
political climate calls for a global vision, and I
am thankful that Eric continuously works to
promote the exchange of views and ideas
among leaders of the future. It has been an
honor to have Somhita in our office, and I
thank her for her hard work and commitment
to public service. I wish her the best wherever
her next journey may take her.
HONORING BRIGADIER GENERAL
CYNTHIA TINKHAM, FIRST FE-
MALE OKLAHOMA ARMY NA-
TIONAL GUARD GENERAL OFFI-
CER
HON. KEVIN HERN
OF OKLAHOMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma. Madam
Speaker, I rise today in honor of Brigadier
General Cynthia Tinkham, the first female
Oklahoma Army National Guard General Offi-
cer.
This is a tremendous accomplishment, but
those who know her know that this is a long
overdue honor.
Brigadier General Tinkham joined the Okla-
homa Army National Guard in 1989, a time
when female service was severely limited. She
has seen the scope of female service change
drastically over her 30 years of service. For
most of her time in the Oklahoma Army Na-
tional Guard, she has been either the first fe-
male or the only female in her position.
But she is not one to shy away from a chal-
lenge. Brigadier General Tinkham uses her
platform to encourage more women to be trail-
blazers in their industries and especially in the
army.
I congratulate Brigadier General Tinkham on
her promotion and look forward to seeing how
she influences the future of the Oklahoma
Army National Guard and the future of women
who serve.
f
HONORING ARMY SPECIALIST
CHAD FULLER
HON. ELISE M. STEFANIK
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Ms. STEFANIK. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life, service and sacrifice of
Army Specialist Chad Fuller.
Specialist Fuller was born April 8, 1979 in
the City of Potsdam, New York. In high
school, Chad was a star athlete and an avid
outdoorsman. He had a love for animals and
was a dedicated volunteer at the Potsdam Hu-
mane Society where he frequently walked and
fed the animals in the shelter’s care.
After graduating high school in 1998, Chad
enlisted in the Army. On August 31, 2003,
Specialist Fuller was on patrol in Afghanistan
when his unit engaged Taliban guerillas near
the Pakistan border. He was one of six snip-
ers who came under fire during the early
hours of ‘‘Operation Mountain Viper’’. Trag-
ically, Specialist Chad Fuller died from the in-
juries he sustained during the attack.
On Sunday, February 17, The Potsdam Hu-
mane Society will be breaking ground on a
new building that will allow them to improve
and expand their mission. That building will be
dedicated in honor of Army Specialist Chad
Fuller. On behalf of New York’s 21st District,
I want to join the Potsdam Humane Society in
honoring Specialist Chad Fuller’s life of serv-
ice to his community and this nation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K13FE8.005 E13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E167
February 13, 2019
CELEBRATING THE LIFE OF
LIEUTENANT BOB MCMAHAN
HON. DOUG COLLINS
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to honor the life of Lieutenant Bob
McMahan.
Born in 1933, Lieutenant McMahan was a
decorated veteran of the United States Army.
He served as an Army Ranger and received
many awards for his outstanding service, in-
cluding the Purple Heart, the Vietnam Service
Medal with a Silver Star, the Army Com-
mendation Medal, Parachutist Badge, Ranger
Tab, Combat Infantry Badge, Permanent Air-
craft Crewman Badge, and Bronze Star
Medal, among others.
Following his military service, Lieutenant
McMahan returned to Georgia where he con-
tinued his career in public service. Joining the
Hall County Sheriff’s Department in 1973, he
worked his way through the ranks from patrol-
man to lieutenant. In 1980, McMahan played
an instrumental role in creating the first Hall
County SWAT team.
His colleagues described him as a true
leader and teacher, someone you could al-
ways count on. The Department would fre-
quently approach McMahan with difficult tasks
because they knew he would ‘‘tackle them
with success.’’ He will forever be remembered
as a brother, mentor, motivator and father fig-
ure to countless individuals in the Sheriff’s Of-
fice.
Lieutenant McMahan was a remarkable man
who was beloved by many. He leaves behind
a legacy of distinguished service to our coun-
try and to our community. May he rest in
peace.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. FRANK D. LUCAS
OF OKLAHOMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. LUCAS. Madam Speaker, on Friday,
February 8th, I was unavoidably detained. Had
I been present, I would have voted YEA on
Roll Call No. 072; YEA on Roll Call No. 073;
YEA on Roll Call No. 074; and YEA on Roll
Call No. 075.
f
RECOGNIZING ELIZABETH
WEIDNER OF DIETERICH, ILLINOIS
HON. JOHN SHIMKUS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. SHIMKUS. Madam Speaker, I rise to
congratulate a young student from my district
who has achieved national recognition for ex-
emplary volunteer service in her community.
Ms. Elizabeth Weidner of Dieterich has been
named one of the top honorees in Illinois by
the 2019 Prudential Spirit of Community
Awards program, an annual honor conferred
on the most impressive student volunteers in
each state and the District of Columbia.
Ms. Weidner is being recognized for bring-
ing attention to the tragedy of childhood can-
cer through a website, social media, speech-
es, lobbying efforts, the recognition she has
received as a top contender in several pag-
eants, as well as being an ambassador for this
cause. I had the pleasure of meeting Ms.
Weidner a short while ago. I came away from
our discussion very impressed with her in-
depth knowledge of government programs
aimed at addressing childhood cancer as well
as her passion and character.
It’s crucial that we encourage and support
the kind of selfless contribution this young
woman has made. People of all ages need to
think more about how we, as individual citi-
zens, can work together at the local level to
ensure the health and vitality of our towns and
neighborhoods. Volunteers like Ms. Weidner
are inspiring examples to all of us, and are
among our brightest hopes for a better tomor-
row.
The program that brought this young role
model to our attention—The Prudential Spirit
of Community Awards—was created by Pru-
dential Financial in partnership with the Na-
tional Association of Secondary School Prin-
cipals in 1995 to impress upon all youth volun-
teers that their contributions are critically im-
portant and highly valued, and to inspire other
young people to follow their example. Over the
past 24 years, the program has become the
nation’s largest youth recognition effort based
solely on community service. It has honored
more than 125,000 young volunteers at the
local, state and national level.
Madam Speaker, Ms. Weidner should be
extremely proud to have been singled out from
the thousands of dedicated volunteers who
participated in this year’s program. I heartily
applaud Ms. Weidner for her initiative in seek-
ing to make her community a better place to
live, and for the positive impact she has had
on the lives of others. Her actions show that
young Americans can—and do—play impor-
tant roles in our communities, and that Amer-
ica’s community spirit continues to hold tre-
mendous promise for the future.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. BILL HUIZENGA
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. HUIZENGA. Madam Speaker, I rise
today regarding missed votes. Had I been
present for roll call vote number 76, on Motion
to Suspend the Rules and Pass, as Amended,
H.R. 1065, the Social Media Use in Media
Clearance Investigations Act, I would have
voted ‘‘yay.’’ Had I been present for roll call
vote number 77, on Motion to Suspend the
Rules and Pass, as Amended, H.R. 1079, the
Creating Advanced Streamlined Electronic
Services for Constituents Act, I would have
voted ‘‘yay.’’
CELEBRATING THE ACCOMPLISH-
MENTS OF MR. CHRIS MOORE
HON. JIM BANKS
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. BANKS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
celebrate the many accomplishments of Mr.
Chris Moore. The Fort Wayne Mayor recently
proclaimed February 22, 2019, as Chris Moore
Day in honor of his more than thirty years of
distinguished service to the community.
Since 1989, Chris Moore has worked tire-
lessly to help his clients reach their financial
goals and lead fiscally responsible lives. Chris
is regarded as someone who builds a relation-
ship of trust with each of his clients. This is
shown in Moore & Associates Mission State-
ment which states, ‘‘our mission is to build a
long-term relationship that is the result of
those things money cannot buy: trust, purpose
and accomplishment; to become and remain
our client’s most trusted team of advisors and
staff.’’
Chris Moore has been a strong advocate
and supporter of local charities. He donates
his time and resources to ensuring that some
of the most vulnerable members in our com-
munities are taken care of. He supports local
charities such as Hope House, Shepherd’s
House, Riley Children’s Hospital, and Mad An-
thony. He has been a proud sponsor of the
Mad Anthony’s Children’s Foundation since
1995, often a participant in their Pro-Am char-
ity golf outing. He is also a long-term fan, tick-
et holder, and supporter of local sports includ-
ing the Fort Wayne Komets, Tincaps, and Mad
Ants.
I would like to thank Chris Moore for making
our community a better place and congratulate
him on this distinguished honor.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF MR. ALAN
CANTER
HON. TED LIEU
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. TED LIEU of California. Madam Speak-
er, today I rise to celebrate the life of Mr. Alan
Canter, who passed away on January 25,
2019 at the age of 82. Alan’s stewardship of
his family’s restaurant in California’s 33rd Con-
gressional District, Canter’s Deli, was crucial
in making it a fixture in Los Angeles culture
and a gathering place for people of all ages
and degrees of fame.
Born in Los Angeles on May 2, 1936, Alan
started out as a mechanic, with a love for rac-
ing cars and tinkering with new ways to drive
faster. However, on the advice of his newly
pregnant wife, Alan turned to the restaurant
business in the 1950s, just as the deli ex-
panded from its original Boyle Heights loca-
tion, opened in 1931, to the Fairfax district.
Though he started as a pickle packer and
delivery boy, Alan eventually took over his
family’s deli and dedicated nearly every wak-
ing minute over the next six decades to his
customers, sometimes working 18-hour shifts
in a day. Alan took on all of it, even the seem-
ingly menial tasks, like cutting fruit, pickling,
selecting ingredients, and tending to the kitch-
en equipment.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A13FE8.004 E13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E168 February 13, 2019
Alan’s mechanical expertise, learned from
his years racing and fixing cars, kept the place
running even when a machine acted up. As
the family patriarch for so many years, Alan
taught his children how to run the business
just as his father taught him.
Canter’s Deli, ‘‘the soul of Fairfax Avenue,’’
served not only its neighbors, but also post-
concert crowds, musicians, actors, and even
presidents. Additionally, his selflessness and
humor touched all who encountered him.
Alan is survived by his wife; son, Marc;
daughter, Jacqueline; and five grandchildren. I
hope that Alan’s family takes comfort in know-
ing that his family’s legacy will live on in the
memories of all the customers he served and
the high standards he worked so hard to es-
tablish.
f
HONORING FILMORE WILLIAM
HART
HON. ELIJAH E. CUMMINGS
OF MARYLAND
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. CUMMINGS. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor my constituent, Filmore William Hart.
Mr. Hart was born on December 20, 1928 in
Wheeling, VA to Gretchen Hart Morton.
Filmore graduated from Dunbar High School in
Washington, D.C. and attended Morgan State
University in the great city of Baltimore, MD.
He remains an active member of Morgan
State’s Alumni Association.
Mr. Hart served his country with honor. He
retired from the U.S. Army as a Master Ser-
geant and later from the Social Security Ad-
ministration as well.
He married the late Marion Kahn White on
May 17, 1953. During their forty-six-year
union, they were blessed with four children—
Sandra Lynn Hart-Harris, Jocelyn Kahn Hart-
Lovelace, Philmore James Hart, and Gerard
Roderick Hart—as well as nine grandchildren
and four great-grandchildren. The Lord smiled
on Filmore again and he married Elaine Harris
on June 3, 2017. The family circle has ex-
panded with the inclusion of Elaine’s four adult
children—Larry Harris, Cathy Harris-Blackwell,
Michael Harris, Allison Harris-Owens—and
eight grandchildren.
Filmore has been an active member of
Mount Ararat Baptist Church in Baltimore, MD
for over sixty years and continues to serve in
numerous capacities including Chairman of
the Deacon Ministry, member of the Samuel
B. Redd Scholarship Committee and Triple L
Senior Ministry, Sunday School teacher, and
van driver. His favorite scripture is Psalms
27:1, which says ‘‘The Lord is my light and my
salvation whom shall I fear.’’ His favorite song
is ‘‘On Christ the Solid Rock I Stand.’’
He actively participates in several commu-
nity sponsored programs such as scout troop
master. He has been a leader of the Forest
Park Baseball Little League, serving as team
coach, league President, Vice President, and
Treasurer. His commitment was evident as he
continued to volunteer his services for years
after his sons’ participation in the league.
Mr. Hart served four years as President of
the Troy B. Lewis Layman’s League, an Auxil-
iary to the United Baptist Convention of Mary-
land, Inc., and continues to participate in this
organization. He has also been Regional Co-
ordinator for the National Baptist Association’s
Deacon’s Ministry, provides training to various
church Deacon Boards in the Maryland, Vir-
ginia, Delaware and Pennsylvania area and
served in several leadership roles with the
Caucus of Black Aging through the Maryland
State Department of Aging.
Mr. Speaker, Deacon Hart has a deep love
for family. He is a devoted father and hus-
band.Throughout his life, he has had a ‘‘heart’’
for helping others. He is the recipient of sev-
eral awards and recognitions as a result of his
military and civilian employment, church work,
and community volunteerism. I ask my col-
leagues to join me in honoring him on the oc-
casion of his 90th Birthday.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF MR. PATRICK
THOMPSON
HON. ROBERT J. WITTMAN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of Patrick (Pat) Thompson
and his service to Virginia’ s First District.
Pat earned his Bachelor of Arts in Public
Policy Studies and Master of Arts in Christian
Studies from Duke University in North Caro-
lina. Pat served as the Director of Basketball
Operations for Duke Men’s Basketball team
and continues to remind my staff that Duke is
a powerhouse for basketball. Upon graduation
from Duke, Pat commissioned into the United
States Army Reserves as a military intel-
ligence officer, deploying to Afghanistan in
support of Operation Enduring Freedom. Cur-
rently, Pat serves as a Captain in the United
States Army Reserves.
Pat began as my Military Legislative Assist-
ant in February 2016 and will be concluding
his tenure in February 2019. During his three
years serving Virginia’s First District, Pat has
helped me as a staff liaison to the House
Armed Services Committee but specifically
aiding in my role as Seapower and Projection
Forces Subcommittee Chairman and Readi-
ness Subcommittee Chairman. Pat provided
me with guidance as Congress seeks to ad-
vance the United States Navy mission of in-
creasing fleet size to 355 ships, promoting an
increase in submarines to combat foreign en-
emies, improving sailor training, and increas-
ing military readiness.
Pat exercises the Army values every day
with his service before self-mentality shown
through his dedication and work ethic. I would
like to thank Pat for the fantastic job he’s done
over the past 3 years. I wish Pat the best as
he continues his journey on the other side of
the Capitol as National Security Advisor for
Senator ROGER WICKER.
Madam Speaker, I ask you to join me in
recognizing Patrick Thompson for his dedi-
cated service to Virginia’s First District. May
God bless Pat as he continues his career in
public service.
IN RECOGNITION OF THE KNIGHTS
OF LITHUANIA COUNCIL 143 AND
THE 101ST ANNIVERSARY OF
LITHUANIA INDEPENDENCE
HON. MATT CARTWRIGHT
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the Knights of Lithuania Coun-
cil 143 as they celebrate the 101st Anniver-
sary of Lithuania’s independence. The Knights
of Lithuania is an organization of Roman
Catholic men and women of Lithuanian ances-
try located in Pittston, Pennsylvania.
Organized on April 27, 1913, the Knights of
Lithuania was originally established as a youth
organization. Its mission was to unite young
Lithuanians living in the United States, pre-
serve Lithuanian culture, and restore freedom
to Lithuania, which, at the time, was divided
between Russia and Germany.
In more recent times, it has become a fam-
ily organization. St. Casimir, patron saint of
Lithuania’s youth, is honored as the organiza-
tion’s patron. ‘‘For God and Country,’’ is the
motto of Knights of Lithuania, and its members
keep an appreciation of the Lithuanian lan-
guage and culture alive, while also stressing
the importance of Roman Catholic beliefs.
It is an honor to recognize the Knights of
Lithuania as they celebrate 101 years of Lith-
uanian independence. I am grateful for their
work preserving Lithuanian traditions for the
citizens of the Greater Pittston. I wish their
membership all the best as they continue their
important mission.
f
CONGRATULATING THIS YEAR’S
CENTER FOR NATIVE AMERICAN
YOUTH CHAMPIONS FOR CHANGE
HON. RAÚL M. GRIJALVA
OF ARIZONA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. GRIJALVA. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and congratulate the im-
pressive accomplishments of five Native
American youth who were chosen as this
year’s Center for Native American Youth
Champions for Change.
The Aspen Institute’s Center for Native
American Youth, or CNAY, will celebrate its
seventh cohort of CNAY Champions for
Change through a series of recognition events
and leadership development trainings in
Washington, D.C. this week.
Today we recognize Autumn Adams, Con-
federated Tribes and Bands of the Yakama
Nation, Shandiin Herrera, Navajo Nation,
Madison White, Mohawk Nation at
Akwesasne, Charitie Ropati, Native Village of
Kongiganak, and Adam Soulor, The Mohegan
Tribe, who will serve as representatives of the
next generation of leaders in Indian Country
for the next year. From Alaska to Connecticut,
and now Washington, D.C., these impressive
young leaders advocate on issues like
decolonizing education standards, supporting
victims of sexual assault, and improving child
welfare systems.
For their dedication to their communities
and as leaders to their peers, I would like to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A13FE8.009 E13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E169
February 13, 2019
congratulate them as they continue their hon-
orable work.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JASON CROW
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. CROW. Madam Speaker, on February
11, 2019, I was unable to be present to cast
my vote on the Social Media Use in Clearance
Investigations Act (H.R. 1065) and the Cre-
ating Advanced Streamlined Electronic Serv-
ices for Constituents Act (H.R. 1079). Had I
been present for roll calls No. 76 and 77, I
would have voted ‘‘aye’’ for both measures.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE OUT-
STANDING SERVICE BY FEDERAL
WORKERS DURING THE LONGEST
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN IN
AMERICAN HISTORY
HON. RAJA KRISHNAMOORTHI
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI. Madam Speaker,
today I rise to honor the federal workers, both
in my district and across the country, who
went without pay during the government shut-
down.
Across the country, about 800,000 federal
employees went without pay for 35 days dur-
ing the shutdown from December 22nd to Jan-
uary 25th. This wrongheaded situation was
hard on all the affected workers, but it was
particularly difficult for the 110,000 affected
federal employees who earn $50,000 or less
annually. Despite not being paid, more than
420,000 employees were required to work for
weeks on end. Worse still, these employees
had to live with the uncertainty of not knowing
when the shutdown would end, and when they
would be paid again. Furloughs and delayed
paychecks are not the right way to treat our
hard-working employees who provide critical
services to Americans across the country, and
they are the wrong way to run an effective and
functioning government.
Despite a misguided lapse in appropriations,
many workers in my community and nation-
wide admirably and dutifully continued working
without pay. Air traffic controllers at the
O’Hare International Airport, and other Amer-
ican airports, worked without pay to ensure
planes could take off and land safely. TSA
Agents worked without pay so that Americans
could travel safely, keeping our economy thriv-
ing. IRS and Treasury employees worked
without pay to ensure our constituents could
process their tax returns and plan for their fi-
nancial security. HUD employees worked with-
out pay so that society’s most vulnerable, our
low-income and senior citizens, had safe
housing. USDA employees worked without
pay so that our food would be inspected, and
so working families could receive food aid,
preserving public health and family wellbeing.
Employees at the National Park Service
worked without pay to protect our sacred pub-
lic spaces. National Weather Service Employ-
ees worked without pay to provide critical
weather information that we rely on daily for
comfort and accessibility. Madam Speaker,
these employees worked tirelessly for the
good of their country, even when their govern-
ment wasn’t working for them.
Unfortunately, this lack of pay required
working families to turn to food banks, food
pantries and other charitable organizations.
These incredible civic organizations, including
many faith-based organizations and places of
worship, are the lifeblood of our local commu-
nities. Their life-saving services during this dif-
ficult time will not be forgotten.
Moving forward, I am committed to working
with my colleagues in a bipartisan fashion to
prevent future government shutdowns at all
costs so that no Americans—including federal
workers and citizens who rely on critical gov-
ernment services—will have to suffer the con-
sequences of another government shutdown.
To quote the late civil rights icon Martin Lu-
ther King, Jr.: ‘‘The ultimate measure of a man
is not where he stands in moments of comfort
and convenience, but where he stands at
times of challenge and controversy.’’ In this
moment of severe controversy, and in the face
of extraordinary challenges, federal workers
persevered for the betterment of their commu-
nity. I want to recognize the vital work and
sacrifice of these brave Americans. Their out-
standing performance during the shutdown will
always be remembered.
f
CHARLES WARREN POPE
HON. DONALD NORCROSS
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. NORCROSS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor United States Navy Veteran,
Petty Officer Third Class Charles Warren
Pope of Somerdale in New Jersey’s First Con-
gressional District.
PO3 Pope was born in Hope Mills, North
Carolina on August 22, 1946. He joined the
Navy in 1966 and during the Vietnam War he
was stationed on the USS Saratoga, an air-
craft carrier. During this time, he worked as a
Yeoman to the Chaplain and earned the rank
of Petty Officer Third Class.
Upon his return to the United States he was
stationed in the Philadelphia Naval Yard for
maintenance and repairs. In 1972, PO3 Pope
made the decision to serve his community as
a law enforcement officer with the Somerdale
Police Department. After thirty years of pro-
tecting the lives and property of citizens, PO3
Pope retired as Chief of Police in 2002.
Afterwards, PO3 Pope continued his lifelong
public service career with the New Jersey
State Assembly, Sergeant at Arms. Mean-
while, for more than a decade and a half he
was a substitute teacher, primarily in the spe-
cial education classroom at Sterling High
School.
After his service to the United States Armed
Force concluded, PO3 Pope’s contributions to
our country continued through his service to
the community, as a volunteer with the
Somerdale Fire Department, serving on the
Somerdale Planning & Zoning Board and
presently he serves as the President of the
Somerdale Fire Department.
Petty Officer Charles Warren Pope has four
daughters, Dawn, Amy, Meredith and Carrie,
and three grandsons Robert, Joshua and Eli-
jah.
PO3 Charles Pope is an honorable Amer-
ican, having served our great nation in a time
of war, the State of New Jersey, his commu-
nity and his service to the public for over a
half century merits our collective appreciation.
Madam Speaker, I ask you to join me in
honoring Petty Officer Third Class Charles
Warren Pope for his contributions and dedica-
tion to the safety of our nation.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JACKIE WALORSKI
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mrs. WALORSKI. Madam Speaker, on Mon-
day, February 11, I was unavoidably detained
due to inclement weather. Had I been present,
I would have voted YEA on Roll Call No. 76,
and YEA on Roll Call No. 77.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. BRAD R. WENSTRUP
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. WENSTRUP. Madam Speaker, on Feb-
ruary 8, 2019, I was unable to be in attend-
ance for votes on the House floor due to the
funeral of my constituent, Detective Bill Brewer
of the Clermont County Sheriff’s Department,
who selflessly gave his life in the line of duty
on February 2, 2019.
Had I been present, I would have voted
YEA on Roll Call No. 72; YEA on Roll Call No.
73; YEA on Roll Call No. 74; and YEA on Roll
Call No. 75.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF PATTI
MONTALBANO, UNICAN OF THE
YEAR FOR UNICO NATIONAL
SCRANTON CHAPTER
HON. MATT CARTWRIGHT
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in honor of Patti Montalbano, who will
be named Unican of the Year by the UNICO
National Scranton Chapter. She, along with
her husband, Bob, will be honored on Feb-
ruary 23, 2019 during the annual UNICO
Charity Ball.
Patti Montalbano was born in Scranton to
Alfonso and the late Lucy Coviello Giambrone.
She graduated from St. Anthony of Padua
Grade School and St. Paul’s High School. She
then went on to receive her Registered Nurse
diploma from Mercy Hospital School of Nurs-
ing at the University of Scranton and a Bach-
elor of Science from Trinity University. Patti’s
hospital nursing career was spent in obstet-
rics, newborn nurseries, and the neonatal ICU.
She then moved to community health nursing
at the Pennsylvania Department of Health.
She was a member of several health-related
networking groups in Lackawanna and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A13FE8.013 E13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E170 February 13, 2019
Luzerne Counties and a part-time hospital clin-
ical instructor in newborn care at Penn State
Scranton Campus. Following 25 years of serv-
ice Patti retired from the Pennsylvania Depart-
ment of Health as the school health consult-
ant, where she served over 59 school districts.
Patti joined the Ladies Auxiliary to the
UNICO National Scranton Chapter in 2006
and then the Chapter proper in 2009. Patti
was very committed to the work of the Auxil-
iary and was instrumental in its reorganization
in 2011 and 2012. After serving as President
of the Auxiliary for three consecutive years,
she joined the Auxiliary Board of Directors and
was elected its President. Patti co-chairs the
Scranton UNICO Friday Bake Sale at St. Jo-
seph’s Center Summer Festival with her hus-
band. In recognition of her extraordinary vol-
unteerism and service, Patti received the Al
Dante Award in 2012.
Patti and Bob Montalbano will be married
for 50 years this November. They are the
proud parents of Lori Montalbano Nozzi, who
is also a dedicated member of UNICO’s
Scranton Chapter and the Ladies Auxiliary.
They currently reside in Dunmore, Pennsyl-
vania and are active members of St. Anthony
of Padua Church.
It is an honor to recognize Patti and Bob as
they jointly accept the Unican of the Year
Award from the Scranton Chapter of UNICO
National. May they continue to work for
UNICO and the people across Northeast
Pennsylvania for many fruitful years to come.
f
IN REMEMBRANCE OF MR. HER-
BERT ‘‘HERB’’ LEWIS WHITE, JR.
HON. ROBERT J. WITTMAN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of Herbert ‘‘Herb’’ Lewis
White, Jr., who passed away on January 27,
2019. Herbert was 77 years old.
Herbert ‘‘Herb’’ Lewis White, Jr. was known
for his love for his community which kept him
active in various organizations. He, along with
four others, founded King William Rescue
Squad (now King William Volunteer Fire and
Rescue) in 1963 and was instrumental in add-
ing the fire department to the organization in
1965. Herb remained an active member in the
organization for more than 20 years. White
also volunteered with the Mattaponi Volunteer
Rescue Squad for several years. He assisted
the county with zoning as the chairman of the
King William County Board of Zoning Appeals
for 36 years and redistricting matters as a
member of the redistricting committee for two
years. Herb also helped maintain and refresh
the county’s historical properties as director of
the King William County Historical Society
board during the renovation of the historical
Acquinton Church Project and old jail at the
courthouse. Herb was involved with the county
Ruritan Club and was active in the construc-
tion of the new Ruritan Community Building
and Park. Herb held 22 years of perfect at-
tendance with the club. Herb also served as
director of the Prevent Blindless Mid-Atlantic
organization and chairman of the organiza-
tion’s board for two years, a member of the
Joppa Lodge No. 40 AF and AM and a de-
voted member of Colosse Baptist Church. He
additionally gave back to his community as
Board Director of King William County Emer-
gency Ministries and worked for many years
with its Christmas Wishes program to provide
gifts for those less fortunate during the holi-
days.
Madam Speaker, I ask you to join me in re-
membrance of Herbert ‘‘Herb’’ Lewis White, Jr.
Words cannot express our gratitude. May God
bless Herbert White and his family, Herb’s
wife, Marian, and I look forward to seeing his
selfless contributions to our community con-
tinue to live on in his name.
f
RECOGNIZING THE SELFLESS
WORK OF MARTHA COLEY
HON. DOUG COLLINS
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to recognize the admirable work of
a fellow Northeast Georgian, Ms. Martha
Coley.
Ms. Coley began caring for foster children
thirty-three years ago, and has since cared for
over 100 children in her home in Hall County,
Georgia. In June of 2016, Ms. Coley’s house
tragically caught fire and burned to the
ground, forcing her to start from scratch and
completely rebuild. But that did not stop her
from welcoming children back into her home
just six months later, as soon as she moved
in.
Ms. Coley’s willingness to foster teenagers
makes her an especially valuable foster par-
ent. She says that the most rewarding part of
being a foster parent is when she has the op-
portunity to witness her foster children suc-
ceeding after they have left her home, and
often times giving back to their community,
just as she has done for many years. The
hardest part of fostering, she says, is when
they eventually leave her home.
The State of Georgia has approximately
14,400 children living in foster homes, which is
why we are especially fortunate to have citi-
zens like Ms. Coley serving our communities.
All children deserve the opportunity to lead
a happy and healthy life, free from any type of
abuse or mistreatment, and I want to thank
Ms. Martha Coley for the many lives she has
touched.
f
HONORING THE SERVICE OF MR.
JASON WITMIER
HON. DANIEL MEUSER
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. MEUSER. Madam Speaker, it is with
great respect and admiration that I rise today
to recognize the dedicated service of Jason
Witmier, Assistant Fire Chief of the Pottsville
Fire Department and President of the Good In-
tent Fire Company. Jason is ending his tenure
after bravely serving the city of Pottsville and
its residents for over twenty-five years.
An exceptional public servant, Jason has
acted with pride, humility, and courage as a
firefighter since 1991 and as Assistant Fire
Chief for ten years. He has responded to
countless emergency situations, always with
an eagerness to help and a willingness to
comfort those who are faced with unfortunate
circumstances.
Jason has spent his career safeguarding the
wellbeing of his fellow citizens and improving
the safety of his community, which has made
him a cornerstone of Pottsville. He is a truly
valued member of his community and serves
as an example for his peers and younger gen-
erations to follow.
On behalf of Pennsylvania’s 9th Congres-
sional District and the U.S. House of Rep-
resentatives, I want to extend my sincerest
thanks to Jason for his dedicated and brave
service to Pottsville. We wish him the best as
he embarks on this next chapter in life.
f
IN HONOR OF JUSTICE BILL
CUNNINGHAM
HON. ANDY BARR
OF KENTUCKY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. BARR. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor a special man, Justice Bill Cunningham.
Cunningham retired on February 1 from the
Kentucky Supreme Court. He is among the
two longest serving justices in Kentucky his-
tory.
Justice Cunningham is from Lyon County,
Kentucky. He is a graduate of Murray State
University and the University Of Kentucky Col-
lege Of Law. Cunningham began his career in
public service in 1974 as the city attorney for
Eddyville, KY, where he served until 1991. He
also served as the Public Defender for the
Kentucky State Penitentiary from 1974 to
1976. He went on to serve as the Common-
wealth’s Attorney for the 56th Judicial District
from 1976 to 1988, where his peers voted him
as Outstanding Commonwealth Attorney of
Kentucky. In 1991, he was elected to the Cir-
cuit Court. While he was Circuit Judge, he re-
quested and set up a makeshift courtroom in
the Eddyville Penitentiary, avoiding the risk of
escape when transporting prisoners and sav-
ing money for the Commonwealth of Ken-
tucky. On one occasion while doing his court-
room duties, an inmate charged him and phys-
ically assaulted him. In 2006, Cunningham
was elected to the Kentucky Supreme Court.
In addition to being a lawyer, judge, and jus-
tice, Cunningham was a prolific author and
published several books, mostly on Kentucky
history. One of his books details the history of
the state penitentiary at Eddyville, including
the major prison riot at Eddyville in the 1920’s
in which several people were kilIed, including
one of Cunningham’s ancestors. He also
wrote a book on the tobacco wars of West
Kentucky in the 1920’s.
Justice Cunningham is married to Paula and
they have five sons. Cunningham is a veteran
of the United States Army, serving on deploy-
ments to Germany, Vietnam, and Korea. I
thank him for his service in uniform. I also
thank him for his long career in the courtroom,
fighting for justice and serving with integrity.
After years of service, Justice Cunningham
has earned a well-deserved retirement I join
other Kentuckians in wishing him all the best.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE8.019 E13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E171
February 13, 2019
RECOGNIZING THE YOWELL
FAMILY
HON. JOHN R. CARTER
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. CARTER of Texas. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to recognize the Yowell family, who
have been an integral part of our Central
Texas community since 1951. Across the
years, the Yowells have tirelessly served the
public through their participation in numerous
civic organizations. Killeen and all Central
Texas owe much to these devoted individuals.
The Yowell family’s commitment to investing
their gifts, talents, and abilities to improve
Central Texas is a deeply held creed that
speaks to the generosity and activism of true
and devoted public servants. Civic-minded
leaders like them work tirelessly to improve
their communities, leading them to new
heights and positioning them to continue into
a bright future.
Starting with the late Bill Yowell, this proud
family has committed their time and consider-
able energies to a wide range of civic causes,
ranging from education to veterans to eco-
nomic development. Their impacts on the re-
gion are vast, ever-lasting, and cannot be
overstated.
Some go through life wondering if they have
made a difference. The Yowell family does not
have that problem. Their passion and selfless
commitment to make Central Texas a better
place is an example to us all. We cannot
thank them enough for the immeasurable im-
pact they have made. God bless them always.
f
RECOGNIZING MARY PETTINATO,
CEO OF HONOR FLIGHT CHICAGO
HON. MIKE QUIGLEY
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. QUIGLEY. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Mary Pettinato and her contribu-
tions to our community, our city, and our coun-
try throughout her distinguished service as the
CEO of Honor Flight Chicago. Founded in
2008, Honor Flight Chicago provides a once in
a lifetime opportunity for Chicago-area vet-
erans of World War II and the Korean War by
flying them to Washington, DC to visit memo-
rials dedicated to their service.
Following Ms. Pettinato’s graduation from
Northwestern University’s Kellogg School of
Management in 2008, she cofounded the Chi-
cago chapter of Honor Flight. This idea came
after Mary asked of her father: ‘‘If you were on
your deathbed, what’s one thing you would
wish you’d done during your lifetime?’’ He an-
swered that his wish was to visit the World
War II Memorial in Washington. On the subse-
quent trip they took to the Memorial, Mary was
inspired to not only provide this opportunity to
her father, but also to thousands of other vet-
erans living in Chicago who might never have
the chance to visit this and other historic
monuments.
During the decade that Ms. Pettinato served
as CEO of Honor Flight Chicago, the organi-
zation organized 88 flights from Chicago to
Washington. They started with sixty veterans
on their first flight; now, they fly upwards of
ninety service members on each trip and have
had over eight thousand veterans participate
in the program over the past ten years.
In 2015, Ms. Pettinato was honored by The
Chicago Tribune as one of their ‘‘ Remarkable
Women’’ in a series of profiles written about
inspiring women in the area. Mary’ s feature
focused on her love of family, and how that
passion led to the creation of the Chicago
chapter of Honor Flight with three other
women.
In the Tribune article, Ms. Pettinato offered
an anecdote that demonstrates the achieve-
ment of Honor Flight Chicago. She recalls, ‘‘I
was with one man, he was 92, and he was
struggling with some things and having a
tough day. As we got off the plane on the re-
turn for the welcome home celebration—he
(had been) in a wheelchair the entire day—he
said, ‘‘I want to walk.’’ And he got out of his
wheelchair and he had someone on his left
and someone on his right and we were hold-
ing him very firmly and he walked through this
procession. Someone leaned over and said,
‘‘Bob, how was your day?’’ And he stopped
and said, ‘‘I’ve never been to heaven, but I’m
guessing today was mighty close.’’
Madam Speaker, I ask all of my colleagues
to join me in recognizing the ten years of dedi-
cation Ms. Pettinato has shown to the vet-
erans of Chicago. Through the Honor Flight
experience, she has brought joy to many of
our country’s heroes.
f
HONORING THE EASTSIDE CHURCH
OF GOD IN CHRIST OF THE CITY
OF SAN JOSE
HON. ZOE LOFGREN
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Ms. LOFGREN. Madam Speaker, I rise to
pay tribute to the Eastside Church of God in
Christ (Eastside Church), whose ministry
serves the City of San Jose through service
and prayer. On February 17, 2019, the
Eastside Church will celebrate a true mile-
stone, its 50th anniversary. I would like to
commend the Eastside Church for its half a
century of fellowship and leadership in the
San Jose community.
Founded by Pastor and Superintendent
Sherman Harris, the Eastside Church has
been at the heart of its members most impor-
tant priorities—family and faith. It serves to in-
spire, uplift and gather all those who seek a
deeper connection with God, and their com-
munity. It offers an opportunity to worship in
community with others and serve others.
In 1979, Eastside Church moved to the East
San Jose after outgrowing their previous loca-
tion. The Church quickly became a beacon of
hope and help to the Eastside through their
Outreach Ministry, providing clothing and
household goods for families in need and their
Food Ministry Program, which distributes
boxes of food to over 100 families on a weekly
basis. They take special care to provide re-
sources and activities for children in the com-
munity with the Back to School backpack pro-
gram and the Sherman Harris Youth Center.
The Center offers pre-school for low-income
families, sports facilities and a venue for com-
munity functions.
Through its decades of service, Eastside
Church has earned its place as a trusted
source of hope and comfort in the San Jose
community. As the Eastside Church of God in
Christ enjoys its 50th Golden Anniversary
Celebration, I join in congratulating them and
wishing them the best for the next 50 years
and beyond.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF BISHOP
VAIFANUA SUIAVA
MULITAUAOPELE
HON. AUMUA AMATA COLEMAN
RADEWAGEN
OF AMERICAN SAMOA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mrs. RADEWAGEN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life of Bishop Vaifanua
Suiava Mulitauaopele. He was a friend of
many years, a trusted adviser, and a re-
spected leader to our Samoan people in the
islands and in the U.S.
A native of Laulii, American Samoa, Bishop
Mulitauaopele lived a full and joyful life in the
service of the Lord, and he was a blessing to
far more people than any of us will ever know.
Even as we feel a sense of loss at his pass-
ing, we know he would be the first to comfort
us. Our hearts are with his dear wife Eva, the
rest of his family and his many friends.
He served our country as well as his
church, and retired from the U.S. Army as a
decorated Veteran of the Vietnam War. He
gave 20 years of service to medical missions
in Samoa, and was engaged in an ongoing
clinic project at the time of his passing that will
be of great help to our people.
He was a spiritual and community leader,
and always a man of great faith, compassion
and integrity. He brought honor to our Samoan
people. Bishop Mulitauaopele will be missed,
and his life is worthy of our best memories.
At the service, Pastors Salt and their con-
gregation sang beautiful Samoan hymns, and
it was livestreamed to be available anywhere
he was known.
In addition to his wife, Eva Gonzalez
Mulitauaopele, Bishop Pele was also survived
by his son Anthony V. Mulitauaopele (Lauren)
of Inman, SC, and two daughters, Jennifer
Cotton (Nikko) of West Columbia, SC, Laura
Frick (Ted) of Little Mountain, SC.
He also had six grandchildren: Victor, Grant,
Marla, Chloe, Callie, and Cash; and his sister,
Sua Peko; and two godchildren, Lautofa and
Sam. Finally, his two beloved dogs were
Buddy and Sammi.
Thank you and goodbye (Soifua).
f
TRIBUTE TO PATRICK DEVLIN
HON. JAMES E. CLYBURN
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. CLYBURN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to pay tribute to a dedicated public serv-
ant and long-time Congressional aide, Patrick
J. Devlin, Sr. Patrick is retiring after 31 years
of Congressional service this month, and I
offer him a heartfelt thanks for his contribu-
tions and wish him well in his future endeav-
ors.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A13FE8.024 E13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E172 February 13, 2019
Patrick was born in Fairfax, Virginia and is
the youngest of six children of the late-LTC
John J. Devlin (U.S. Army) and Nancy L.
Devlin of Fairfax. He credits his father, a hero
of World War II and the Korean War, as his
inspiration to pursue a career in public service.
A talented athlete and fierce competitor, Pat-
rick earned a football scholarship to Carroll
College in Helena, Montana and graduated
with a bachelor’s degree in political science
from Virginia Tech.
He began his career as an intern and land-
ed his first job on Capitol Hill straight out of
college, working as a staff assistant on the
U.S. House Armed Services Committee under
the leadership of Chairman Les Aspin. He
went on to spend three years working on de-
fense policy as a legislative assistant to Texas
Representative Jim Chapman, and then
served as legislative director for Connecticut
Representative ROSA DELAURO, a leader in
the fight to protect Medicare, Medicaid and
school lunches. Patrick spent the next 11
years as Legislative Director for my good
friend North Carolina Representative Bob
Etheridge, working to strengthen public
schools in America.
In 2008, Patrick moved to the Senate side
where he served two years as Communica-
tions Director for U.S Senator JON TESTER
from Montana, the only dirt farmer in the
United States Senate. Bob Etheridge brought
him back to the House to serve as his Chief
of Staff in 2010. Following Bob’s departure
from Congress, Patrick joined my staff in 2011
as Communications Director for the Assistant
Democratic Leader office.
Patrick has played various leadership roles
working on Democratic Congressional staffs
under a diverse group of members. As a
member of my senior staff, he has been inti-
mately involved in my work on the so-called
Supercommittee to determine budget priorities,
the conceptualization of the Background
Check Completion Act to combat the prolifera-
tion of gun violence, and the promotion of the
10–20–30 formula to target federal resources
into communities of need. He is a superior
writer, strategist and institutionalist. His profes-
sionalism, expertise and loyalty have been the
hallmarks of his service on Capitol Hill.
He is married to Helen Devlin, and they
have two teen-aged sons, Patrick, Jr. and Mi-
chael. Patrick Sr. has served as a guest lec-
turer at the Georgetown University Govern-
ment Affairs Institute and as a Senate Press
Secretaries Association board member. He
currently serves on the board of the Fort Hunt
Youth Athletic Association, where he has been
a youth sports coach for many years.
Madam Speaker, I ask you and my col-
leagues to join me in expressing our sincere
thanks for the service Patrick Devlin has ren-
dered to the United States Congress. May his
retirement be productive and fulfilling.
f
RECOGNIZING DR. SUSAN ENFIELD
AS 2018 NATIONAL SUPER-
INTENDENT OF THE YEAR
HON. ADAM SMITH
OF WASHINGTON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Madam Speaker,
I rise to congratulate Dr. Susan Enfield, Su-
perintendent of Highline Public School District
on being named the 2018 National Super-
intendent of The Year by the National School
Foundations Association (NSFA). The award
recognizes superintendents who through vi-
sionary leadership and collaboration, develop
partnership with their education foundation
which grants all students the opportunity of
success.
Dr. Enfield has extensive experience in edu-
cation leadership, having served in several
leadership roles across three states since
2003. She is a former high school teacher of
English, Journalism, and English Language
Learning. Dr. Enfield attended University of
California, Berkeley before earning master’s
degrees from both Stanford and Harvard Uni-
versity. In addition, she holds a doctorate in
Administration, Planning, and Social Policy
from the Urban Superintendents Program at
Harvard University. Prior to joining Highline
Public Schools in 2012, Dr. Enfield served as
the Chief Academic Officer, and the Interim
Superintendent for Seattle Public Schools.
NSFA selected Dr. Enfield based on her ad-
vocacy efforts, commitment to her students,
and work with the Highline Schools Founda-
tion. During her tenure as Superintendent, Dr.
Enfield has overseen the renovation of school
facilities, promoted technology and media lit-
eracy, and developed a strategic plan to make
all Highline public schools inclusive and cul-
turally responsive.
Dr. Enfield’s commitment to the students is
clear. She has made it her mission to know
every student by name, strength, and need.
Under her leadership Highline Public School’s
high school graduation rates continue to im-
prove. Dr. Enfield promotes the teaching of
critical thinking and problem-solving skills and
has made it her mission to properly prepare all
19,000 Highline Public School students for the
future.
Madam Speaker, it is with great pleasure
that I recognize Dr. Enfield as the 2018 Na-
tional Superintendent of The Year and cele-
brate her longtime commitment to education.
f
RECOGNIZING THE BECK FAMILY
OF KILLEEN, TEXAS
HON. JOHN R. CARTER
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. CARTER of Texas. Madam Speaker,
I’m both proud and honored to recognize the
Beck family of Killeen, TX. For decades, the
Becks have made invaluable contributions to-
ward making Central Texas a great place to
call home.
Thriving communities rely on devoted public
servants like the Beck family who work tire-
lessly across a variety of civic causes. Wheth-
er it’s supporting our brave veterans or active-
duty warriors, boosting local economic growth,
or ensuring the region benefits from elite edu-
cation facilities, the Becks have rolled up their
sleeves and done the hard work to turn
dreams into reality.
They don’t do any of this for publicity or per-
sonal gain. Their devotion to community is
about ensuring Killeen and Central Texas re-
main an active and vibrant place to call home.
Their commitment to service before self truly
reflects the very best of the generous Texas
spirit.
I join the people of Killeen in saluting the in-
credible service of the Beck family. They’ve
positively impacted the lives of thousands and
there’s no doubt that Central Texas is a better
place because of them. I salute their work,
share their love of community, and wish them
nothing but the best for the future.
f
IN HONOR OF JOSHUA LAU AND
NYMBL SYSTEMS
HON. ANDY BARR
OF KENTUCKY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. BARR. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor Joshua Lau, a Kentucky entrepreneur.
Mr. Lau is a first generation Asian-American
from Lexington, Kentucky. His company,
Nymbl Systems, has been selected as a Top
10 Small Business in the United States by
America’s Small Business Development Cen-
ters and is the first Kentucky business to re-
ceive this prestigious recognition.
Mr. Lau is a 2012 graduate of the University
of Kentucky. Following graduation, he entered
the field of information technology. One of his
first clients was an independently owned pros-
thetic and orthotic provider that serves a large
veteran patient population. Working for them
led Lau to fill an important need for an im-
proved medical records software platform. The
innovation and efficiency he brought to his cli-
ent allowed them to spend time better serving
their patients.
Josh Lau and Chad Feinberg co-founded
Nymbl Systems in April of 2017. They provide
a cloud-based, monthly subscription applica-
tion that schedules appointments, keeps pa-
tient records, and bills insurance companies.
Since their founding, they have raised approxi-
mately $2.8 million in revenue. They exemplify
the entrepreneurs that are the very engine of
economic growth in America. Small busi-
nesses such as Nymbl Systems are at the
heart of our nation’s economy and I commend
Mr. Lau and his colleagues for their business
success and their recognition by the Small
Business Development Center.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF STANLEY J.
DUDRICK, M.D.
HON. MATT CARTWRIGHT
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Stanley J. Dudrick, M.D., Pro-
fessor of Surgery at the Geisinger Common-
wealth School of Medicine. Dr. Dudrick is an
outstanding innovator in the medical field who
has contributed to the health and survival of
millions around the world through his pio-
neering innovations. He is recognized as one
of the top 50 most influential physicians in his-
tory for his groundbreaking research. Because
of his work, the lives of an estimated ten mil-
lion children have been saved, and adults with
a wide range of conditions have benefited.
Dr. Dudrick is best known for his develop-
ment of total parenteral nutrition (TPN). Also
known as intravenous hyperalimentation (IVH),
TPN is a specialized central venous feeding
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A13FE8.028 E13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E173
February 13, 2019
technique and is considered a breakthrough
accomplishment in the development of modern
surgery. In fact, Dr. Dudrick’s invention has
been acknowledged as one of the three most
important advancements in surgery of the past
century, along with open heart surgery and
organ transplantation.
In addition to his contribution to the ad-
vancement of medical practices, Dr. Dudrick is
an accomplished medical writer. He has au-
thored or co-authored works that have re-
ceived 2,535 scientific reference citations, the
most for any general surgeon in medical lit-
erature. Dr. Dudrick’s over 700 published
works address a variety of topics related to
the care and management of surgical patients,
especially those with complex nutritional, met-
abolic, critical care, and re-operative complica-
tions. Throughout his career, he has received
over 100 honors and awards, including the
prestigious Joseph B. Goldberger Award in
Clinical Nutrition, the Brookdale Award in Med-
icine from the American Medical Association,
and the Flance/Karl Award from the American
Surgical Association. He holds honorary fel-
lowships from prominent surgical societies on
every continent except Africa and Antarctica.
In 2005, he received the esteemed Jacobson
Innovation Award from the American College
of Surgeons to complement his 2016 recogni-
tion as one of the most historically innovative
physicians.
It is an honor to recognize Stanley J.
Dudrick, M.D. for all of he has contributed to
the medical community throughout his career.
May he continue to inspire a new generation
of medical professionals and continue to trans-
form the medical field as he serves Geisinger
Commonwealth School of Medicine.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JERROLD NADLER
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained on February 7, 2019, and,
as a result, I missed four votes. Had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘aye’’ on roll call
vote no. 68, ordering the previous question
providing for consideration of H.R. 840, the
‘‘Veterans Access to Child Care Act;’’ ‘‘aye’’
on roll call vote no. 69, on agreeing to H. Res.
105, the rule providing for consideration of
H.R. 840 and adopting H. Res. 86, providing
for the expenses of the Select Committee on
the Climate Crisis and Modernization of Con-
gress; ‘‘aye’’ on roll call vote no. 70, final pas-
sage of H.R. 450, the ‘‘Preventing Crimes
Against Veterans Act;’’ and ‘‘aye’’ on roll call
vote no. 71, final passage of H.R. 507, ‘‘Put
Trafficking Victims First Act.’’
f
HONORING PASTOR JAMES L.
BETNER’S 20 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE DELAWARE VALLEY
BAPTIST CHURCH
HON. ANDY KIM
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. KIM. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize Pastor James L. Betner, a leader in
the Baptist church and dedicated servant to
his community, for 20 years of leadership at
the Delaware Valley Baptist Church.
Dr. Betner has led Delaware Valley Baptist
Church through a remarkable period of revital-
ization over the past 20 years, which has
grown the congregation’s ability to positively
impact their community. Under Dr. Betner’s
leadership, the church has grown spiritually,
as well as in size. He has led Delaware Valley
Baptist Church to build and expand into a new
worship center and has aided in the spiritual
development of countless men and women.
Dr. Betner also serves as a denominational
leader within the Baptist Resource Network
(BRN) of Pennsylvania and South Jersey,
serving most recently as the Healthy Church
Catalyst for all the affiliated churches in South
Jersey. Pastor James is a recognized leader
and one of the longest tenured and most re-
spected pastors in the BRN.
Pastor Betner has also led the church to es-
tablish its own community development cor-
poration, the New Vision CDC. The New Vi-
sion organization prioritizes education, eco-
nomic development and employment. Through
this organization and Dr. Betner’s leadership
the CDC has partnered with the Food Bank of
South Jersey to serve as a food and clothing
pantry in Burlington county serving over 1,000
people annually. The CDC also has provided
an annual low-cost summer camp to school
age children in the community and has given
out scholarships to rising high school seniors
and college freshmen annually.
Dr. Betner’s life of service has created edu-
cational opportunities for young people and
helped grow the Delaware Valley Baptist
Church’s ability to effect change in South Jer-
sey. Dr. Betner’s commitment to the better-
ment of our community is deeply valued by all
New Jerseyans, and we look forward to see-
ing the positive impacts of his legacy for years
to come. I thank and congratulate Dr. Betner
for his 20 years of service to our community.
f
THE CALEXICO CARNEGIE
LIBRARY 100TH ANNIVERSARY
HON. JUAN VARGAS
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. VARGAS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor the Calexico Carnegie Library on its
100th anniversary. The library has served as
a center of the community for a century. It was
built in 1919 with a grant provided by the Car-
negie Foundation to be the centerpiece of a
planned ‘‘intellectual park.’’ When it was
threatened with demolition in 1993, the citi-
zens of Calexico united to preserve this histor-
ical landmark for future generations. On Sep-
tember 28, 2005 the library was added to the
National Register of Historic Places, honoring
its cultural significance and Spanish Colonial
Revival architecture.
Today, the Calexico Carnegie Library is a
public technology center that serves the com-
munity daily. The library hosts classes for sen-
iors and reading sessions for children.
I would like to honor the Calexico Carnegie
Library for their contributions to the community
of Calexico over the past 100 years.
CONGRATULATING HADDAD’S
WEST PEORIA MARKET ON 100
YEARS IN BUSINESS
HON. CHERI BUSTOS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mrs. BUSTOS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Haddad’s West Peoria Market for
celebrating 100 years in business. Haddad’s
has been a staple in Peoria since it first
opened its doors in 1919.
Haddad’s West Peoria Market has held its
own as an independently-run business in the
Peoria community owned by Mark Wrhel.
Haddad’s family owned operation along with
its friendly atmosphere and welcoming staff is
what has kept customers coming back for all
of these years. Often times customers run into
their neighbors, friends or familiar members of
the community while walking the aisles at
Haddad’s to pick up their favorite products and
providing them with a sense of community and
comfort. Local businesses such as Haddad’s
are a critical part of our local economy and
owners such as Mark should be celebrated for
all of their hard work in creating a place for
the community to come together and shop lo-
cally. 100 years of business is an outstanding
achievement and I wish Haddad’s continued
success in the time to come serving the Peo-
ria area.
It is because of businesses such as
Haddad’s West Peoria Market that I am espe-
cially proud to serve Illinois’ 17th Congres-
sional District. Madam Speaker, I would like to
again formally congratulate Haddad’s West
Peoria Market on its 100 years in business.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF MRS. STACY
HORNE
HON. ROBERT J. WITTMAN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of Mrs. Stacy Horne, a re-
markable entrepreneur, businesswoman, pub-
lic servant, and leader within our Fredericks-
burg community.
In 1992 she started her own Allstate Agency
in Fredericksburg, after having worked as a
government contractor for several years. She
built her business from scratch, becoming one
of the largest agencies in the area. Her busi-
ness grew significantly over the years winning
many awards and accolades along the way. In
December of 2018 she retired from her busi-
ness and is focusing on the multiple organiza-
tions that she is currently involved with. She is
a charter member and past president of the
Fredericksburg Area Service League. She has
been a member of the Citizen Review Council
for the Rappahannock United Way for many
years; she is serving her third term as the
President of the Board of Directors for the
Lloyd F. Moss Free Clinic; is a member of the
Board of Directors of the Community Founda-
tion of the Rappahannock River Region and is
currently serving as Chair of the Board of the
Fredericksburg Regional Chamber of Com-
merce. Her dedication to the Fredericksburg
Area has been clear throughout her life.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A13FE8.032 E13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E174 February 13, 2019
Madam Speaker, I ask you to join me in
recognizing the work of Stacy Horne. Words
cannot capture the amount of time, energy,
and emotion that Stacy has devoted to her
business ventures and public service through-
out her career. It is our civic duty to thank
those who stand as sources of inspiration just
as Stacy has exemplified within her life.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF JON ANDERSON
HON. MICHAEL F.Q. SAN NICOLAS
OF GUAM
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life and legacy of Mr. Jon
Anderson. Jon was a proud, adopted son of
Guam, a media influencer, and a mentor to
many in the community. His recognizable
voice has been over Guam’s airwaves since
1977. The bulk of his career on the island was
spent as a talk show host, informing the Guam
public of the latest news in our community and
imparting wisdom at the same time.
Jon’s distinct style of journalism is easily re-
membered for his fairness and diligence. His
calming demeanor as an interviewer and ora-
tor had effortlessly captured his audiences
throughout the island and the region. Many lis-
teners to his shows would tune in to his morn-
ing radio show to discuss various topics of in-
terest and hear the latest issues impacting our
home. He spent his life encouraging and im-
proving the lives of those in our community
and serving as a senior member and mentor
in his profession.
I am deeply saddened by the passing of Jon
Anderson, and I join the people of Guam in re-
membering and celebrating his life and the
legacy he left behind. My heartfelt condo-
lences to his wife, Mahie, and their children,
Debbie, Darren, Keoki, Maka, and Tony. Jon
will be deeply missed, and his memory will live
on in the hearts of the people of Guam and all
those he had profoundly impacted.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF BOB
MONTALBANO, UNICAN OF THE
YEAR FOR UNICO NATIONAL
SCRANTON CHAPTER
HON. MATT CARTWRIGHT
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate Bob Montalbano, who
will be named Unican of the Year by the
UNICO National Scranton Chapter. He, along
with his wife, Patti, will be honored on Feb-
ruary 23, 2019 during the annual UNICO
Charity Ball.
Bob was born in Scranton to the late
Pellegrino and Lucy DeMaio Montalbano. After
graduating from Dunmore Senior High School
in 1963, Bob enlisted in the Air Force. After
serving four years at Bunker Hill Air Force
Base in Indiana, he worked for Printcraft and
Spotless Cleaners. He then worked for Emery
Worldwide as the Mail and Communications
Office Supervisor for thirty-three years. While
at Emery, Bob was on the Board of the North-
east Postal Customer Council. During this
time, Bob organized an annual golf tour-
nament to benefit the St. Francis Kitchen in
Scranton and the St. Vincent de Paul Kitchen
in Wilkes-Barre.
Bob joined UNICO in 2004 and quickly be-
came active in supporting fundraising efforts.
He took over the organization of cooking the
porketta for the UNICO stand during Scran-
ton’s LaFesta Italiana. Bob also served on
UNICO’s Board of Directors for several years,
and he received the Chapter’s Presidential
Award in 2015 for his extraordinary service
and dedication. Additionally, Bob served as a
presidential aide to UNICO National President
Chris DiMattio. During his tenure at this post,
Bob accompanied Chris on his travels to many
UNICO National events.
Bob and Patti Giambrone Montalbano will
be married for 50 years this November. They
are the proud parents of Lori Montalbano
Nozzi, who is also a dedicated member of
UNICO’s Scranton Chapter and the Ladies
Auxiliary. They currently reside in Dunmore,
Pennsylvania and are active members of St.
Anthony of Padua Church.
It is an honor to recognize Bob and his wife
Patti as they jointly accept the Unican of the
Year Award from the Scranton Chapter of
UNICO National. May they continue to work
for UNICO and the people across Northeast
Pennsylvania for many fruitful years to come.
f
CELEBRATING THE LIFE AND
WORK OF BILL FAIRBROTHER
HON. JOHN R. CARTER
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. CARTER of Texas. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to celebrate the life and work of Bill
Fairbrother, the longest serving Chairman of
the Williamson County Republican Party, as
he retires after more than 20 years of incred-
ible public service. With his ‘‘can-do’’ spirit and
high-minded vision, he’s a model citizen and
trusted community leader.
Bill’s activism started when he joined the
Baylor College Republicans and over the
years he has served as an officer in the Texas
Republican County Chairmen’s Association,
precinct chairman, election judge, and on nu-
merous committees. He’s proudly represented
Williamson County as a delegate to both state
and national Republican conventions.
Bill was elected Chairman of the Williamson
County Republican Party in 1999. Carrying out
this challenging and demanding responsibility
without pay or compensation, Bill has worked
tirelessly to unite factions within the party, ad-
minister primary elections, and make polling
locations safe and comfortable for voters.
There’s no doubt that he’s made a real dif-
ference for the party and the people and
ideals it serves.
While Bill isn’t tired of the privilege of public
service he knows that everything has its sea-
son and the time has come to allow the next
generation of leaders to take the stage. Step-
ping away from his office won’t give him much
idle time as he likes to read, travel, watch
sports, entertain, and enjoy all the great
amenities that Central Texas has to offer.
Bill Fairbrother’s retirement is the richly-de-
served beginning of an exciting journey. I sa-
lute his work and commitment to the
Williamson County Republican Party. I join his
colleagues, family, and friends in honoring his
career and wishing him nothing but the best in
the years ahead.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF FRANK ROBINSON
HON. CEDRIC L. RICHMOND
OF LOUISIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Mr. RICHMOND. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor the life and legacy of Mr. Frank Robin-
son, a trailblazing figure who was a Major
League Baseball (MLB) Hall of Famer, the first
black manager in Major League Baseball, and
had an amazing career that spanned 21 sea-
sons. Mr. Robinson passed away on Thurs-
day, February 7, 2019 at the age of 83.
Starting out in an era when Mays, Aaron,
Mickey Mantle and Ted Williams were the big
hitters, Mr. Robinson more than held his own
more than 2 1 seasons. He finished with 1,812
RBis, hit .294, played in the World Series five
times and homered in each of them. Addition-
ally, he had a .389 on-base average boosted
by 1,420 walks against 1,532 strikeouts. Ex-
tremely alert on the bases, he had 204 steals.
Mr. Robinson was born August 21, 1935 in
Beaumont, Texas. He was the youngest of
Ms. Ruth Shaw’s 10 children. His parents sep-
arated when he was an infant, and he accom-
panied his mother to Northern California when
he was 4. Mr. Robinson attended
McClymonds High School in Oakland, Cali-
fornia. At 14 years old, he began playing for
local coaching legend George Powles, and
won an American Legion national champion-
ship.
In the days before the Major League Draft,
Robinson was signed by the Cincinnati Reds
out of McClymonds in 1953 for a $3,500
bonus and made his Major League debut
three years later. He won the NL Rookie of
the Year Award and made his first All-Star ap-
pearance that season.
During 10 seasons with the Reds, Robinson
averaged 32 home runs and was a six-time
All-Star. He won the 1961 NL Most Valuable
Player Award and finished fourth in NL MVP
Award voting in 1962 and 1964.
In December 1965, Robinson was the cen-
terpiece in what would ultimately be one of the
most lopsided trades in baseball history, going
to the Baltimore Orioles for pitchers Milt
Pappas and Jack Baldschun and outfielder
Dick Simpson. Robinson became an instant hit
with the Orioles in 1966 as the unanimous AL
MVP and a Triple Crown winner.
On May 8, he became the only player ever
to hit a home run completely out of Baltimore’s
home park, Memorial Stadium. The drive
came against Cleveland ace Luis Tiant and
the spot where the ball sailed over the left-
field wall was marked by a flag that read
‘‘HERE’’ that remained in place until the Ori-
oles left for Camden Yards in 1991.
Mr. Robinson batted .316 with 49 home
runs and 122 RBIs during his first season in
Baltimore. He then homered in the first inning
of the 1966 World Series opener at Dodger
Stadium and capped off the four-game sweep
of Los Angeles with another homer off Don
Drysdale in a 1–0 win in Game 4.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A13FE8.037 E13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E175
February 13, 2019
Mr. Robinson hit two home runs against the
Reds in teaming with future Hall of Fame third
baseman Brooks Robinson to win another
crown for the Orioles in 1970.
Mr. Robinson was an All-Star in five of his
six seasons with Baltimore, reaching the
World Series four times and batting .300 with
179 home runs. He was traded to the Dodgers
before the 1972 season and played for the
California Angels in 1973 and was dealt to
Cleveland late in the 1974 season.
Mr. Robinson hit 586 home runs and was a
14–time All-Star and the only player to win
Most Valuable Player Awards in both
leagues—1961 for the Reds in the National
League and 1966 for the Orioles in the Amer-
ican League.
Mr. Robinson managerial debut came 28
years after Jackie Robinson broke the MLB
color barrier as a player. He became Major
League Baseball’s first African American man-
ager on April 8, 1975, as the manager of the
Cleveland Indians. Mr. Robinson, still an ac-
tive player, celebrated the occasion with a
home run in the Indians’ 5–3 victory over the
New York Yankees.
Mr. Robinson also managed the San Fran-
cisco Giants, the Orioles and the Montreal
Expos/Washington Nationals over the course
of his career.
Mr. Robinson served as manager of the Ori-
oles from 1988–91. In 1989, he was named
the American League Manager of the Year for
guiding the Orioles to an 87–75 record, 33
more victories than the previous season.
Three teams—the Reds, Orioles and Indi-
ans—have retired Robinson’s No. 20. All three
teams honored Robinson with statues. And he
was awarded the Presidential Medal of Free-
dom by President George W. Bush in 2005.
Aside from being one of the great home run
hitters, Mr. Robinson was innovator in his in-
volvement of the development of the youth as-
pect of the game. In 2012, he was hired by
MLB as the vice president of player develop-
ment. He managed to emphasize important
aspects such as the Urban Youth Academy
and the Future Game, as well as the Civil
Rights Game. He was given the special posi-
tion to become Honorary President of the
American League.
Mr. Robinson was not hesitant to give ap-
preciation to the Negro League players who
came before him. His youth academy empha-
sized expressing to future generations the im-
portance of the game outreach to urban areas
to keep the youth in the game.
Mr. Robinson was a trailblazer and had a
huge influence on Major League Baseball. His
legacy will forever be a part of Major League
Baseball and his dedication to community em-
bodies the spirit of America. We cannot match
the sacrifices made by Mr. Robinson, but
surely, we can try to match his sense of serv-
ice. We cannot match his courage, but we can
strive to match his devotion.
Mr. Robinson’s survivors include his wife
Barbara, and daughter Nichelle.
Madam Speaker, I celebrate the life and
legacy of Mr. Frank Robinson.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Thursday,
February 14, 2019 may be found in the
Daily Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
FEBRUARY 26
10 a.m.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs
To hold hearings to examine the Semi-
annual Monetary Policy Report to the
Congress.
SD–106
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
To hold hearings to examine the state of
the U.S. territories.
SD–366
FEBRUARY 27
10 a.m.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
To hold hearings to examine policy prin-
ciples for a Federal data privacy frame-
work in the United States.
SH–216
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Personnel
To hold an oversight hearing to examine
military personnel policies and mili-
tary family readiness.
SR–222
Committee on Indian Affairs
To hold an oversight hearing to examine
the 45th anniversary of the Native
American Programs Act and the estab-
lishment of the Administration for Na-
tive Americans.
SD–628
FEBRUARY 28
10 a.m.
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
To hold hearings to examine prospects
for global energy markets, focusing on
the role of the United States and per-
spectives from the International En-
ergy Agency.
SD–366
MARCH 14
10 a.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Departments of Labor,
Health and Human Services, and Edu-
cation, and Related Agencies
To hold hearings to examine the Ebola
outbreak in the Democratic Republic
of the Congo and other emerging
health threats.
SD–124
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A13FE8.041 E13FEPT1
D154
Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S1285–S1336
Measures Introduced: Nineteen bills and five reso-
lutions were introduced, as follows: S. 466–484, S.J.
Res. 8, S. Res. 68–70, and S. Con. Res. 3.
Pages S1325–26
Measures Reported:
S. Res. 50, improving procedures for the consider-
ation of nominations in the Senate.
S. Res. 70, authorizing expenditures by commit-
tees of the Senate for the periods March 1, 2019
through September 30, 2019, October 1, 2019
through September 30, 2020, and October 1, 2020
through February 28, 2021. Page S1325
Barr Nomination—Agreement: Senate continued
consideration of the nomination of William Pelham
Barr, of Virginia, to be Attorney General, Depart-
ment of Justice. Pages S1286–S1319
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the nomination,
post-cloture, at approximately 10 a.m., on Thursday,
February 14, 2019; and that at a time to be deter-
mined by the Majority Leader, in consultation with
the Democratic Leader, Senate vote on confirmation
of the nomination. Page S1336
Measures Placed on the Calendar:
Pages S1285, S1324
Measures Read the First Time: Pages S1324, S1336
Executive Communications: Pages S1324–25
Petitions and Memorials: Page S1325
Executive Reports of Committees: Page S1325
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S1326–27
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S1327–35
Additional Statements: Page S1323
Authorities for Committees to Meet:
Pages S1335–36
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 6:35 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Thursday,
February 14, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S1336.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
CYBER OPERATIONS TO DEFEND MIDTERM
ELECTIONS
Committee on Armed Services: Committee received a
closed briefing on cyber operations to defend the
midterm elections from General Paul M. Nakasone,
USA, Commander, United States Cyber Command,
Director, National Security Agency, Chief, Central
Security Service; Anne Neuberger, Senior Policy Ad-
visor to Director, National Security Agency; and
Brigadier General Timothy D. Haugh, USAF, Com-
mander, Cyber National Mission Force, Department
of Defense.
MILITARY HOUSING PRIVATIZATION
INITIATIVE
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Readi-
ness and Management Support concluded a joint
hearing with the Subcommittee on Personnel to ex-
amine the current condition of the Military Housing
Privatization Initiative, after receiving testimony
from Robert H. McMahon, Assistant Secretary for
Sustainment, Alex A. Beehler, Assistant Secretary of
the Army for Installations, Energy, and Environ-
ment, Phyllis L. Bayer, Assistant Secretary of the
Navy for Energy, Installations, and Environment,
and John W. Henderson, Assistant Secretary of the
Air Force for Installations, Environment, and En-
ergy, all of the Department of Defense; Christopher
Williams, Balfour Beatty Communities; John G.
Picerne, Corvias Group; John Ehle, Hunt Military
Communities; Denis Hickey, Americas Lendlease
Corporation; Jarl Bliss, Lincoln Military Housing;
Crystal Cornwall; Jana Wanner; and Janna Driver.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation:
Committee ordered favorably reported the nomina-
tions of Janice Miriam Hellreich, of Hawaii, Robert
A. Mandell, of Florida, Don Munce, of Florida, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:33 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D13FE9.REC D13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D155
February 13, 2019
Bruce M. Ramer, of California, each to be a Member
of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Pub-
lic Broadcasting, and a routine list in the Coast
Guard.
AMERICA’S INFRASTRUCTURE NEEDS
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine Amer-
ica’s infrastructure needs, focusing on keeping pace
with a growing economy, after receiving testimony
from William Friedman, Cleveland-Cuyahoga Coun-
ty Port Authority, Cleveland, Ohio, on behalf of the
American Association of Port Authorities; Ian
Jefferies, Association of American Railroads, Chris
Spear, American Trucking Associations, and Larry I.
Willis, Transportation Trades Department,
AFL–CIO, all of Washington, D.C.; and Matthew
M. Polka, American Cable Association, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania.
INVASIVE SPECIES THREAT
Committee on Environment and Public Works: Com-
mittee concluded a hearing to examine the invasive
species threat, focusing on protecting wildlife, public
health, and infrastructure, after receiving testimony
from Senator Cramer; Slade Franklin, Wyoming De-
partment of Agriculture Weed and Pest Coordinator,
Cheyenne; Terry Steinwand, North Dakota Game
and Fish Department Director, Bismarck; and Joe
Rogerson, Delaware Department of Natural Re-
sources and Environmental Control Division of Fish
and Wildlife Species Conservation and Research Pro-
gram Environmental Program Manager, Smyrna.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs: Committee ordered favorably reported the fol-
lowing business items:
S. 380, to increase access to agency guidance doc-
uments, with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute;
S. 394, to amend the Presidential Transition Act
of 1963 to improve the orderly transfer of the execu-
tive power during Presidential transitions;
S. 195, to require the Director of the Government
Publishing Office to establish and maintain a
website accessible to the public that allows the pub-
lic to obtain electronic copies of all congressionally
mandated reports in one place;
S. 196, to save taxpayer money and improve the
efficiency and speed of intragovernmental cor-
respondence;
S. 395, to require each agency, in providing notice
of a rule making, to include a link to a 100 word
plain language summary of the proposed rule;
S. 406, to establish a Federal rotational cyber
workforce program for the Federal cyber workforce;
S. 375, to improve efforts to identify and reduce
Governmentwide improper payments;
S. 315, to authorize cyber hunt and incident re-
sponse teams at the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity, with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute;
S. 333, to authorize the Secretary of Homeland
Security to work with cybersecurity consortia for
training;
S. 387, to prohibit Federal agencies and Federal
contractors from requesting that an applicant for em-
ployment disclose criminal history record informa-
tion before the applicant has received a conditional
offer;
H.R. 504, to amend the Homeland Security Act
of 2002 to require the Department of Homeland Se-
curity to develop an engagement strategy with fu-
sion centers, with an amendment in the nature of a
substitute; and
The nominations of Dennis Dean Kirk, of Vir-
ginia, to be Chairman, and Julia Akins Clark, of
Maryland, to be a Member, both of the Merit Sys-
tems Protection Board.
NOMINATIONS
Committee on the Judiciary: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine the nominations of Michael H.
Park, of New York, and Joseph F. Bianco, of New
York, both to be a United States Circuit Judge for
the Second Circuit, Greg Girard Guidry, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern District
of Louisiana, who was introduced by Senator Cassidy,
Michael T. Liburdi, to be United States District
Judge for the District of Arizona, who was intro-
duced by Senators McSally and Sinema, and Peter D.
Welte, to be United States District Judge for the
District of North Dakota, who was introduced by
Senator Hoeven, after the nominees testified and an-
swered questions in their own behalf.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Rules and Administration: Committee or-
dered favorably reported the following business
items:
S. Res. 50, improving procedures for the consider-
ation of nominations in the Senate;
An original resolution authorizing expenditures by
committees for the 116th Congress; and
Committee adopted its rules of procedure for the
116th Congress.
SBA OVERSIGHT
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship: Com-
mittee concluded an oversight hearing to examine
the Small Business Administration, including S. 84,
to amend the Small Business Act to require that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:33 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D13FE9.REC D13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D156 February 13, 2019
consumer reporting agencies and other credit report-
ing companies provide certain protections to small
businesses, after receiving testimony from Linda E.
McMahon, Administrator, Small Business Adminis-
tration.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 66 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 1153–1218; and 8 resolutions, H.J.
Res. 45; H. Con. Res. 18; and H. Res. 125–130
were introduced. Pages H1580–83
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H1585–87
Report Filed: A report was filed today as follows:
Conference report on H.J. Res. 31, making further
continuing appropriations for the Department of
Homeland Security for fiscal year 2019, and for
other purposes (H. Rept. 116–9). Page H1580
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Espaillat to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H1527
Recess: The House recessed at 10:49 a.m. and re-
convened at 12 noon. Page H1532
Journal: The House agreed to the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal by a yea-and-nay vote of 215 yeas to
199 nays with one answering ‘‘present’’, Roll No.
80. Pages H1532, H1542–43
House Democracy Partnership—Appointment:
Read a letter from Representative McCarthy, Minor-
ity Leader, in which he appointed the following
Member to the House Democracy Partnership: Rep-
resentative Buchanan, Ranking Member. Page H1533
Directing the removal of United States Armed
Forces from hostilities in the Republic of Yemen
that have not been authorized by Congress: The
House passed H.J. Res. 37, directing the removal of
United States Armed Forces from hostilities in the
Republic of Yemen that have not been authorized by
Congress, by a yea-and-nay vote of 248 yeas to 177
nays with one answering ‘‘present’’, Roll No. 83.
Pages H1543–56
Agree to the Kustoff (TN) motion to recommit
the bill to the Committee on Foreign Affairs with
instructions to report the same back to the House
forthwith with an amendment, by a recorded vote of
424 ayes with none voting ‘‘no’’ and two answering
‘‘present’’, Roll No. 82. Subsequently, Representative
Engel reported the bill back to the House with the
amendment and the amendment was agreed to.
Pages H1554–55
Pursuant to the Rule, it shall be in order to con-
sider as an original joint resolution for the purpose
of amendment under the five-minute rule an amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the
text of Rules Committee Print 116–4. Page H1554
Agreed to:
Buck amendment (No. 2 printed in H. Rept.
116–8) that ensures the U.S. may continue intel-
ligence collection, analysis, and sharing operations
with other nations (by a recorded vote of 252 ayes
to 177 noes, Roll No. 81). Pages H1552–54
H. Res. 122, the rule providing for consideration
of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 37) was agreed to
by a yea-and-nay vote of 228 yeas to 193 nays, Roll
No. 79, after the previous question was ordered by
a yea-and-nay vote of 227 yeas to 195 nays, Roll
No. 78. Pages H1533–42
Suspension—Proceedings Resumed: The House
agreed to suspend the rules and pass the following
measure. Consideration began Monday, February
11th.
Settlement Agreement Information Database
Act of 2019: H.R. 995, amended, to amend chapter
3 of title 5, United States Code, to require the pub-
lication of settlement agreements, by a 2⁄3 recorded
vote of 418 ayes with none voting ‘‘no’’, Roll No.
84. Page H1557
Committee Resignation: Read a letter from Rep-
resentative Matsui wherein she resigned from the
Committee on Rules. Page H1558
Committee Election and Ranking: The House
agreed to H. Res. 125, electing Members to certain
standing committees of the House of Representatives
and ranking Members on a certain standing com-
mittee of the House of Representatives. Page H1558
Clerk to Correct Engrossment: Agreed by unani-
mous consent that in the engrossment of H.J. Res.
37, the Clerk be authorized to correct section num-
bers, punctuation, spelling, and cross-references, and
to make such other technical and conforming
changes as may be necessary to reflect the actions of
the House, including the change placed at the desk.
Page H1558
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:33 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D13FE9.REC D13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D157
February 13, 2019
Recess: The House recessed at 7:06 p.m. and recon-
vened at 11:37 p.m. Page H1571
Recess: The House recessed at 11:37 p.m. and re-
convened at 11:50 p.m. Pages H1571–72
Senate Referrals: S. 47 was held at the desk. S. 461
was referred to the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form and the Committee on Education and Labor.
Page H1579
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appears on page H1533.
Quorum Calls—Votes: Four yea-and-nay votes and
three recorded votes developed during the pro-
ceedings of today and appear on pages H1541,
H1541–42, H1542–43, H1553–54, H1554–55,
H1555–56, and H1557–58. There were no quorum
calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 11:52 p.m.
Committee Meetings
OVERSIGHT HEARING: DEPARTMENT OF
ENERGY’S WEATHERIZATION ASSISTANCE
PROGRAM
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Energy
and Water Development, and Related Agencies held
a hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight Hearing: Department
of Energy’s Weatherization Assistance Program’’.
Testimony was heard from Michael Furze, Assistant
Director, Energy Division, Department of Com-
merce; Annamaria Garcia, Director, Weatherization
and Intergovernmental Programs Office, Department
of Energy; and public witnesses.
U.S. MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMIES
OVERVIEW
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Defense
held a hearing entitled ‘‘U.S. Military Service Acad-
emies Overview’’. Testimony was heard from Vice
Admiral Walter E. Carter, Jr., Superintendent, U.S.
Naval Academy; Lieutenant General Jay B. Silveria,
Superintendent, U.S. Air Force Academy; and Lieu-
tenant General Darryl A. Williams, Superintendent,
U.S. Military Academy.
LONG TERM HEALTHCARE CHALLENGES
AND LONG TERM CARE HEARING
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Mili-
tary Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related
Agencies held a hearing entitled ‘‘Long Term
Healthcare Challenges and Long Term Care Hear-
ing’’. Testimony was heard from Teresa Boyd, As-
sistant Deputy Under Secretary for Health for Clin-
ical Operations, Veterans Health Administration;
and Scotte R. Hartonft, Acting Executive Director,
Office of Geriatrics and Extended Care, Department
of Veterans Affairs.
MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMIES’ ACTION
PLANS TO ADDRESS THE RESULTS OF
SEXUAL ASSAULT AND VIOLENCE REPORT
AT THE MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMIES
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Mili-
tary Personnel held a hearing entitled ‘‘Military
Service Academies’ Action Plans to Address the Re-
sults of Sexual Assault and Violence Report at the
Military Service Academies’’. Testimony was heard
from Elizabeth P. Van Winkle, Executive Director,
Force Resiliency, Office of the Under Secretary of
Defense for Personnel and Readiness, Department of
Defense; Lieutenant General Darryl A. Williams,
U.S. Army, Superintendent, U.S. Military Academy;
Vice Admiral Walter E. Carter, Jr., U.S. Navy, Su-
perintendent, U.S. Naval Academy; Lieutenant Gen-
eral Jay B. Silveria, U.S. Air Force, Superintendent,
U.S. Air Force Academy; and public witnesses.
LEGISLATIVE MEASURE
Committee on Education and Labor: Subcommittee on
Civil Rights and Human Services; and Sub-
committee on Workforce Protections held a joint
hearing entitled ‘‘Paycheck Fairness Act (H.R. 7):
Equal Pay for Equal Work’’. Testimony was heard
from Representatives Beyer, DeLauro, and Norton;
and public witnesses.
PROTECTING CONSUMERS AND
COMPETITION: AN EXAMINATION OF THE
T-MOBIL AND SPRINT MERGER
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Communications and Technology held a hearing en-
titled ‘‘Protecting Consumers and Competition: An
Examination of the T-Mobil and Sprint Merger’’.
Testimony was heard from public witnesses.
STRENGTHENING OUR HEALTH CARE
SYSTEM: LEGISLATION TO REVERSE ACA
SABOTAGE AND ENSURE PRE-EXISTING
CONDITIONS PROTECTIONS
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Health held a hearing entitled ‘‘Strengthening Our
Health Care System: Legislation to Reverse ACA
Sabotage and Ensure Pre-Existing Conditions Protec-
tions’’. Testimony was heard from Jessica K. Altman,
Commissioner, Pennsylvania Insurance Department;
and public witnesses.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:33 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D13FE9.REC D13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D158 February 13, 2019
HOMELESS IN AMERICA: EXAMINING THE
CRISIS AND SOLUTIONS TO END
HOMELESSNESS
Committee on Financial Services: Full Committee held
a hearing entitled ‘‘Homeless in America: Examining
the Crisis and Solutions to End Homelessness’’. Tes-
timony was heard from public witnesses.
CHALLENGES AND SOLUTIONS: ACCESS TO
BANKING SERVICES FOR CANNABIS-
RELATED BUSINESSES
Committee on Financial Services: Subcommittee on Con-
sumer Protection and Financial Institutions held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Challenges and Solutions: Access to
Banking Services for Cannabis-Related Businesses’’.
Testimony was heard from Fiona Ma, State Treas-
urer, California; and public witnesses.
VENEZUELA AT A CROSSROADS
Committee on Foreign Affairs: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Venezuela at a Crossroads’’. Testi-
mony was heard from Elliott Abrams, U.S. Special
Representative for Venezuela, Department of State;
Sandra Oudkirk, Deputy Assistant Secretary, Bureau
of Energy Resources, Department of State; and Steve
Olive, Acting Assistant Administrator, Bureau for
Latin America and the Caribbean, U.S. Agency for
International Development.
DEFENDING OUR DEMOCRACY: BUILDING
PARTNERSHIPS TO PROTECT AMERICA’S
ELECTIONS
Committee on Homeland Security: Full Committee held
a hearing entitled ‘‘Defending Our Democracy:
Building Partnerships to Protect America’s Elec-
tions’’. Testimony was heard from Christopher C.
Krebs, Director, Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Se-
curity Agency, Department of Homeland Security;
Thomas Hicks, Commissioner, U.S. Election Assist-
ance Commission; Alex Padilla, Secretary of State,
California; John Merrill, Secretary of State, Alabama;
and public witnesses.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on the Judiciary: Full Committee held a
markup on H.R. 8, the ‘‘Bipartisan Background
Checks Act of 2019’’; and H.R. 1112, the ‘‘En-
hanced Background Checks Act of 2019’’. H.R. 8
and H.R. 1112 were ordered reported, as amended.
CLIMATE CHANGE AND PUBLIC LANDS:
EXAMINING IMPACTS AND CONSIDERING
ADAPTATION OPPORTUNITIES
Committee on Natural Resources: Subcommittee on Na-
tional Parks, Forests, and Public Lands held a hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Climate Change and Public Lands: Ex-
amining Impacts and Considering Adaptation Op-
portunities’’. Testimony was heard from public wit-
nesses.
THE STATE OF CLIMATE SCIENCE AND
WHY IT MATTERS
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology: Full Com-
mittee held a hearing entitled ‘‘The State of Climate
Science and Why it Matters’’. Testimony was heard
from public witnesses.
SMALL BUSINESS PRIORITIES FOR THE
116TH CONGRESS
Committee on Small Business: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Small Business Priorities for the
116th Congress’’. Testimony was heard from public
witnesses.
PUTTING U.S. AVIATION AT RISK: THE
IMPACT OF THE SHUTDOWN
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure: Sub-
committee on Aviation held a hearing entitled ‘‘Put-
ting U.S. Aviation at Risk: The Impact of the Shut-
down’’. Testimony was heard from public witnesses.
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: Full Committee held
an organizational meeting. The Committee adopted
its Rules for the 116th Congress.
HOW MIDDLE CLASS FAMILIES ARE
FARING IN TODAY’S ECONOMY
Committee on Ways and Means: Subcommittee on Se-
lect Revenue Measures held a hearing entitled ‘‘How
Middle Class Families are Faring in Today’s Econ-
omy’’. Testimony was heard from public witnesses.
Joint Meetings
ASSET RECOVERY IN EURASIA
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe. Com-
mission received a briefing on asset recovery in Eur-
asia from Bryan Earl, former Supervisory Special
Agent and Assistant General Counsel, and Karen
Greenaway, former Supervisory Special Agent, both
of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Department
of Justice; Sona Ayvazyan, Transparency Inter-
national Armenia; and Kristian Lasslett, Ulster Uni-
versity.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR THURSDAY,
FEBRUARY 14, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Armed Services: to hold hearings to examine
United States Special Operations Command and United
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:33 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D13FE9.REC D13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D159
February 13, 2019
States Cyber Command in review of the Defense Author-
ization Request for fiscal year 2020 and the Future Years
Defense Program, 9:30 a.m., SD–G50.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: to
hold hearings to examine the nominations of Bimal Patel,
of Georgia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury,
Todd M. Harper, of Virginia, and Rodney Hood, of
North Carolina, both to be a Member of the National
Credit Union Administration Board, and Mark Anthony
Calabria, of Virginia, to be Director of the Federal Hous-
ing Finance Agency, 10 a.m., SD–538.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: to hold hear-
ings to examine the status and outlook for cybersecurity
efforts in the energy industry, 10 a.m., SD–366.
Select Committee on Intelligence: to receive a closed brief-
ing on certain intelligence matters, 2 p.m., SH–219.
House
Committee on House Administration, February 14, Full
Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘For the People: Our Amer-
ican Democracy’’, 8:30 a.m., 1310 Longworth.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:33 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D13FE9.REC D13FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D160 February 13, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Thursday, February 14
Senate Chamber
Program for Thursday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the nomination of William Pelham Barr, of Vir-
ginia, to be Attorney General, Department of Justice,
post-cloture, and at a time to be determined by the two
Leaders, vote on confirmation of the nomination.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Thursday, February 14
House Chamber
Program for Thursday: To be announced.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Banks, Jim, Ind., E167
Barr, Andy, Ky., E170, E172
Bass, Karen, Calif., E166
Bustos, Cheri, Ill., E173
Carson, André, Ind., E166
Carter, John R., Tex., E171, E172, E174
Cartwright, Matt, Pa., E168, E169, E172, E174
Clyburn, James E., S.C., E171
Collins, Doug, Ga., E167, E170
Crow, Jason, Col., E169
Cummings, Elijah E., Md., E168
DelBene, Suzan K., Wash., E165
Grijalva, Raúl M., Ariz., E168
Hern, Kevin, Okla., E166
Huizenga, Bill, Mich., E167
Hunter, Duncan, Calif., E165
Kim, Andy, N.J., E173
Kind, Ron, Wisc., E165
Lieu, Ted, Calif., E167
Lofgren, Zoe, Calif., E171
Lucas, Frank D., Okla., E167
Meuser, Daniel, Pa., E170
Nadler, Jerrold, N.Y., E173
Norcross, Donald, N.J., E169
Quigley, Mike, Ill., E171
Radewagen, Aumua Amata Coleman, American
Samoa, E171
Raja, Krishnamoorthi, Ill., E169
Richmond, Cedric L., La., E174
San Nicolas, Michael F.Q., Guam, E174
Schiff, Adam B., Calif., E165
Shimkus, John, Ill., E167
Smith, Adam, Wash., E172
Stefanik, Elise M., N.Y., E166
Vargas, Juan, Calif., E173
Walorski, Jackie, Ind., E169
Wenstrup, Brad R., Ohio, E169
Wittman, Robert J., Va., E168, E170, E173
VerDate Sep 11 2014 10:33 Feb 14, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D13FE9.REC D13FEPT1
