Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H9297
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2019 No. 195
Senate
The Senate was not in session today. Its next meeting will be held on Monday, December 9, 2019, at 3 p.m.
House of Representatives
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2019
The House met at 9 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. BROWN of Maryland).
f
DESIGNATION OF THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
December 6, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable ANTHONY
G. BROWN to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Loving God, thank You for giving us
another day.
We thank You on this day for the ex-
ample of St. Nicholas, who fed the hun-
gry, brought hope to the imprisoned,
gave comfort to the lost, and taught
the truth to all.
May all who work here in the peo-
ple’s House strive to imitate him by
putting You first in all we do.
Give us the courage, love, and
strength of St. Nicholas so that, like
him, we may serve You through our
service to all our brothers and sisters.
On this eve of December 7, may we be
mindful of the great sacrifices of many
of our ancestors who gave their last
full measure while serving in our
Armed Forces in defense of our Nation.
We ask You, O Lord, to bless those who
serve now and keep them from harm.
May all that we do be for Your great-
er honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
THOMPSON) come forward and lead the
House in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania led
the Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will entertain up to five requests
for 1-minute speeches on each side of
the aisle.
f
CONGRATULATING HARRIS
COUNTY JUDGE LINA HIDALGO
(Ms. GARCIA of Texas asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. GARCIA of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
today I want to congratulate our very
own Lina Hidalgo, the county judge
and chief executive of Harris County,
for being named to the Forbes 30 Under
30.
A proud immigrant, born in Colom-
bia, and the product of Houston-area
public schools, Lina was the first in her
family to graduate from college.
Lina went on to serve as a medical
interpreter at the Texas Medical Cen-
ter and has supported immigrants
throughout her career.
Last year, Lina became the first
woman and the first minority ever
elected county judge in Harris County.
Lina is an inspiration to everyone in
the community and has dedicated her
life to serving the public and pro-
moting equality.
Lina is an example of how immi-
grants make America great, with her
hard work and contributions to her
county and her country. She is the
product of the American Dream, an
American value we must preserve so
that everyone who turns to America
for an opportunity to achieve a better
life can achieve it.
I am so proud to congratulate my
friend, Harris County Judge Lina Hi-
dalgo.
‘‘Felicidades y si se puede.’’ Con-
gratulations, and, yes, you can.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:50 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06DE7.000 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9298 December 6, 2019
SUPPORTING OUR VETERANS DUR-
ING DEPLOYMENT AND WHEN
THEY RETURN HOME
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I am proud to rise to sup-
port H.R. 5314, the Veterans in Effec-
tive Apprenticeships Act, with my col-
league, Congresswoman KATHERINE
CLARK.
Our Nation’s veterans deserve our
support while they are deployed and
when they return home, and one of the
best ways to do that is to prepare them
for the workforce outside of the mili-
tary.
Our servicemembers have attained
incredible skills during their service.
Sadly, when they return to civilian
life, finding a good-paying, family-sus-
taining job may be difficult.
H.R. 5314 helps streamline the proc-
ess of attaining apprenticeships and re-
duces roadblocks for our veterans. The
bill does four major things:
H.R. 5314 ensures programs are
equipped to complete the expedited VA
process for registered apprenticeships.
It clarifies that veterans are eligible
for advanced placement and commen-
surate wage increases;
The bill instructs apprenticeship pro-
grams to account for a participant’s
competencies and prior experiences, in-
cluding those gained during military
service; and
H.R. 5314 aims to improve coordina-
tion between the Department of Labor
and the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs.
I am proud to support this bill, and I
urge my colleagues to do the same.
f
DEMOCRATS ARE WORKING FOR
THE PEOPLE
(Mrs. BEATTY asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mrs. BEATTY. Mr. Speaker, when we
go home, our constituents ask us: What
is the Congress doing? What has the
Congress done?
So, Mr. Speaker, I rise proudly to let
the American people know that Demo-
crats are fighting for the people. In
2019, alone, we have passed nearly 400
bills, over 275 of which were bipartisan.
To name a few: a once-in-a-genera-
tion gun violence prevention bill, rais-
ing the minimum wage, protecting peo-
ple with preexisting healthcare condi-
tions, and keeping the United States in
the Paris climate agreement.
I am proud that I have authored two
bills that have passed the House: one to
make home buying more affordable—
we have a problem with affordable
housing—another to make the finan-
cial system more diverse and inclusive,
H.R. 281. In addition, I have three bills
that were adopted as amendments into
legislation.
Unfortunately, 300 bills are over
there with Mr. MCCONNELL. Let’s get
them out of the graveyard so they
don’t die on the vine.
f
SOUND THE ALARM ABOUT THE
SALT DEDUCTION CAP
(Mr. GOTTHEIMER asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. GOTTHEIMER. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to sound the alarm about an
issue that is badly impacting my con-
stituents in the Fifth District of New
Jersey every single day: the cap on the
State and local tax deduction, which
led to a major tax hike on my district
imposed by the ‘‘moocher States.’’
Right now, as congressional leader-
ship considers year-end legislation in
these last days of the year, why would
they not fix the biggest tax problem of
them all: the State and local tax de-
duction?
It is time to end double taxation.
I released this report last week on
the impact of the SALT cap on the
Garden State. It is clear, taxes in north
Jersey are through the roof. People are
leaving the State in droves, and our
home values are plummeting because
of the end of the State and local tax de-
duction.
It is time to end that cap, and I am
calling on Congress—Democrats and
Republicans—to come together, to re-
instate the SALT deduction this year
and give a real tax cut to north Jersey.
This Congress, I introduced bipar-
tisan legislation to fully reinstate
SALT, and I helped lead not one, but
two bipartisan resolutions overturning
the harmful Treasury regulations that
kept us from deducting charitable con-
tributions on our Federal taxes.
We have to fix this and reinstate
SALT this year and cut taxes for New
Jersey families, first responders, and
small businesses that are the backbone
of our community. We simply can’t af-
ford to delay and prop up the moocher
States anymore.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF LEONCIO
VEGA CORREA
(Mr. CORREA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life of Leoncio Vega
Correa, son of Luis Correa Sotelo and
Magdalena Correa. He passed away No-
vember 24, surrounded by his loved
ones.
Leo was the hardworking child of im-
migrants. He was born in Watts, Cali-
fornia, on April 24, 1926, but his family
spent much of his childhood living in
Zacatecas, Mexico.
Leo lived a hard life but an honest
life. The devastation of the Great De-
pression followed him and his family
from the United States to Mexico.
He never received a formal edu-
cation. He worked as a migrant farm-
worker across the country, following
harvests.
Despite all his hardships, Leo was a
gentle giant and never met a stranger.
He was always ready to give a hug, a
smile, a dollar, a meal, or even the
shirt off of his back. He would always
tell me: ‘‘Good deeds always come back
to you.’’ And he was known by his say-
ing, ‘‘pura vida.’’
Leo lived a hard, great life. We cele-
brate his life today, and he will be
missed by the community and his fam-
ily.
f
EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
REGARDING UNITED STATES EF-
FORTS TO RESOLVE THE
ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICT
THROUGH A NEGOTIATED TWO-
STATE SOLUTION
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, pursuant
to section 2 of House Resolution 741, I
call up the resolution (H. Res. 326) ex-
pressing the sense of the House of Rep-
resentatives regarding United States
efforts to resolve the Israeli-Pales-
tinian conflict through a negotiated
two-state solution, and ask for its im-
mediate consideration.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 741, the
amendments to the resolution and the
preamble recommended by the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs, printed in
the resolution, modified by the amend-
ments printed in part B of House Re-
port 116–322, are adopted and the reso-
lution, as amended, is considered read.
The text of the resolution, as amend-
ed, is as follows:
H. RES. 326
Whereas the special relationship between the
United States and Israel is rooted in shared na-
tional security interests and shared values of
democracy, human rights, and the rule of law;
Whereas the United States has worked for
decades to strengthen Israel’s security through
assistance and cooperation on defense and intel-
ligence matters in order to enhance the safety of
United States and Israeli citizens; including by
finalizing in 2016 under the Obama Administra-
tion, a 10-year Memorandum of Understanding,
reaffirming the United States’ commitment to
annual military assistance and cooperative mis-
sile defense programs, which is in the national
interests of both countries;
Whereas the United States remains unwaver-
ing in its commitment to help Israel address the
myriad challenges it faces, including terrorism,
regional instability, horrifying violence in
neighboring states, and hostile regimes that call
for its destruction;
Whereas the United States, under Presidents
of both parties, has provided bilateral and mul-
tilateral foreign assistance to promote the secu-
rity, stability, and the humanitarian well-being
of Palestinians;
Whereas the United States has long sought a
just, stable, and lasting solution to the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict that recognizes the Pales-
tinian right to self-determination and offers
Israel long-term security and full normalization
with its neighbors;
Whereas for more than 20 years, Presidents of
the United States from both political parties and
Israeli Prime Ministers have supported reaching
a two-state solution that establishes a Pales-
tinian state coexisting side by side with Israel in
peace and security;
Whereas for more than 20 years, Presidents of
the United States from both political parties
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:50 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06DE7.003 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9299
December 6, 2019
have opposed settlement expansion, moves to-
ward unilateral annexation of territory, and ef-
forts to achieve Palestinian statehood status
outside the framework of negotiations with
Israel;
Whereas United States administrations from
both political parties have put forward pro-
posals to provide a framework for negotiations
toward a two-state solution, including the pa-
rameters put forward by President Bill Clinton
in December 2000, the Road Map proposed by
President George W. Bush in April 2003, and the
principles set forth by President Barack Obama
and Secretary of State John Kerry in December
2016;
Whereas ending the Israeli-Palestinian con-
flict is vital to the interests of both parties and
the leadership of both parties must negotiate in
good faith in order to achieve peace; and
Whereas delays to a political solution to the
conflict between Israelis and Palestinians pose a
threat to the ability to maintain a Jewish and
democratic state of Israel and the establishment
of a viable, democratic Palestinian state: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That it is the sense of the House of
Representatives that—
(1) only the outcome of a two-state solution
that enhances stability and security for Israel,
Palestinians, and their neighbors can both en-
sure the state of Israel’s survival as a Jewish
and democratic state and fulfill the legitimate
aspirations of the Palestinian people for a state
of their own;
(2) while the United States remains indispen-
sable to any viable effort to achieve that goal,
only the Israelis and the Palestinians can make
the difficult choices necessary to end their con-
flict;
(3) it is in the enduring United States’ na-
tional interest to continue to stand by its iron-
clad commitments under the 2016 United States-
Israel Memorandum of Understanding, which
seeks to help Israel defend itself against a wide
range of threats;
(4) the United States, with the support of re-
gional and international partners, can play a
constructive role toward ending the Israeli-Pal-
estinian conflict by putting forward a proposal
for achieving a two-state solution that is con-
sistent with previous United States proposals to
resolve the conflict’s final status issues in ways
that recognize the Palestinian right to self-de-
termination and enhance Israel’s long-term se-
curity and normalization with its neighbors;
(5) it is in the United States’ interest to con-
tinue promoting the security, stability, and hu-
manitarian well-being of Palestanians and their
neighbors by resuming the provision of foreign
assistance pursuant to United States law; and
(6) a United States proposal to achieve a just,
stable, and lasting solution to the Israeli-Pales-
tinian conflict should expressly endorse a two-
state solution as its objective and discourage
steps by either side that would put a peaceful
end to the conflict further out of reach, includ-
ing unilateral annexation of territory or efforts
to achieve Palestinian statehood status outside
the framework of negotiations with Israel.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The res-
olution, as amended, shall be debatable
for 1 hour, equally divided and con-
trolled by the chair and ranking minor-
ity member of the Committee on For-
eign Affairs.
The gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) and the gentleman from New
York (Mr. ZELDIN) each will control 30
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York (Mr. ENGEL).
f
b 0915
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on H. Res. 326, cur-
rently under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, the measure we are con-
sidering today is something that ought
to be straightforward. It is essentially
a reiteration of our support for the
consensus view that has prevailed for
two decades on resolving the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict, a two-state solu-
tion.
This measure emphasizes that presi-
dents of both parties and Israeli Prime
Ministers have supported reaching the
two-state solution that establishes a
Palestinian state living side by side in
peace and security with Israel. Presi-
dent George W. Bush said clearly, ‘‘My
vision is two states living side by side
in peace and security.’’ And President
Obama agreed that, ‘‘There is little se-
cret about where they must lead, two
states for two peoples.’’ Prime Minister
Netanyahu has said, ‘‘Israel remains
fully committed to peace and the possi-
bility of two states for two people.’’
There are reasons, Mr. Speaker, so
many of us have supported this ap-
proach for so long. A two-state solu-
tion would go a long way to ensure
Israel’s survival as a secure Jewish and
democratic state, and it would fulfill
the legitimate aspirations of the Pales-
tinian people for a state of their own.
The resolution we are considering un-
derscores that a two-state solution
puts us on the path toward these out-
comes. It makes clear that any pro-
posal to achieve a just, stable, and last-
ing solution to this conflict should
likewise endorse a two-state solution.
This is what we have been talking
about for decades, Mr. Speaker, here on
the House floor and at international
gatherings, across administrations of
both parties and Congresses, and
premierships and Knessets of every
stripe. This isn’t controversial. At
least it shouldn’t be. This is nothing
radical. We all know two states won’t
spontaneously appear tomorrow. The
parties have a lot of work ahead of
them, but every day we seem farther
away from the goal.
Some of the reasons are plain as can
be. Violence and terrorism continue to
come in waves. Hamas has rained down
hundreds of rockets at populations
across Israel, and there seems to be no
end in sight. Palestinian leaders have
not embraced their role as peacemaker.
How can Israel sit down with people
who pay off terrorists?
But no one said peace was easy. To
paraphrase the late Israeli Prime Min-
ister Yitzhak Rabin, ‘‘You don’t make
peace with your friends. You make
peace with your enemies.’’
I haven’t lost hope, but the minute
America abandons its leadership role in
the two-state solution, that hope dwin-
dles. We cannot get to the point where
Israel’s role as a Jewish and demo-
cratic state is at risk. So that is why
we need to get back to what has rooted
American policy toward the conflict
for so long, what has guided our ef-
forts.
Now, let’s look at the history, be-
cause a little bit of history is impor-
tant.
Back in 1947, the U.N. Security Coun-
cil came up with Resolution 181, which
partitioned the land into what they
called a Jewish state and an Arab
state. The Jews accepted it. And the
Palestinians, the Arabs, rejected it and
tried to push Israel and the Jews into
the sea. It didn’t work.
The war of independence happened.
In 1948 Israel was declared a democracy
and a nation state. And so we fast for-
ward and we see what happened each
time the Arab states rejected the right
of the Jewish people to have a home-
land on their land for many years.
So when one side says, oh, we are
being mistreated. I think they have to
go back and look at how they reacted.
Because, again, back in 1967, back in
1973, there was no so-called occupation,
there was nothing that the Arabs ob-
ject to today, and yet, they refused to
make peace with Israel. So I think that
we have to look at both sides and we
have to say, you know, people who are
protesting now and saying that there is
no peace really should look at what
their actions have been for these past
years.
Unfortunately, there has not been
the leadership, in my opinion, in the
Arab world to be able to make peace.
That is why it is so important that this
Congress do it. That is why it is so im-
portant that we put our heads together
and try to say that constant war is not
going to solve anything, but a two-
state solution probably ultimately
will.
So that is why we need to get back to
what has rooted American policy to-
ward the conflict for so long, what has
guided our efforts.
Do you know what a one-state solu-
tion means? It means a state where
Jews could become the minority in
their own country. It means one Pales-
tinian state with no determination for
the Jewish people or for the Palestin-
ians. Israel’s right to exist as a state
that is both Jewish and democratic is
incompatible with a one-state solution,
period.
I would caution all Members to bear
in mind that before making charges in
this debate about who supports Israel
and who doesn’t, about who is turning
this issue into a political football,
there is no Member of this body who is
a stronger supporter than I am of the
U.S.-Israel relationship, of Israel’s
right to exist and defend itself.
That is why I support this legisla-
tion, because I want to see peace be-
tween Israelis and Palestinians. I want
Israel to have a secure and prosperous
future. And I want to see American
leadership brought to bear on this
issue.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:50 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06DE7.004 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9300 December 6, 2019
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to
H. Res. 326.
I have great respect for the gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. ENGEL),
who has been a long-time champion of
the U.S.-Israel relationship. And as I
was listening to his opening remarks,
there is a lot that he said that I strong-
ly agreed with. And it kind of pained
me realizing that he didn’t write this
actual resolution that is before us, be-
cause I know it would have been word-
ed differently and it would have re-
ceived support.
Unfortunately, many of the opening
remarks which I strongly agreed with
are deliberately not in this resolution.
It is a great opening for another resolu-
tion, not this one.
Last summer we came to the House
floor and we almost unanimously
passed a resolution to strongly oppose
BDS. That resolution included a lot of
what this resolution tries to do. It is a
watered-down version of what we did
last summer. When we woke up the
next day, many Members in this House
said, okay, now what are we going to
do about it?
S. 1 was a bill that passed at the be-
ginning of this year in the Senate with
strong bipartisan support with under 80
Senators voting for it. It has a com-
panion bill, H.R. 336, by lead Repub-
lican MICHAEL MCCAUL of the House
Foreign Affairs Committee. There is a
discharge petition that has almost 200
signatures on it led by Congressman
BRIAN MAST to bring S. 1–H.R. 336 to
the floor.
So we made a strong statement last
summer, and we woke up the next day,
and are motivated to do something
about it. We can actually, right now,
with this time that we are debating
and with the vote that we are about to
have, we can actually be passing a bill
with teeth that would go to the Presi-
dent’s desk and would be signed into
law.
And that is where our focus should
have been. This resolution before us
today is deeply flawed, it is highly par-
tisan, it is ill-timed, and it is poorly
crafted.
In the last 2 years, Israel has been hit
by over 2,600 rockets and mortars. In
the past year alone, 1,500 of those rock-
ets were fired from the Gaza Strip into
Israel.
Filing this resolution squarely into
the category of worst timing possible,
H. Res. 326 comes to the floor just 1
week after Israel was bombarded with
over 450 rockets. In all of the pages of
this resolution, guess where it men-
tions Palestinian terrorism? Nowhere.
This resolution fails to not only rec-
ognize these latest attacks, but all of
the persistent assaults on innocent
Israelis by Palestinian terrorists.
Guess what else this resolution fails
to mention? It is silent on fundamental
facts that shape the way Israel has
dealt with a constant threat on its bor-
der, as the chair so eloquently observed
when he referenced Hamas rockets
raining into Israel and Palestinians
paying off terrorists, and the need for a
Jewish and democratic state. It makes
no reference to Hamas firing rockets.
It makes no reference to Palestinians
paying off terrorists. It makes no ref-
erence to recognizing Israel as a Jewish
state.
During the March of Return, every
single week protestors gather along the
border of Israel in Gaza to throw Molo-
tov cocktails and burning tires at IDF
soldiers. Just this week, Hamas passed
out leaflets calling on the public to
join these protests in response to Israel
defending itself against the Palestinian
Islamic jihad. You won’t find this in
this resolution. Or that Hamas uses in-
nocent women as human shields, that
they call jihad an obligation, inciting
violence. And that list goes on.
And maybe worst of all, this resolu-
tion completely fails to mention that
Israel has made repeated attempts to
offer peace proposals to the Palestinian
Authority. After the Camp David talks
in 2000, Israel offered to withdraw from
90 percent of Judea and Samaria, parts
of East Jerusalem and Gaza. That same
year, though, the Palestinians started
the Second Intifada, and more than
1,000 innocent Israeli civilians were
killed in a Palestinian campaign of sui-
cide bombings and shootings.
In 2008, Israel offered to withdraw
from 93 percent of Judea and Samaria,
but time and again, the Palestinian
Authority rejected peace proposals
while continuing to refuse to this day,
both publicly and privately, to accept
Israel as a Jewish state.
In this vein, the Palestinian Author-
ity continues to incite violence and fi-
nancially rewards terrorism through
its Pay for Slay program, which in-
cluded the murder of an American,
United States military academy grad-
uate, Army veteran Taylor Force.
Yet, House Democrats added lan-
guage to this resolution at the last
minute to support the Palestinians, de-
spite the fact that the Palestinian Au-
thority refuses to suspend this Pay for
Slay program to this day.
This resolution imposes a solution
for Israel, stating specific Palestinian
Authority demands and deliberately
leaving out critical Israeli pre-
conditions necessary to maintain secu-
rity.
If you are going to engage in naming
specific preconditions like the way this
resolution puts those preconditions on
Israel, the Palestinian Authority de-
mands, well then try to balance it all
out, but this resolution doesn’t even
make any reference to Palestinian ter-
rorism. It is silent about providing as-
surances for Israel’s safety and secu-
rity through a demilitarized zone, but
that didn’t stop the resolution’s au-
thors from including Palestinian de-
mands of Israel.
The timing of this vote is no coinci-
dence either. This resolution, by the
authors’ own admission, is a clear re-
buke to the Trump administration’s re-
cent reversal of the Obama administra-
tion’s targeting of Israel with U.N. Se-
curity Council Resolution 2334. The
timing is no coincidence.
The resolution references President
Obama’s policy toward Israel after the
November 2016 election, but does not
mention the Trump administration’s
efforts. One of the worst lines in this
resolution references support for ‘‘the
principles set forth by President
Obama in December 2016.’’ After the
Obama administration abstained from
U.N. Security Council Resolution 2334,
the House, along with many of my
Democratic colleagues here today,
voted in favor of a resolution to force-
fully condemn U.N. Security Council
Resolution 2334.
This resolution, H. Res. 326, is a re-
versal on that point, pointing to that
December 2016 moment in time as if it
was something that should be ap-
plauded. This resolution chooses to ref-
erence President Obama’s policy while
intentionally leaving out the Trump
administration’s policy, ensuring a
partisan outcome to this resolution.
The resolution doesn’t mention the
long list of victories that we have had
in this administration to strengthen
our support and security and stability
of Israel, to strengthen the U.S.-Israel
relationship, like moving our embassy
in Israel to Jerusalem, to signing the
Taylor Force Act, and recognizing
Israeli sovereignty over the Golan
Heights.
This partisan resolution creates a to-
tally unnecessary schism in what has
otherwise been a longstanding history
of strong, bipartisan support for the
U.S.-Israel relationship, which included
the resolution that passed last sum-
mer.
There are other great bipartisan bills
that support Israel and fight anti-Sem-
itism at home. We should be spending
our time debating and passing bills like
S. 1 and H.R. 336 sponsored by MICHAEL
MCCAUL, the Never Again Education
Act or the Peace and Tolerance in Pal-
estinian Education Act.
b 0930
The House already passed, almost
unanimously, that resolution, H. Res.
246, last summer that opposed BDS and
supported peace between the Israelis
and Palestinians. Now, we are bringing
a watered-down, partisan, and weak-
ened version of what has already
passed in the House.
House Democrats should bring bipar-
tisan legislation forward with teeth
that will support Israel and fight the
BDS movement. But rather than move
forward and build on our longstanding
history of bipartisan support of the
U.S.-Israeli alliance, House Democrats
have decided to play partisan politics
with what is a powder keg.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘no’’ on this resolu-
tion, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:50 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06DE7.006 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9301
December 6, 2019
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. LOWENTHAL), the author of
this resolution.
Mr. LOWENTHAL. Mr. Speaker, I
rise to urge my colleagues to join me
in voting to affirm a longstanding, bi-
partisan, and fundamental principle of
American foreign policy. I believe we
should pass this resolution today be-
cause it states facts which have been
true for decades and which are true
today.
A two-state solution represents the
only path to a just and lasting peace in
the Middle East, and it is the only way
to safeguard Israel as a secure Jewish
and democratic state while also up-
holding the rights and the legitimate
aspirations of the Palestinian people.
We will never compromise on Israel’s
security, and we will not turn our
backs on the Palestinian people’s de-
sire for dignity and justice.
Some ask why Congress should speak
out now or in this way. To them, I say
this: When peace appears most remote,
our voices become more critical, not
less. The ongoing conflict can only in-
flict more suffering on innocent people
on both sides.
We cannot let the possibility of a just
peace slip away, and we cannot accept
any action that undermines a two-
state solution.
We must speak out against policies
that could put peace out of reach: uni-
lateral annexation, unilateral pushes
for statehood, violence, or settlement
expansion.
Mr. Speaker, I wish to thank many of
my colleagues who have worked tire-
lessly to bring this legislation to the
floor, including Congresswoman BASS
and Congressman CONNOLLY, Congress-
man PRICE and Congresswoman SCHA-
KOWSKY, Chairman ENGEL, Congress-
man POCAN and Congresswoman LEE,
Congressman DEUTCH and Congressman
GOTTHEIMER, the 192 cosponsors who
supported this important effort, and
Leader HOYER and Speaker PELOSI.
Mr. Speaker, I also want to thank an-
other one of my colleagues, Congress-
woman RASHIDA TLAIB. We spoke yes-
terday, and although she is not a sup-
porter of H. Res. 326, I left our meeting
feeling optimistic.
If a Jewish American from Queens
and a Palestinian American from De-
troit, both proud Americans, can find
common ground about the need for all
people, regardless of whether they are
Californians or Michiganians, regard-
less of whether they are Jewish or Mus-
lim, Israeli or Palestinian, if we can
find common ground to live in peace
and security with the same rights to
self-determination and dignity, that
fills me with hope.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. KIL-
DEE). The time of the gentleman has
expired.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield an
additional 30 seconds to the gentleman.
Mr. LOWENTHAL. Mr. Speaker, that
fills me with hope.
Mr. Speaker, this resolution affirms
the principles that have guided our for-
eign policy under Democratic and Re-
publican administrations. We know
that a two-state solution is the only
path to a just peace.
Mr. Speaker, this is not a partisan
bill. I urge my Republican colleagues
to join me in voting to pass H. Res. 326.
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Ohio
(Mr. CHABOT).
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
As the senior member of the House
Foreign Affairs Committee and as a
former chairman of the Middle East
and South Asia Subcommittee, I rise
today in opposition to H. Res. 326, leg-
islation that I believe is biased against
Israel.
To understand this resolution, it
must be taken in context. In July, this
House overwhelmingly passed H. Res.
246, which condemned efforts to
delegitimize Israel. It also reaffirmed
our support for a two-state solution.
A mere 5 months later, we are consid-
ering this redundant legislation when
we should be talking about the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act,
funding the government, prescription
drug prices, the opioid epidemic, so
many other things. Instead, House
Democrats find it more important to
rebuke the Trump administration be-
cause it took the position that Jewish
settlements in the West Bank are not
illegal.
What is really happening here is this
resolution is meant to paper over a
deep division within the Democratic
Party between responsible voices who
understand the importance of our rela-
tionship with Israel, and many of those
are here today speaking, and a campus
radical left that pushes BDS, welcomes
anti-Semitic attacks on Israel, and be-
lieves that Israel is the problem while
the Palestinians are just helpless vic-
tims.
Forceful, principled Democratic lead-
ership would take seriously their re-
sponsibility to educate the public and
clear up these misbegotten notions. In-
stead, they have opted to cover over
this serious problem with their flawed
legislation today. That is most unfor-
tunate.
Further, the resolution itself is fa-
tally deficient in a number of ways.
Again, context is critical. The resolu-
tion completely ignores the reason why
the two-state solution has never gotten
off the ground: venomous voices among
the Palestinians don’t want two states.
They want one, a Palestinian state.
The blame falls squarely on these
pernicious forces. Just look at the re-
cent round of rocket attacks from
Gaza.
That is why we shouldn’t rule out
other options by saying two states is
the only possible solution, as this reso-
lution does. It gives the Palestinians a
vote over Israel’s future, and we
shouldn’t let that happen.
Additionally, by raising the issues of
settlements and annexation without
serious criticism of Palestinian ter-
rorism and intransigence, which far
outweighs anything that Israel has
done, this resolution buys into the nar-
rative of the campus left that Israel is
the perpetrator and the Palestinians
are just victims, an anti-Semitic nar-
rative.
Mr. Speaker, for these reasons, I op-
pose this resolution, and I urge my col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle to
vote against it.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman
from New York (Mr. ZELDIN) for his
leadership on this.
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, one point to clarify
about this resolution, as the bill’s au-
thor, my friend from Queens, we should
say, even though he has a new district
these days, talks about this not being a
partisan resolution, this debate and
this vote, the reality is this resolution
is going to end up being, and is, the
most partisan resolution that this
House has ever taken up on Israel.
Mr. Speaker, I look forward to an op-
portunity to work with the bill’s au-
thor. I believe strongly in the need to
strengthen the U.S.-Israel relationship.
I also feel strongly in my opposition to
this bill, as many of my colleagues do
as well, but it actually is quite par-
tisan with regard to the text, the de-
bate, and the ultimate vote.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Virginia
(Mr. CONNOLLY), a distinguished mem-
ber of the House Foreign Affairs Com-
mittee.
Mr. CONNOLLY. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman, my good friend,
for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong
support of H. Res. 326.
‘‘Mirabile dictu.’’ Wondrous to relate.
Mr. Speaker, it is finally on the floor.
I just heard a revision of history
from my friend from Ohio. We were
prepared to bring this resolution up on
the floor in July. This has nothing to
do with it. It wouldn’t have even men-
tioned President Trump and Secretary
Pompeo’s strange acknowledgment of
settlements that are recognized as ille-
gal in international law.
This resolution is not, as the gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. ZELDIN)
would have you believe, lacking in a
recitation of all the grievances and in-
cidents that continue to plague Israel
and the Palestinian people. This is a
prescription for a solution, which ap-
parently my friend from New York is
not interested in.
A two-state solution has been the
policy of Republican and Democratic
administrations. If you want to call it
partisan, you take the blame, because
you on the other side of the aisle are
the ones who have blocked it.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield an
additional 30 seconds to the gentleman.
Mr. CONNOLLY. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman, my good friend,
for yielding.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:50 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06DE7.009 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9302 December 6, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to address their re-
marks to the Chair.
Mr. CONNOLLY. Mr. Speaker, it is
the Republicans who steadfastly have
refused even to entertain being en-
gaged in the drafting of this resolution.
So, yes, if you want to call it partisan,
you own it. It is your partisanship, not
ours.
This is a restatement of United
States policy. This is a prescription for
a solution, a path toward a solution
that would bring peace to both Israel
and the Palestinian people.
Mr. Speaker, I urge its adoption.
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, for the
sake of time, I will save some of my
thoughts on what was just said. That
was a very alternate version of reality
that we look forward to addressing
over the course of this debate. Hope-
fully, my friend from Virginia (Mr.
CONNOLLY) sticks around.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentlewoman from North Carolina (Ms.
FOXX).
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ZELDIN) very much for
yielding, and I very much appreciate
his work on this issue.
Mr. Speaker, I also thank the Repub-
lican Foreign Affairs Committee staff
and Ranking Member MCCAUL for their
tireless defense of Israel.
Furthermore, I want to state that I
have a long history of working in a bi-
partisan fashion with my dear friend,
the chairman of the Foreign Affairs
Committee, ELIOT ENGEL. That is why
it pains me to be here today debating a
partisan resolution, a resolution that
purports to defend a negotiated two-
state solution for the Israeli-Pales-
tinian conflict, but that is simply not
what this resolution is about. If it
were, it would be bipartisan.
This is a partisan resolution because
it makes pointed criticisms of the
Israeli Government on delicate, divi-
sive, internal issues. It does so at a
time when our Israeli counterparts
struggle through the democratic proc-
ess of forming a new government.
House Democrats would only move
this unconstructive resolution to the
floor if it achieved aims of radical left-
ists in scoring points against the
Trump administration.
But, Mr. Speaker, I ask this major-
ity, at what cost? At what cost are we
voting on this?
Moving forward to this vote risks the
bipartisan support that a negotiated
settlement leading to a sustainable
two-state solution has enjoyed for dec-
ades.
That is why I offered an alternative
resolution at the Rules Committee, one
that would support the peace process
without alienating our major strategic
partner and ally of the United States,
the nation of Israel.
If there is any imperative for Con-
gress, it should be to hold the Pales-
tinian Authority to account for its ef-
forts to bypass negotiations and unilat-
erally declare a Palestinian state.
For decades, the Palestinian Author-
ity has undermined the peace process
by appealing to the United Nations and
other international organizations to
impose its own solution and impose pa-
rameters for negotiations with Israel.
In 2000, Israel offered them full state-
hood on territory that included rough-
ly 92 percent of the West Bank and all
of Gaza, along with a capital in Jeru-
salem. The Palestinian Authority re-
jected it.
If there is any story that deserves
more attention from this Congress, it
is that Israel has made numerous con-
cessions in the pursuit of peace while
seeking only the right to exist, and
this despite the continued efforts by
Palestinian leadership to evade direct
negotiations for peace.
That is the story this House should
be telling, and that is why I oppose this
partisan resolution that politicizes
and, therefore, jeopardizes the sacred
issue of Congress’ support for Israel.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
vote ‘‘no.’’
b 0945
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Rhode
Island (Mr. CICILLINE), a distinguished
Member of the House Foreign Affairs
Committee.
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
to support H. Res. 326, the Lowenthal
resolution, to support a two-state solu-
tion to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
I thank my good friend, ALAN
LOWENTHAL, for the hard work he has
done to support the State of Israel and
to bring this resolution to the floor
today.
This resolution strongly reaffirms
longstanding, bipartisan U.S. policy re-
garding the Israeli-Palestinian con-
flict. This includes support for a two-
state solution and expresses opposition
to efforts that undermine the prospects
for a lasting peace.
I, like so many in this Congress, have
been a longtime and passionate sup-
porter of Israel and the U.S.-Israeli re-
lationship. We know that a strong
Israel is good for America.
But I have been increasingly con-
cerned that this administration’s deci-
sion to unilaterally change American
policies towards Israel outside of any
negotiation are detrimental to the
long-term prospects for peace. This res-
olution makes clear that the best and
only real solution to achieving peace is
the two-state solution.
And, again, I thank Mr. LOWENTHAL
and Chairman ENGEL for bringing this
resolution to the floor, and I urge my
colleagues to support it.
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I am
pleased to yield 3 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. ROY).
Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
gentleman from New York for his lead-
ership on this issue.
Mr. Speaker, I would remind the
body that, 2 years ago today, President
Trump said this in the Diplomatic
Room in the White House: ‘‘Today, we
finally acknowledge the obvious: that
Jerusalem is Israel’s capital. This is
nothing more, or less, than a recogni-
tion of reality. It is also the right
thing to do. It’s something that has to
be done.’’
Since that time, the Embassy was
moved. I was privileged to join many of
my colleagues to visit the new Em-
bassy in Jerusalem this past August.
There, we stood, Democrats and Re-
publicans, this August, looking at a
border with Lebanon where Hezbollah
has 150,000 rockets pointing at Jeru-
salem and at Tel Aviv.
We went near, but not too near, to
Gaza, where rockets are being fired at
Israel and balloons are being sent over
to burn fields, despite Israel’s good
faith voluntary withdrawal from there
in 2005.
But thank the Lord that America
stands with Israel. Standing with
Israel yields results for our national se-
curity and for the benefit of the great
people of Israel, a true ally and democ-
racy in which Jews, Muslims, and
Christians live together with rights
protected, and they live peaceably.
Following our example, Guatemala
has moved its Embassy to Jerusalem.
Honduras announced recognition of Je-
rusalem just a few months ago.
Just this week.
For the first time, Germany, the
Czech Republic, Austria, Bulgaria,
Denmark, Estonia, Greece, Lithuania,
Netherlands, Romania, Slovakia,
Brazil, and Colombia voted against the
annual resolution supporting the Divi-
sion for Palestinian Rights of the Sec-
retariat, which oversees the Committee
on the Exercise of the Inalienable
Rights of the Palestinian People. These
countries previously abstained on the
vote.
We are changing the world and recog-
nizing Israel because we stand with
Israel, and standing with Israel works.
But rather than standing with Israel
on a bipartisan basis, today, our Demo-
crat colleagues are pushing H. Res. 326.
This is a liberal, progressive retreat
from standing with Israel and a move
to have our Nation tell Israel what to
do.
This resolution spells out specific
Palestinian Authority demands with-
out listing critical Israeli pre-
conditions, such as acknowledging
Israel’s right to exist as a Jewish state
with an undivided Jerusalem as Israel’s
capital and providing assurances for
Israel’s safety and security through a
demilitarized zone.
The resolution chooses to reference
President Obama’s policy announced
after the November 2016 election, while
intentionally leaving out the Trump
administration’s policy, designing the
resolution to be hyperpartisan.
This resolution is a politically moti-
vated exercise designed to undermine
the policy of the Trump administra-
tion, the right policy, announced in
November, that settlements in Judea
and Samaria not be considered a viola-
tion of international law.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:50 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06DE7.010 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9303
December 6, 2019
This resolution disproportionately
criticizes the Israeli Government,
while failing to recognize the dan-
gerous actions targeting innocent
Israelis that further remove the possi-
bility of peace.
This resolution binds the U.S. Gov-
ernment and calls for Israel to only
pursue a two-state solution.
This is wrong. We should not bind
ourselves and our ally, a sovereign na-
tion with equal standing before the
United Nations, to only one solution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield an
additional 30 seconds to the gentleman
from Texas.
Mr. ROY. And, moreover, to one solu-
tion that has been a failed battle cry
because Palestinians have perpetually
failed to come to the negotiating table
to pursue it in good faith.
How peace is reached in the Middle
East begins and ends with actual and
complete recognition of Israel’s right
to exist—and it is up to Israel to decide
how and in what way a solution might
be reached, whether that is two states
or otherwise.
The rich history of Israel is increas-
ingly known and celebrated by the
world. It is a great and vibrant nation.
As we head into this celebratory sea-
son of our respective faiths, let us cele-
brate Israel, together, its greatness,
and remember that America stands
with Israel.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Michi-
gan (Mr. LEVIN), a valued member of
the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Mr. Speaker,
I rise in strong support of this resolu-
tion.
Mr. Speaker, last month, I visited
Israel and the West Bank. I talked to
Israeli Defense Forces leaders; Israeli
settlers; members of the Knesset from
many parties; U.S. Ambassador Fried-
man; Palestinians’ top negotiator, Dr.
Saeb Erakat; human rights activists;
and ordinary Israelis and Palestinians.
My trip left me more committed than
ever to seeing, in my lifetime, a two-
state solution: a democratic Jewish
state living in peace alongside a demo-
cratic Palestine. That is why I am here
today.
My colleagues have spoken a lot
about the need to safeguard Israel’s se-
curity, and that is also why I am here
today. We are at a moment when the
prospects for a peaceful two-state solu-
tion—something that has long had
overwhelming bipartisan support in
this country and from Presidents from
both parties—could be fading. If we let
them fade, prospects for lasting secu-
rity in Israel will fade as well.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield an
additional 15 seconds to the gentleman
from Michigan.
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Because,
make no mistake, without a two-state
solution, Israel’s future as a secure
democratic homeland for the Jewish
people will be in jeopardy. And Israelis,
like the ones I visited in Netiv
HaAsara, will continue to live in fear
of rocket fire that gives them 8 seconds
to reach a bomb shelter.
We need to express our support for a
two-state solution, and I thank the
chairman and my colleagues, Rep-
resentatives Lowenthal, Bass, and Con-
nolly, for their leadership.
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from North
Carolina (Mr. PRICE).
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, this is an Article I moment.
The President has sowed doubt about
this country’s historic commitment to
two-state diplomacy, diplomacy that
aims at a secure, democratic, and Jew-
ish future for Israel, and that aims at a
state of their own and self-determina-
tion for the Palestinian people.
It is extremely important for this
Congress to assert itself as a coequal
branch of government at a time when
this historic American commitment is
being questioned and undermined.
This resolution makes clear that
Israeli settlement expansion is
unhelpful and that unilateral annex-
ation of the territory is destructive of
the prospects for peace. The resolution
also reaffirms U.S. support for the se-
curity of Israel. And it makes clear
that it is unacceptable for the Presi-
dent to cut off Palestinian aid, as he
unilaterally has done, despite this aid
being duly appropriated by this body.
This is unacceptable. We need to as-
sert ourselves as an institution and re-
affirm support for the two-state solu-
tion, which is really the only reliable
path forward.
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, as I am listening to dif-
ferent colleagues on the other side of
the aisle speaking about this resolu-
tion, some are claiming that this is not
partisan and that the timing doesn’t
have anything to do with the Trump
administration, and then others are
coming and speaking that this is about
rebuking the Trump administration.
So I am unclear as far as that mes-
saging.
I do know that there have been mul-
tiple quotes that have been put out by
Democrats in this Chamber that the
timing is no coincidence. This was
brought up after an announcement was
made recently by Secretary Pompeo
with regards to reversing President
Obama’s policy that was announced
after the November 2016 election.
So, where my friends on the other
side of the aisle speak about long-
standing U.S. policy, I guess it is im-
portant for a quick recap of that long-
standing U.S. policy over recent years.
At the end of 2016, after the Novem-
ber 2016 election, the Obama adminis-
tration helped get through the United
Nations U.N. Security Council Resolu-
tion 2334 with regards to the view of ac-
tivity in Judea, Samaria, and parts of
east Jerusalem; and, for the first time,
the U.N. Security Council was saying
that that was a violation of inter-
national law.
This Chamber, with more Democrats
voting in favor of the resolution than
against, voted for a resolution to con-
demn U.N. Security Council Resolution
2334. This Chamber had a problem on a
large, bipartisan basis and came to-
gether to condemn U.N. Security Coun-
cil Resolution 2334.
That is what this resolution specifi-
cally references when it says the
Obama administration’s policy from
December 2016. That was great when we
all came together like that because we
had a problem with reversing long-
standing U.S. policy with that U.N. Se-
curity Council resolution.
Then this Chamber came together
again this past summer, almost unani-
mously, passing a resolution—a strong,
bipartisan resolution—strongly con-
demning BDS and talking about the
need for peace between the Israelis and
the Palestinians.
This resolution today is, unfortu-
nately, a debate. It is a draft, and it is
a vote that is going to be very par-
tisan. But the inconsistency and the
arguments on the other side of the
aisle—some are saying this has nothing
to do with President Trump and his
policies and others are saying that it
does. And some are saying that timing
is no coincidence and others have made
specific comments that it is absolutely
a result of the Trump administration’s
recent announcements. Those incon-
sistencies are being noticed by all.
Mr. Speaker, I continue to reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, it is now
my pleasure to yield 1 minute to the
gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. JACKSON
LEE).
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker,
who on this floor would stand with me
for peace, and who on this floor would
stand against our position and against
peace?
It is well known that the United
States, all of my life, has been a strong
supporter of Israel, rooted in shared
national security interests, democracy,
human rights, and the rule of law.
I have sent to Israel young people,
through the Mickey Leland Kibbutzim
program, from my district for 25
years—almost 25 years—to develop the
understanding and friendship that we
continue to promote for the values of
what Israel stands for.
The United States has worked for
decades to strengthen our assistance.
We are intertwined through national
security. And, in essence, this two-
state solution is a solution toward
peace.
I have been to Palestine and met the
Palestinians and their leaders over the
years that I have served in the United
States Congress. Presidents Bush, Clin-
ton, and Obama stood with Israel, as
we all stand today. But we stand with
peace and the understanding of the
two-state solution. Let us stand united.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:50 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06DE7.012 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9304 December 6, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield an
additional 15 seconds to the gentle-
woman from Texas.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. I invite my Re-
publican friends to join on the resolu-
tion, H. Res. 326. Do not read into it
anything more than a pathway to
peace, discussion, and dialogue, recog-
nizing the dignity of all people.
I join my friends, my Jewish friends,
my friends from Palestine, and I join
Americans in wanting a two-state solu-
tion.
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I continue
to reserve the balance of my time.
b 1000
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from New
York (Mrs. LOWEY), who is the chair-
woman of the Committee on Appropria-
tions.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong support of H. Res. 326, a resolu-
tion that reaffirms the House of Rep-
resentatives’ longstanding support for
a two-state solution to the Israeli-Pal-
estinian conflict.
Throughout my life and my 31 years
serving in this great body, I have never
lost hope that there will one day be
two states for two peoples—a demo-
cratic Jewish state of Israel and a
democratic Palestinian state living
side by side in peace, security, and mu-
tual recognition.
We cannot be naive. This will not be
easy. Gaza continues to be run by
Hamas, a terrorist organization respon-
sible for attacks on Israel and the suf-
fering of Palestinians in their borders.
The Palestinian Authority has been a
poor partner for peace, walking away
from reasonable peace plans and the
negotiating table altogether. And rhet-
oric from the Israeli Government offi-
cials about unilateral annexation
pushes a future, negotiated solution
farther from reality.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield the
gentlewoman from New York an addi-
tional 15 seconds.
Mrs. LOWEY. But we cannot and we
must not lose hope. Simply put, a two-
state solution for Israelis and Palestin-
ians is the only means to ensure
Israel’s long-term security and enable
Palestinian aspirations for their own
state.
I thank my colleagues whose hard
work brought this important resolu-
tion to the floor, and I urge immediate
passage.
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Mary-
land (Mr. HOYER), who is the majority
leader of the House.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, there are few alliances
as critical to America’s national secu-
rity, to global stability, and to our Na-
tion’s values as the U.S.-Israel rela-
tionship. Israel and America share
common values and together are com-
mitted to the principles of democracy
and individual freedom. The United
States will always stand by our ally,
Israel, period.
Let me be clear. Military assistance
to Israel is critical to America’s na-
tional security. It is an investment in
our security as well as Israel’s. That is
why I am opposed to imposing condi-
tions on that assistance.
Since even before its independence in
1948, Israel has sought to achieve a se-
cure peace with its neighbors on the
basis of the principle of self-determina-
tion for both the Jewish people and for
the Palestinian people. The Jewish peo-
ple deserve to live in peace and secu-
rity in their ancestral homeland, and
Palestinians deserve the opportunity
to chart their own future of peace and
opportunity in a land of their own.
That was the foundation of the peace
process in the 1990s and subsequent ef-
forts by Israeli Governments to achieve
peace with security.
It makes clear in this resolution that
both parties ought to take meaningful
steps to end mistrust and avoid obsta-
cles to peace. This includes encour-
aging both sides not to take any steps
that make the pursuit of peace harder.
Unfortunately, that has not always
been the case, and the attacks on Israel
undermine daily—and if not daily, too
often—the ability to achieve an agree-
ment helpful to the Palestinians as
well as the Israelis.
I want to thank my friend and leader
of the Foreign Affairs Committee,
Chairman ENGEL, Representatives
LOWENTHAL, POCAN, DEUTCH, PRICE,
SCHAKOWSKY, and GOTTHEIMER, rep-
resenting a broad spectrum of feelings
about how we deal with and support
our ally, Israel. But they have come to-
gether, as well as all of the members of
the Foreign Affairs Committee, to
work hard to ensure that this resolu-
tion reaffirms Congress’ strong support
for the U.S.-Israel relationship, while
contributing positively to helping
Israel achieve the peace and security it
seeks with the Palestinians.
The resolution says that settlements
and annexation are inconsistent with
that objective. I hope Members will
support this resolution. I disagree with
my friend from New York, that this is
not policy that has been adopted by
Republican administrations as well as
Democratic administrations. To say
this is an Obama policy that we are
overturning—which is apparently much
of what the focus of this administra-
tion is, overturning the policies of
their predecessor—is incorrect. George
H. W. Bush and George W. Bush be-
lieved that a contrary policy would un-
dermine the realization of peace be-
tween two peoples.
Mr. Speaker, I hope that we will on a
bipartisan basis overwhelmingly sup-
port the restatement of America’s pol-
icy.
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Oregon
(Mr. BLUMENAUER).
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, we
should not split hairs. We need to reaf-
firm our policy with this resolution be-
cause Congress in the past has not been
clear enough. In my visits to Israel I
have been struck how young people,
Palestinian and Jews alike, believe
passionately in a two-state solution,
but, increasingly, they doubt that it is
possible.
Unfortunately, the Trump adminis-
tration’s reckless policies are increas-
ing that doubt. The latest is giving a
green light to the destructive settle-
ment policy and its expansion. Make
no mistake: Trump and Netanyahu are
currently careening towards a one-
state solution, one that will challenge
the ability of Israel to be both a de-
mocracy and a Jewish state.
Jimmy Carter said in his book that
we are choosing between democracy
and apartheid. This resolution suggests
that we choose for democracy a nego-
tiated solution; and reaffirming our
longstanding goals, correct the ambi-
guity, get us back on track, and give
hope to those young people in Israel,
both Jew and Palestinian.
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Ms. LEE).
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker, I
want to thank the gentleman for yield-
ing and for bringing this bill to the
floor.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H. Res. 326 which I am proud to co-
sponsor. It really is an important reso-
lution affirming the United States’
support for a two-state solution, which
has been longstanding bipartisan con-
sensus for decades. It also makes clear
that Congress opposes any action by
the White House to encourage unilat-
eral annexation of the West Bank.
Mr. Speaker, this resolution is not
only needed but it is incredibly timely.
The Trump administration is actively
working against a two-state solution
and lasting peace at every step, from
support for unilateral annexation of
the West Bank to reversal of U.S. pol-
icy toward illegal Israeli settlement
expansion which jeopardizes Israeli se-
curity.
This resolution reaffirms the United
States’ commitment to a lasting peace
in the region which can only be
achieved through a negotiated two-
state solution for both Israelis and Pal-
estinians.
For the first time, this resolution in-
cludes clear language that the United
States should resume assistance to the
Palestinians.
I thank Chairman PRICE. Let me just
say it is an incredibly important step.
I thank Congressman LOWENTHAL and
Congresswoman RASHIDA TLAIB for tak-
ing a bold step and seeking common
ground.
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:50 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06DE7.014 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9305
December 6, 2019
The majority are tying themselves up
in knots.
With all due respect to the majority
leader, who said there was not a depar-
ture in policy towards the end of the
Obama administration and that I was
incorrect; I would like to point him to
H. Res. 11 from January 2017, that he
voted in favor of as well as most House
Democrats, which included: ‘‘Whereas
on December 23, 2016, the United States
Permanent Representative to the
United Nations disregarded H.Con. Res.
165 and departed from longstanding
United States policy by abstaining and
permitting United Nations Security
Council Resolution 2334 to be adopted
under Chapter VI of the United Nations
Charter.’’
That is from a resolution that the
majority leader voted in favor of,
where he personally, and many others
in this Chamber on both sides of the
aisle, took strong exception with that
departure from longstanding U.S. pol-
icy with U.N. Security Council Resolu-
tion 2334, now reversing that, once
again, with the text of this resolution
that is giving a shout-out to that De-
cember 2016 Obama administration pol-
icy as if it is something to be ap-
plauded.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Mrs. DINGELL).
Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
support of H. Res. 326.
It is critical that we take serious
steps to reiterate the United States
commitment towards a just two-state
solution to the conflict that allows
both Israelis and Palestinians to live in
peace side by side.
Unfortunately, recent developments
have put this vision, which remains the
only viable framework for a lasting
peace in the region, further out of
reach.
Settlement activity in the West
Bank has increasingly threatened the
viability of a future Palestinian state
in the region, and there is now open
talk of Israeli annexation of the Jordan
Valley. Settlements erode any possi-
bility of a continuous, viable Pales-
tinian state.
Additionally, the Trump administra-
tion’s recent move to overturn decades
of U.S. policy and legitimize the settle-
ment activity represents a body blow
to future peace and prosperity. In addi-
tion, the Trump administration’s poli-
cies have discredited valid Palestinian
claims to also have their capital in Je-
rusalem. We also cannot forget the hu-
manitarian situation in Gaza which is
untenable.
Mr. Speaker, this demands a re-
sponse, and that is why we need a two-
state solution to deal with it.
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Ms. TLAIB).
Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
as a proud granddaughter of a strong,
loving Palestinian woman, my sity.
For me to stand up for her human dig-
nity, I must oppose H. Res. 326.
This resolution not only endorses an
unrealistic, unattainable solution, one
that Israel has made impossible, but
also one that legitimizes inequality,
ethnic discrimination and inhuman
conditions.
Prime Minister Netanyahu and the
Likud party have actively fought
against a two-state solution and took
steps to ensure its demise. They in-
creased their illegal taking of Pales-
tinian homes, imprisoned more Pales-
tinian children than ever before, and
are building walls right now to annex
the West Bank and other Palestinian
villages.
Moreover, Israel’s nation-state law,
which states that only Jews have the
right to self-determination, has elimi-
nated the political rights of the Pales-
tinian people and effectively made
them second-class citizens.
Separate but equal didn’t work in our
country, and I can’t see that it is pos-
sible in other countries. Given our Na-
tion’s history of segregation, we should
recognize when such injustices are oc-
curring. We cannot be honest brokers
for peace if we refuse to use the words:
illegal occupation by Israel.
Our country and the United States
Congress must condemn these undemo-
cratic actions. We must take bolder ac-
tions to ensure that human rights are
upheld in Israel and that Palestinians
and Black Israelis are treated with
equality every human being deserves.
To honor my Sity Mufteih who lives
in the occupied West Bank, Palestine, I
am unable to support this resolution
today. She deserves better.
b 1015
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Florida
(Mr. DEUTCH), a distinguished member
of the House Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs.
Mr. DEUTCH. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Chairman ENGEL, and I rise in support
of a resolution that speaks to a two-
state solution that enhances the secu-
rity and stability of Israel, a two-state
solution that recognizes the legitimate
aspirations of the Palestinian people
for a state of their own and one that
will come about only through the di-
rect negotiations of Israelis and Pal-
estinians.
The words in this resolution matter.
The words that reaffirm that it is in
the national interest to continue to
stand by our ironclad commitments
under the MOU, which seeks to help
Israel defend itself against a wide
range of threats, is a critical statement
at this moment in our Nation’s history.
Those are the words that are the lan-
guage of this resolution. That is why I
support it.
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, again, I rise in strong
opposition to this resolution. I encour-
age all of my colleagues to oppose it as
well.
It is no coincidence that this resolu-
tion is being brought now. It is an at-
tempted rebuke of the Trump adminis-
tration.
I think that this Chamber should be
coming together and praising the deci-
sion to move the U.S. Embassy in
Israel to Jerusalem, that this Chamber
should be coming together and praising
the decision to recognize Israeli sov-
ereignty over the Golan Heights. We all
should be coming together on a bipar-
tisan basis with regard to the imple-
mentation of the Taylor Force Act.
The Palestinian Authority has a pol-
icy not just to incite violence but to fi-
nancially reward terrorism. If you
murder an innocent American or
Israeli, by policy—this is no secret; it
is documented; it is their own admis-
sion—they will pay you money.
Now, as far as this Chamber goes, we
are stewards of U.S. tax dollars. To
send money to the Palestinian Author-
ity, as long as they have a policy where
they are going to pay someone for mur-
dering an American, that is something
that this Chamber should be coming
together on, on a bipartisan basis, with
regard to the implementation of the
Taylor Force Act and how to do even
better.
This resolution attempts to get into
that world of what preconditions need
to be met in order to have an agree-
ment between Israelis and Palestin-
ians. It chooses to stay silent with re-
gard to any of the Israeli preconditions
on the Palestinians, but this resolution
chooses not to be silent on the pre-
conditions of the Palestinians toward
the Israelis. Not just in the text of the
resolution but today in the debate, the
goal is to place pressure on the Israelis,
on what they need to make concessions
on, by not saying anything at all with
regard to Palestinians committing acts
of terror and being financially re-
warded for it, saying nothing about
Hamas.
Hamas literally put in their charter
that jihad is an obligation. I wonder
where Hamas stands.
If the Palestinian Authority sat
down with Israelis and right now
agreed, I don’t know if whoever would
sign that document on behalf of the
Palestinian Authority would be assas-
sinated within days. But I will say that
he can’t in good faith deliver all of his
people because not only are the ranks
of the Palestinian Authority filled with
the likes of terrorist groups like
Hamas—and Hamas is a designated for-
eign terrorist organization of the
United States—not only can they not
deliver their people, Hamas doesn’t
just refute the argument that Israel
has a right to exist as a Jewish state,
Hamas refutes the argument that
Israel has a right to exist.
How are we silent about a resolution?
If you want to get into preconditions,
how do we not get into any acts of
Hamas denying access to humanitarian
aid to its own people or the fact that
they use women and children as human
shields, that Hamas will pay someone
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:50 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06DE7.016 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9306 December 6, 2019
to get shot? A kid goes to a check-
point, gets shot, and gets paid $500.
Right now, as we are here—I mean,
literally, as the decision is being made
to bring this resolution to the floor,
Israel is getting showered by rockets
from a terrorist group in Gaza, hun-
dreds of rockets targeting innocent
Israelis, kids who are going to school
or are worshiping or are at home or are
running to bomb shelters because they
have rockets being launched at them,
trying to kill them.
That is the issue with getting into
that world of preconditions, only talk-
ing about the preconditions that the
Palestinians want to place on the
Israelis, and then to double down and
triple down during floor debate and to
be silent entirely with regard to any of
the preconditions toward peace.
December 2016 is specifically ref-
erenced in this resolution. This House
came together and condemned that De-
cember 2016 policy. After the November
2016 election, this House came together
in January on a huge bipartisan basis
and condemned that change of policy
in December 2016.
The reversal here in this resolution is
now this resolution is specifically ref-
erencing the December 2016 policy as if
it is something to be celebrated.
What we should be doing right now is
passing legislation with teeth—by the
way, a whole lot of legislation with
teeth: passing USMCA; lowering the
cost of prescription drugs, a bipartisan
agreement that passed out of the House
Committee on Energy and Commerce;
passing S.1/H.R. 336, legislation with
teeth to stop BDS, to help support
Israel with teeth; authorizing funding
to support Jordan; legislation with
teeth to increase sanctions on Assad in
Syria.
This bill has already passed the Sen-
ate with all of these different Repub-
licans and Democrats, almost 80 Sen-
ators passing it.
Bill numbers are set based on what is
important. What is important to the
Senate? That was S.1.
We made a strong statement last
summer, almost unanimously passing a
resolution condemning BDS, including
language toward peace between the
Israelis and the Palestinians. We
should have woken up the next day
united to now do something about it.
It is one thing to make a statement
about anything that anyone in this
Chamber is passionate about, and I re-
spect the different passions and back-
grounds of all of my colleagues. There
are people who have different opinions
on just about anything that comes for
a vote in this Chamber.
When we choose to make statements
of something that we feel strongly
about, it is important to wake up the
next day and say: ‘‘Okay, well, what
are we going to do about it?’’ That is
why, while I am so proud of my col-
leagues for voting almost unanimously
for that resolution, we should be pass-
ing S.1/H.R. 336.
Mr. Speaker, I ask for all of my col-
leagues to oppose this resolution, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self the balance of my time to close de-
bate on this measure.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to no one, no one
in this Chamber, when it comes to sup-
port for Israel. I supported moving the
Embassy to Jerusalem, the eternal cap-
ital of the Jewish people. I am happy to
have an honest debate about the Mid-
dle East so long as that debate is on
the policy, on the merits. That is true
when it comes to my friends on the
other side and with Members of my
own party. That is why we are here,
and that is what the House of Rep-
resentatives is all about.
I want also to point out that this res-
olution, an important part of this reso-
lution, says that there are to be no
conditions on U.S. aid to Israel. That is
something that is very important, and
I think it is very important that we
state that.
The debate on foreign policy turns
toxic when the issue is tainted by
party politics, when support for Israel
is politicized through motions to re-
commit or poison pill amendments.
Politics should stop at the water’s
edge, and that is what normally guides
our work on the Committee on Foreign
Affairs.
What happens when we ignore that?
What happens is that decisions about
our own security and leadership on the
world stage are trumped by decisions
about our own political interests. That
makes us less safe. What happens is
that decisions about how we treat our
friends and partners around the world
are trumped by decisions about what
may be more appealing to our political
base or political supporters. That
makes our friends and partners less
safe, less trusting, less confident in
America.
If we allow partisan politics to con-
taminate our foreign policy, we do so
at our peril and the peril of many oth-
ers around the world. We cannot allow
that to happen when it comes to Israel,
our most important ally in the Middle
East.
For two decades, support for a two-
state solution has won bipartisan sup-
port. Even when they disagreed on
many policy issues, Presidents George
W. Bush and Barack Obama agreed on
this.
Of course, no one said anywhere
along the line that it would be easy to
achieve, but that doesn’t mean we give
up. It means we dig in and keep push-
ing and working to change minds. That
is what American leadership is all
about.
I sincerely hope that my colleagues
don’t walk away from that. Those of us
who are strong supporters of Israel un-
derstand that Israel is best served by a
two-state solution, that a two-state so-
lution is not good for only Palestinians
but also good for Jews, also good for
Israelis, also good for all people in the
Middle East. That is what we are try-
ing to do.
My commitment to the U.S.-Israel
relationship is second to none, to no-
body. That is why I do believe, by pass-
ing this resolution today, we are at-
tempting to bring the parties together,
attempting to state U.S. policy, ac-
knowledging the fact that U.S. and
Israel are unshakeable allies.
This is simply saying that there is a
dispute, that there are two peoples,
two states for two peoples. That seems
fair to me, and I urge all of my col-
leagues to vote for this resolution.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ex-
press my thoughts on H. Res. 326, which ex-
presses the sense of the House of Represent-
atives regarding the Israeli–Palestinian con-
flict.
While I am a firm believer in the Israeli–Pal-
estinian peace process and the two-state solu-
tion, I am disappointed that the version of the
resolution brought to the Floor did not reflect
the language as introduced, language that I
and 191 of my colleagues cosponsored.
It remains my firm belief that the United
States must continue to call for an end to
Israeli settlement expansion and oppose
Israel’s unilateral annexation of territory. Fur-
thermore, the United States must do more to
uphold human rights and ensure that demo-
cratic ideals are preserved as part of the proc-
ess.
All humankind deserves to live a productive
life without fear of threat to their safety. That
is why I remain committed to the peace proc-
ess and welcome the opportunity to work with
my colleagues, on both sides of the aisle, to
achieve that aim.
Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in sup-
port of House Resolution 326, a resolution I
drafted with Congressman ALAN LOWENTHAL
and Congressman GERRY CONNOLLY to ex-
press the support of Congress regarding ef-
forts to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict
through a negotiated two-state solution.
For more than 20 years, U.S. Presidents
from both political parties and Israeli Prime
Ministers have supported reaching a two-state
solution that establishes a Palestinian state liv-
ing side by side with Israel in peace and secu-
rity. I am proud to have assisted in drafting
this important resolution, which affirms that
commitment.
Our government’s established decades-
worth of commitment to a two-state solution in
order to enhance stability and security in the
Middle East and to ensure the state of Israel’s
survival while addressing the legitimate de-
sires of the Palestinian people for a state of
their own reflects our fundamental dedication
to promote peace.
This resolution builds on our ongoing com-
mitment and our historic alliance with Israel. I
strongly support it.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in strong support of House Resolution
326. This resolution expresses this chamber’s
strong support for the longstanding belief that
a two-state solution to the Israel-Palestine
conflict is the best option to ensure Palestinian
autonomy and Israel’s survival as a Jewish
democratic state.
During my time in this chamber, I have been
a firm supporter of a negotiated two-state so-
lution between Israel and Palestine. While I
believe both parties will have to make difficult
decisions to ensure a long-lasting peace, I be-
lieve it can be done in a way that ensures that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:50 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K06DE7.018 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9307
December 6, 2019
the human rights of Palestinians are respected
while also securing the safety of our closest
ally in the region.
This administration’s capitulation to Ben-
jamin Netanyahu and his allies on the extreme
right in Israeli domestic politics has severely
damaged the ability of the United States to be
considered a fair neutral party in this conflict.
It has made Israel less safe in the long term
and has only driven Palestinians into the arms
of bad actors in the region like Hamas.
In May 2018, this administration chose to
abandon our European allies by announcing
the withdrawal of the United States from the
Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, com-
monly known as the Iran Nuclear Deal. Shortly
thereafter, the Administration relocated the
United States Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem
while subsequently eliminating the Consulate
General office in Jerusalem, which served as
a key diplomatic line to the Palestinian Author-
ity.
Additionally, this administration has stripped
funding from the United Nations Relief and
Work Agency. This agency has worked tire-
lessly to help Palestinian refugees in Gaza,
the West Bank, Syria, Lebanon, and Jordan,
by providing food, housing, education, and
other necessities. Eliminating these funds
jeopardizes the ability of the UNRWA to help
these individuals live as normal a life as pos-
sible. It also threatens the security of the
Israeli people by ensuring more of these peo-
ple turn to terrorist organizations like Hamas
when their basic needs fail to be met.
Last month, Secretary of State, Mike
Pompeo, announced that Israeli settlements in
the occupied West Bank did not violate inter-
national law. This drastic change in policy on
the issue of Israeli settlements essentially
gives the green light to the Israeli government
to unilaterally annex portions of this region.
Any form of annexation would essentially kill
the idea of a two-state solution.
Mr. Speaker, we are voting on this resolu-
tion today to show the international community
that regardless of this administration’s reckless
actions, the United States can play a construc-
tive role in resolving this conflict that has
lasted for more than 70 years. I urge all my
colleagues to swiftly pass this resolution.
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, as a co-
sponsor of H. Res. 326 as introduced on April
25, 2019, I support Representative
LOWENTHAL’s determination to advance U.S.
leadership in seeking a diplomatic resolution
to achieve a ‘‘two-state solution’’ to end the
Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Unfortunately,
amendments to the resolution mean I can no
longer vote in favor of H. Res. 326 and I will
be voting ‘‘present.’’
For years, I have heard colleagues say, ‘‘It’s
only a resolution. It really doesn’t mean any-
thing.’’ At a time when the Trump administra-
tion is actively taking policy actions to inflict
pain on the Palestinian people while giving a
green light to Israel’s annexation of Palestinian
lands, a statement by the House of Rep-
resentatives to Israelis and Palestinians does
mean something.
Is there any doubt Israel and the security of
the Israeli people have the strong support of
Congress? There is zero doubt. But millions of
Palestinians working to build a peaceful future
feel that they have been abandoned by Con-
gress and attacked by the White House. The
U.S. is no longer an honest broker in any dip-
lomatic peace initiative between Israelis and
Palestinians. The language added to H. Res.
326 stating an ‘‘ironclad commitment’’ to $38
billion in foreign military aid only highlights the
contrast that there is no ironclad U.S. commit-
ment to human rights or even providing the
most basic life-saving humanitarian aid to the
Palestinian people. This House vote today
does not reflect the reality on the ground.
This is the time to unequivocally support
both the Palestinian people’s right to self-de-
termination, justice, equality, and human rights
as well as Israel’s right to live in peace and
security. U.S. aid must never be an ‘‘ironclad’’
blank check to any nation. I believe if U.S.
military aid to Israel is being used to enable or
support the military detention and torture of
Palestinian children, the demolition of Pales-
tinian homes, or the annexation of Palestinian
lands there should be conditions on that aid—
not cuts to aid, but conditions—as has been
done to aid to the Palestinians.
Striving for an Israeli state and a Palestinian
state living side-by-side in peace and security
is worth the effort of every Member of Con-
gress. But that means Congress will need to
support the legitimate rights, needs, and aspi-
rations of both Palestinians and Israelis. In my
opinion, H. Res. 326 maintains the status quo
and fails to move us towards achieving peace.
A peace that both Israelis and Palestinians de-
serve and need.
[From Noa Landau, Lisbon, Dec. 5, 2019]
NETANYAHU SAYS ‘OUR FULL RIGHT’ TO
ANNEX JORDAN VALLEY, DESPITE ICC PROS-
ECUTOR REPORT
AFP LISBON—Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu told Haaretz Thursday that it’s
Israel’s full right to annex the Jordan Valley
if it chooses to do so.
PM says political deadlock hinders con-
troversial move, adding: ‘Exactly because of
that we should form a government now and
do it’
Earlier Thursday, International Criminal
Court Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda expressed
concern over Israeli proposals to annex this
West Bank region.
Asked on the matter by reports in Lisbon,
the premier said ‘‘It’s our full right to do so
if we decide,’’ despite the ICC prosecutor’s
report.
Asked about a timeline for the proposed
annexation, Netanyahu said ‘‘there are some
questions about what can be done in a tran-
sition government. Exactly because of that
we should form a government now and do
it.’’
When asked whether he would agree to re-
nounce serving first as prime minister in a
rotation agreement if Kahol Lavan agrees to
annex the Jordan Valley and to a defense
treaty with the United States, Netanyahu
said ‘‘those things will be achieved when I’m
prime minister. I have thousands of hours on
American prime-time TV and that has a cer-
tain influence on the United States, espe-
cially now. I won’t be able [to influence] if
I’m not prime minister.’’
Netanyahu refused to tell the press wheth-
er he intends to seek immunity from the
Knesset in his three pending corruption
cases and cancel Likud’s primary election,
arguing he wouldn’t address personal mat-
ters in the briefing.
‘‘I intend to invest every effort, despite
Kahol Lavan’s objection, to reach an agree-
ment and prevent this truly unnecessary
election. Benny Gantz can [prevent it] if he
manages to overcome Yair Lapid and if
[Avigdor] Lieberman overcomes himself,’’
Netanyahu said, referring to Kahal Lavan
co-leader and Yisrael Beiteinu chairman,
who said he has no intention to have his
party join a narrow, right-wing government
headed by Netanyahu.
‘‘I hope that a minority government with
the Joint List is not an option,’’ the premier
said, reiterating a claim that his political ri-
vals are backed by Arab lawmakers.
When asked why he refuses to resign, the
prime minister said that ‘‘the public has cho-
sen me. Let the public decide.’’
Responding on the option of holding a di-
rect election for the prime minister between
him and Gantz, Netanyahu said: ‘‘First, let’s
try to avoid another election, but this that’s
an option that’s becoming interesting.’’
Earlier today, Netanyahu met with U.S.
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo after his
phone call conversation with U.S. President
Donald Trump on Sunday, when they also
discussed the annexation of the Jordan Val-
ley, which Netanyahu told voters in Sep-
tember he would achieve.
Before taking off from Tel Aviv,
Netanyahu told reporters his meeting with
Pompeo would be focused on ‘‘Iran, first of
all,’’ a mutual defense treaty and a ‘‘future’’
American recognition of Israel’s annexation
of the Jordan Valley.
Ms. MOORE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support
of this resolution that reaffirms longstanding
U.S. policy regarding the two-state solution
and which squarely condemns unilateral acts
by any party (and I hope the Administration
understands that includes the U.S.) that un-
dermines that goal.
The two-state solution has been such a cen-
tral part of the U.S. policy for this region that
it rightly deserves its own debate in this
House, rather than just a passing reference in
legislation as we have seen in the past.
As noted by the resolution, for more than 20
years, ‘‘Presidents of the United States from
both political parties and Israeli Prime Min-
isters have supported reaching a two-state so-
lution that establishes a Palestinian state co-
existing side by side with Israel in peace and
security.’’
Yet, somehow the two-state solution has
now become a controversial position, including
within the current Administration which goes
out of its way to not even mention it as a goal
of our policy anymore. In light of the Adminis-
tration’s refusal to even say the phrase, more
and more leaders in the region feel
emboldened to also publicly oppose two states
living side by side in peace and security.
It is even more critical now that the U.S.
Congress unambiguously and clearly express
support for the two-state solution.
Current trends are moving us farther away
from peace or security and the Administra-
tion’s efforts are doing nothing to stop that. As
a hundred of my colleagues and I recently
noted in a letter to the State Department, the
Administration’s recent announcement declar-
ing that Israeli settlements in the occupied ter-
ritories do not violate international law as far
as the U.S. is concerned, ‘‘following the ad-
ministration’s decision to move the U.S. Em-
bassy to Jerusalem outside of a negotiated
agreement; its closure of the Palestinian mis-
sion in Washington, D.C. and U.S. Consulate
in Jerusalem; and its halting of aid Congress
appropriated to the West Bank and Gaza, has
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:02 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A06DE7.013 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9308 December 6, 2019
discredited the United States as an honest
broker between Israel and the Palestinian Au-
thority, severely damaged prospects for
peace, and endangered the security of Amer-
ica, Israel, and the Palestinian people.’’
This legislation sends a clear message that
any U.S. proposal to achieve a just and lasting
solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict
‘‘should expressly endorse a two-state solution
as its objective.’’
Additionally, the resolution also makes clear
that ‘‘Presidents of the United States from
both political parties have opposed settlement
expansion, moves toward unilateral annex-
ation of territory, and efforts to achieve Pales-
tinian statehood status outside the framework
of negotiations with Israel.’’
It reaffirms the Administration’s obligation to
actively ‘‘discourage steps by either side that
would put a peaceful end to the conflict further
out of reach, including unilateral annexation of
territory or efforts to achieve Palestinian state-
hood status outside the framework of negotia-
tions with Israel.’’
I don’t have to tell my colleagues that unilat-
eral actions, such as annexation or unilateral
declarations of statehood will not or cannot
achieve the peace or security that is so ur-
gently desired.
Additionally, I know that this legislation has
been changed to remove references to occu-
pation and to the settlement enterprise.
Whether you agree or disagree with those
changes, doing so does not and will not
change the actual facts on the ground or the
obstacles to peace that remain. And our de-
bate should be based on recognizing those
facts, however discouraging or contentious
they may be. The Israeli’s and Palestinians
deserve a debate that does so accurately.
The time for pushing for peace is always
now.
But let’s be clear, the sentiment in this reso-
lution is only a start. Acknowledging the need
for two states is important but even more so
is working to actually achieve it. And that is
where work needs to happen.
What we need are bold steps forward. Not
some half-baked peace plan that has taken
nearly three years to develop, is apparently
subject to the whims of the U.S. and Israeli
election cycles, and has already been dis-
missed by key stakeholders in the region.
If the Administration refuses to do so, then
its time that Congress consider what actions it
can take to make the vision of the two-state
that we so beautifully describe in this resolu-
tion into a reality. Because today, the reality
on the ground is one state, continuing ten-
sions, and cycles of violence that can easily
escalate.
It’s no longer good enough to give lip serv-
ice to two-states.
So I thank the leadership for bringing this to
the floor and for welcoming this debate in the
House.
And I know that the two-state solution has
its critics who are just as frustrated as I am
that both sides have seemingly never failed to
miss an opportunity to let peace slip away. But
the deadly status quo is no substitute. And
wishful thinking for some other ‘‘alternative’’
option also is no substitute.
Achieving two-states was never going to be
easy. Peace never is.
But ending the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is
vital to the interests of our country, Israel, the
Palestinians, and the broader region and inter-
national communities. This is why we continue
to advocate for two-states despite the set-
backs and spoilers.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
VEASEY). All time for debate has ex-
pired.
Pursuant to House Resolution 741,
the previous question is ordered on the
resolution and on the preamble, as
amended.
The question is on adoption of the
resolution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
f
b 1030
VOTING RIGHTS ADVANCEMENT
ACT OF 2019
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, pursuant
to House Resolution 741, I call up the
bill (H.R. 4) to amend the Voting
Rights Act of 1965 to revise the criteria
for determining which States and polit-
ical subdivisions are subject to section
4 of the Act, and for other purposes,
and ask for its immediate consider-
ation.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 741, the
amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute recommended by the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, printed in the
bill, modified by the amendment print-
ed in part A of House Report 116–322, is
adopted and the bill, as amended, is
considered read.
The text of the bill, as amended, is as
follows:
H.R. 4
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Voting Rights
Advancement Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. VIOLATIONS TRIGGERING AUTHORITY OF
COURT TO RETAIN JURISDICTION.
(a) TYPES OF VIOLATIONS.—Section 3(c) of the
Voting Rights Act of 1965 (52 U.S.C. 10302(c)) is
amended by striking ‘‘violations of the four-
teenth or fifteenth amendment’’ and inserting
‘‘violations of the 14th or 15th Amendment, vio-
lations of this Act, or violations of any Federal
law that prohibits discrimination in voting on
the basis of race, color, or membership in a lan-
guage minority group,’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 3(a) of
such Act (52 U.S.C. 10302(a)) is amended by
striking ‘‘violations of the fourteenth or fif-
teenth amendment’’ and inserting ‘‘violations of
the 14th or 15th Amendment, violations of this
Act, or violations of any Federal law that pro-
hibits discrimination in voting on the basis of
race, color, or membership in a language minor-
ity group,’’.
SEC. 3. CRITERIA FOR COVERAGE OF STATES AND
POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.
(a) DETERMINATION OF STATES AND POLITICAL
SUBDIVISIONS SUBJECT TO SECTION 4(a).—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 4(b) of the Voting
Rights Act of 1965 (52 U.S.C. 10303(b)) is amend-
ed to read as follows:
‘‘(b) DETERMINATION OF STATES AND POLIT-
ICAL SUBDIVISIONS SUBJECT TO REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(1) EXISTENCE OF VOTING RIGHTS VIOLATIONS
DURING PREVIOUS 25 YEARS.—
‘‘(A) STATEWIDE APPLICATION.—Subsection (a)
applies with respect to a State and all political
subdivisions within the State during a calendar
year if—
‘‘(i) 15 or more voting rights violations oc-
curred in the State during the previous 25 cal-
endar years; or
‘‘(ii) 10 or more voting rights violations oc-
curred in the State during the previous 25 cal-
endar years, at least one of which was com-
mitted by the State itself (as opposed to a polit-
ical subdivision within the State).
‘‘(B) APPLICATION TO SPECIFIC POLITICAL SUB-
DIVISIONS.—Subsection (a) applies with respect
to a political subdivision as a separate unit dur-
ing a calendar year if 3 or more voting rights
violations occurred in the subdivision during the
previous 25 calendar years.
‘‘(2) PERIOD OF APPLICATION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in sub-
paragraph (B), if, pursuant to paragraph (1),
subsection (a) applies with respect to a State or
political subdivision during a calendar year,
subsection (a) shall apply with respect to such
State or political subdivision for the period—
‘‘(i) that begins on January 1 of the year in
which subsection (a) applies; and
‘‘(ii) that ends on the date which is 10 years
after the date described in clause (i).
‘‘(B) NO FURTHER APPLICATION AFTER DECLAR-
ATORY JUDGMENT.—
‘‘(i) STATES.—If a State obtains a declaratory
judgment under subsection (a), and the judg-
ment remains in effect, subsection (a) shall no
longer apply to such State pursuant to para-
graph (1)(A) unless, after the issuance of the de-
claratory judgment, paragraph (1)(A) applies to
the State solely on the basis of voting rights vio-
lations occurring after the issuance of the de-
claratory judgment.
‘‘(ii) POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.—If a political
subdivision obtains a declaratory judgment
under subsection (a), and the judgment remains
in effect, subsection (a) shall no longer apply to
such political subdivision pursuant to para-
graph (1), including pursuant to paragraph
(1)(A) (relating to the statewide application of
subsection (a)), unless, after the issuance of the
declaratory judgment, paragraph (1)(B) applies
to the political subdivision solely on the basis of
voting rights violations occurring after the
issuance of the declaratory judgment.
‘‘(3) DETERMINATION OF VOTING RIGHTS VIOLA-
TION.—For purposes of paragraph (1), a voting
rights violation occurred in a State or political
subdivision if any of the following applies:
‘‘(A) FINAL JUDGMENT; VIOLATION OF THE 14TH
OR 15TH AMENDMENT.—In a final judgment
(which has not been reversed on appeal), any
court of the United States has determined that
a denial or abridgement of the right of any cit-
izen of the United States to vote on account of
race, color, or membership in a language minor-
ity group, in violation of the 14th or 15th
Amendment, occurred anywhere within the
State or subdivision.
‘‘(B) FINAL JUDGMENT; VIOLATIONS OF THIS
ACT.—In a final judgment (which has not been
reversed on appeal), any court of the United
States has determined that a voting qualifica-
tion or prerequisite to voting or standard, prac-
tice, or procedure with respect to voting was im-
posed or applied or would have been imposed or
applied anywhere within the State or subdivi-
sion in a manner that resulted or would have re-
sulted in a denial or abridgement of the right of
any citizen of the United States to vote on ac-
count of race, color, or membership in a lan-
guage minority group, in violation of subsection
(e) or (f), or section 2 or 203 of this Act.
‘‘(C) FINAL JUDGMENT; DENIAL OF DECLARA-
TORY JUDGMENT.—In a final judgment (which
has not been reversed on appeal), any court of
the United States has denied the request of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:50 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A06DE7.005 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9309
December 6, 2019
State or subdivision for a declaratory judgment
under section 3(c) or section 5, and thereby pre-
vented a voting qualification or prerequisite to
voting or standard, practice, or procedure with
respect to voting from being enforced anywhere
within the State or subdivision.
‘‘(D) OBJECTION BY THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.—
The Attorney General has interposed an objec-
tion under section 3(c) or section 5 (and the ob-
jection has not been overturned by a final judg-
ment of a court or withdrawn by the Attorney
General), and thereby prevented a voting quali-
fication or prerequisite to voting or standard,
practice, or procedure with respect to voting
from being enforced anywhere within the State
or subdivision.
‘‘(E) CONSENT DECREE, SETTLEMENT, OR OTHER
AGREEMENT.—A consent decree, settlement, or
other agreement was entered into, which re-
sulted in the alteration or abandonment of a
voting practice anywhere in the territory of
such State that was challenged on the ground
that the practice denied or abridged the right of
any citizen of the United States to vote on ac-
count of race, color, or membership in a lan-
guage minority group in violation of subsection
(e) or (f), or section 2 or 203 of this Act, or the
14th or 15th Amendment.
‘‘(4) TIMING OF DETERMINATIONS.—
‘‘(A) DETERMINATIONS OF VOTING RIGHTS VIO-
LATIONS.—As early as practicable during each
calendar year, the Attorney General shall make
the determinations required by this subsection,
including updating the list of voting rights vio-
lations occurring in each State and political
subdivision for the previous calendar year.
‘‘(B) EFFECTIVE UPON PUBLICATION IN FED-
ERAL REGISTER.—A determination or certifi-
cation of the Attorney General under this sec-
tion or under section 8 or 13 shall be effective
upon publication in the Federal Register.’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section 4(a)
of such Act (52 U.S.C. 10303(a)) is amended—
(A) in paragraph (1), in the first sentence of
the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by
striking ‘‘any State with respect to which’’ and
all that follows through ‘‘unless’’ and inserting
‘‘any State to which this subsection applies dur-
ing a calendar year pursuant to determinations
made under subsection (b), or in any political
subdivision of such State (as such subdivision
existed on the date such determinations were
made with respect to such State), though such
determinations were not made with respect to
such subdivision as a separate unit, or in any
political subdivision with respect to which this
subsection applies during a calendar year pur-
suant to determinations made with respect to
such subdivision as a separate unit under sub-
section (b), unless’’;
(B) in paragraph (1) in the matter preceding
subparagraph (A), by striking the second sen-
tence;
(C) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ‘‘(in the
case of a State or subdivision seeking a declara-
tory judgment under the second sentence of this
subsection)’’;
(D) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking ‘‘(in the
case of a State or subdivision seeking a declara-
tory judgment under the second sentence of this
subsection)’’;
(E) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘(in the case
of a State or subdivision seeking a declaratory
judgment under the second sentence of this sub-
section)’’;
(F) in paragraph (5), by striking ‘‘(in the case
of a State or subdivision which sought a declar-
atory judgment under the second sentence of
this subsection)’’;
(G) by striking paragraphs (7) and (8); and
(H) by redesignating paragraph (9) as para-
graph (7).
(b) CLARIFICATION OF TREATMENT OF MEM-
BERS OF LANGUAGE MINORITY GROUPS.—Section
4(a)(1) of such Act (52 U.S.C. 10303(a)(1)) is
amended by striking ‘‘race or color,’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘race, color, or in contravention of the
guarantees of subsection (f)(2),’’.
SEC. 4. DETERMINATION OF STATES AND POLIT-
ICAL SUBDIVISIONS SUBJECT TO
PRECLEARANCE FOR COVERED
PRACTICES.
The Voting Rights Act of 1965 (52 U.S.C. 10301
et seq.) is further amended by inserting after
section 4 the following:
‘‘SEC. 4A. DETERMINATION OF STATES AND PO-
LITICAL SUBDIVISIONS SUBJECT TO
PRECLEARANCE FOR COVERED
PRACTICES.
‘‘(a) PRACTICE-BASED PRECLEARANCE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Each State and each polit-
ical subdivision shall—
‘‘(A) identify any newly enacted or adopted
law, regulation, or policy that includes a voting
qualification or prerequisite to voting, or a
standard, practice, or procedure with respect to
voting, that is a covered practice described in
subsection (b); and
‘‘(B) ensure that no such covered practice is
implemented unless or until the State or political
subdivision, as the case may be, complies with
subsection (c).
‘‘(2) DETERMINATIONS OF CHARACTERISTICS OF
VOTING-AGE POPULATION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—As early as practicable
during each calendar year, the Attorney Gen-
eral, in consultation with the Director of the
Bureau of the Census and the heads of other
relevant offices of the government, shall make
the determinations required by this section re-
garding voting-age populations and the charac-
teristics of such populations, and shall publish
a list of the States and political subdivisions to
which a voting-age population characteristic de-
scribed in subsection (b) applies.
‘‘(B) PUBLICATION IN THE FEDERAL REG-
ISTER.—A determination or certification of the
Attorney General under this paragraph shall be
effective upon publication in the Federal Reg-
ister.
‘‘(b) COVERED PRACTICES.—To assure that the
right of citizens of the United States to vote is
not denied or abridged on account of race, color,
or membership in a language minority group as
a result of the implementation of certain quali-
fications or prerequisites to voting, or stand-
ards, practices, or procedures with respect to
voting newly adopted in a State or political sub-
division, the following shall be covered practices
subject to the requirements described in sub-
section (a):
‘‘(1) CHANGES TO METHOD OF ELECTION.—Any
change to the method of election—
‘‘(A) to add seats elected at-large in a State or
political subdivision where—
‘‘(i) 2 or more racial groups or language mi-
nority groups each represent 20 percent or more
of the political subdivision’s voting-age popu-
lation; or
‘‘(ii) a single language minority group rep-
resents 20 percent or more of the voting-age pop-
ulation on Indian lands located in whole or in
part in the political subdivision; or
‘‘(B) to convert one or more seats elected from
a single-member district to one or more at-large
seats or seats from a multi-member district in a
State or political subdivision where—
‘‘(i) 2 or more racial groups or language mi-
nority groups each represent 20 percent or more
of the political subdivision’s voting-age popu-
lation; or
‘‘(ii) a single language minority group rep-
resents 20 percent or more of the voting-age pop-
ulation on Indian lands located in whole or in
part in the political subdivision.
‘‘(2) CHANGES TO JURISDICTION BOUNDARIES.—
Any change or series of changes within a year
to the boundaries of a jurisdiction that reduces
by 3 or more percentage points the proportion of
the jurisdiction’s voting-age population that is
comprised of members of a single racial group or
language minority group in a State or political
subdivision where—
‘‘(A) 2 or more racial groups or language mi-
nority groups each represent 20 percent or more
of the political subdivision’s voting-age popu-
lation; or
‘‘(B) a single language minority group rep-
resents 20 percent or more of the voting-age pop-
ulation on Indian lands located in whole or in
part in the political subdivision.
‘‘(3) CHANGES THROUGH REDISTRICTING.—Any
change to the boundaries of election districts in
a State or political subdivision where any racial
group or language minority group experiences a
population increase, over the preceding decade
(as calculated by the Bureau of the Census
under the most recent decennial census), of at
least—
‘‘(A) 10,000; or
‘‘(B) 20 percent of voting-age population of
the State or political subdivision, as the case
may be.
‘‘(4) CHANGES IN DOCUMENTATION OR QUALI-
FICATIONS TO VOTE.—Any change to require-
ments for documentation or proof of identity to
vote such that the requirements will exceed or be
more stringent than the requirements for voting
that are described in section 303(b) of the Help
America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C. 21083(b)) or
any change to the requirements for documenta-
tion or proof of identity to register to vote that
will exceed or be more stringent than such re-
quirements under State law on the day before
the date of enactment of the Voting Rights Ad-
vancement Act of 2019.
‘‘(5) CHANGES TO MULTILINGUAL VOTING MATE-
RIALS.—Any change that reduces multilingual
voting materials or alters the manner in which
such materials are provided or distributed,
where no similar reduction or alteration occurs
in materials provided in English for such elec-
tion.
‘‘(6) CHANGES THAT REDUCE, CONSOLIDATE, OR
RELOCATE VOTING LOCATIONS OR REDUCE VOTING
OPPORTUNITIES.—Any change that reduces, con-
solidates, or relocates voting locations, includ-
ing early, absentee, and election-day voting lo-
cations, or reduces days or hours of in person
voting on any Sunday during a period occurring
prior to the date of an election during which
voters may cast ballots in such election—
‘‘(A) in 1 or more census tracts wherein 2 or
more language minority groups or racial groups
each represent 20 percent or more of the voting-
age population of the political subdivision; or
‘‘(B) on Indian lands wherein at least 20 per-
cent of the voting-age population belongs to a
single language minority group.
(7) NEW LIST MAINTENANCE PROCESS.—Any
change to the maintenance of voter registration
lists that adds a new basis for removal from the
list of active registered voters or that puts in
place a new process for removing a name from
the list of active registered voters—
‘‘(A) in the case of a political subdivision im-
posing such change if—
‘‘(i) 2 or more racial groups or language mi-
nority groups each represent 20 percent or more
of the voting-age population of the political sub-
division; or
‘‘(ii) a single language minority group rep-
resents 20 percent of more of the voting-age pop-
ulation on Indian lands located in whole or in
part in the political subdivision; or
‘‘(B) in the case of a State imposing such
change, if 2 or more racial groups or language
minority groups each represent 20 percent of
more of the voting-age population of—
‘‘(i) the State; or
‘‘(ii) a political subdivision in the State, ex-
cept that the requirements under subsections (a)
and (c) shall apply only with respect to each
such political subdivision.
‘‘(c) PRECLEARANCE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Whenever a State or polit-
ical subdivision with respect to which the re-
quirements set forth in subsection (a) are in ef-
fect shall enact, adopt, or seek to implement any
covered practice described under subsection (b),
such State or subdivision may institute an ac-
tion in the United States District Court for the
District of Columbia for a declaratory judgment
that such covered practice neither has the pur-
pose nor will have the effect of denying or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:50 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A06DE7.012 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9310 December 6, 2019
abridging the right to vote on account of race,
color, or membership in a language minority
group, and unless and until the court enters
such judgment such covered practice shall not
be implemented. Notwithstanding the previous
sentence, such covered practice may be imple-
mented without such proceeding if the covered
practice has been submitted by the chief legal
officer or other appropriate official of such
State or subdivision to the Attorney General and
the Attorney General has not interposed an ob-
jection within 60 days after such submission, or
upon good cause shown, to facilitate an expe-
dited approval within 60 days after such submis-
sion, the Attorney General has affirmatively in-
dicated that such objection will not be made.
Neither an affirmative indication by the Attor-
ney General that no objection will be made, nor
the Attorney General’s failure to object, nor a
declaratory judgment entered under this section
shall bar a subsequent action to enjoin imple-
mentation of such covered practice. In the event
the Attorney General affirmatively indicates
that no objection will be made within the 60-day
period following receipt of a submission, the At-
torney General may reserve the right to reexam-
ine the submission if additional information
comes to the Attorney General’s attention dur-
ing the remainder of the 60-day period which
would otherwise require objection in accordance
with this section. Any action under this section
shall be heard and determined by a court of
three judges in accordance with the provisions
of section 2284 of title 28, United States Code,
and any appeal shall lie to the Supreme Court.
‘‘(2) DENYING OR ABRIDGING THE RIGHT TO
VOTE.—Any covered practice described in sub-
section (b) that has the purpose of or will have
the effect of diminishing the ability of any citi-
zens of the United States on account of race,
color, or membership in a language minority
group, to elect their preferred candidates of
choice denies or abridges the right to vote with-
in the meaning of paragraph (1) of this sub-
section.
‘‘(3) PURPOSE DEFINED.—The term ‘purpose’ in
paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection shall
include any discriminatory purpose.
‘‘(4) PURPOSE OF PARAGRAPH (2).—The purpose
of paragraph (2) of this subsection is to protect
the ability of such citizens to elect their pre-
ferred candidates of choice.
‘‘(d) ENFORCEMENT.—The Attorney General or
any aggrieved citizen may file an action in a
Federal district court to compel any State or po-
litical subdivision to satisfy the obligations set
forth in this section. Such actions shall be heard
and determined by a court of 3 judges under sec-
tion 2284 of title 28, United States Code. In any
such action, the court shall provide as a remedy
that any voting qualification or prerequisite to
voting, or standard, practice, or procedure with
respect to voting, that is the subject of the ac-
tion under this subsection be enjoined unless the
court determines that—
‘‘(1) the voting qualification or prerequisite to
voting, or standard, practice, or procedure with
respect to voting, is not a covered practice de-
scribed in subsection (b); or
‘‘(2) the State or political subdivision has com-
plied with subsection (c) with respect to the cov-
ered practice at issue.
‘‘(e) COUNTING OF RACIAL GROUPS AND LAN-
GUAGE MINORITY GROUPS.—For purposes of this
section, the calculation of the population of a
racial group or a language minority group shall
be carried out using the methodology in the
guidance promulgated in the Federal Register
on February 9, 2011 (76 Fed. Reg. 7470).
‘‘(f) SPECIAL RULE.—For purposes of deter-
minations under this section, any data provided
by the Bureau of the Census, whether based on
estimation from sample or actual enumeration,
shall not be subject to challenge or review in
any court.
‘‘(g) MULTILINGUAL VOTING MATERIALS.—In
this section, the term ‘multilingual voting mate-
rials’ means registration or voting notices,
forms, instructions, assistance, or other mate-
rials or information relating to the electoral
process, including ballots, provided in the lan-
guage or languages of one or more language mi-
nority groups.’’.
SEC. 5. PROMOTING TRANSPARENCY TO EN-
FORCE THE VOTING RIGHTS ACT.
(a) TRANSPARENCY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Voting Rights Act of
1965 (52 U.S.C. 10301 et seq.) is amended by in-
serting after section 5 the following new section:
‘‘SEC. 6. TRANSPARENCY REGARDING CHANGES
TO PROTECT VOTING RIGHTS.
‘‘(a) NOTICE OF ENACTED CHANGES.—
‘‘(1) NOTICE OF CHANGES.—If a State or polit-
ical subdivision makes any change in any pre-
requisite to voting or standard, practice, or pro-
cedure with respect to voting in any election for
Federal office that will result in the pre-
requisite, standard, practice, or procedure being
different from that which was in effect as of 180
days before the date of the election for Federal
office, the State or political subdivision shall
provide reasonable public notice in such State or
political subdivision and on the Internet, of a
concise description of the change, including the
difference between the changed prerequisite,
standard, practice, or procedure and the pre-
requisite, standard, practice, or procedure
which was previously in effect. The public no-
tice described in this paragraph, in such State
or political subdivision and on the Internet,
shall be in a format that is reasonably conven-
ient and accessible to voters with disabilities, in-
cluding voters who have low vision or are blind.
‘‘(2) DEADLINE FOR NOTICE.—A State or polit-
ical subdivision shall provide the public notice
required under paragraph (1) not later than 48
hours after making the change involved.
‘‘(b) TRANSPARENCY REGARDING POLLING
PLACE RESOURCES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In order to identify any
changes that may impact the right to vote of
any person, prior to the 30th day before the date
of an election for Federal office, each State or
political subdivision with responsibility for allo-
cating registered voters, voting machines, and
official poll workers to particular precincts and
polling places shall provide reasonable public
notice in such State or political subdivision and
on the Internet, of the information described in
paragraph (2) for precincts and polling places
within such State or political subdivision. The
public notice described in this paragraph, in
such State or political subdivision and on the
Internet, shall be in a format that is reasonably
convenient and accessible to voters with disabil-
ities including voters who have low vision or are
blind.
‘‘(2) INFORMATION DESCRIBED.—The informa-
tion described in this paragraph with respect to
a precinct or polling place is each of the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(A) The name or number.
‘‘(B) In the case of a polling place, the loca-
tion, including the street address, and whether
such polling place is accessible to persons with
disabilities.
‘‘(C) The voting-age population of the area
served by the precinct or polling place, broken
down by demographic group if such breakdown
is reasonably available to such State or political
subdivision.
‘‘(D) The number of registered voters assigned
to the precinct or polling place, broken down by
demographic group if such breakdown is reason-
ably available to such State or political subdivi-
sion.
‘‘(E) The number of voting machines assigned,
including the number of voting machines acces-
sible to voters with disabilities, including voters
who have low vision or are blind.
‘‘(F) The number of official paid poll workers
assigned.
‘‘(G) The number of official volunteer poll
workers assigned.
‘‘(H) In the case of a polling place, the dates
and hours of operation.
‘‘(3) UPDATES IN INFORMATION REPORTED.—If
a State or political subdivision makes any
change in any of the information described in
paragraph (2), the State or political subdivision
shall provide reasonable public notice in such
State or political subdivision and on the Inter-
net, of the change in the information not later
than 48 hours after the change occurs or, if the
change occurs fewer than 48 hours before the
date of the election for Federal office, as soon as
practicable after the change occurs. The public
notice described in this paragraph in such State
or political subdivision and on the Internet shall
be in a format that is reasonably convenient
and accessible to voters with disabilities includ-
ing voters who have low vision or are blind.
‘‘(c) TRANSPARENCY OF CHANGES RELATING TO
DEMOGRAPHICS AND ELECTORAL DISTRICTS.—
‘‘(1) REQUIRING PUBLIC NOTICE OF CHANGES.—
Not later than 10 days after making any change
in the constituency that will participate in an
election for Federal, State, or local office or the
boundaries of a voting unit or electoral district
in an election for Federal, State, or local office
(including through redistricting, reapportion-
ment, changing from at-large elections to dis-
trict-based elections, or changing from district-
based elections to at-large elections), a State or
political subdivision shall provide reasonable
public notice in such State or political subdivi-
sion and on the Internet, of the demographic
and electoral data described in paragraph (3)
for each of the geographic areas described in
paragraph (2).
‘‘(2) GEOGRAPHIC AREAS DESCRIBED.—The geo-
graphic areas described in this paragraph are as
follows:
‘‘(A) The State as a whole, if the change ap-
plies statewide, or the political subdivision as a
whole, if the change applies across the entire
political subdivision.
‘‘(B) If the change includes a plan to replace
or eliminate voting units or electoral districts,
each voting unit or electoral district that will be
replaced or eliminated.
‘‘(C) If the change includes a plan to establish
new voting units or electoral districts, each such
new voting unit or electoral district.
‘‘(3) DEMOGRAPHIC AND ELECTORAL DATA.—
The demographic and electoral data described in
this paragraph with respect to a geographic
area described in paragraph (2) are each of the
following:
‘‘(A) The voting-age population, broken down
by demographic group.
‘‘(B) If it is reasonably available to the State
or political subdivision involved, an estimate of
the population of the area which consists of citi-
zens of the United States who are 18 years of
age or older, broken down by demographic
group.
‘‘(C) The number of registered voters, broken
down by demographic group if such breakdown
is reasonably available to the State or political
subdivision involved.
‘‘(D)(i) If the change applies to a State, the
actual number of votes, or (if it is not reason-
ably practicable for the State to ascertain the
actual number of votes) the estimated number of
votes received by each candidate in each state-
wide election held during the 5-year period
which ends on the date the change involved is
made; and
‘‘(ii) if the change applies to only one political
subdivision, the actual number of votes, or (if it
is not reasonably practicable for the political
subdivision to ascertain the actual number of
votes) in each subdivision-wide election held
during the 5-year period which ends on the date
the change involved is made.
‘‘(4) VOLUNTARY COMPLIANCE BY SMALLER JU-
RISDICTIONS.—Compliance with this subsection
shall be voluntary for a political subdivision of
a State unless the subdivision is one of the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(A) A county or parish.
‘‘(B) A municipality with a population greater
than 10,000, as determined by the Bureau of the
Census under the most recent decennial census.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:50 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A06DE7.012 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9311
December 6, 2019
‘‘(C) A school district with a population great-
er than 10,000, as determined by the Bureau of
the Census under the most recent decennial cen-
sus. For purposes of this subparagraph, the term
‘school district’ means the geographic area
under the jurisdiction of a local educational
agency (as defined in section 9101 of the Ele-
mentary and Secondary Education Act of 1965).
‘‘(d) RULES REGARDING FORMAT OF INFORMA-
TION.—The Attorney General may issue rules
specifying a reasonably convenient and acces-
sible format that States and political subdivi-
sions shall use to provide public notice of infor-
mation under this section.
‘‘(e) NO DENIAL OF RIGHT TO VOTE.—The
right to vote of any person shall not be denied
or abridged because the person failed to comply
with any change made by a State or political
subdivision to a voting qualification, standard,
practice, or procedure if the State or political
subdivision involved did not meet the applicable
requirements of this section with respect to the
change.
‘‘(f) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
‘‘(1) the term ‘demographic group’ means each
group which section 2 protects from the denial
or abridgement of the right to vote on account
of race or color, or in contravention of the guar-
antees set forth in section 4(f)(2);
‘‘(2) the term ‘election for Federal office’
means any general, special, primary, or runoff
election held solely or in part for the purpose of
electing any candidate for the office of Presi-
dent, Vice President, Presidential elector, Sen-
ator, Member of the House of Representatives,
or Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the
Congress; and
‘‘(3) the term ‘persons with disabilities’, means
individuals with a disability, as defined in sec-
tion 3 of the Americans with Disabilities Act of
1990.’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 3(a) of
such Act (52 U.S.C. 10302(a)) is amended by
striking ‘‘in accordance with section 6’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made
by subsection (a)(1) shall apply with respect to
changes which are made on or after the expira-
tion of the 60-day period which begins on the
date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 6. AUTHORITY TO ASSIGN OBSERVERS.
(a) CLARIFICATION OF AUTHORITY IN POLIT-
ICAL SUBDIVISIONS SUBJECT TO PRECLEARANCE.—
Section 8(a)(2)(B) of the Voting Rights Act of
1965 (52 U.S.C. 10305(a)(2)(B)) is amended to
read as follows:
‘‘(B) in the Attorney General’s judgment, the
assignment of observers is otherwise necessary
to enforce the guarantees of the 14th or 15th
Amendment or any provision of this Act or any
other Federal law protecting the right of citizens
of the United States to vote; or’’.
(b) ASSIGNMENT OF OBSERVERS TO ENFORCE
BILINGUAL ELECTION REQUIREMENTS.—Section
8(a) of such Act (52 U.S.C. 10305(a)) is amend-
ed—
(1) by striking ‘‘or’’ at the end of paragraph
(1);
(2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(3) the Attorney General certifies with re-
spect to a political subdivision that—
‘‘(A) the Attorney General has received writ-
ten meritorious complaints from residents, elect-
ed officials, or civic participation organizations
that efforts to violate section 203 are likely to
occur; or
‘‘(B) in the Attorney General’s judgment, the
assignment of observers is necessary to enforce
the guarantees of section 203;’’; and
(3) by moving the margin for the continuation
text following paragraph (3), as added by para-
graph (2) of this subsection, two ems to the left.
SEC. 7. PRELIMINARY INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
(a) CLARIFICATION OF SCOPE AND PERSONS AU-
THORIZED TO SEEK RELIEF.—Section 12(d) of the
Voting Rights Act of 1965 (52 U.S.C. 10308(d)) is
amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘section 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 10, 11, or
subsection (b) of this section’’ and inserting
‘‘the 14th or 15th Amendment, this Act, or any
Federal voting rights law that prohibits dis-
crimination on the basis of race, color, or mem-
bership in a language minority group’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘the Attorney General may in-
stitute for the United States, or in the name of
the United States,’’ and inserting ‘‘the ag-
grieved person or (in the name of the United
States) the Attorney General may institute’’.
(b) GROUNDS FOR GRANTING RELIEF.—Section
12(d) of such Act (52 U.S.C. 10308(d)) is amend-
ed—
(1) by striking ‘‘(d) Whenever any person’’
and inserting ‘‘(d)(1) Whenever any person’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘(1) to permit’’ and inserting
‘‘(A) to permit’’;
(3) by striking ‘‘(2) to count’’ and inserting
‘‘(B) to count’’; and
(4) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(2)(A) In any action for preliminary relief
described in this subsection, the court shall
grant the relief if the court determines that the
complainant has raised a serious question
whether the challenged voting qualification or
prerequisite to voting or standard, practice, or
procedure violates this Act or the Constitution
and, on balance, the hardship imposed upon the
defendant by the grant of the relief will be less
than the hardship which would be imposed
upon the plaintiff if the relief were not granted.
In balancing the harms, the court shall give due
weight to the fundamental right to cast an ef-
fective ballot.
‘‘(B) In making its determination under this
paragraph with respect to a change in any vot-
ing qualification, prerequisite to voting, or
standard, practice, or procedure with respect to
voting, the court shall consider all relevant fac-
tors and give due weight to the following fac-
tors, if they are present:
‘‘(i) Whether the qualification, prerequisite,
standard, practice, or procedure in effect prior
to the change was adopted as a remedy for a
Federal court judgment, consent decree, or ad-
mission regarding—
‘‘(I) discrimination on the basis of race or
color in violation of the 14th or 15th Amend-
ment;
‘‘(II) a violation of this Act; or
‘‘(III) voting discrimination on the basis of
race, color, or membership in a language minor-
ity group in violation of any other Federal or
State law.
‘‘(ii) Whether the qualification, prerequisite,
standard, practice, or procedure in effect prior
to the change served as a ground for the dis-
missal or settlement of a claim alleging—
‘‘(I) discrimination on the basis of race or
color in violation of the 14th or 15th Amend-
ment;
‘‘(II) a violation of this Act; or
‘‘(III) voting discrimination on the basis of
race, color, or membership in a language minor-
ity group in violation of any other Federal or
State law.
‘‘(iii) Whether the change was adopted fewer
than 180 days before the date of the election
with respect to which the change is to take ef-
fect.
‘‘(iv) Whether the defendant has failed to pro-
vide timely or complete notice of the adoption of
the change as required by applicable Federal or
State law.’’.
(c) GROUNDS FOR STAY OR INTERLOCUTORY
APPEAL.—Section 12(d) of such Act (52 U.S.C.
10308(d)) is further amended by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘(3) A jurisdiction’s inability to enforce its
voting or election laws, regulations, policies, or
redistricting plans, standing alone, shall not be
deemed to constitute irreparable harm to the
public interest or to the interests of a defendant
in an action arising under the U.S. Constitution
or any Federal law that prohibits discrimination
on the basis of race, color, or membership in a
language minority group in the voting process,
for the purposes of determining whether a stay
of a court’s order or an interlocutory appeal
under section 1253 of title 28, United States
Code, is warranted.’’.
SEC. 8. DEFINITIONS.
Title I of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 (52
U.S.C. 10301) is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘SEC. 21. DEFINITIONS.
‘‘In this Act:
‘‘(1) INDIAN.—The term ‘Indian’ has the mean-
ing given the term in section 4 of the Indian
Self-Determination and Education Assistance
Act.
‘‘(2) INDIAN LANDS.—The term ‘Indian lands’
means—
‘‘(A) any Indian country of an Indian tribe,
as such term is defined in section 1151 of title 18,
United States Code;
‘‘(B) any land in Alaska that is owned, pursu-
ant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act,
by an Indian tribe that is a Native village (as
such term is defined in section 3 of such Act), or
by a Village Corporation that is associated with
the Indian tribe (as such term is defined in sec-
tion 3 of such Act);
‘‘(C) any land on which the seat of govern-
ment of the Indian tribe is located; and
‘‘(D) any land that is part or all of a tribal
designated statistical area associated with the
Indian tribe, or is part or all of an Alaska Na-
tive village statistical area associated with the
tribe, as defined by the Bureau of the Census
for the purposes of the most recent decennial
census.
‘‘(3) INDIAN TRIBE.—The term ‘Indian tribe’ or
‘tribe’ has the meaning given the term ‘Indian
tribe’ in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determina-
tion and Education Assistance Act.
‘‘(4) TRIBAL GOVERNMENT.—The term ‘Tribal
Government’ means the recognized governing
body of an Indian Tribe.
‘‘(5) VOTING-AGE POPULATION.—The term ‘vot-
ing-age population’ means the numerical size of
the population within a State, within a political
subdivision, or within a political subdivision
that contains Indian lands, as the case may be,
that consists of persons age 18 or older, as cal-
culated by the Bureau of the Census under the
most recent decennial census.’’.
SEC. 9. ATTORNEYS’ FEES.
Section 14(c) of the Voting Rights Act of 1965
(52 U.S.C. 10310(c)) is amended by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘(4) The term ‘prevailing party’ means a
party to an action that receives at least some of
the benefit sought by such action, states a
colorable claim, and can establish that the ac-
tion was a significant cause of a change to the
status quo.’’.
SEC. 10. OTHER TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING
AMENDMENTS.
(a) ACTIONS COVERED UNDER SECTION 3.—Sec-
tion 3(c) of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 (52
U.S.C. 10302(c)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘any proceeding instituted by
the Attorney General or an aggrieved person
under any statute to enforce’’ and inserting
‘‘any action under any statute in which a party
(including the Attorney General) seeks to en-
force’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘at the time the proceeding was
commenced’’ and inserting ‘‘at the time the ac-
tion was commenced’’.
(b) CLARIFICATION OF TREATMENT OF MEM-
BERS OF LANGUAGE MINORITY GROUPS.—Section
4(f) of such Act (52 U.S.C. 10303(f)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking the second
sentence; and
(2) by striking paragraphs (3) and (4).
(c) PERIOD DURING WHICH CHANGES IN VOTING
PRACTICES ARE SUBJECT TO PRECLEARANCE
UNDER SECTION 5.—Section 5 of such Act (52
U.S.C. 10304) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘based upon
determinations made under the first sentence of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:50 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A06DE7.012 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9312 December 6, 2019
section 4(b) are in effect’’ and inserting ‘‘are in
effect during a calendar year’’;
(2) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘November 1,
1964’’ and all that follows through ‘‘November 1,
1972’’ and inserting ‘‘the applicable date of cov-
erage’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(e) The term ‘applicable date of coverage’
means, with respect to a State or political sub-
division—
‘‘(1) June 25, 2013, if the most recent deter-
mination for such State or subdivision under
section 4(b) was made on or before December 31,
2019; or
‘‘(2) the date on which the most recent deter-
mination for such State or subdivision under
section 4(b) was made, if such determination
was made after December 31, 2019.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The bill,
as amended, shall be debatable for 1
hour equally divided and controlled by
the chair and ranking minority mem-
ber of the Committee on the Judiciary.
The gentleman from New York (Mr.
NADLER) and the gentleman from Geor-
gia (Mr. COLLINS) each will control 30
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York (Mr. NADLER).
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
sert extraneous material on H.R. 4.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself 3 minutes.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H.R. 4, the Voting Rights Advance-
ment Act of 2019.
H.R. 4 is comprehensive and much-
needed legislation to restore the Vot-
ing Rights Act of 1965 to its full vital-
ity. This bill responds to the Supreme
Court’s disastrous 2013 decision in
Shelby County v. Holder, which effec-
tively gutted the act’s most important
enforcement mechanism, section 5,
which requires jurisdictions with a his-
tory of racial discrimination in voting
to obtain Justice Department or Fed-
eral court approval before any changes
to their voting laws can take effect.
The Court struck down the coverage
formula that determined which juris-
dictions would be subject to
preclearance, but it expressly said that
Congress could draft another formula
based on current conditions. That,
among other things, is exactly what
H.R. 4 does.
This bill is the result of an extensive
process that included 18 hearings be-
fore three different House committees.
This process developed a record dem-
onstrating that States and localities
and, in particular, those that were for-
merly subject to preclearance, have en-
gaged in various voter suppression tac-
tics, such as imposing burdensome
proof of citizenship laws, polling place
closures, purges of voter rolls, and sig-
nificant scale-backs to early voting pe-
riods.
These kinds of voting restrictions
have a disproportionate and negative
impact on racial and language minor-
ity voters and deprive them of a funda-
mental right guaranteed by the Con-
stitution.
In short, the record is clear that sub-
stantial voter suppression exists across
the country and that H.R. 4’s coverage
formula is necessary to address this
discrimination.
This legislation not only updates the
existing formula to ensure that it ac-
counts for current conditions, but it is
also designed so that the formula will
update itself regularly as conditions
change, thereby directly responding to
the Court’s concern in Shelby County.
Not surprisingly, the suspension of
preclearance unleashed a deluge of
voter suppression laws across the Na-
tion, making restoration of this tool
even more necessary.
As we consider the record and the
need for H.R. 4, it is worth remem-
bering why Congress enacted
preclearance in the first place. Before
the Voting Rights Act, we saw, essen-
tially, a game of whack-a-mole in
which States and localities could en-
gage in voter suppression, secure in the
knowledge that any discriminatory law
that was struck down by a court could
quickly be replaced by another.
Preclearance successfully put an end to
this game of whack-a-mole.
I want to thank TERRI SEWELL for
crafting this important legislation and
for her efforts over the last several
years on this bill.
I also want to recognize the leader-
ship of MARCIA FUDGE, chair of the
House Administration’s Subcommittee
on Elections, for her extraordinary
work in conducting numerous field
hearings examining voting problems
around the country, as well as Con-
stitution Subcommittee Chairman
STEVE COHEN, who presided over many
hearings in the Judiciary Committee
to develop the substantial record on
which this legislation is based.
The Voting Rights Act represents
one of the Nation’s most important
civil rights victories, one achieved by
those who marched, struggled, and
even died to secure the right to vote
for all Americans. I urge my colleagues
to honor their sacrifices and to enable
section 5 once again to protect the
rights of all Americans to vote.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the gentleman from Ten-
nessee (Mr. COHEN) control the remain-
der of the time on the majority side.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, the right to vote is of
paramount importance in a democracy,
and its protection from discriminatory
barriers has been grounded in Federal
law since the Civil War and, more re-
cently, in the Voting Rights Act of
1965.
A Supreme Court decision called
Shelby County will be mentioned here
many times today.
And, also, I want to say, it has been
mentioned many times that the Su-
preme Court directed or instructed this
body to do something. They did not.
What they did say in the decision was
that, if Congress wants to, they can re-
visit this. And, as we could on most
anything, we are revisiting. But to say
that we were directed to is a little bit
of an overstatement and just needs to
be clarified.
It is important to remember that
this Supreme Court decision only
struck down one outdated provision of
the Voting Rights Act, namely, an out-
dated formula based on decades-old
data that doesn’t hold true anymore,
describing which jurisdictions had to
get approval from the Department of
Justice before their voting rules went
into effect.
It is important to point out that
other very important provisions of the
Voting Rights Act remain in place and
were not changed, including section 2
and section 3.
Section 2 applies nationwide and pro-
hibits voting practices or procedures
that discriminate on the basis of race,
color, or the ability to speak English.
Section 2 is enforced through Federal
lawsuits, just like other Federal civil
rights laws. The United States and
civil rights organizations have brought
many cases to enforce the guarantees
of section 2 in court, and they may do
so in the future.
Section 3 of the Voting Rights Act
also remains in place. Section 3 author-
izes Federal courts to impose
preclearance requirements on States
and political subdivisions that have en-
acted voting procedures that treat peo-
ple differently based on race in viola-
tion of the 14th and 15th Amendments.
If a State or political subdivision is
found by the Federal courts to have
treated people differently based on
race, then the court has discretion to
retain supervisory jurisdiction and im-
pose preclearance requirements on the
State or political subdivision, as the
court sees fit, until a future date, at
the court’s discretion.
This means that such a State or po-
litical subdivision would have to sub-
mit all future voting rule changes for
approval to either the court itself or
the Department of Justice before such
rule changes could go into effect.
As set out in the Code of Federal
Regulations: ‘‘Under section 3(c) of the
Voting Rights Act, a court, in voting
rights litigation, can order as relief
that a jurisdiction not subject to the
preclearance requirement of section 5
preclear its voting changes by submit-
ting them either to the court or to the
Attorney General.’’
Again, section 3’s procedures remain
available today to those challenging
voting rules as discriminatory. Just a
couple of years ago, for example, U.S.
District Court Judge Lee Rosenthal
issued an opinion in a redistricting
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:04 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06DE7.012 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9313
December 6, 2019
case that required the city of Pasa-
dena, Texas, to be monitored by the
Justice Department because it had in-
tentionally changed its city council
districts to decrease Hispanic influ-
ence.
The city, which the court ruled has a
‘‘long history of discrimination against
minorities,’’ was required to have their
future voting rules changes precleared
by the Department of Justice for the
next 6 years, during which time the
Federal judge ‘‘retains jurisdiction . . .
to review before enforcement any
change to the election map or plan
that was in effect in Pasadena on De-
cember 1, 2013.’’
A change to the city’s election plan
can be enforced without review by the
judge only if it is submitted to the U.S.
Attorney General and the Department
of Justice and has not objected within
60 days.
Voting rights are protected in this
country, including in my own State of
Georgia, where Latino and African
American voter turnout has soared. Be-
tween 2014 and 2018, voter turnout in-
creased by double digits, both for men
and women in both of these commu-
nities, and we are committed to ensur-
ing the ballot box is open to all eligible
voters.
We are committed to ensuring con-
stitutional means are used to accom-
plish that. We are committed to pro-
tecting the value of every American
voice by securing our elections from
fraud. These are our priorities and our
principles.
Full protections are afforded under
current Federal law for all those with
valid claims of discrimination in vot-
ing. Unfortunately, the bill before us
today would turn those Federal shields
that protect voters into political weap-
ons. This bill would essentially fed-
eralize State and local election laws
when there is absolutely no evidence
whatsoever that those States or local-
ities engaged in any discriminatory be-
havior when it comes to voting.
The Supreme Court has made it clear
that this type of Federal control over
State and local elections is unconstitu-
tional because Congress can only do
that when there is proof of actual dis-
crimination, which is what the bill is
supposed to be about.
House Democrats continue their
breakneck speed of everything else
that we have going on, and now, today,
a partisan bill comes to the floor to
prevent States from running their own
State and local elections when we are
dealing with this very issue of im-
peachment and discussing elections at
the same time.
When can we stop and ask: What is
best for the United States? What is
best for our voters?
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in opposing H.R. 4, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H.R. 4, the Voting Rights Advance-
ment Act of 2019. This critical civil
rights bill, the result of strong leader-
ship by my colleagues, Ms. TERRI SE-
WELL and Ms. MARCIA FUDGE, will re-
store the most important enforcement
mechanism of the Voting Rights Act of
1965, its preclearance provision, by es-
tablishing a new coverage formula to
determine which jurisdictions will be
subject to preclearance.
The Supreme Court, when it struck
down the previous preclearance re-
quirement in 2013, asked Congress to
come back with a new preclearance re-
quirement. That is what we are doing.
This formula is self-updating because
it requires a continuous, 25-year look
back to determine whether, at any
given moment, a jurisdiction has en-
gaged in such pervasive discrimination
so as to justify imposing a Federal
preclearance requirement on any
changes to voting laws that it may
make.
This formula reflects the substantial
evidentiary record developed in numer-
ous hearings before the House Judici-
ary Subcommittee on the Constitution,
Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, of
which I am honored to serve as chair,
and other committees of this House.
In short, it reflects current condi-
tions and demonstrates the current
need for preclearance. It is, therefore,
responsive to the Supreme Court’s rea-
soning in Shelby County v. Holder that
wrongfully, in my view, struck down
the VRA’s previous coverage formula.
Maya Angelou told us: ‘‘When some-
body shows you who they are, believe
them. . . .’’ This is what the court does
with the preclearance. When they show
you that they are going to discrimi-
nate against people and try to make it
harder for people to vote, believe them
and make it more difficult and make
them come on the front end and show
what they are doing is right.
We have heard from my colleagues
some of the egregious examples of con-
tinuing and perverse voter suppression
efforts by States and localities since
Shelby County, particularly those that
used to be subject to preclearance
under the old formula. These include
poll closures and relocations, changes
in district boundaries, voter purges,
and barriers to voter registration that
target racial and language minority
voters.
I want to take this opportunity to re-
spond to one of the main arguments
my Republican colleagues have raised.
We keep hearing from them that H.R. 4
would represent an unconstitutional
Federal takeover of State and local
elections.
Born in the South, I can tell you that
this argument is old wine in a new bot-
tle. It is what previous generations
called ‘‘States’ rights,’’ a loaded term
that was used by segregationists and,
before them, by the defenders of slav-
ery to justify a legal regime of white
supremacy and racial ideology that
said African Americans were, at best,
second-class citizens and, at worst, less
than human beings.
From slavery, to Jim Crow, to what
we have today: States’ rights.
The Civil War and the 14th and 15th
Amendments that followed settled the
question that the other side raises by
fundamentally reordering the relation-
ship between Congress and the States,
making it clear that Congress not only
had the power, but the duty, to inter-
vene against States when they engaged
in racial discrimination to deny racial
minorities the right to vote.
And States did it and did it and did
it, and most of them were in the South,
and most of them screamed, ‘‘States’
rights.’’
Do not be fooled by the argument
that H.R. 4 somehow exceeds our con-
stitutional authority to address racial
discrimination in voting. The other
side will say that the Reconstruction
Amendments prohibit only intentional
discrimination and that, to the extent
that H.R. 4 also addresses discrimina-
tory effects of voter suppression tac-
tics, we are not allowed to address
those in this bill.
The Supreme Court, in City of Rome
v. U.S., made clear that our authority
under the 15th Amendment allows us to
do just that, and that is what we
should do.
H.R. 4 represents exactly what the
Reconstruction Amendments con-
templated: Congress intervening
against States in the face of over-
whelming evidence of continuing racial
discrimination in voting.
We must not shirk our constitutional
duty. We must pass H.R. 4.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentlewoman from Ohio
(Ms. FUDGE), who is an invaluable part
of this work in the House Administra-
tion Committee and had a special com-
mittee to work on this. This is very
close to her heart.
Ms. FUDGE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I remember well the
day I stood here and raised my right
hand and swore before God and country
that I would support and defend the
Constitution of the United States
against all enemies, foreign and domes-
tic, and that I would bear true faith
and allegiance to the same.
If you believe in the oath you took
and they were not just empty words,
you must vote to support H.R. 4.
If you believe that Black and Brown
people, Asian citizens, Native Ameri-
cans, language minorities, students,
the poor, rural and urban citizens are
part of ‘‘we, the people,’’ you must vote
to support H.R. 4.
To quote our former colleague, the
Honorable Barbara Jordan: ‘‘We, the
people. . . . I was not included in that
‘We, the people.’ . . . But through the
process of amendment, interpretation,
and court decision, I . . . am finally
. . . included in ‘We, the people.’’’
She went on to say: ‘‘My faith in the
Constitution is whole. It is complete. It
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:04 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06DE7.023 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9314 December 6, 2019
is total. I am not going to sit here and
be an idle spectator to the diminution,
the subversion, the destruction of the
Constitution.’’
The Constitution is the very founda-
tion of our democracy. If your faith in
the Constitution is whole, complete,
and total, you must vote for H.R. 4.
Sadly, the United States has a long,
dark history of denying or restricting
the right of people to vote who look
like me.
The Black Brigade of Cincinnati, the
Buffalo Soldiers, the Tuskegee Airmen,
they protected, fought, and many died
for this country, but their ability to
vote was either outlawed or suppressed.
b 1045
JOHN LEWIS and Dr. King were at-
tacked. Fannie Lou Hamer was bru-
tally beaten, and Medgar Evers was
shot down in his very own driveway.
We, the people.
The 14th Amendment says that: ‘‘All
persons born or naturalized in the
United States . . . , are citizens. . . .
No State shall make or enforce any law
which shall abridge the privileges . . .
of citizens. . . .’’
The 15th Amendment guarantees:
‘‘The right of citizens of the United
States to vote shall not be denied or
abridged by the United States or by
any State on account of race, color, or
previous condition of servitude.’’
We are all we, the people.
The 24th Amendment prohibits the
payment of poll and other taxes to
vote. I believe that the purchase of un-
necessary forms of identification and
payment of fines and fees are just other
forms of poll taxes.
And nowhere in the Constitution
does it say, if you do not vote in one
election, you lose your right to vote.
Voting is a right; it is not a require-
ment. Your right to vote is not a use-
it-or-lose-it situation. In my opinion,
purging is a constitutional violation.
The same goes for closing polling
places and moving them so far that it
takes hours to travel there and back,
or reducing early voting hours such
that it discriminates against those who
use those shortened hours.
I implore you not to place party over
patriotism, wrong over right. I ask you
to do the right thing. Our Nation needs
to know if your faith in the Constitu-
tion is whole, if it is complete, and if it
is total. And if it is, you will vote
‘‘yes’’ on H.R. 4.
How many more generations will be
required to fight for their constitu-
tional right to vote?
We are the greatest democracy in the
history of the world against which all
other democracies are judged. If your
faith in the Constitution is whole, com-
plete, and total, you must do the right
thing, not the political thing.
Do the right thing. Vote ‘‘yes’’ on
H.R. 4.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield such time as he may con-
sume to the gentleman from Illinois
(Mr. RODNEY DAVIS), the Republican
leader on the House Administration
Committee.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, I thank my good friend, the
ranking member of the Judiciary Com-
mittee, Mr. COLLINS, for yielding
today.
Today, I rise in opposition of H.R. 4,
the Voting Rights Advancement Act of
2019.
I fully support the bipartisan Voting
Rights Act, which is still in place
today. However, the bill we are debat-
ing today, H.R. 4, is not a reauthoriza-
tion of the important, historically bi-
partisan Voting Rights Act that has
helped to prevent discrimination at the
ballot box since 1965.
It has only been since the U.S. Su-
preme Court decision in Shelby County
v. Holder that Democrats have decided
to politicize the Voting Rights Act.
This landmark decision left the vast
majority of the Voting Rights Act in
place today.
The only thing that was struck down
from the VRA was the formula that
was using 40-year-old data to deter-
mine which States were placed under
the control of the Department of Jus-
tice, this process known as
preclearance. The Supreme Court
deemed this data and formula was no
longer accurate nor relevant for our
country’s current climate.
Chief Justice Roberts said: ‘‘The Vot-
ing Rights Act of 1965 employed ex-
traordinary measures to address an ex-
traordinary problem.’’
He went on to say that: ‘‘Regardless
of how to look at the record, no one
can fairly say that it shows anything
approaching the ‘pervasive,’ ‘flagrant,’
‘widespread,’ and ‘rampant’ discrimina-
tion that faced’’ this ‘‘Congress,’’ this
institution, ‘‘in 1965, and that clearly
distinguished the covered jurisdictions
from the rest of the Nation.’’
So what does H.R. 4 do? It doubles
down on federalizing elections and
would attempt to put every State and
jurisdiction in this country under
preclearance.
The majority has been unable to de-
termine the number of States or juris-
dictions that would be covered by this
preclearance if H.R. 4 were to become
law. Apparently, we have to pass this
bill before the American people would
know if they would or would not be
subjected to it.
The majority knows H.R. 4 is bad pol-
icy that will cripple thousands of local
election officials across the country if
it were ever to become law.
Let me be clear: H.R. 4 is not a Vot-
ing Rights Act reauthorization bill.
H.R. 4 is about two things: placing the
unnecessary preclearance requirements
on to States, and the Democrats giving
the Department of Justice control over
all election activity.
My committee, the Committee on
House Administration, has jurisdiction
over Federal election policy, but it
does not have jurisdiction over the
Voting Rights Act. That goes to the
Judiciary Committee. Despite that
lack of jurisdiction, our Subcommittee
on Elections held seven field hearings
and one listening session across this
great country on the Voting Rights
Act, encompassing eight different
States and over 13,000 miles of air trav-
el.
Even with this gargantuan effort to
gather evidence to reinstate the
struck-down formula from the VRA
that we are discussing today, the
Democrats were still unable to produce
a single voter who wanted to vote and
was unable to cast a ballot.
This isn’t a bad thing. It is a fan-
tastic thing. It ought to be celebrated.
We should be celebrating that Ameri-
cans who wanted to vote were able to
do that, and credit should be given to
the Voting Rights Act for helping to
achieve that.
The 2018 midterm election produced
the highest voting turnout in four dec-
ades—and that is according to data
from our Census Bureau—especially
among minority voters.
The sections of the Voting Rights
Act that are currently in effect are
continuing to help safeguard the public
from discrimination at the ballot box.
Every eligible American who wants to
vote in this country’s elections should
be able to cast a ballot. That is why we
have the Voting Rights Act, a great ex-
ample, until today, of a bipartisan so-
lution that is still working today to
help Americans and protect from voter
discrimination.
I have now seen four election-related
bills from the majority come to this
floor, and all of them have the same
common theme: catchy titles and fed-
eralizing elections, a responsibility the
Constitution gives to our States.
H.R. 4 is simply more of the same. It
is a solution in search of a problem.
That is why I cannot support this legis-
lation.
I ask my colleagues to join me in
making sure States maintain control
of their elections.
Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Before I ask for unanimous consent
so that the gentleman from New York
(Mr. NADLER) can take over the re-
mainder of the time, I would just like
to comment.
I have been in this Congress for 13
years now, and before these sections
were added that the Republicans op-
pose, there was simply the Voting
Rights Act with a new coverage for-
mula, sponsored by Mr. SENSEN-
BRENNER, and it had but less than 10
Republicans on it.
Mr. Speaker, I yield the balance of
my time to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. NADLER), and I ask unani-
mous consent that he may control that
time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Tennessee?
There was no objection.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentlewoman from Ala-
bama (Ms. SEWELL), the chief sponsor
of this legislation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:04 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06DE7.024 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9315
December 6, 2019
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today in support of H.R. 4, the
Voting Rights Advancement Act.
Nothing is more fundamental to our
democracy than the right to vote, and
nothing is more precious to my dis-
trict, Alabama’s Seventh Congressional
District, than the fight to protect the
right to vote for all Americans.
It was in my district, Birmingham,
Montgomery, Marion, and Selma, that
ordinary Americans peacefully pro-
tested for the equal right to vote for
African Americans.
Voting is personal to me, not just be-
cause I represent Alabama’s Civil
Rights District, but because it was on
the streets of my hometown of Selma
that foot soldiers shed their blood on
the Edmund Pettus Bridge so that all
Americans, regardless of race, could
vote.
It was on that same bridge in Selma,
Alabama, that our colleague, a then 26-
year-old, JOHN LEWIS, was bludgeoned
by State troopers with billy clubs in
the name of justice. Their efforts led to
the passage of the Voting Rights Act of
1965, the seminal and most effective
legislation passed in this Congress to
protect the right of all Americans to
vote.
Those protections were gutted in 2013
by the Supreme Court decision in
Shelby v. Holder when the Court ruled
that Section 4(b) of the VRA was un-
constitutional, stating that the cov-
erage formula that Congress adopted
was outdated.
Well, today, 6 years after the Shelby
decision, Congress is finally answering
the Supreme Court’s call to action by
passing H.R. 4. H.R. 4 creates a new
coverage formula to determine which
States will be subject to the VRA’s
preclearance requirement that is based
on current, recent evidence of voter
discrimination.
In addition, the bill also establishes
practice-based preclearance authority
and increases transparency by requir-
ing reasonable notice for voter
changes.
This new voter formula is narrowly
tailored to cover the States and juris-
dictions where there has been a resur-
gence of significant and pervasive dis-
criminatory voting practices. It does
not include those areas where such
preclearance would be considered to be
an unjustifiable burden.
In all, these changes will restore the
full strength of the Voting Rights Act
by stopping discrimination before it
takes place, as Congress had intended
in the pasting of the VRA.
Mr. Speaker, old battles have become
new again. The fight that began in
Selma, Alabama, in 1965 still persists.
Yes, Selma is now.
While literacy tests and poll taxes no
longer exist, certain States and local
jurisdictions have passed laws that are
modern-day barriers to voting. So as
long as voter suppression exists, the
need for the full protections of the
VRA will be required, and that is why
it is critically important that we fully
restore the protections of the Voting
Rights Act by passing H.R. 4.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the Ju-
diciary Committee and the House Ad-
ministration’s Subcommittee on Elec-
tions for hosting the 17 hearings and
collecting the thousands and thousands
of pages of documentation supporting
the report on H.R. 4.
Likewise, I include in the RECORD
letters of support for H.R. 4 from out-
side groups that detail the existence of
current voter suppression.
INTERNATIONAL UNION, UNITED
AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE & AGRI-
CULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS
OF AMERICA—UAW,
December 5, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
more than one million active and retired
members of the International Union, United
Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Im-
plement Workers of America (UAW), I am
writing to strongly urge you to vote ’YES’
on the Voting Rights Advancement Act (H.R.
4).
This legislation is badly needed as the dis-
astrous Supreme Court’s Shelby v. Holder
decision has led to the proliferation of state
laws that have made it more difficult for the
American people to exercise their funda-
mental voting rights. In the last decade, 25
states have enacted new voting restrictions,
including strict photo ID requirements, early
voting cutbacks, and registration restric-
tions. Registered voters have been inten-
tionally purged from voter rolls and states
have closed hundreds of polling stations with
a history of racial discrimination since the
court ruled that they did not need federal ap-
proval to change their rules. These repeated
attacks have severely undermined people’s
fundamental voting rights, which are the
foundational principles of our representative
democracy.
H.R. 4 helps protect citizens’ ability to reg-
ister to vote and provides real enforcement
so that marginalized communities will have
proper access to the ballot box. Empowering
Americans to vote and ensuring that every-
one has equal access to participate in the
voting process is a core value of our democ-
racy.
The UAW strongly urges you to vote ‘YES’
on the Voting Rights Advancement Act (H.R
4).
Sincerely,
JOSH NASSAR,
Legislative Director.
NATIONAL HISPANIC
LEADERSHIP AGENDA,
December 4, 2019.
Re NHLA Urges Support of the Voting
Rights Advancement Act, H.R. 4.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: We write on behalf
of the National Hispanic Leadership Agenda
(NHLA), a coalition of the nation’s leading
Latino nonpartisan civil rights and advocacy
organizations, to urge you to vote ‘‘yes’’ on
the Voting Rights Advancement Act of 2019
(VRAA), H.R. 4. This legislation restores
necessary voting protections to ensure that
discriminatory voting-related changes are
blocked before they are implemented. There
is no right more fundamental to our democ-
racy than the right to vote, and for more
than 50 years the Voting Rights Act of 1965
(VRA) provided voters with one of the
most effective mechanisms for protecting
that right. The VRAA would provide Latino
and other voters of color new and forward-
looking protections against voter discrimi-
nation. The Latino community cannot wait
for another federal election cycle to go by
without effective mechanisms to guard
against discriminatory voting-related
changes. NHLA will closely monitor this
matter for inclusion in future NHLA score-
cards evaluating Member support for the
Latino community.
The VRA is regarded as one of the most
important and effective pieces of civil rights
legislation in our country’s history due to
its ability to protect voters of color from dis-
criminatory voting practices before they oc-
curred. In 2013, the Supreme Court, in its de-
cision in Shelby County v. Holder, struck
down the formula that determined which
states and political subdivisions were re-
quired to seek federal pre-approval of their
voting-related changes to ensure they did
not discriminate against minority voters.
The Supreme Court put the onus on Congress
to enact a new formula better tailored to
current history, and after the decision,
states or political subdivisions were no
longer required to seek preclearance unless
ordered by a federal court in the course of
litigation.
H.R. 4 includes a new geographic coverage
formula to identify those jurisdictions that
will have to ‘‘preclear’’ their voting-related
changes, as well as new provisions requiring
practice-based preclearance, or ‘‘known-
practices coverage.’’ Known-practices cov-
erage would focus administrative or judicial
review narrowly on suspect practices that
are most likely to be tainted by discrimina-
tory intent or to have discriminatory effects,
as demonstrated by a broad historical
record. Any jurisdiction in the U.S. that is
home to a racially, ethnically, and/or lin-
guistically diverse population and that seeks
to adopt a covered practice will be required
to preclear the change before implementa-
tion. The known practices covered under the
bill include. 1) changes in method of election
to change a single-member district to an at-
large seat or to add an at-large seat to a gov-
erning body; 2) certain redistricting plans
where there is significant minority popu-
lation growth in the previous decade; 3) an-
nexations or deannexations that would sig-
nificantly alter the composition of the juris-
diction’s electorate; 4) certain identification
and proof of citizenship requirements; 5) cer-
tain polling place closures and realignments;
and 6) the withdrawal of multilingual mate-
rials and assistance not matched by the re-
duction of those services in English.
Preclearance is an efficient and effective
form of alternative dispute resolution that
prevents the implementation of voting-re-
lated changes that would deny voters of
color a voice in our elections. Preclearance
saves taxpayers in covered jurisdictions a
considerable amount of money because the
jurisdiction can obtain quick decisions with-
out having to pay attorneys, expert wit-
nesses, or prevailing plaintiff’s fees and costs
that are incurred in complex and expensive
litigation. In December 2018, redistricting
litigation in North Carolina had already cost
$5.6 million in taxpayer dollars. The litiga-
tion related to Texas’s redistricting scheme
was also a multi-million dollar affair, ulti-
mately paid by taxpayers for the discrimina-
tory actions of government officials.
Across the U.S., racial, ethnic, and lan-
guage-minority communities are rapidly
growing — the country’s total population is
projected to become majority-minority by
2044. It is no secret that many states and
local jurisdictions fear losing political
power, and the rapid growth of these commu-
nities is often seen as a threat to existing po-
litical establishments. Between 2007 and 2014,
five of the ten U.S. counties with the most
rapid rates of Latino population growth were
in North Dakota or South Dakota, two
states whose overall Latino populations still
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06DE7.026 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9316 December 6, 2019
account for less than ten percent of their
residents, and are dwarfed by Latino commu-
nities in states like New Mexico, Texas, and
California. It is precisely this rapid growth
of different racial or ethnic populations that
results in the perception that emerging com-
munities of color are a threat to those in po-
litical power.
Last month, MALDEF, NALEO—both
members of NHLA—and Asian Americans
Advancing Justice—AAJC, released a new re-
port, Practice-Based Preclearance: Pro-
tecting Against Tactics Persistently Used to
Silence Minority Communities’ Votes, de-
tailing the need for forward-looking VRA
legislation that provides protections for
emerging minority populations. H.R. 4 iden-
tifies different voting changes most likely to
discriminatorily affect access to the vote in
diverse jurisdictions whose minority popu-
lations are attaining visibility and influence.
The report looked at these identified prac-
tices and found, based on two separate anal-
yses of voting discrimination, that these
known practices occur with great frequency
in the modern era.
Congress must protect the access to the
polls, and it must include a known-practices
coverage formula. H.R. 4 is a critical piece of
legislation that will restore voter protec-
tions that were lost due to the Shelby Coun-
ty decision. NHLA urges you to stand with
voters and to vote ‘‘yes’’ on H.R. 4.
Sincerely,
THOMAS A. SAENZ,
MALDEF, President
and General Coun-
sel, NHLA Chair,
Civil Rights Com-
mittee, Co-Chair.
JUAN CARTAGENA,
LatinoJustice
PRLDEF, President
and General Coun-
sel, Civil Rights
Committee NHLA,
Co-Chair.
NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION,
October 22, 2019.
HOUSE COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY,
U.S. House,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the 3
million members of the National Education
Association who work in 14,000 communities
across the nation, thank you for holding this
markup of the Voting Rights Advancement
Act of 2019 (H.R. 4). We urge you to VOTE
YES on the Voting Rights Advancement Act,
which we believe combats voter discrimina-
tion and protects the most fundamental
right in our democracy. Votes on this issue
may be included in NEA’s Report Card for
the 116th Congress.
The U.S. Supreme Court in Shelby v. Hold-
er invalidated a crucial provision in the Vot-
ing Rights Act of 1965 that prevented states
with a history of discriminating against vot-
ers from changing their voting laws and
practices without preclearance by federal of-
ficials. This federal review was an important
feature of the Voting Rights Act; doing away
with it has virtually annulled the federal
oversight that was—and remains—crucial to
ensuring that millions of people have equal
access to the ballot box After the 2013 Shelby
decision, several states changed their voting
practices in controversial ways that created
barriers for people of color, low-income peo-
ple, transgender people, college students, the
elderly, and those with disabilities. The Vot-
ing Rights Advancement Act takes several
steps toward reversing this harmful, un-
democratic trend, including:
Modernizing the Voting Rights Act so that
preclearance covers states and localities
with a pattern of discrimination;
Requiring jurisdictions to publicly dis-
close, 180 days before an election, all voting
changes; and
Authorizing the Attorney General, either
on Election Day or during early voting, to
send federal observers to any jurisdiction
where there is a substantial risk of discrimi-
nation at the polls.
NEA members live, work, and vote in every
precinct, county, and congressional district
in the United States. They take their obliga-
tion to vote seriously because it is essential
to protecting the opportunities that they be-
lieve all students should have. Furthermore,
educators teach students that voting is a re-
sponsibility of citizenship, a privilege for
which many people have fought and died. We
urge you to VOTE yes on the Voting Rights
Advancement Act, and to support legislation
to expand voter registration, safeguard our
elections, and restore voting rights for peo-
ple with past criminal convictions—impor-
tant steps to ensure that all have a voice in
our society.
Sincerely,
MARC EGAN,
Director of Government Relations,
National Education Association.
IN OUR OWN VOICE: NATIONAL BLACK
WOMEN’S REPRODUCTIVE JUSTICE
AGENDA,
December 4, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of In Our
Own Voice: National Black Women’s Repro-
ductive Justice Agenda, a national/state
partnership with eight Black Women’s Re-
productive Justice organizations (Black
Women’s Health Imperative, New Voices for
Reproductive Justice, SisterLove, Inc.,
SisterReach, SPARK Reproductive Justice
NOW!, Inc., The Afiya Center, and Women
With A Vision), lifting up the voices of Black
women leaders on local, state, and national
policies that impact the lives of Black
Women and girls, we write in strong support
of H.R. 4, the Voting Rights Advancement
Act. We oppose any Motion to Recommit. We
urge you to vote ‘‘yes’’ during the antici-
pated House floor vote.
At the core of Reproductive Justice is the
human right to control our bodies, our sexu-
ality, our gender, our work, and our repro-
duction. That right can only be achieved
when all women and girls (cis, femme, trans,
agender, gender non-binary and gender non-
conforming) have the complete economic, so-
cial, and political power and resources to
make healthy decisions about our bodies, our
families, and our communities in all areas of
our lives. This most certainly includes at the
polls.
The U.S. Supreme Court decision in June
of 2013 that gutted the Voting Rights Act of
1965, one of the most impactful civil rights
laws enacted to date, significantly set back
racial equality in voting. Since the Supreme
Court decision in Shelby County v. Holder,
discrimination has become common place in
voting, nationwide, and voter suppression is
absolutely rampant throughout the system.
We know that such suppression dispropor-
tionately impacts communities of color.
Significant barriers exist for Black com-
munities. In a nationwide poll conducted by
In Our Own Voice, National Latina Institute
for Reproductive Health, and National Asian
Pacific American Women’s Forum in Spring
of 2019, 33% of women of color voters polled
experienced an issue voting. Additionally,
countless hearings held by the House Judici-
ary Committee throughout the year have
shown significant barriers to accessing the
polls, significantly impeding voter participa-
tion.
H.R. 4 is necessary to restore and mod-
ernize the Voting Rights Act to acknowledge
the lived experiences of those working to ac-
cess the polls in all communities. This legis-
lation would strengthen our voting laws to
ensure repeated voting rights violations are
addressed, increases processes and trans-
parency around voting changes, and goes
great lengths to protection individuals from
racial discrimination in voting.
In Our Own Voice’s work, particularly
through our I Am A Voter project, is to in-
crease Black women’s voter engagement in
state, local and federal elections, to ensure
our stories are told and our voices are rep-
resented. H.R. 4 is critical to ensuring that
we can express our beliefs and positions
through the ballot box. We urge Congress to
pass this historic legislation.
Sincerely,
MARCELA HOWELL,
Founder and President/CEO.
AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION,
December 5, 2019.
Re Vote YES on H.R. 4, the Voting Rights
Advancement Act.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: The American Civil
Liberties Union (ACLU) urges you to vote
‘‘YES’’ on H.R. 4 the Voting Rights Advance-
ment Act of 2019 (VRAA) this morning. The
ACLU will score this vote.
Congress enacted the Voting Rights Act in
1965 (VRA) almost a century after the adop-
tion of the Fifteenth Amendment, which pro-
hibits racial discrimination in voting. The
most powerful enforcement tool in the Vot-
ing Rights Act was the federal preclearance
process, established by Section 5. It required
locations with the worst records of voting
discrimination to federally ‘‘preclear’’—or
get federal approval for—voting changes by
demonstrating to either the Justice Depart-
ment or the D.C. federal court that the vot-
ing change would not have a discriminatory
purpose or effect. What preclearance meant
in practice was that states and jurisdictions
with documented histories of voting dis-
crimination could not enforce new voting
rules without showing that the rules did not
discriminate on the basis of race.
While upholding the Voting Rights Act’s
preclearance process itself, the Supreme
Court’s 2013 decision in Shelby County v.
Holder effectively nullified preclearance pro-
tections contained in the Voting Rights Act
by invalidating the coverage formula that
identified which locations would be subject
to preclearance. Many states have taken the
Shelby County decision as a green light to
enact discriminatory voting restrictions
with impunity. These restrictions include
photo ID laws, restraints on voter registra-
tion, voter purges, cuts to early voting, re-
strictions on the casting and counting of ab-
sentee and provisional ballots, documentary
proof of citizenship requirements, polling
place closures and consolidations, and crim-
inalization of acts associated with registra-
tion or voting.
In turn, this rash of discriminatory voting
laws has led to an explosion of litigation to
protect voters from state and local viola-
tions of federal law. Since Shelby County,
the ACLU has opened more than 60 new vot-
ing rights cases and investigations and cur-
rently has more than 30 active matters. Be-
tween the 2012 and 2016 presidential elections
alone, the ACLU and our affiliates won 15
voting rights victories, protecting more than
5 6 million voters in 12 states that collec-
tively are home to 161 members of the House
of Representatives and wield 185 votes in the
Electoral College. The ACLU also submitted
a 227-page report to the House Judiciary
Committee reviewing the legal landscape,
evidence of ongoing voting discrimination
addressed by the bill, and an analysis of its
key provisions. The ACLU report is publicly
available here: https://www.aclu.orglreport/
aclu-report-voting-rights-act.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:04 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06DE7.030 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9317
December 6, 2019
The ACLU’s recent litigation experience
supports at least two conclusions: our record
of success in blocking discriminatory voting
changes—with an overall success rate in Vot-
ing Rights Act litigation of more than 80
percent—reveals that state and local offi-
cials are continuing to engage in a wide-
spread pattern of unconstitutional racial dis-
crimination and pervasive violations of fed-
eral law. It also shows that there is a lack of
tools necessary to stop discriminatory
changes to voting laws before they taint an
election. Even in the cases in which the
ACLU has ultimately succeeded, these dis-
criminatory policies remained in place for
months or even years while litigation pro-
ceeded—crucial time during which elections
were held, and hundreds of government offi-
cials elected, under unfair conditions.
In delivering the Supreme Court’s 5–4 ma-
jority opinion in Shelby County, Chief Jus-
tice John Roberts expressly invited Congress
to update the Voting Rights Act’s protec-
tions based on current conditions of dis-
crimination. It is long past due for Congress
to renew the protections of the Voting
Rights Act. The price of inaction to protect
the voting rights of Americans is high, and
history offers a myriad of examples dem-
onstrating its cost to the nation. Congress
must act now to cement the legacy of the
Voting Rights Act and guard the rights of all
Americans. The ACLU urges you to vote
‘‘yes’’ on H.R. 4 and reauthorize the Voting
Rights Act.
Sincerely,
RONALD NEWMAN,
National Political Di-
rector, National Po-
litical Advocacy De-
partment.
SONIA GILL,
Senior Legislative
Counsel, National
Political Advocacy
Department.
ANTI-DEFAMATION LEAGUE,
June 26, 2019.
Hon. STEVE COHEN,
Chairman, House Judiciary Committee, Sub-
committee on the Constitution, Civil Rights,
and Civil Liberties.
Hon. MIKE JOHNSON,
Ranking Member, House Judiciary Committee,
Subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil
Rights, and Civil Liberties.
DEAR CHAIRMAN COHEN AND RANKING MEM-
BER JOHNSON: On behalf of ADL (the Anti-
Defamation League), we write to urge the
House Judiciary Committee to take prompt
action to protect Americans’ fundamental
right to vote by approving H.R. 4, the Voting
Rights Advancement Act of 2019 (VRAA). We
ask that this statement be included as part
of the official hearing record for the sub-
committee’s June 25, 2019 hearing on ‘‘Con-
tinuing Challenges to the Voting Rights Act
Since Shelby County.’’
Since the enactment of the Voting Rights
Act (VRA) in 1965, a central part of ADL’s
mission—‘‘to stop the defamation of the Jew-
ish people, and to secure justice and fair
treatment to all’’—has been devoted to help-
ing to ensure that all Americans have a
voice in our democracy. Answering Dr.
King’s call for ‘‘religious leaders from all
over the nation to join us . . . in our peace-
ful, nonviolent march for freedom,’’ ADL lay
leaders and staff joined more than 3,000
Americans in ‘‘peaceful demonstration
against blind violence, in ‘gigantic witness’
to the constitutionally guaranteed right of
all citizens to register and vote in 1965.’’
ADL continues to work today to ensure
that all eligible Americans can exercise their
fundamental right to vote through advocacy
in the courts, legislatures, and communities.
We are proud to have stood with leaders such
as Dr. King and Rep. John Lewis in 1965 to
fight for every citizen’s right to vote and we
remain equally committed to this goal
today. Recognizing the this landmark law as
one of the most important and most effective
pieces of civil rights legislation ever en-
acted, ADL has strongly supported the VRA
and its extensions since its passage more
than 50 years ago, including by filing a brief
in Shelby County v Holder.
In the years and decades following the en-
actment of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, the
law quickly demonstrated its essential value
in ensuring rights and opportunities. Be-
tween 1964 and 1968—the presidential elec-
tions immediately before and after passage
of the VRA respectively—African American
voter turnout in the South jumped by seven
percentage points. The year after passage of
the VRA, Edward Brooke became the first
African American in history elected to the
United States Senate by popular vote, and
the first African American to serve in the
Senate since Reconstruction. By 1970, the
number of African Americans elected to pub-
lic office had increased fivefold. Today there
are more than 10,000 African American elect-
ed officials at all levels of government.
To be sure, Section 2 of the VRA, which
prohibits discrimination based on race,
color, or membership in a language minority
group in voting practices and procedures na-
tionwide, has helped to secure many of these
advances. Yet it is undeniable that Section 5
of the VRA, which requires certain states
and political subdivisions with a history of
discriminatory voting practices to provide
notice and ‘‘pre-clear’’ any voting law
changes with the federal government, played
an essential and invaluable role in the VRA’s
success. Between 1982 and 2006, pursuant to
Section 5, the Department of Justice (DOJ)
blocked 700 proposed discriminatory voting
laws, the majority of which were based on
‘‘calculated decisions to keep minority vot-
ers from fully participating in the political
process.’’ Proposed laws blocked by Section 5
included discriminatory redistricting plans,
polling place relocations, biased annexations
and de-annexations, and changing offices
from elected to appointed positions, similar
to many of the tactics used to disenfranchise
minority voters before 1965. In addition,
states and political subdivisions either al-
tered or withdrew from consideration ap-
proximately 800 proposed voting changes be-
tween 1982 and 2006, indicating that Section
5’s impact was much broader than the 700
blocked laws.
Despite decades of success and extensive
documentation of the law’s effectiveness in
preventing discriminatory restrictions on
the right to vote, on June 25, 2013 the U.S
Supreme Court, in a sharply divided 5–4 rul-
ing in Shelby County v. Holder, struck down
Section 4(b) of the VRA. In doing so, the
Court substituted its views for Congress’s
own very extensive hearings and findings
conducted in 2006 when Congress almost
unanimously voted to reauthorize the VRA
for another 25 years. The ruling invalidated
the formula used to determine which states
and political subdivisions would be subject
to preclearance under Section 5 but did not
evaluate the merits of the preclearance pro-
vision itself. The majority only held that
‘‘the formula in that section can no longer
be used as a basis for subjecting jurisdictions
to preclearance.’’
While Shelby County has done irreparable
damage to voting rights in the United
States, Congress is not powerless to mitigate
this damage and restore the original force of
the VRA. In fact, the Court specifically
noted that ‘‘Congress may draft another for-
mula based on current conditions’’ and rein-
state the preclearance provision in Section 5.
The Voting Rights Advancement Act of 2019
introduces a new, rolling preclearance for-
mula based on current need that would re-
store the preemptory force of the VRA. The
recent onslaught of restrictive voting laws
enacted across the country is evidence that
litigation pursuant to Section 2 is entirely
inadequate to prevent unconstitutional vot-
ing practices and discrimination. Since 2010,
over 25 states have enacted restrictive voting
laws. Half the country now faces stricter
voting regulations than they did in 2010.
Perhaps the most illustrative case for the
ongoing necessity of a preclearance process
is the battle over a Texas voter ID law. In
2011, Texas passed S.B 14, the strictest voter
ID law ever enacted in the United States. Be-
cause Texas was required under Section 4 of
the VRA to seek preclearance for its voting
laws, the law was initially blocked from
going into effect. The three-judge panel that
reviewed the law found that ‘‘based on the
record of evidence before us, it is virtually
certain that these burdens will dispropor-
tionately affect racial minorities. Simply
put, many Hispanics and African Americans
who voted in the last election will, because
of the burdens imposed by SB 14, likely be
unable to vote.’’
Within hours of the Court’s decision in
Shelby County, Texas Attorney General
Greg Abbott announced that S.B 14 would go
into effect immediately. Following the At-
torney General’s announcement, multiple
civil rights groups and Texas voters filed
suit under Section 2 of the VRA. In 2014, a
district court held that ‘‘SB 14 was enacted
with a racially discriminatory purpose, has a
racially discriminatory effect, is a poll tax,
and unconstitutionally burdens the right to
vote.’’ On appeal, a court of appeals stayed
the district court’s decision and allowed the
law to take effect.
For more than two years and over the span
of two election cycles, SB 14 prevented eligi-
ble voters from casting a ballot while litiga-
tion was ongoing. By the time the law was fi-
nally invalidated in 2016 by a 9–2 vote of the
entire Court of Appeals for the D.C Circuit
(sitting en bane), no fewer than seven federal
judges had concluded the law was discrimi-
natory. Yet because Section 5 of the VRA
was not in effect, this patently unconstitu-
tional law was permitted to disenfranchise
untold numbers of minority voters, over two
election cycles. The consequences of dis-
enfranchisement are not fully quantifiable
but are certainly lasting. Elections cannot
be undone, and no judicial relief can restore
the confidence in our democracy that was
unfairly taken from thousands of
disenfranchised voters.
Texas is not the only state to adopt strict
voter ID laws. The National Conference of
State Legislatures identifies 10 states with
‘‘strict’’ voter ID laws and finds that 11% of
all Americans lack the necessary govern-
ment ID that these laws require. Voter ID
laws have been found on multiple occasions
to disproportionately affect marginalized
communities, low-income and elderly Ameri-
cans, and students.
Nor is Voter ID the only, tool states are
using to disenfranchise voters for political
gain. In Georgia, then Secretary of State
Brian Kemp enforced new election code poli-
cies for the 2018 election (in which he was a
candidate for Governor) which invalidated a
voter’s registration if there was any discrep-
ancy in their registration paperwork. Of the
53,000 voters whose registration status was
arbitrarily questioned, roughly 70% were Af-
rican American. In Ohio, a ‘‘use it or lose it’’
law caused hundreds of thousands of voters
to be purged from the 2018 voter rolls be-
cause they did not vote in the last presi-
dential election. Gerrymandering, voter in-
timidation and harassment, cuts to early
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06DE7.032 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9318 December 6, 2019
voting opportunities, polling place manipu-
lation and closure, and felony disenfran-
chisement efforts are just some of the other
voter suppression tactics that have become
prevalent since Shelby County and were used
to disenfranchise voters in the 2018 election.
Indeed, we have seen the reversal of half a
century of voting rights advancements since
Shelby County. While Section 5 of the VRA
surely could not have prevented all of these
evils, there is no question that this country’s
democratic institutions would be stronger
and our electoral processes more representa-
tive if the VRA were in full effect. Following
this incredible damage done to the most fun-
damental of our rights as Americans, Con-
gress now finds itself in the position to act.
The Voting Rights Advancement Act
(VRAA) of 2019 is an important first step in
restoring voter trust in America’s elections
and preventing states from enacting addi-
tional discriminatory measures to suppress
the vote. Just over a decade ago, as Congress
was debating the most recent reauthoriza-
tion of the VRA, committees held 21 hear-
ings and compiled over 20,000 pages of
records as evidence of the success of Section
5, the prevalence of ongoing voting discrimi-
nation, and the constitutionality of the law.
As a result, the reauthorization passed with
overwhelming bipartisan support: 390 to 33 in
the House of Representatives and 98–0 in the
Senate. Congress now has both the power and
the imperative to pass the Voting Rights Ad-
vancement Act and restore the critical vot-
ing protections that quite recently received
overwhelming bipartisan approval.
In the face of federal inaction, many states
have taken the lead on expanding and secur-
ing the right to vote for all people. In 2018,
Maryland, New Jersey, and Washington
adopted automatic voter registration, a pol-
icy which would significantly increase access
to the ballot. Since 2016, six states have lim-
ited or reversed their felon disenfranchise-
ment laws and 16 states have enacted re-
forms such as same-day registration, online
voter-registration, and expanded early vot-
ing opportunities that make it easier to reg-
ister and vote. Despite the absence of Con-
gressional leadership, there is substantial
momentum behind expanding ballot access
and preserving America’s voting rights.
S. 1945, the VRAA, creates a modern, flexi-
ble, rolling formula to determine which
states and political subdivisions will have to
pre-clear their laws with the federal govern-
ment. The formula will not require
preclearance in all the political subdivisions
that have moved to restrict voting rights in
the past six years, including some of the ex-
amples above, but, over time, the rolling for-
mula will sweep in many of the most prob-
lematic jurisdictions. It will restore critical
safeguards, preventing enactment of dis-
criminatory voting laws by once more
‘‘shift[ing] the advantage of inertia and time
from the perpetrators of the evil to the vic-
tims.’’
The Fifteenth Amendment to the U.S. Con-
stitution proclaims that ‘‘the right of citi-
zens of the United States to vote shall not be
denied or abridged by the United States or
by any state on account of race, color, or
previous condition of servitude.’’ Section 2 of
the Amendment expressly declares that
‘‘Congress shall have the power to enforce
this article by appropriate legislation.’’ As
the Supreme Court has recognized, ‘‘by add-
ing this authorization, the Framers indi-
cated that Congress was to be chiefly respon-
sible for implementing the rights created in
Section 1,’’ and ‘‘Congress may use any ra-
tional means to effectuate the constitutional
prohibition of racial discrimination in vot-
ing.’’ Passage of the Voting Rights Advance-
ment Act is not only rational. It is critical
to enforcing the constitutional prohibition
on racial discrimination in voting and pro-
tecting the fundamental right to vote for all
Americans.
We strongly welcome these hearings on the
devastating legacy of Shelby County and ap-
preciate the opportunity to present ADL’s
views. We urge the Committee to promptly
approve the Voting Rights Advancement Act
of 2019.
Sincerely,
EILEEN B. HERSHENOV,
Senior Vice President,
Policy.
STEVEN M. FREEMAN,
Vice President, Civil
Rights.
ERIKA L. MORITSUGU,
Vice President, Gov-
ernment Relations,
Advocacy, and Com-
munity Engagement.
MELISSA GARLICK,
Civil Rights National
Counsel.
AFL–CIO,
December 5, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
AFL–CIO, I am writing to urge you to vote
for the Voting Rights Advancement Act
(H.R.4). This bill offers a flexible nationwide
approach to protecting voters from discrimi-
natory practices, and it is an important step
toward restoration of the protections under-
mined by the Supreme Court’s 2013 decision
in Shelby County v Holder. We urge you to
oppose any motion to recommit.
The bill would establish a new
preclearance coverage formula that is re-
sponsive to the discriminatory practices that
have proliferated since the Supreme Court’s
decision in Shelby County v. Holder. As
Chief Justice Roberts himself said in the
Shelby decision: ‘‘voting discrimination still
exists; no one doubts that.’’ Discriminatory
policies have not only resurfaced in areas
formerly covered by the Voting Rights Act’s
preclearance requirement, but also have pro-
liferated nationwide. State and local offi-
cials brazenly have imposed restrictive vot-
ing requirements, altered district bound-
aries, and shifted polling locations in ways
that make voting more difficult and less ac-
cessible for many voters. The Voting Rights
Advancement Act would address these dis-
enfranchisement strategies, as well as others
certain to develop.
The right to vote is fundamental to our de-
mocracy, and the effort to protect citizens
from voting discrimination has been bipar-
tisan for more than half a century. Indeed,
the Voting Rights Act of 1965 would not have
passed without leadership from both polit-
ical parties, and Republican presidents
signed each Voting Rights Act reauthoriza-
tion into law.
The integrity of our democracy depends on
ensuring that every eligible voter can par-
ticipate in the electoral process, and, thus,
voting discrimination demands strong bipar-
tisan legislative action. Every member of
Congress should go on record today in sup-
port of this historic legislation.
Sincerely,
WILLIAM SAMUEL, Director,
Government Affairs Department.
BEND THE ARC: JEWISH ACTION,
December 5, 2019.
Re Vote for the Voting Rights Advancement
Act (H.R. 4) and against any Motion to
Recommit.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: As the Washington
Director of Bend the Arc: Jewish Action, I
urge you to vote for the Voting Rights Ad-
vancement Act (H.R. 4) and to vote against
any Motion to Recommit (MTR), when it
comes to a vote this week. This crucial legis-
lation would restore and modernize the Vot-
ing Rights Act to combat voter suppression
and discrimination across the country. As
the largest national Jewish social justice or-
ganization focused exclusively on domestic
policy, Bend the Arc and our members across
the country care deeply about ensuring all
people are able to exercise their Constitu-
tional right to shape our democracy through
voting.
The VRAA responds to the urgent need to
undo the onslaught of abuses by state and
local governments in the aftermath of the
Supreme Court’s 2013 decision in Shelby
County v Holder, gutting the preclearance
provision of the Voting Rights Act. Since
that decision, 14 states have imposed new
voting restrictions that would have likely
been deemed unacceptable were the VRA at
full strength. These policies have had real
consequences, such as likely contributing to
significantly lower turnout amongst tar-
geted populations, including people of color,
in both the 2016 presidential election and the
2018 midterms.
The fight to protect voting rights is deeply
personal for American Jews. There is some-
thing quintessentially American, and also
quintessentially Jewish, about voting. After
all, voting is a ritual, part of belonging to
the community. Additionally, the United
States was the first federal government to
fully enfranchise Jews. For many Jews, our
families migrated to the U.S. fleeing perse-
cution, coming here to find a country where,
even if they were not always welcome or
even fully protected under the law, they
nonetheless had a legal right to exist, and be
a part of our democratic system at the basic
level.
Today, we draw inspiration not only from
that part of the American Jewish experience,
but also from the Jewish leaders of the re-
cent past who worked to pass the Voting
Rights Act of 1965, and those today who par-
ticipate in election protection efforts every
Election Day. This is why Bend the Arc has
helped mobilize the faith community in sup-
port of the VRAA and organized National
Days of Action for voting rights to mark the
50th anniversary of the murder of Andrew
Goodman, James Chaney, and Mickey
Schwerner in 1964, and the passing of the
Voting Rights Act of 1965.
Again, I urge you to vote for the Voting
Rights Advancement Act (H.R. 4) and
against any MTR, to ensure that all Ameri-
cans are able to exercise their Constitu-
tionally-protected right to vote.
Sincerely,
RABBI JASON KIMELMAN-BLOCK,
Washington Director,
Bend the Arc: Jewish Action.
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Mr. Speak-
er, I also want to thank the many
stakeholder groups that have worked
so hard on this bill: the Leadership
Council, the Legal Defense Fund, the
NAACP, the Lawyers’ Committee, the
AFL–CIO, MALDEF, and so many
more.
As we prepare to take this vote, let
us be guided by our north star, that is
our wonderful colleague, our beloved
colleague, JOHN LEWIS, who reminds us
each and every day that the price of
freedom is not free. It has been bought
and paid for by the courage of ordinary
Americans who dared to make this Na-
tion live up to its ideals of equality and
justice for all.
Let us recommit ourselves to restor-
ing the promise of voter equality and
pass H.R. 4 today.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:04 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06DE7.033 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9319
December 6, 2019
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, may I in-
quire how much time remains on each
side.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from New York has 143⁄4 min-
utes remaining. The gentleman from
Georgia has 201⁄2 minutes remaining.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. JACKSON LEE).
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, as
a senior member of the Judiciary Com-
mittee, having participated in the res-
toration and reinvigoration of the Vot-
ing Rights Act in the 2000–2008 period
that was bipartisan because there was
an understanding by President Bush
that the denial of one’s right to vote is
a denial of human rights, I stand here
today as a Member who has joined a
number of the congressional hearings. I
thank Congresswomen SEWELL and
FUDGE and Congressmen COHEN and
NADLER for the work that has been
done, and I encourage my good friend,
Mr. COLLINS, to be reminded of the
voter suppression in his gubernatorial
race that resulted in the loss of Stacey
Abrams.
And so I rise today as one who has
seen the impact of voting rights, par-
ticularly in the State of Texas, and
argue vigorously for the restoration
through H.R. 4. It is a fair bill: 25-year
period on a rolling basis with current
conditions, and a 10-year legitimacy for
those that pass the test.
President Johnson, during the sign-
ing of the 1965 Voting Rights Act, said
the vote is the most powerful instru-
ment ever devised by man for breaking
down injustice and destroying the ter-
rible walls which imprison men and
women because they are different from
other men and women.
I am a victim of voting rights sup-
pression. I am a redistrict district that
comes from the 1965 Voting Rights Act.
Barbara Jordan would not have come
to this House had it not been for the
right to vote for someone that you
choose.
In 1940, only 3 percent of African
Americans living in the South were
registered. Only after Barbara Jordan
submitted an amendment did we in-
clude Hispanics.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
the gentlewoman from Texas an addi-
tional 15 seconds.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Only in the pe-
riod of the horrible Shelby vote did we
have voter suppression with the voter
ID law that impacted Hispanics in
Texas severely, purging language that I
helped put in this present bill and, of
course, moving polling places.
If we believe in this document called
the Constitution, then we believe in
H.R. 4. We want it restored because it
is the right of the people to vote.
Mr. Speaker, as a senior member of the Ju-
diciary Committee and an original cosponsor,
I rise today in strong support of H.R. 4, the
Voting Rights Advancement Act, which cor-
rects the damage done in recent years to the
Voting Rights Act of 1965 and commits the
national government to protecting the right of
all Americans to vote free from discrimination
and without injustices that previously pre-
vented them from exercising this most funda-
mental right of citizenship.
I thank my colleague, Congresswoman
TERRI SEWELL of Alabama for introducing this
legislation, to Speaker PELOSI, Chairman NAD-
LER, and the Democratic leadership for shep-
herding this bill to the floor, and to many col-
leagues and countless number of ordinary
Americans who never stopped agitating and
working to protect the precious right to vote.
Mr. Speaker, in response to the Supreme
Court’s invitation in Shelby County v. Holder,
570 U.S. 193 (2013), H.R. 4 provides a new
coverage formula based on ‘‘current condi-
tions’’ and creates a new coverage formula
that hinges on a finding of repeated voting
rights violations in the preceding 25 years.
It is significant that this 25-year period is
measured on a rolling basis to keep up with
‘‘current conditions,’’ so only states and polit-
ical subdivisions that have a recent record of
racial discrimination in voting are covered.
States and political subdivisions that qualify
for preclearance will be covered for a period of
10 years, but if they have a clean record dur-
ing that time period, they can be extracted
from coverage.
H.R. 4 also establishes ‘‘practice-based
preclearance,’’ which would focus administra-
tive or judicial review narrowly on suspect
practices that are most likely to be tainted by
discriminatory intent or to have discriminatory
effects, as demonstrated by a broad historical
record.
Under the bill, this process of reviewing
changes in voting is limited to a set of specific
practices, including such things as:
1. Changes to the methods of elections (to
or from at-large elections) in areas that are ra-
cially, ethnically, or linguistically diverse.
2. Redistricting in areas that are racially,
ethnically, or linguistically diverse.
3. Reducing, consolidating, or relocating
polling in areas that are racially, ethnically, or
linguistically diverse; and
4. Changes in documentation or require-
ments to vote or to register.
It is useful, Mr. Speaker, to recount how we
arrived at this day.
Mr. Speaker, fifty-four years ago, in Selma,
Alabama, hundreds of heroic souls risked their
lives for freedom and to secure the right to
vote for all Americans by their participation in
marches for voting rights on ‘‘Bloody Sunday,’’
‘‘Turnaround Tuesday,’’ or the final, completed
march from Selma to Montgomery.
Those ‘‘foot soldiers’’ of Selma, brave and
determined men and women, boys and girls,
persons of all races and creeds, loved their
country so much that they were willing to risk
their lives to make it better, to bring it even
closer to its founding ideals.
The foot soldiers marched because they be-
lieved that all persons have dignity and the
right to equal treatment under the law, and in
the making of the laws, which is the funda-
mental essence of the right to vote.
On that day, Sunday, March 7, 1965, more
than 600 civil rights ‘‘demonstrators, including
our beloved colleague, Congressman John
Lewis of Georgia, were brutally attacked by
state and local police at the Edmund Pettus
Bridge as they marched from Selma to Mont-
gomery in support of the right to vote.
‘‘Bloody Sunday’’ was a defining moment in
American history because it crystallized for the
nation the necessity of enacting a strong and
effective federal law to protect the right to vote
of every American.
No one who witnessed the violence and
brutally suffered by the foot soldiers for justice
who gathered at the Edmund Pettus Bridge
will ever I forget it; the images are deeply
seared in the American memory and experi-
ence.
On August 6, 1965, in the Rotunda of the
Capitol and in the presence of such luminaries
as the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and
Rev. Ralph Abernathy of the Southern Chris-
tian Leadership Conference; Roy Wilkins of
the NAACP; Whitney Young of the National
Urban League; James Foreman of the Con-
gress of Racial Equality; A. Philip Randolph of
the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters; John
Lewis of the Student Non-Violent Coordinating
Committee; Senators Robert Kennedy, Hubert
Humphrey, and Everett Dirksen; President
Johnson addressed the nation before signing
the Voting Rights Act:
‘‘The vote is the most powerful instrument
ever devised by man for breaking down injus-
tice and destroying the terrible walls which im-
prison men because they are different from
other men.’’
The Voting Rights Act of 1965 was critical to
preventing brazen voter discrimination viola-
tions that historically left millions of African
Americans disenfranchised.
In 1940, for example, there were less than
30,000 African Americans registered to vote in
Texas and only about 3 percent of African
Americans living in the South were registered
to vote.
Poll taxes, literacy tests, and threats of vio-
lence were the major causes of these racially
discriminatory results.
After passage of the Voting Rights Act in
1965, which prohibited these discriminatory
practices, registration and electoral participa-
tion steadily increased to the point that by
2012, more than 1.2 million African Americans
living in Texas were registered to vote.
In 1964, the year before the Voting Rights
Act became law, there were approximately
300 African-Americans in public office, includ-
ing just three in Congress.
Few, if any, African Americans held elective
office anywhere in the South.
Because of the Voting Rights Act, in 2007
there were more than 9,100 black elected offi-
cials, including 46 members of Congress, the
largest number ever.
Mr. Speaker, the Voting Rights Act opened
the political process for many of the approxi-
mately 6,000 Hispanic public officials that
have been elected and appointed nationwide,
including more than 275 at the state or federal
level, 32 of whom serve in Congress.
Native Americans, Asians and others who
have historically encountered harsh barriers to
full political participation also have benefited
greatly.
The crown jewel of the Voting Rights Act of
1965 is Section 5, which requires that states
and localities with a chronic record of discrimi-
nation in voting practices secure federal ap-
proval before making any changes to voting
processes.
Section 5 protects minority voting rights
where voter discrimination has historically
been the worst.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K06DE7.027 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9320 December 6, 2019
Between 1982 and 2006, Section 5 stopped
more than 1,000 discriminatory voting changes
in their tracks, including 107 discriminatory
changes right here in Texas.
Passed in 1965 with the extraordinary lead-
ership of President Lyndon Johnson, the
greatest legislative genius of our lifetime, the
Voting Rights Act of 1965 was bringing dra-
matic change in many states across the
South.
But in 1972, change was not coming fast
enough or in many places in Texas.
In fact, Texas, which had never elected a
woman to Congress or an African American to
the Texas State Senate, was not covered by
Section 5 of the 1965 Voting Rights Act and
the language minorities living in South Texas
were not protected at all.
But thanks to the Voting Rights Act of 1965
and the tireless voter registration work per-
formed in 1972 by Hillary Clinton in Texas,
along with hundreds of others, including her
future husband Bill, Barbara Jordan was elect-
ed to Congress, giving meaning to the prom-
ise of the Voting Rights Act that all citizens
would at long last have the right to cast a vote
for person of their community, from their com-
munity, for their community.
Mr. Speaker, it is a source of eternal pride
to all of us in Houston that in pursuit of ex-
tending the full measure of citizenship to all
Americans, in 1975 Congresswoman Barbara
Jordan, who also represented this historic 18th
Congressional District of Texas, introduced,
and the Congress adopted, what are now Sec-
tions 4(f)(3) and 4(f)(4) of the Voting Rights
Act, which extended the protections of Section
4(a) and Section 5 to language minorities.
During the floor debate on the 1975 reau-
thorization of the Voting Rights Act, Congress-
woman Jordan explained why this reform was
needed:
‘‘There are Mexican-American people in the
State of Texas who have been denied the
right to vote; who have been impeded in their
efforts to register and vote; who have not had
encouragement from those election officials
because they are brown people.
‘‘So, the state of Texas, if we approve this
measure, would be brought within the cov-
erage of this Act for the first time.’’
When it comes to extending and protecting
the precious right vote, the Lone Star State—
the home state of Lyndon Johnson and Bar-
bara Jordan—can be the leading state in the
Union, one that sets the example for the Na-
tion.
But to realize that future, we must turn from
and not return to the dark days of the past.
We must remain ever vigilant and oppose
all schemes that will abridge or dilute the pre-
cious right to vote.
Madam Speaker, I am here today to remind
the nation that need to passthis legislation is
urgent because the right to vote—that ‘‘power-
ful—instrument that can break down the walls
of injustice’’—faces grave threats.
The threat stems from the decision issued in
June 2013 by the Supreme Court in Shelby
County v. Holder, 570 U.S. 193 (2013), which
invalidated Section 4(b) of the VRA, and para-
lyzed the application of the VRA’s Section 5
preclearance requirements.
According to the Supreme Court majority,
the reason for striking down Section 4(b) was
that ‘‘times change.’’
Now, the Court was right; times have
changed.
But what the Court did not fully appreciate
is that the positive changes it cited are due al-
most entirely to the existence and vigorous
enforcement of the Voting Rights Act.
And that is why the Voting Rights Act is still
needed and that is why we must pass H.R. 4,
the Voting Rights Advancement Act.
Let me put it this way: in the same way that
the vaccine invented by Dr. Jonas Salk in
1953 eradicated the crippling effects but did
not eliminate the cause of polio, the Voting
Rights Act succeeded in stymieing the prac-
tices that resulted in the wholesale disenfran-
chisement of African Americans and language
minorities but did eliminate them entirely.
The Voting Rights Act is needed as much
today to prevent another epidemic of voting
disenfranchisement as Dr. Salk’s vaccine is
still needed to prevent another polio epidemic.
As Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg stated in
Shelby County v. Holder, ‘‘[t]hrowing out
preclearance when it has worked and is con-
tinuing to work to stop discriminatory changes
is like throwing away your umbrella in a rain-
storm because you are not getting wet.’’
However, officials in some states, notably
Texas and North Carolina, seemed to regard
the Shelby decision as a green light and
rushed to implement election laws, policies,
and practices that could never pass muster
under the Section 5 preclearance regime.
My constituents remember very well the
Voter ID law passed in Texas in 2011, which
required every registered voter to present a
valid government-issued photo ID on the day
of polling in order to vote.
The Justice Department blocked the law in
March of 2012, and it was Section 5 that pro-
hibited it from going into effect.
At least it did until the Shelby decision, be-
cause on the very same day that Shelby was
decided officials in Texas announced they
would immediately implement the Photo ID
law, and other election laws, policies, and
practices that could never pass muster under
the Section 5 preclearance regime.
The Texas Photo ID law was challenged in
federal court and the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Fifth Circuit upheld the decision of U.S.
District Court Judge Nelva Gonzales Ramos
that Texas’ strict voter identification law dis-
criminated against blacks and Hispanics and
violated Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act.
Mr. Speaker, protecting voting rights and
combating voter suppression schemes are two
of the critical challenges facing our great de-
mocracy.
Without safeguards to ensure that all citi-
zens have equal access to the polls, more in-
justices are likely to occur and the voices of
millions silenced.
I believe that Texas, the Lone Star State,
can be the leading state in the Union.
But to realize that future, we cannot return
to the dark days of its past and must remain
ever vigilant and oppose schemes that will
abridge or dilute the precious right to vote.
That means standing up to and calling out
groups and organizations like ‘‘True the Vote’’
and its local Houston-based affiliate, the ‘‘King
Street Patriots,’’ which in recent years have
under the guise of poll watchers, improperly
interacted with persons at polling stations in
Hispanic and African American communities in
an attempt to intimidate them from voting.
The behavior of this group was so out-
rageous in 2010 that I reported its conduct to
the Attorney General and requested the De-
partment of Justice to investigate. (See At-
tachment, Letter from Congresswoman JACK-
SON LEE to U.S. Attorney General Holder (Oc-
tober 28, 2010)).
Mr. Speaker, in many ways Texas is
ground-zero for testing and perfecting
schemes to deprive communities of color and
language minorities of the right to vote and to
have their votes counted.
Consider what has transpired in Texas in re-
cent past.
Only 68 percent of eligible voters are reg-
istered in Texas and state restrictions on third
party registration, such as the Volunteer Dep-
uty Registrar program, exacerbate the sys-
temic disenfranchisement of minority commu-
nities.
These types of programs are often aimed at
minority and underserved communities that,
for many, many other reasons (like demoniza-
tion by the president, for example) or mistrust
of law enforcement are afraid to live as openly
as they should.
In Harris County, we had a system where
voters were getting purged from the rolls, ef-
fectively requiring people to keep active their
registrations and hundreds of polling locations
closed in Texas, significantly more in number
and percentage than any other state.
In addition, the Texas Election Code only
requires a 72-hour notice of polling location
changes.
Next, take what happened here in Texas
earlier this year when the Texas Secretary of
State claimed that his office had identified
95,000 possible noncitizens on the voter rolls
and gave the list to the Texas State Attorney
General for possible prosecution—leading to a
claim from President Trump about widespread
voter fraud and outrage from Democrats and
activist groups.
The only problem was that list was not ac-
curate.
At least 20,000 names turned out to be
there by mistake, leading to chaos, confusion,
and concern that people’s eligibility vote was
being questioned based on flawed data.
The list was made through state records
going back to 1996 that show which Texas
residents were not citizens when they got a
driver’s license or other state ID.
But many of the person who may have had
green cards or work visas at the time they got
a Texas ID are on the secretary of state’s of-
fice’s list, and many have become citizens
since then since nearly 50,000 people become
naturalized U.S. citizens in Texas annually.
Latinos made up a big portion of the
95,000-person list.
Texas Republicans adopted racial and par-
tisan gerrymandered congressional, State leg-
islative redistricting plans that federal courts
have ruled violate the Voting Rights Act and
were drawn with discriminatory intent.
Even after changes were demanded by the
courts, much of the damage done was already
done.
Reversing the position by the Obama ad-
ministration, the U.S. Department of Justice
has told a federal court that it no longer be-
lieves past discrimination by Texas officials
should require the state to get outside ap-
proval for redistricting maps that will be drawn
in 2021.
In addition to affirmative ways to making it
harder to vote, we also know face other odi-
ous impediments in Texas.
Those of us who cherish the right to vote
justifiably are skeptical of Voter ID laws be-
cause we understand how these laws, like poll
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:04 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A06DE7.025 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9321
December 6, 2019
taxes and literacy tests, can be used to im-
pede or negate the ability of seniors, racial
and language minorities, and young people to
cast their votes.
This is the harm that can be done without
preclearance, so on a federal level, there is an
impetus to act.
Those of us who cherish the right to vote
justifiably are skeptical of Voter ID laws be-
cause we understand how these laws, like poll
taxes and literacy tests, can be used to im-
pede or negate the ability of seniors, racial
and language minorities, and young people to
cast their votes.
Consider the demographic groups who lack
a government issued ID:
1. African Americans: 25 percent.
2. Asian Americans: 20 percent.
3. Hispanic Americans: 19 percent.
4. Young people, aged 18–24: 18 percent.
5. Persons with incomes less than $35,000:
15 percent.
And there are other ways abridging or sup-
pressing the right to vote, including:
1. Curtailing or eliminating early voting
2. Ending same-day registration
3. Not counting provisional ballots cast in
the wrong precinct on Election Day will not
count.
4. Eliminating adolescent pre-registration
5. Shortening poll hours.
6. Lessening the standards governing voter
challenges thus allowing self-proclaimed ‘‘bal-
lot security vigilantes’’ like the King Street Pa-
triots to cause trouble at the polls.
The malevolent practice of voter purging is
not limited to Texas; we saw it just last year
in Georgia, where then Secretary of State and
now Governor Brian Kemp purged more than
53,000 persons from the voter, nearly the
exact margin of his narrow win over his oppo-
nent, Stacy Abrams in the 2018 gubernatorial
election.
Voter purging is a sinister and malevolent
practice visited on voters, who are dispropor-
tionately members of communities of color, by
state and local election officials.
This practice, which would have not passed
muster under section 5 of the Voting Rights
Act, has proliferated in the years since the Su-
preme Court neutralized the preclearance pro-
vision, or as Justice Ginsburg observed in
Shelby County v. Holder, ‘‘threw out the um-
brella’’ of protection.
Mr. Speaker, citizens in my congressional
district and elsewhere know and have experi-
enced the pain and heartbreak of receiving a
letter from state or local election officials that
they have been removed from the election
rolls, or worse, learn this fact on Election Day.
That is why I worked so hard to secure lan-
guage in the Manager’s Amendment to H.R. 4
that strengthens the bill’s ‘‘practice-based
preclearance’’ provisions by adding specifically
to the preclearance provision, voting practices
that add a new basis or process for removing
a name from the list of active registered voters
and the practice of reducing the days or hours
of in-person voting on Sundays during an
early voting period.
Mr. Speaker, it is the responsibility and sa-
cred duty of all members of Congress who re-
vere democracy to preserve, protect, and ex-
pand the precious right to vote of all Ameri-
cans by passing H.R. 4, the Voting Rights Ad-
vancement Act.
Before concluding there is one other point I
would like to stress.
In his address to the nation before signing
the Voting Rights Act of 1965, President John-
son said:
‘‘Presidents and Congresses, laws and law-
suits can open the doors to the polling places
and open the doors to the wondrous rewards
which await the wise use of the ballot.
‘‘But only the individual Negro, and all oth-
ers who have been denied the right to vote,
can really walk through those doors, and can
use that right, and can transform the vote into
an instrument of justice and fulfillment.’’
In other words, political power—and the jus-
tice, opportunity, inclusion, and fulfillment it
provides—comes not from the right to vote but
in the exercise of that right.
And that means it is the civic obligation of
every citizen to both register and vote in every
election, state and local as well as federal.
Because if we can register and vote, but fail
to do so, we are guilty of voluntary voter sup-
pression, the most effective method of dis-
enfranchisement ever devised.
And in recent years, Americans have not
been doing a very good job of exercising our
civic responsibility to register, vote, and make
their voices heard.
Mr. Speaker, for millions of Americans, the
right to vote protected by the Voting Rights
Act of 1965 is sacred treasure, earned by the
sweat and toil and tears and blood of ordinary
Americans who showed the world it was pos-
sible to accomplish extraordinary things.
So today, let us rededicate ourselves to
honoring those who won for us this precious
right by remaining vigilant and fighting against
both the efforts of others to abridge or sup-
press the right to vote and our own apathy in
exercising this sacred right.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
A final statement of something I am
about to submit for the RECORD, it is a
Statement of Administration Policy. It
says this: ‘‘In sum, several provisions
of H.R. 4 violate principles of fed-
eralism and exceed the powers granted
to Congress by the Constitution, and
these provisions would likely be found
unlawful if challenged. Accordingly,
the administration opposes H.R. 4.’’
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
this Statement of Administration Pol-
icy.
STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
H.R. 4—VOTING RIGHTS ADVANCEMENT ACT OF
2019
(Rep. Sewell, D–AL, and 229 cosponsors)
The Administration opposes passage of
H.R. 4, the Voting Rights Advancement Act
of 2019. H.R. 4 would amend the Voting
Rights Act (VRA) of 1965 by imposing a new
coverage formula and transparency obliga-
tions on States and local jurisdictions re-
garding their elections. These amendments
raise serious policy concerns because the
Federal Government would be granted exces-
sive control over State and local election
practices. Additionally, the Supreme Court
has already held similar restrictions imposed
by Congress on States and localities to be
unconstitutional.
No individual should be denied or deterred
from exercising his or her right to vote. Fed-
eral law protects against voting discrimina-
tion, allows judicial review of State and
local voting laws, and establishes
preclearance requirements. H.R. 4 would
overreach by giving the Federal Government
too much authority over an even greater
number of voting practices and decisions
made by States and local governments with-
out justifying the current needs for such
policies.
Section 3 of H.R. 4 would amend the VRA
by setting forth a new coverage formula that
subjects certain States and local subdivi-
sions to Federal preclearance requirements
before undertaking certain election activi-
ties. For example, the coverage formula
would place restrictions on States with ‘‘15
or more voting rights violations [that] oc-
curred in . . . the previous 25 calendar
years.’’ Once a State or locality is covered
by the formula, it would need permission
from the Attorney General or Federal courts
before conducting certain election activities
prescribed by the bill.
In striking down the VRA’s prior coverage
formula, the Supreme Court held that al-
though ‘‘[o]ur country has changed, and
while any racial discrimination in voting is
too much, Congress must ensure that the
legislation it passes to remedy that problem
speaks to current conditions.’’ Shelby County
v. Holder, 570 U.S. 529, 557 (2013). Accordingly,
the coverage formula set forth in section 3 of
H.R. 4 that ‘‘imposes substantial federalism
costs’’ on States must therefore be tailored
to ‘‘current needs.’’ Id. at 540, 553 (internal
quotation marks omitted). Instead, section 3
continues to permit reliance on potentially
decades-old data—incidents dating as far
back as 25 years—as a justification for im-
posing a preclearance requirement.
Additionally, section 4 of H.R. 4 would cre-
ate a new ‘‘Practice-Based Preclearance’’
standard, which would automatically subject
certain election laws to Federal
preclearance, thereby raising significant pol-
icy concerns. This section would, among
other things, prejudice Federal law against
State and local voter integrity efforts, such
as voter ID laws, and even impose require-
ments on routine administrative actions
that include changing voting locations.
Finally, H.R. 4 would amend the VRA by
imposing additional transparency require-
ments regarding certain election activities
in Federal, State, and local jurisdictions.
Section 5 of H.R. 4 raises constitutional con-
cerns because its broad language would
interfere with State and local elections be-
yond the powers afforded by the Elections
Clause. Specifically, section 5 would require
notice of demographic information related to
‘‘any change in the constituency that will
participate in an election for Federal, State,
or local office.’’ This broad language would
impose notice requirements on States that
make redistricting changes despite no Fed-
eral election involvement. By doing so, H.R.
4 would impermissibly grant Congress au-
thority beyond what is authorized by the
Elections Clause, and therefore section 5
would likely be found unconstitutional.
In sum, several provisions of H.R. 4 violate
principles of federalism and exceed the pow-
ers granted to Congress by the Constitution,
and these provisions would likely be found
unlawful if challenged. Accordingly, the Ad-
ministration opposes H.R. 4.
If H.R. 4 were presented to the President,
his advisors would recommend that he veto
it.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I reserve the balance of my time.
b 1100
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from
Washington (Ms. JAYAPAL).
Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Chairman, I am
so proud today to stand here to support
H.R. 4, the Voting Rights Advancement
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06DE7.026 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9322 December 6, 2019
Act. And I want to congratulate my in-
credible colleague Congresswoman SE-
WELL for her leadership.
When Congress passed the Voting
Rights Act of 1965, it was a recognition
that systemic discrimination based on
race continued to deny people the right
to vote. And as an organizer, I under-
stand the Voting Rights Act as a vic-
tory that was hard fought by Black ac-
tivists like Fannie Lou Hamer and Ella
Baker and, of course, our esteemed col-
league Representative LEWIS, who de-
voted their lives to fighting for the
right to vote. And it was a victory of
the movement that recognized that
this right to vote is absolutely funda-
mental to our concept and our actual-
ization of democracy.
Unfortunately, we have not followed
with the same courage. Instead, since
2013, States have enacted laws that
have suppressed voting rights across
the country, and today, half of the
country faces stricter voting regula-
tions than they did 9 years ago.
If we want a true democracy, Mr.
Speaker, we must protect the right to
vote for all, and this bill is critical to
doing that.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Mary-
land (Mr. HOYER), the distinguished
majority leader.
(Mr. HOYER asked and was given
permission to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the chairman of the Judiciary Com-
mittee for yielding me time, and I
thank him for his leadership. And, of
course, I thank TERRI SEWELL, who is
from Selma, Alabama, who has been a
fighter for voting rights all of her life.
I thank her for sponsoring this bill
along with myself and so many others.
It was in Selma in 1965 that another
friend and one of our dearest col-
leagues, JOHN LEWIS, was nearly beaten
to death for having the audacity to de-
mand the right to vote, the right to
register, the right to participate in a
meaningful way in our democracy.
That year, after that Bloody Sunday in
March of 1965 and the later march to
Montgomery that followed soon after,
Congress enacted the Voting Rights
Act to protect against voter suppres-
sion and voter disenfranchisement.
One of its core provisions required
that the Federal Justice Department
preclear any changes to voting rules in
jurisdictions that have a history of dis-
crimination and voter suppression. Let
me, as an aside say, that these elec-
tions are Federal elections, so very
frankly, my constituents have an in-
terest in making sure that constitu-
ents of every other district have an op-
portunity to have their voice heard.
This is not a State’s rights issue, as
the administration puts forth. This is
an issue of America’s values as a de-
mocracy, which is that all Americans—
and that was not always the case, we
had to amend the Constitution of the
United States in order to effect that
end—that all Americans have the right
and ought to be facilitated in exer-
cising that right to vote.
Sadly, we know that, notwith-
standing the 13th, 14th, and 15th
Amendments, State after State, juris-
diction after jurisdiction, not solely in
the south, adopted policies aimed at
preventing the exercise of the fran-
chise, of preventing the ability to reg-
ister to vote and to neuter the vote
being cast by redistricting efforts that
in effect put people in a place where
they could not elect the person of their
choice.
As a result, millions of Americans
after the Voting Rights Act was adopt-
ed were finally able to vote and have
their voices heard in their democracy.
However, we ought to be chastened as
we consider this legislation in knowing
that for 100 years after the 13th, 14th,
and 15th Amendments were adopted,
for 100 years, for a century, it was still
necessary for the JOHN LEWISes and the
Martin Luther Kings to march. Some
gave their lives to redeem that promise
that so many gave their lives to en-
sure.
Unfortunately, the Supreme Court
struck down the formula for that
preclearance process in 2013 and
charged Congress with updating it. We
have responded this day to that charge.
Under the previous Republican-led Con-
gress, that charge was ignored.
Again, I would ask my colleagues on
the Republican side of the aisle to
think of their failure to act. Ronald
Reagan said to Gorbachev, ‘‘Tear down
this wall.’’
Today, we have an opportunity to
tear down the wall of discrimination
and exclusion to millions of Americans
who have been confronted with policies
that make it more difficult for them to
vote.
I hope the Senate will join us in tear-
ing down this wall of discrimination,
oppression, and exclusion. I continue to
believe that the decision made by the
Supreme Court was a bad decision,
which did not reflect the reality of the
success of the preclearance provisions
in the Voting Rights Act.
Indeed, Justice Ginsburg pointed out
in her dissent that, ‘‘Throwing out
preclearance when it has worked and is
continuing to work to stop discrimina-
tory changes is like throwing out your
umbrella in a rainstorm because you
are not getting wet.’’
Today, the Democratic-led House will
vote to restore the full force of the
Voting Rights Act. And I hope every
Republican will join us if they want to
ensure that discriminatory practices
do not prevent citizens from voting.
We have given this bill the designa-
tion of H.R. 4. I said in a press con-
ference a little time ago, H.R. 4, H.R.
for the people. Whether you spell it F-
O-R or F-O-U-R, this is for the people,
for our democracy, for justice, for in-
clusion. We have given this bill the des-
ignation of H.R. 4, appropriately, be-
cause it is one of our most important
pieces of legislation. Along with H.R. 1,
the For the People Act, which con-
tained a number of provisions strength-
ening ballot access, making voter reg-
istration automatic, and expanding
early voting, H.R. 4 is part of the
Democrats’ effort to protect Ameri-
cans’ fundamental right to vote.
H.R. 4, my colleagues, restores the
full protections of the Voting Rights
Act. As you take your card and con-
template putting it in the slot and
pushing either the green button or the
red button, reflect upon those who
died, not only in the civil rights move-
ment, but those who died on foreign
shores defending freedom and democ-
racy. Because as you vote today, you
will be voting to defend or to ignore
the fundamental formula for democ-
racy, which is having people’s votes
count.
By updating the preclearance for-
mula requiring reasonable public no-
tice before changes to voting laws or
regulations; permitting the Attorney
General to request the presence of elec-
tion observers anywhere there is a
threat of racial discrimination at the
ballot box—these are not just State
elections, I tell my friends; these are
elections, which impact my constitu-
ents in your State and every other
State, when they elect Members of
Congress, in the United States Sen-
ate—and increasing accessibility and
protections for Native Americans and
Alaska-native voters.
Again, I want to thank Representa-
tive SEWELL for her leadership in this
effort and JOHN LEWIS and so many
other heroes; my friend JIM CLYBURN,
the Democrat whip, who fought for vot-
ing rights; for all those of African
American descent who fought for vot-
ing rights; for Native Americans, the
first two women of whom we have in
the Congress now.
I thank Chairman NADLER for work-
ing closely with TERRI SEWELL and oth-
ers to strengthen this legislation by in-
cluding language to ensure that juris-
dictions that purge voter rolls or re-
duce early voting opportunities are
subject to preclearance requirements.
It is very nice to say, Well, you can
file a suit after the election is over.
You may not have the money to do
that, and, in any event, it is a fait
accompli. It is too late. That is why
preclearance has been honored for half
a century, and that is why it is so sad
that the Supreme Court set it aside.
And, of course, I want to thank, one
more time, my dear friend, JOHN
LEWIS, who throughout his lifetime has
held up the beloved community. Voting
rights is part of that beloved commu-
nity. In Selma 54 years ago, JOHN
risked his future, his life and his limb,
so every American could cast a vote.
Today 434 of us ought to join JOHN
LEWIS, not walking across the bridge
with Alabama troopers waiting to beat
us and confront us, but to that little
box where we have the right to vote.
Nobody can stop us from voting in that
box today. Let’s make sure that no-
body stops any of our fellow Americans
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06DE7.030 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9323
December 6, 2019
from putting their card in that voting
slot and making democracy all that
our Founders promised it to be.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. JEFFRIES).
Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Speaker, the
right to vote is precious and central to
the integrity of our democracy. It is
not a Democratic issue or a Republican
issue. It is an American issue.
The Republican party used to support
the unfettered right to vote. In fact,
every single time the Voting Rights
Act has been reauthorized, it was
signed by a Republican President: 1970,
Richard Nixon; 1975, Gerald Ford; 1982,
Ronald Reagan; 2006, George W. Bush.
The unfettered right to vote should be
a bipartisan issue, but the party of Lin-
coln is gone. The party of Reagan is
gone. The party of McCain is gone.
Voter suppression is not a legitimate
electoral tactic. It is a stain on our de-
mocracy, and it must be crushed.
Vote ‘‘yes’’ on H.R. 4.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, I would just like to re-
mind those of us voting, we can like
this bill or not like this bill, but this is
not a reauthorization of the Voting
Rights Act. This is in addition to, and
it is something we have talked about
on our side.
We appreciate the debate going on,
but just as a clarification, we are not
reauthorizing the Voting Rights Act.
The sections that are already there are
still going to be there, they are perma-
nently enshrined, and we are not going
to be changing that. This is a different
part of that, and we would just like to
make that clear.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
b 1115
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, may I in-
quire how much time remains on each
side.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. NADLER)
has 10 minutes remaining. The gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. COLLINS) has
20 minutes remaining.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I would
simply comment that this is a restora-
tion of the previously authorized Vot-
ing Rights Act before the Supreme
Court did its dastardly deed.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the
gentleman from Louisiana (Mr. RICH-
MOND).
Mr. RICHMOND. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the chairman for yielding.
Let me just pick up where they left
off. Whether it is a reauthorization,
whether it is a restoration, it does not
matter. What this is, is fixing the stain
on America that prohibited and
stopped African Americans and other
minorities from voting.
I rise today torn because, on the one
hand, I am elated that this House is fi-
nally moving H.R. 4 so that we can pro-
tect the right to vote, but on the other
hand, I am disappointed because we
have to do it by ourselves, that this is
not a bipartisan effort to ensure the
precious right to vote.
Many people may say that it is a bur-
den on the States. What about the bur-
den that the States put on us?
In the spirit of Goodman, Chaney,
and Schwerner, who were killed so that
I could vote, and JOHN LEWIS and oth-
ers who crossed the Edmund Pettus
Bridge, who were beaten so that I can
vote, Mr. Speaker, I rise today to ask
for everyone to support H.R. 4. We
should join hands and do it together.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Texas
(Ms. GARCIA).
Ms. GARCIA of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
thank Chairman NADLER for yielding.
I support this bill and its efforts to
protect access to the ballot box and ad-
vance justice and democracy for all, in-
cluding Latinos, which represent 77
percent of my district.
Enfranchising minority voters will
strengthen our democracy because
when all eligible voters can exercise
their right, our government works bet-
ter by living up to its ideals of ‘‘we the
people.’’
This bill aims to maintain elections
free, fair, and accessible to all eligible
voters.
Congress must pass the Voting
Rights Advancement Act to restore our
ability to prevent voter discrimina-
tion. We are all equal at the ballot box,
and this bill aims to make sure that
that is a reality today, tomorrow, and
every day.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in support of H.R. 4.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Geor-
gia (Mrs. MCBATH).
Mrs. MCBATH. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the chairman for yielding.
I rise in support of H.R. 4, the Voting
Rights Advancement Act, led by our
esteemed colleague, Representative SE-
WELL.
During the civil rights movement, I
was the child in the stroller at the
March on Washington. My father
served as the Illinois branch president
of the NAACP for over 25 years, and I
was raised to always fight for what is
right and just, to stand up for those
who do not always have a voice.
My father planned marches to
strengthen our voting rights. I can still
picture him presiding over meetings at
our kitchen table, our house filled with
poster boards and preparations and
hope.
When it comes to voting rights, my
father’s work is still unfinished. Today,
I am so proud that we are taking this
step toward completing that work.
Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to
join me in supporting the Voting
Rights Advancement Act.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I have made my statements very
clear on this, and I will continue to do
so. For people who have really strug-
gled with and want to be a part of this,
I am also going to say that this is a
time when we can reach out occasion-
ally across the aisle, and I can help my
chairman with a little bit of time.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from South Carolina (Mr.
CLYBURN).
Mr. CLYBURN. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. COL-
LINS) for yielding me the time.
I have been thinking a lot this morn-
ing about my growing up in South
Carolina. I still remember as a young
man driving in a driving rain from
Charleston, South Carolina, going up
to the little town of Kingstree in Wil-
liamsburg County, which I now rep-
resent here in this body.
On that day, Martin Luther King, Jr.,
was coming to Williamsburg County to
extol the necessity of voting to all of
us. I will never forget his theme that
day, ‘‘march to the ballot box.’’
It was just a few months after the
1965 Voting Rights Act had been passed
into law, and that law has been re-
newed time and time again throughout
the years. But several years ago, the
Supreme Court took a look at the law
and decided that the formula that had
been used in section 4 should be up-
dated.
This bill, thanks to the work of
TERRI SEWELL from Alabama and
MARCIA FUDGE from Ohio, we have had
17 hearings around the country, eight
by the Judiciary Committee—I thank
Chairman NADLER so much for that—
and nine by MARCIA FUDGE’s com-
mittee. We have wrapped all of those
findings into one bill because we are
adhering to what Chief Justice Roberts
asked us to do: update the formula.
We have updated the formula. We are
putting it on the floor today, and I do
believe that this piece of legislation is
deserving of bipartisan support.
I can remember when this voting
rights bill would pass both houses
unanimously. Let’s do that today and
demonstrate that we are making this
democracy work for all.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from New
York (Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY).
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong sup-
port of H.R. 4 for the people, the Vot-
ing Rights Advancement Act. I thank
my colleagues, Representatives SE-
WELL, FUDGE, NADLER, and many oth-
ers, for their extraordinary work on
this critical legislation that protects
the most basic and fundamental of
American rights, the right to vote.
Ever since the 2013 Supreme Court
Shelby decision threw out the
preclearance requirement, under-
mining the Voting Rights Act, States
and localities with histories of racial
injustice have again started discrimi-
natory voting practices, like requiring
IDs, which is particularly harmful to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06DE7.031 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9324 December 6, 2019
Hispanic voters; moving voting places
so it is more difficult to vote; and
many other steps that disenfranchise
countless Americans, particularly men
and women of color.
This bill restores the Voting Rights
Act in its entirety, repeals the Shelby
decision, and gives the Federal Govern-
ment the tools to hold local election
officials accountable for discrimina-
tory practices that deny Americans of
this fundamental right.
So many brave Americans have made
the ultimate sacrifice to protect this
right for our people. By passing this
legislation, we honor their sacrifice by
protecting the right to vote for every
single citizen.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. CASTRO).
Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
the right to vote in our Nation is fun-
damental to our democracy, and that
right to vote continues to come under
assault.
States with a history of denying and
blocking the right to vote, like my
home State of Texas, are no longer
held in check by the preclearance re-
quirement of the Voting Rights Act.
Worried that changing demographics
erode their political power, Texas lead-
ers continue to make voting more dif-
ficult for Latinos and other commu-
nities of color.
For example, since the Shelby case,
the Texas secretary of state attempted
to purge nearly 100,000 foreign-born
U.S. citizens from voter rolls; the
Texas Legislature restricted mobile
voting sites designed to make voting
more convenient; at least 750 polling
locations have been closed, more than
any other State; a voter ID law went
into effect that a Federal judge later
ruled was enacted to intentionally dis-
criminate against Black and Latino
voters.
Mr. Speaker, this legislation is im-
portant to protect every American’s
right to vote, and I urge my colleagues
to support it.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Wis-
consin (Ms. MOORE).
Ms. MOORE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
NADLER) for yielding.
The Voting Rights Act of 1965 was a
direct response to evidence of signifi-
cant and pervasive racial discrimina-
tion across the country.
My home State of Wisconsin really
has suffered under the Supreme Court
decision of 2013. After that ruling,
then-Governor Scott Walker, someone
I had been fighting since 1990 to pre-
vent him from enacting an onerous
voter ID law, he prevailed in 2016.
The very first year that that voter ID
law was enacted was in 2016. According
to a study done by the University of
Wisconsin, between 12,000 and 23,000
registered voters in Madison and Mil-
waukee, and as many as 45,000 state-
wide, were deterred from voting by the
ID law. The President, of course, won
our State by a mere 23,000 votes.
Mr. Speaker, it is important and im-
perative that we restore enforcement
of the Voting Rights Act. I urge my
colleagues to vote for this great legis-
lation.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Ms. LEE).
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the chairman for yielding and
bringing H.R. 4 to this floor.
I would like to thank Congress-
woman TERRI SEWELL for her very con-
sistent efforts to restore the vote and
also our Chairwoman MARCIA FUDGE of
the Subcommittee on Elections for
holding hearings throughout the coun-
try, which actually established the
foundation for this bill.
The 1965 Voting Rights Act repaired
damage in our communities whose vot-
ing rights were denied. Dr. Martin Lu-
ther King once said he saw that as a
great step forward.
However, in 2013, the Supreme Court
gutted the Voting Rights Act in the
Shelby v. Holder decision. As a result,
the Nation saw nearly 20 percent fewer
polling locations and 17 million voters
purged from voting rolls in States with
patterns of voter suppression. This is
especially true for communities of
color, whose votes have been silenced
over the years due to this disastrous
Court decision.
Voting is the backbone of our democ-
racy and something that every Amer-
ican should have the right to access.
I was born and raised in El Paso,
Texas, and I vividly remember the de-
nial of full citizenship of African Amer-
icans.
Mr. Speaker, we need a system that
is strong, free, and fair. I urge my col-
leagues to move forward in a bipartisan
way and pass H.R. 4.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Mrs. LAWRENCE).
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Mr. Speaker, I
stand today as the chair of the Wom-
en’s Caucus and as a member of the ex-
ecutive board of the Congressional
Black Caucus, and I stand in strong
support of H.R. 4, the Voting Rights
Advancement Act.
These repeated attacks on our right
to vote have severely undermined the
people’s fundamental voting rights,
which are the principles of our democ-
racy.
H.R. 4 helps protect citizens’ ability
to register to vote and provides real en-
forcement so that marginalized com-
munities, like women who celebrate
their 100th year to vote and African
American communities, will have prop-
er access to the ballot box.
The right to vote is the cornerstone
of our democracy, and we must ensure
that every eligible American voter has
the ability to have their vote heard.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
vote ‘‘yes.’’
b 1130
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, may I in-
quire how much time each side has left.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from New York has 2 minutes
remaining.
The gentleman from Georgia has 18
minutes remaining.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the distinguished gentle-
woman from Florida (Ms. FRANKEL).
Ms. FRANKEL. Mr. Speaker, voting
is the cornerstone of our democracy. It
has been a hard-fought right. We must
ensure that every American that is eli-
gible to vote can make their voice
heard.
This right has been trampled on after
the Shelby County v. Holder Court de-
cision, which has unleashed a flood of
State and local voter suppression laws,
silencing targeted voters, particularly
communities of color.
In my home State of Florida, laws
and policies have cut back early vot-
ing, established English-only ballots,
and are now trying to thwart efforts to
restore voting rights to ex-felons, hurt-
ing access to the ballot box for Florid-
ians.
H.R. 4 will push back against sup-
pressive voting laws, restoring the
great equalizer for democracy and for
our people.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I continue to reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, we have
only one remaining speaker, who will
be our closing speaker, so the gen-
tleman from Georgia may wish to close
for his side.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume to close.
Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the oppor-
tunity at the time we have laid this
out. There have been exhaustive hear-
ings on this.
Our objection to this is not about
anything else except that we feel the
wording of this and the way this bill is
laid out is not good for our country,
much of it will not be held up and will
not have its intended consequences.
I am one who believes and has a
State that has been very active in see-
ing our minority rolls and our minor-
ity voting participation increase dra-
matically over the last 4 or 5 years,
after, even, the Shelby decision.
That is an undisputed fact; although,
many times, it has been disputed in
many public speeches saying Georgia is
going backwards. We are not. Georgia
is going forward and had many, many
successes over the last little bit en-
couraging minority voting. From my
perspective, that is exactly what we
are supposed to be doing.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06DE7.033 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9325
December 6, 2019
So, simply, as we have looked at it,
we must move forward with ways that
we make sure every person who wants
to vote has the ability to vote and does
so in a proper and legal way. That has
never been a discussion from our side.
My only objection here is the way this
goes about it.
And there have been many other
issues that we have brought up on nu-
merous, numerous occasions about how
this could actually have adverse effects
across the country, especially if people
wanted to really mess with our voting
system and play it for political gain.
That is not a discussion that we are
having right here because we have had
this in multiple hearings up to this
point.
So I think, for the voter who looks
today, this is something that is going
forward with a good-hearted attempt. I
will never question the motivations of
what is happening here. I just question
the very fact of what words are on
paper.
We do not, in this body, vote on
ideas. We do not vote on thoughts. We
vote on words on paper. And the words
on paper here do not fulfill what is
being said about this bill.
With that said, I would ask that we
vote ‘‘no.’’ There are plenty of opportu-
nities for us to continue to work on
this, just not in this current situation.
I respectfully request that people
would vote ‘‘no’’ and that we move for-
ward with something that actually pos-
sibly could work at a future date.
But from the majority side, this has
nothing to do with people voting or not
voting. We want everyone to vote and
everyone to participate, but we want to
do so in a fair and legal way.
This is something that we actually
think would actually hurt that in the
long run as we go forward. That is why
we are asking that this be voted down,
will not support it today, and, along
with the administration, who has said
that it will be vetoed if it does reach
his desk, this is something we would
rather find a way to have a bill that
could suffice or could make the provi-
sions of this bill even stronger. This is
not happening today.
Mr. Speaker, I will ask for a ‘‘no’’
vote when this comes forward, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
the balance of my time to the gentle-
woman from California (Ms. PELOSI),
the distinguished Speaker of the
House.
Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding, Mr. NAD-
LER, the distinguished chair of the Ju-
diciary Committee. I thank him for his
leadership in bringing this important
opportunity for America to the floor of
the House today.
I commend Congresswoman TERRI
SEWELL for her tremendous leadership,
the gentlewoman from Alabama, who
knows this subject well, personally,
geographically, and officially, now, as
a leading member of the House of Rep-
resentatives. I thank her for her lead-
ership.
I thank Congresswoman MARCIA
FUDGE for holding field hearings from
Alabama to Arizona on this urgent
issue of voting rights. That scope of
Alabama to Arizona is not alphabeti-
cally a big range, but, geographically
and experiencewise, it is.
And to Congressman JOHN LEWIS, the
conscience of the Congress, what an
honor it is for each and every one of us
to serve with him, to call him col-
league and, in many cases, to call him
friend. He is a civil rights hero of the
House, whose Voter Empowerment Act
was the backbone of H.R. 1, the For the
People Act.
Because there is some resistance on
the side of the aisle here to our reduc-
ing the role of dark money in politics,
which is a significant part of H.R. 1, we
pulled out H.R. 4 as its own vehicle on
the floor, and I thank all the House
Democrats who came to Congress com-
mitted to restoring the right to the
ballot, reflected in our naming of this
legislation, H.R. 4, one of our top prior-
ities.
And I say Democrats, but it saddens
me to hear the distinguished ranking
member’s comments about this legisla-
tion and urging a ‘‘no’’ vote on the Re-
publican side, because I was leader
when we passed the Voting Rights Act
that the Court sent us back to the
drawing board on.
At that time, we had around 400 votes
in the House of Representatives, up-
wards of 395, 400 votes, a completely bi-
partisan vote to pass that bill; and it
was unanimous in the United States
Senate, not partisan in any way. And
we have come to a place where the
Court said you need to do this or thus.
We followed Justice Roberts’ guid-
ance; and now, with the improvements
insisted upon by Justice Roberts, the
Republicans have gone from being part
of a nearly 400-vote majority on the
bill to, hopefully, not being unani-
mously against it, but we will see.
Mr. Speaker, nearly 55 years ago,
President Lyndon Johnson came to the
House of Representatives. He came on
the House floor to urge passage of the
Voting Rights Act ‘‘for the dignity of
man and the destiny of democracy.’’
He declared: ‘‘This was the first na-
tion in the history of the world to be
founded with a purpose. . . . ‘All men
are created equal.’
‘‘Those are not just clever words. . . .
In their name, Americans have fought
and died for two centuries. . . . Those
words are a promise to every citizen
that he shall share in the dignity of
man.’’
He continued: ‘‘Our fathers believed
that if this noble view of the rights of
man was to flourish, it must be rooted
in democracy . . . the right to choose
your own leaders. The history of this
country, in large measure, is the his-
tory of the expansion of that right to
all of our people.’’
Yet, a half century later, the con-
stitutional right of all Americans to
determine their leaders and the destiny
of our democracy is under great assault
from a brazen, nationwide voter sup-
pression campaign.
Since the Shelby v. Holder decision, 23
States—maybe more—have enacted
voter suppression laws, including voter
purges, strict ID requirements, poll
closures, and vote intimidation, deny-
ing millions their voices by their vote.
The record compiled by the commit-
tees shows that the counties with the
worst histories of voter suppression
doubled down on their discrimination
during this time, purging 17 million
voters from the rolls between 2016 and
2018 alone, primarily people of color.
Today, the House is honoring our Na-
tion’s sacred pledge—all are created
equal—by passing H.R. 4, the Voting
Rights Advancement Act.
This bill restores the Voting Rights
Act’s strength to combat the clear re-
surgence of voter discrimination un-
leashed by Shelby by updating the data
determining which States and prac-
tices are covered by the law. No longer
will cynical politicians and States with
dark histories of discrimination have a
green light to freely continue their sys-
tematic suppression campaign.
When President Johnson spoke on
this floor, he said: ‘‘There must be no
delay, no hesitation, and no com-
promise with our purpose. . . . We have
already waited a hundred years and
more, and the time for waiting is
gone.’’
Indeed, it took the courage and the
ultimate sacrifice of countless Ameri-
cans, including our own JOHN LEWIS, to
secure the passage of the Voting Rights
Act. Honoring and strengthening that
legacy is essential to our democracy.
We want to be sure that everyone who
is eligible to vote can vote and that
that person’s vote is counted as cast.
Today, too, the time for waiting is
gone. We must pass this bill, which is a
vote for civil rights, liberty, and jus-
tice for all.
I thank Mr. NADLER, MARCIA FUDGE,
and TERRI SEWELL, the author of this
legislation, which she introduced now
to the third Congress, for giving us the
privilege to be part of honoring the
pledge of our Founders: All are created
equal.
Mr. Speaker, I urge an ‘‘aye’’ vote on
the bill.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
back the balance of my time.
Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to sup-
port H.R. 4, the Voting Rights Advancement
Act of 2019.
This bill restores the full power of the Voting
Rights Act, after the 2013 Supreme Court de-
cision in Shelby County v. Holder eviscerated
it. It will also restore critical voting protections
to ensure that discriminatory voter suppression
laws do not block Americans from participating
in the electoral process.
The right to vote is fundamental to our de-
mocracy. During the civil rights movement,
courageous Americans fought in the courts,
marched, agitated, and gave the ‘‘last full
measure of devotion’’ for all Americans to be
able to exercise their precious right to vote.
The bill includes provisions that promote trans-
parency by mandating reasonable public no-
tice for voting changes. It also grants the At-
torney General the authority to request the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K06DE7.034 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9326 December 6, 2019
presence of federal observers anywhere in the
country to prevent voter suppression efforts
and to address discrimination based on race
in the voting process. In addition, this bill au-
thorizes a federal court to order States or ju-
risdictions to be covered under the Act when
there are results-based violations, where the
effect of a voting measure is racial discrimina-
tion in voting and blocking citizens from uti-
lizing their right to vote.
For all these reasons and more, today, I am
so proud to stand with my colleagues and
members of the Congressional Black Caucus
in support of the passage of H.R. 4, and want
to send a special thank you to my colleagues
Congresswoman TERRI SEWELL and Congress-
woman MARCIA FUDGE who have fearlessly
and brilliantly led this fight in the House of
Representatives.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise
in support of H.R. 4, the Voting Rights Ad-
vancement Act of 2019. This bill restores the
full strength of the Voting Rights Act, after a
2013 Supreme Court Decision gutted the Act.
The result was a flood of voter suppression
laws throughout the country.
The possibility of restoring a democratic
process that has stifled the black and brown
vote in the U.S. deserves our support. We
must never allow our constitutional rights to be
diminished or even eliminated.
In 2013, the Supreme Court decision,
Shelby County v. Holder, struck down the ex-
isting formula that determined which states
and political subdivisions were required to
seek federal pre-approval for their voting-re-
lated changes. This was to ensure they did
not discriminate against minority voters. The
Supreme Court put the onus on Congress to
enact a new formula, which resulted in States
and political subdivisions not being required to
seek preclearance unless ordered by a federal
court.
H.R. 4 restores the Section 5 preclearance
process by including a new formula for cov-
erage that ensures that only States and juris-
dictions with a recent history of discrimination
or use of voter suppression practices would be
subject to review before implementing new
voting laws or procedures.
H.R. 4 protects the sacred rights of minority
voters and helps identity discriminatory voting
practices. Congress must protect our polls and
support H.R. 4 to ensure the constitutional
right to vote for every citizen of the United
States.
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, I in-
clude in the RECORD the following letters of
support for H.R. 4.
FAITH LEADER CALL ON CONGRESS TO
RESTORE THE VOTING RIGHTS ACT NOW
Voting is a sacred right and a cornerstone
of democracy. We desperately need to pro-
tect every American’s right to vote—and
right now this right is endangered by gaps in
the law. Our spiritual ancestors in the Civil
Rights Movement fought for the Voting
Rights Act. We must honor their sacrifices
today by passing the Voting Rights Advance-
ment Act.—Rev. Dr. Jennifer Butler, CEO,
Faith in Public Life
We stand on the shoulders of so many in
our nation who have shown courage and re-
sistance to realize their right to vote, who
have fought tirelessly to make sure America
lives up to its full potential. Voting is a cru-
cial part of what we must do to hold our
elected officials—to hold America—account-
able to not just the dream that Rev. Martin
Luther King, Jr. laid out for us, but also the
promise that America has held since its be-
ginnings. Yes, it’s a promise historically
marred by injustice, but it is the promise of
a better way. It is a sin and a shame to wit-
ness how voting rights have been suppressed
and denied since 2013. Voting is a way that
we claim the freedom that we have in Amer-
ica. Our most urgent request to Congress is
the same as that made by MLK over 40 years
ago: give us the ballot.—Rev. Dr. Leslie
Copeland-Tune, Chief Operating Officer, Na-
tional Council of Churches
By our own admission, within our most
precious documents, we acknowledge that
ALL people are part of God’s creation and
that we are one nation under God. As such,
our democracy says that every citizen should
be respected regardless of sex, race, national
origin, etc. and that the government is ac-
countable to defend and protect the rights of
its public, its citizens. The most precious na-
ture of America society is the right to vote.
We have the dignity of citizenship rights;
laws are necessary to defend that dignity
and those rights, unobstructed, so citizens
can enjoy voting and electing their offi-
cials.—Imam Dr. Talib M. Shareef, USAF-
Retired, President, Masjid Muhammad, The
Nation’s Mosque
My faith teaches that every person is im-
bued with dignity, and in a secular democ-
racy our vote is an indicator of that worth.
Voter suppression and intimidation is a fa-
miliar, age-old practice of marginalizing peo-
ple in poverty and people of color. A demo-
cratic system that suppresses the vote of any
citizen is not only unconstitutional, it is de-
humanizing. This dehumanizing must stop!
Our nation is better than this. A significant
step forward would be to pass a 21st Century
Voting Rights Act now. This cannot wait. It
is the faithful and patriotic way forward.—
Sister Simone Campbell, SSS, Executive Di-
rector of NETWORK Lobby for Catholic So-
cial Justice
The United Methodist Church affirms the
critical role of governments in protecting
the rights of all people to free and fair elec-
tions. In particular, the Church support ef-
forts to dismantle policies and practices that
disenfranchise communities of color and per-
petuate systemic injustice.’’—Rev. Dr. Susan
Henry-Crowe, General Secretary, General
Board of Church and Society of The United
Methodist Church
The Religious Society of Friends (Quaker)
faith was founded on the belief in the equal-
ity of all. Voter suppression in the United
States violates this central belief and we
must work to assure everyone has the right
to vote. We call on lawmakers across the na-
tion to take a stand against voter suppres-
sion and pass the Voting Rights Advance-
ment Act (H.R. 4).—Diane Randall, Execu-
tive Secretary, Friends Committee on Na-
tional Legislation
The requirement of society to provide
human dignity for all, which stands at the
root of all theological traditions, strikes a
blow at the very heart of the spurious argu-
ments made by those who want to prevent
others from voting based on age, race, dis-
ability, or history of contact with the crimi-
nal justice system. As an organization that
works with many who come from commu-
nities that have been historically subjected
to all forms of discrimination, the National
Religious Campaign Against Torture be-
lieves that the right to vote and to fully par-
ticipate in the democracy is a sacred right
and one that should never be taken away
from anyone, for any reason.—Rev. Dr. Ron
Stief, Executive Director, National Religious
Campaign Against Torture
As Franciscans, our Christian faith teaches
us that we must recognize each person as a
gift from God, and that we must emphasize
the importance of the essential humanity
and dignity of each person. Pope Francis has
called on us to ‘‘meddle in politics’’ and we
interpret this concept as a requirement that
all Americans must have an equal say in the
public square. Therefore, we must imme-
diately call on Congress to pass the Voting
Rights Advancement Act to ensure that all
Americans are able to vote.—Patrick
Carolan, Executive Director, Franciscan Ac-
tion Network
At the National Council of Jewish Women,
we are guided by the Jewish imperative to
pursue tzedek, or justice. For justice to be
realized, all eligible voters must have an op-
portunity to participate in the electoral
process. Without access to the ballot, we
can’t elect lawmakers who represent our
communities and our needs. Congress must
restore the full strength of the Voting
Rights Act without delay.—Sheila Katz,
CEO, National Council of Jewish Women
It was when the collective voice of the peo-
ple cried out to the Lord in Exodus 3:9 that
God hears and sent deliverance to Nation of
Israel! Voting by the oppressed was the way
black people could lift up their voices, cry
out, and participate in creating a more just
nation! Restoration of the Voting Rights Act
so all voices are heard is essential to per-
fecting this nation and assuring that it does
not return to and separate but unequal soci-
ety!—Rev. Reuben D. Eckels, Church World
Service (CWS)
Since voting is so fundamental to our de-
mocracy, all citizens should be committed to
making it possible for everyone to exercise
that right. The Voting Rights Advancement
Act is critical to having a genuine represent-
ative democracy and to make sure that the
most vulnerable populations are not
disenfranchised from the democratic process.
People of faith are concerned that the voice
of the people be truly representative of all
the people.—Bishop John Stowe, Bishop-
President, Pax Christi USA
In the Bible, we are reminded that ‘‘when
justice is done, it brings joy to the right-
eous’’ (Proverbs 21:15). The Evangelical Lu-
theran Church in America (ELCA) under-
stands that justice is done when we live out
our mutual responsibility for one another by
guaranteeing our neighbor’s right to vote
and participate freely and fully in society. In
2013, the ELCA Churchwide Assembly, our
denomination’s highest legislative author-
ity, adopted a social policy resolution titled
Voting Rights to All Citizens. This resolu-
tion calls us to express concern for our na-
tion’s history of voter suppression from the
Jim Crow era to the current climate of re-
strictive voter laws that create barriers to
many people of color in their right to vote.
This resolution calls on all part of this
church to ‘‘promote public life worthy of the
name’’ by speaking out as advocates and en-
gaging in local efforts such as voter registra-
tion and supporting legislation to guarantee
the right to vote to all citizens. We support
the Voting Rights Advancement Act (H.R.
2978) as a key step in ensuring the voices of
all citizens will be safeguarded and heard
through its provisions which would help re-
instate guidelines that ensure protection
through oversight and combat voter suppres-
sion.—Rev. Amy Reumann, Director of Advo-
cacy, Evangelical Lutheran Church in Amer-
ica
The Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) has been
a long-time advocate for voting rights. We
were deeply dismayed by the actions of the
Supreme Court to void Section 5 of the Vot-
ing Rights Act. This decision left many peo-
ple of color vulnerable to discriminatory
voting laws that have historically plagued
communities of color. Voting is our right as
U.S. citizens. Taking away or restricting
one’s ability to exercise their voice at the
polls is not only immoral; it is unconstitu-
tional. The actions of many states in passing
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06DE7.021 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9327
December 6, 2019
extremely restrictive voting laws are unjust
and must be addressed. As the Rev. Dr. Mar-
tin Luther King, Jr. once stated, ‘‘injustice
anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.’’
Congress must stand on the side of justice
and restore the Voting Rights Act.—Rev.
Jimmie R. Hawkins, Director of the Pres-
byterian Church (USA), Office of Public Wit-
ness
As Reform Jews, our teachings motivate
our advocacy to protect voting rights and
fight voter suppression. Rabbi Yitzhak
taught, ‘‘A ruler is not to be appointed un-
less the community is first consulted,’’ (Bab-
ylonian Talmud Berochot 55a). Diminished
federal voter protections and rampant voter
suppression undermines the ability of all
people, particularly communities of color, to
participate in our democracy. It is time for
Congress to restore those protections and
pass the Voting Rights Advancement Act
(H.R. 4/S. 561). Our faith’s commitment to
political participation demands that Con-
gress pass this Shelby fix as a step towards
ensuring that the whole community is rep-
resented.—Rabbi Jonah Dov Pesner, Reli-
gious Action Center of Reform Judaism
Voting is at the heart of the democratic
process. It is the most fundamental access
point for individuals to have a voice in the
public policy decision-making process that
can shape the future of our local, regional
and global collective life. As people of faith,
we believe every vote is a voice, and every
voices counts. It is unconscionable that we
are entering the 2020 election season with
fewer voting rights protections than we had
in 1965. This signals an erosion of our democ-
racy that is a moral crisis. The right to vote
is a national value that transcends partisan-
ship. It goes beyond political party identi-
fication to our core values as a nation and
the centrality of a citizen’s free vote, not
limited by the powers of money, social class
and unequal access to voting. It is impera-
tive that we pass a fix for the damage done
by the Supreme Court Shelby decision by re-
storing voter protections.—Sandra Sorensen,
Director of Washington Office, United
Church of Christ (UCC)
The National Advocacy Center of the Sis-
ters of the Good Shepherd calls on Congress
to pass the Voting Rights Advancement Act.
We have seen over the last six years increas-
ing hostility to full voting rights for all
Americans since the U.S. Supreme Court
partially struck down the Voting Rights Act.
We have seen new barriers put up to restrict
the number of voters of color, suppressing
the full American voice and skewing our re-
sponse to important civil and human rights
issues in need of our attention. As people of
faith, we are called to liberate the oppressed
and marginalized. Please restore the vote.—
Lawrence E. Couch, Director, National Advo-
cacy Center of the Sisters of the Good Shep-
herd
It is clearer than ever today that democ-
racy is a process, not a static state. Democ-
racy requires care, investment, and vigilance
to ensure all voices are represented. The
shameful history of racism in U.S. voting
systems is not over, and new approaches de-
signed to restrict certain communities’ ac-
cess to a free and fair vote cannot be toler-
ated. The federal government must act now
to reinstate and expand protections of voting
rights for all people.—Joyce Ajlouny, Gen-
eral Secretary, American Friends Service
Committee
The right to vote without any impedi-
ments or obstructions is one of the most
basic privileges of our democracy belonging
to all age-eligible American citizens regard-
less of race, religion, or gender orientation. I
call upon our Senate and House to protect
this sacred right which is critical for the de-
fense of all our other rights and privileges.—
Rev. Dr. Jeffrey Haggray, American Baptist
Home Mission Societies
American Baptist Churches, USA have offi-
cially advocated for voter rights for many
decades and we continue ‘‘. . . to declare the
right to vote to be a basic human right, and
support programs and measures to assure
this right. The right of citizenship in a na-
tion, to participate in the political process,
to form political parties, to have a voice in
decisions made in the political arena are
basic undeniable human rights. The Bible
teaches us that all humanity is created in
God’s image and that we are all valuable in
God’s sight.’’—Dr. C. Jeff Woods, Acting Gen-
eral Secretary, American Baptist Churches,
USA
We are the church, the body of Christ in
this world, at this time. We need to stop the
racist suppression of the votes of people of
color. Denying people their right to vote is
counter to the will of God. This is especially
true when rich and powerful interests seek
to deny people who have been historically
marginalized from shaping our society. We
need to change our policies and our laws to
make voting a concrete reality for all of
God’s children.—Rev. Ms. Paula Clayton
Dempsey, Executive Minister, Alliance of
Baptists
People have a right and a duty to partici-
pate in society, seeking together the com-
mon good and wellbeing of all persons, espe-
cially the poor and vulnerable. Voter sup-
pression laws strike at this tenet of Catholic
Social Teaching by denying that right to
those who are disproportionately poor, espe-
cially African American, Native American
and Hispanic American communities. As
faithful citizens of every faith and humani-
tarian tradition, we affirm our common re-
sponsibility to promote the dignity of every
person and to work for justice and the com-
mon good. That can only happen if we are all
afforded the basic right to vote and to par-
ticipate fully in our democratic process.—
Scott Wright, Director, Columban Center for
Advocacy and Outreach
As Unitarian Universalists, our 5th Prin-
ciple affirms ‘‘the right of conscience and
the use of the democratic process within our
congregations and in society at large’’.
Therefore, we advocate for restoration of full
protections under the Voting Rights Act.
When our democracy is in peril, so too are
our civil rights. Racial discrimination and
voter suppression are on the rise—an unac-
ceptable circumstance to freedom-loving
citizens of the United States and one that
our faith calls us to confront. The pernicious
impacts of Shelby County v. Holder must be
halted and reversed.
As the leader of a faith-based education,
witness and advocacy organization, I know
that issues like poverty, immigration, cli-
mate change, and rising inequity in our soci-
ety cannot improve unless we defend the
basic tenets of our democracy. Our democ-
racy works best when everyone can fully par-
ticipate. Congress should strive to make our
elections more free, more fair and more ac-
cessible. The more Americans who partici-
pate in our elections, the better our democ-
racy reflects who we are as a country and the
better we can meet the complex challenges
of our times.—(Pablo) Pavel DeJesús, Execu-
tive Director, Unitarian Universalists for So-
cial Justice (UUSJ).
LAWYERS’ COMMITTEE FOR CIVIL
RIGHTS UNDER LAW,
December 3, 2019.
Re Recommended Vote in Favor of H.R. 4,
the Voting Rights Advancement Act.
DEAR MEMBERS OF THE U.S. HOUSE OF REP-
RESENTATIVES: On behalf of the Lawyers’
Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, a
nonpartisan civil rights organization formed
at the request of President Kennedy to enlist
the private bar’s leadership and resources in
combating racial discrimination and secur-
ing equal justice under law, I am writing to
urge you to vote in favor of H.R. 4, the Vot-
ing Rights Advancement Act (VRAA). We op-
pose any Motion to Recommit (MTR).
The VRAA would restore the Section 5
preclearance process that was struck down
by the Supreme Court in the 2013 Shelby
County v. Holder decision by creating a new
formula for coverage that ensures that only
states and jurisdictions with a recent history
of voting discrimination or use of voter sup-
pression practices would be subject to review
prior to implementing new voting laws or
procedures.
Prior to Shelby, covered jurisdictions had
to provide notice to the federal govern-
ment—which meant notice to the public—be-
fore they could implement changes in their
voting practices or procedures. Such notice
is of paramount importance, because the
ways that the voting rights of minority citi-
zens are jeopardized are often subtle. They
range from the consolidation of polling
places so as to make it less convenient for
minority voters to vote, to the curtailing of
early voting hours that makes it more dif-
ficult for hourly-wage earners to vote, to the
disproportionate purging of minority voters
from voting lists under the pretext of ‘‘list
maintenance.’’
In the more than six years since the
Shelby decision, the floodgates to voting dis-
crimination have been swung open, threating
the voting rights of millions of Americans.
The gutting of the core protection of the
Voting Rights Act did not simply harm Afri-
can Americans and other people of color, it
challenged the very foundation of our de-
mocracy and our decades-long march to-
wards equality. Voting is the right that is
‘‘preservative of all rights,’’ because it em-
powers people to elect candidates of their
choice, who will then govern and legislate to
advance other rights. But, voting rights have
always been contested in this country, with
gains in turnout and representation by peo-
ple of color often met with an inevitable
backlash that sought to reduce their elec-
toral power.
The passage of the Voting Rights Act in
1965 marked a turning point in our nation,
when the promise of equal justice and de-
mocracy in our Constitution was made real
for people of color for the first time in our
history. Since that time, overwhelming bi-
partisan majorities in Congress have reau-
thorized the Voting Rights Act several
times, each time amassing a significant con-
gressional record of the current threats to
the franchise and implementing changes to
ensure the ongoing efficacy of the Voting
Rights Act. Now, we ask you to take the
mantle from your predecessors and restore
the full protections of the Voting Rights Act
by passing H.R. 4, the VRAA.
Thank you for your leadership in pro-
tecting the fundamental right to vote and
our democracy by voting for H.R. 4, the
VRAA, and by opposing any Motion to Re-
commit.
Sincerely,
KRISTEN CLARKE,
President & Executive Director.
THE LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE
ON CIVIL AND HUMAN RIGHTS,
Washington, DC, December 4, 2019.
SUPPORT H.R. 4, VOTING RIGHTS
ADVANCEMENT ACT
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of The
Leadership Conference on Civil and Human
Rights, a coalition of more than 200 national
organizations committed to promoting and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06DE7.036 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9328 December 6, 2019
protecting the civil and human rights of all
persons in the United States, and the 68 un-
dersigned organizations, we write in strong
support of H.R. 4, the Voting Rights Ad-
vancement Act. We oppose any Motion to
Recommit.
The Voting Rights Act of 1965 (VRA) is one
of the most successful civil rights laws ever
enacted. Congress passed the VRA in direct
response to evidence of significant and per-
vasive discrimination across the country, in-
cluding the use of literacy tests, poll taxes,
intimidation, threats, and violence. By out-
lawing the tests and devices that prevented
people of color from voting, the VRA and its
prophylactic preclearance formula put teeth
into the 15th Amendment’s guarantee that
no citizen can be denied the right to vote be-
cause of the color of their skin.
H.R. 4 has received vocal and vigorous sup-
port from the civil rights community be-
cause it responds to the urgent need to stop
the abuses by state and local governments in
the aftermath of the Supreme Court’s infa-
mous 2013 decision in Shelby County v. Hold-
er, when five justices of the Supreme Court
invalidated the VRA’s preclearance provi-
sion. In its decision, the Court stated: ‘‘Our
country has changed, and while any racial
discrimination in voting is too much, Con-
gress must ensure that the legislation it
passes to remedy that problem speaks to cur-
rent conditions.’’
Since Shelby County, discriminatory poli-
cies have proliferated nationwide and contin-
ued in areas formerly covered by the
preclearance requirement. In states, coun-
ties, and cities across the country, public of-
ficials have pushed through laws and policies
designed to make it harder for many commu-
nities to vote. While we have celebrated suc-
cessful legal challenges to discriminatory
voter ID laws in Texas and North Carolina,
such victories occurred only after elections
in those states were tainted by discrimina-
tion. Lost votes cannot be reclaimed and dis-
criminatory elections cannot be undone.
But voter suppression is not merely the
province of those states with a long history
of discrimination. Pernicious practices such
as voter purging and restrictive identifica-
tion requirements—which disproportionately
affect voters of color—occur in states
throughout the nation. Although progress
has been made, some elected leaders in this
country are still working to silence people
who were historically denied access to the
ballot box.
During the 116th Congress, the U.S. House
Committee on the Judiciary held extensive
hearings and found significant evidence that
barriers to voter participation remain for
people of color and language-minority voters
in African-American, Asian American,
Latinx, and Native American communities.
The hearings examined the History and En-
forcement of the Voting Rights Act of 1965
(March 12, 2019), Enforcement of the Voting
Rights Act in the State of Texas (May 3,
2019), Continuing Challenges to the Voting
Rights Act Since Shelby County v. Holder
(June 25, 2019), Discriminatory Barriers to
Voting (September 5, 2019), Evidence of Cur-
rent and Ongoing Voting Discrimination
(September 10, 2019), Congressional Author-
ity to Protect Voting Rights After Shelby
County v. Holder (September 24, 2019), and
Legislative Proposals to Strengthen the Vot-
ing Rights Act (October 17, 2019). The Com-
mittee on House Administration also con-
ducted numerous hearings and amassed sig-
nificant evidence of voter suppression during
the 116th Congress.
H.R. 4 restores and modernizes the Voting
Rights Act by:
Creating a new coverage formula that
hinges on a finding of repeated voting rights
violations in the preceding 25 years.
Significantly, the 25-year period is meas-
ured on a rolling basis to keep up with ‘‘cur-
rent conditions,’’ so only states and political
subdivisions that have a recent record of ra-
cial discrimination in voting are covered.
States and political subdivisions that qual-
ify for preclearance will be covered for a pe-
riod of 10 years, but if they establish a clean
record during that time period, they can be
extracted from coverage.
Establishing ‘‘practice-based
preclearance,’’ a targeted process for review-
ing voting changes in jurisdictions nation-
wide focused on measures that have histori-
cally been used to discriminate against vot-
ers of color. The process for reviewing
changes in voting is limited to a set of prac-
tices, including:
Changes to the methods of elections (to or
from at-large elections) in areas that are ra-
cially, ethnically, or linguistically diverse;
Reductions in language assistance;
Annexations changing jurisdictional
boundaries in areas that are racially, eth-
nically, or linguistically diverse;
Redistricting in areas that are racially,
ethnically, or linguistically diverse;
Reducing, consolidating, or relocating
polling locations in areas that are racially,
ethnically, or linguistically diverse; and
Changes in documentation or requirements
to vote or register.
H.R. 4 also:
Allows a federal court to order states or ju-
risdictions to be covered for results-based
violations, where the effect of a particular
voting measure is racial discrimination in
voting and denying citizens their right to
vote;
Increases transparency by requiring rea-
sonable public notice for voting changes;
Allows the attorney general authority to
request the presence of federal observers
anywhere in the country where there is a se-
rious threat of racial discrimination in vot-
ing; and
Revises and tailors the preliminary injunc-
tion standard for voting rights actions to
recognize that there will be cases where
there is a need for immediate preliminary re-
lief.
For over half a century, protecting citizens
from racial discrimination in voting has
been bipartisan work. The VRA was passed
with leadership from both the Republican
and Democratic parties, and the reauthoriza-
tions of the enforcement provisions were
signed into law each time by Republican
presidents: President Nixon in 1970, Presi-
dent Ford in 1975, President Reagan in 1982,
and President Bush in 2006.
Voting must transcend partisanship. No
matter what policy issues we care most
about, we get closer to these goals through
the ballot box. The integrity of our democ-
racy depends on ensuring that every eligible
voter can participate in the electoral proc-
ess. Passing H.R. 4 would be a giant step to-
ward restoring the right to vote and undoing
the damage done by the Supreme Court’s
Shelby County decision. During the civil
rights movement, brave Americans gave
their lives for the right to vote, and we can-
not allow their legacy and the protections
they fought for to unravel. We urge Congress
to pass this historic legislation.
Sincerely,
The Leadership Conference on Civil and
Human Rights; Advancement Project; Amer-
ican Federation of Labor and Congress of In-
dustrial Organizations, African American
Ministers In Action; American Association
of University Women; American Civil Lib-
erties Union; American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees
(AFSCME); American Federation of Teach-
ers; Andrew Goodman Foundation; Anti-Def-
amation League; Arab American Institute;
Asian Americans Advancing Justice—AAJC;
Autistic Self Advocacy Network; Bend the
Arc: Jewish Action; Blue Future; Brennan
Center for Justice at NYU School of Law;
Campaign Legal Center.
Connecticut Citizen Action Group; Clean
Elections Texas; Communications Workers
of America (CWA); Congregation of Our Lady
of Charity ofthe Good Shepherd, U.S. Prov-
inces; Democracy 21; Democracy Initiative;
Demos; End Citizens United Action Fund;
FairVote Action; Fix Democracy First;
Franciscan Action Network; Generation
Progress; Greenpeace USA; Human Rights
Campaign; Our Own Voice: National Black
Women’s Reproductive Justice Agenda;
International Union, United Automobile
Aerospace and Agricultural Implement
Workers of America, (UAW).
Jewish Council for Public Affairs; Lawyers’
Committee for Civil Rights Under Law;
Leadership Conference of Women Religious;
League of Conservation Voters Education
Fund; League of Women Voters of the United
States; Main Street Alliance; Mexican Amer-
ican Legal Defense and Educational Fund
(MALDEF); National Association for the Ad-
vancement of Colored People (NAACP);
NAACP Legal Defense and Educational
Fund, Inc.; NALEO Educational Fund; Na-
tional Action Network; National Advocacy
Center of the Sisters of the Good Shepherd;
National Council of Jewish Women; National
Disability Rights Network (NDRN); National
Education Association.
National Urban League; Native American
Rights Fund; NETWORK Lobby for Catholic
Social Justice; New American Leaders Ac-
tion Fund; People Demanding Action; People
For the American Way; Planned Parenthood
Federation of America; Progressive Turnout
Project; Public Citizen; Religious Action
Center of Reform Judaism; Service Employ-
ees International Union (SEIU); Sierra Club;
Southern Poverty Law Center Action Fund;
Stand Up America; Texas Progressive Action
Network; UnidosUS; Union for Reform Juda-
ism; United Church of Christ, Justice and
Witness Ministries; Voices for Progress;
YWCA USA.
MALDEF,
December 4, 2019.
Re MALDEF Urges Support of the Voting
Rights Advancement Act of 2019, H.R. 4.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: There is no right
more fundamental to our democracy than
the right to vote, and for Latino voters and
other voters of color, that right is in danger.
Following the 2013 Shelby County v. Holder
decision, which effectively ended
preclearance review under Section 5 of the
Voting Rights Act of 1965 (VRA), states and
localities moved to implement discrimina-
tory voting practices that would previously
have been blocked by the VRA. What we
have seen post-Shelby County confirms what
we have long-known—that voter discrimina-
tion lives on. Congress must act to restore
the preclearance coverage formula in the
VRA, legislation that has long-enjoyed bi-
partisan support. MALDEF (Mexican Amer-
ican Legal Defense and Educational Fund),
the nation’s leading Latino legal civil rights
organization, urges you to support the Vot-
ing Rights Advancement Act (VRAA) of 2019,
H.R. 4, to reenact safeguards to protect mi-
nority voters from discriminatory voting
laws.
The VRA is regarded as one of the most
important and effective pieces of civil rights
legislation due to its ability to protect vot-
ers of color from discriminatory voting prac-
tices before they take place. Since its found-
ing, MALDEF has focused on securing equal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06DE7.038 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9329
December 6, 2019
voting rights for Latinos, and promoting in-
creased civic engagement and participation
within the Latino community, as among its
top priorities. MALDEF played a significant
role in securing the full protection of the
VRA for the Latino community through the
1975 congressional reauthorization of the
VRA. Over its now 51–year history, MALDEF
has litigated numerous cases under section 2,
section 5, and section 203 of the VRA, chal-
lenging at-large systems, discriminatory re-
districting, ballot access barriers, undue
voter registration restrictions, and failure to
provide bilingual materials. As the growth of
the Latino population expands, our work in
voting rights increases as well.
Section 5 of the VRA required states with
a history of discrimination in voting to seek
pre-approval of voting-related changes from
the U.S. Department of Justice or a three-
judge panel in Washington, DC. A voting-re-
lated change that would have left minority
voters worse off than before the change
would be blocked. The states and political
subdivisions that were required to submit
voting-related changes for preclearance were
determined by a coverage formula in section
4 of the VRA. The preclearance scheme—an
efficient and effective form of alternative
dispute resolution—prevented the implemen-
tation of voting-related changes that would
have denied voters of color a voice in our
elections, and it deterred many more restric-
tions from ever being conceived. The Su-
preme Court in Shelby County—struck down
section 4 and called on Congress to enact a
new formula better tailored to current his-
tory. As a result, currently, states or polit-
ical subdivisions are no longer required to
seek preclearance unless ordered by a federal
court.
However, Chief Justice Roberts recognized
in the majority opinion in Shelby County
that, ‘‘voting discrimination still exists; no
one doubts that.’’ Across the U.S., racial,
ethnic, and language-minority communities
are rapidly growing—the country’s total pop-
ulation is projected to become majority mi-
nority by 2044. Many officials in states and
local jurisdictions fear losing political
power, and the rapid growth of communities
of color is often seen as a threat to existing
political establishments. Fear provokes
those in positions of power to implement
changes to dilute the voting power of the
perceived threatening minority community.
Unfortunately, now that states and local ju-
risdictions are not required to submit vot-
ing-related changes for review, there is no
longer a well-kept track record on newly im-
plemented discriminatory practices. None-
theless, we know, based on our litigation and
analysis of voting changes, that states and
local jurisdictions are still using discrimina-
tory voting tactics to suppress the political
power of minority communities.
Last month, MALDEF, NALEO, and Asian
Americans Advancing Justice—AAJC re-
leased a new report, Practice-Based
Preclearance: Protecting Against Tactics Per-
sistently Used to Silence Minority Communities’
Votes, detailing the need for forward-looking
voting rights legislation that provides pro-
tections for emerging minority populations.
During the VRA’s more than 50–year history,
all racial and ethnic populations grew, but
the growth of communities of color signifi-
cantly outpaced nonHispanic whites. While
there are states and localities where commu-
nities of color have traditionally resided in
larger numbers, growing communities of his-
torically underrepresented voters are now
emerging in new parts of the U.S. Between
2007 and 2014, five of the ten U.S. counties
that experienced the most rapid rates of
Latino population growth were in North Da-
kota or South Dakota, two states whose
overall Latino populations still account for
less than ten percent of their residents and
are dwarfed by Latino communities in states
like New Mexico, Texas, and California. It is
precisely this rapid growth of different racial
or ethnic populations that results in the per-
ception that emerging communities of color
are a threat to those in political power.
H.R. 4 includes important protections for
these emerging populations in the form of
practice-based preclearance, or ‘‘known-
practices’’ coverage. Known-practices cov-
erage would focus administrative or judicial
review narrowly on suspect practices that
are most likely to be tainted by discrimina-
tory intent or to have discriminatory effects,
as demonstrated by a broad historical
record. This coverage would extend to any
jurisdiction in the U.S. that is home to a ra-
cially, ethnically, and/or linguistically di-
verse population and that seeks to adopt a
covered practice, despite that practice’s
known likelihood of being discriminatory
when used in a diverse population. The
known practices that would be required to be
pre-approved before adopted in a diverse
state or political subdivision include: 1)
changes in method of election to add or re-
place a single-member district with an at-
large seat to a governing body, 2) certain re-
districting plans where there is significant
minority population growth in the previous
decade, 3) annexations or deannexations that
would significantly alter the composition of
the jurisdiction’s electorate, 4) certain iden-
tification and proof of citizenship require-
ments, 5) certain polling place closures and
realignments, and 6) the withdrawal of mul-
tilingual materials and assistance when not
matched by the reduction of those services
in English. The Practice-Based Preclearance
report looked at these different types of
changes and found, based on two separate
analyses of voting discrimination, that these
known practices occur with great frequency
in the modern era.
Congress must protect access to the polls
and pass the VRAA, with known-practice
coverage provisions. The VRAA is a critical
piece of legislation that will restore voter
protections that were lost due to the Shelby
County decision. We cannot allow another
federal election cycle to take place without
ensuring that every voter can register and
cast a meaningful ballot. MALDEF urges
you to stand with all voters and to vote
‘‘yes’’ on H.R. 4.
Sincerely,
ANDREA SENTENO,
Regional Counsel.
SEIU,
December 4, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of two
million members of the Service Employees
International Union (‘‘SEIU’’), I am writing
to urge you to vote in favor of H.R. 4, the
Voting Rights Advancement Act (VRAA),
which will proceed to the House floor for a
vote on final passage this week.
Following the 2013 Supreme Court decision
in Shelby v. Holder, we have seen a surge of
voter suppression tactics by states and local-
ities. These shameful tactics include the en-
actment of strict voter ID laws, the purge of
voters from state voter rolls, and the closure
of hundreds of polling places that negatively
impacts the ability of people of color, immi-
grants, young people, and other historically
marginalized groups from accessing their
constitutional right to vote. In 2016 alone, 14
states passed new laws that restricted access
to the ballot for hard working Americans
and since then multiple federal courts found
intentional racial discrimination in our elec-
tions. These unjust actions by states and lo-
calities to our electoral system must be ad-
dressed with urgency to ensure the voices of
working people—Black, white & brown—are
heard at the ballot box.
H.R. 4 is an essential piece of legislation
that will restore critical civil rights protec-
tions for voters while providing clear and
consistent voting laws for every state to en-
sure all eligible citizens can participate in
our democracy. The VRAA responds to the
wave of biased attacks on our election sys-
tem since the Shelby decision by estab-
lishing a ‘‘rolling’’ nationwide trigger mech-
anism so that only states that have a recent
record of racial discrimination in voting
would be covered. Under the legislation,
these states would have to submit any
changes in their voting laws to be precleared
before implementation. In addition, the
VRAA would grant more power to the federal
courts to hold accountable states or jurisdic-
tions whose voting practices have discrimi-
natory results. The VRAA is the dire reform
of our electoral system that our nation needs
in order to restore this fundamental right
and make our democracy more accessible to
all people.
Our democracy works best when all eligi-
ble voters, no matter their color or how
much money they make, can participate in
free and fair elections to make their voices
heard. We need Congress to restore integrity
to our election system. On behalf of our
members, we are proud to support this legis-
lation to strengthen our democracy and val-
ues as a nation. We will add votes on this
legislation, including the motion to recom-
mit, to our legislative scorecard.
Sincerely,
MARY KAY HENRY,
International President.
AFSCME,
December 3, 2019.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
members of the American Federation of
State, County and Municipal Employees
(AFSCME), I write in support of the Voting
Rights Advancement Act (VRAA, H.R. 4).
The VRAA is an important first step to re-
storing voting rights protections and the
Voting Rights Act (VRA) of 1965.
Signed into law by President Lyndon B.
Johnson, the VRA of 1965 was landmark leg-
islation necessary to secure the right to vote
for every citizen. It ensured that state and
local governments would not deny any
American the equal right to vote based on
race, color or membership in a minority lan-
guage group.
The U.S. Supreme Court’s 2013 ruling in
Shelby County, Alabama v. Holder under-
mined the VRA, and eliminated the signifi-
cant requirement for states and localities
with a well-documented history of discrimi-
nation to ‘‘preclear’’ any new changes to vot-
ing practices and procedures. As a result,
those with a history of voter disenfranchise-
ment would no longer have to get approval
from the Department of Justice or a court to
show that their laws do not have a discrimi-
natory purpose or effect. The results have
been devastating and pose a significant blow
to the protections provided in the VRA. In
the wake of the decision, over three dozen
state legislatures have enacted new onerous
restrictions on voter access. These recent ac-
tions include onerous voter ID laws, restric-
tions on early voting, and excessive purges of
voter registration lists, all of which subse-
quently make voting less accessible, less
transparent, more difficult, and challenging
for many voters.
H.R. 4 is needed to restore fairness. It es-
tablishes a new coverage formula based on
repeated voting rights violations over the
preceding 25 years of a state’s political sub-
divisions. It also responds to nationwide dis-
crimination and requires ‘‘practice-based
preclearance’’ for known disenfranchisement
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A06DE7.040 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9330 December 6, 2019
strategies that disproportionately target
communities of color.
The VRA is one of our nation’s most im-
portant civil rights laws. It is central to any
effort to build a representative democracy
where citizens can exercise their most basic
right to vote. I strongly urge you to support
H.R. 4 when it comes before the House of
Representatives.
Sincerely,
SCOTT FREY,
Director of Federal Government of Affairs.
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS,
December 6, 2019.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
more than 1.7 million members of the Amer-
ican Federation of Teachers, I write in
strong support of H.R. 4, the Voting Rights
Advancement Act of 2019.
This important bill is a commonsense ap-
proach that responds to the Supreme Court’s
2013 decision in Shelby County v. Holder,
which struck down a long-standing key pro-
vision of the Voting Rights Act of 1965.
For nearly 50 years, the Voting Rights Act
enshrined the right to free and fair elections
in our country. But in 2013, the Supreme
Court weakened the ‘‘preclearance require-
ment’’ of the Voting Rights Act, deeming it
no longer justified to address the racial and
geographic disparities it sought to remedy
when enacted. As a result, laws restricting
voting rights throughout the United States
surged. In fact, an analysis by the Brennan
Center for Justice found that between 2016
and 2018, counties with a history of voter dis-
crimination purged voters from the rolls at
much higher rates than other counties. This
trend is a direct consequence of the Supreme
Court’s ruling in Shelby County v. Holder.
It is an understatement to say that the Su-
preme Court’s decision ignored the real-life
and ongoing efforts to suppress voting rights
across our nation. Today, the renewed dis-
enfranchisement tactics of old include, but
are not limited to, restrictive voter ID laws,
outcome-driven redistricting, limited voting
hours and opportunities, and misinformation
about polling places and times. And let’s be
clear, these tactics are all engineered to dis-
proportionately affect the voting rights of
African American, Latinx, immigrant and
low-income voters, as well as students and
seniors.
It is imperative that Congress take new ac-
tion to ensure the efficacy of the Voting
Rights Act. We do not want future genera-
tions of students to read in their history les-
sons that the Supreme Court in 2013 turned
the clock back on decades of progress in vot-
ing rights and that that was the final word.
Passage of H.R. 4 is a critical step toward
fulfilling our aspirations for a stronger de-
mocracy, where all voters can exercise their
fundamental rights. The long-term damage
of not doing so is unacceptable.
To this end, I encourage you to fulfill your
civic duty by ensuring all Americans have
their most fundamental of civil rights pro-
tected by voting YES on H.R. 4.
Thank you for considering our views on
this important matter.
Sincerely,
RANDI WEINGARTEN,
President.
NATIONAL COUNCIL OF
JEWISH WOMEN,
December 4, 2019.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: The National Coun-
cil of Jewish Women (NCJW) urges you to
vote for the Voting Rights Advancement Act
(H.R. 4) when it comes to the floor this week
and vote against any Motion to Recommit.
NCJW is a grassroots organization of vol-
unteers and advocates who turn progressive
ideals into action. Throughout its history,
NCJW has educated and engaged our mem-
bers and supporters to drive voter turnout
and expand voting rights, including advo-
cating for women’s suffrage and the historic
Voting Rights Act of 1965 (VRA). This work
is in pursuit of tzedek, or justice—a core
value of Judaism an inspiration for our advo-
cacy. Today, we work for election laws, poli-
cies, and practices that ensure easy and equi-
table access and eliminate obstacles to the
electoral process so that every vote counts
and can be verified.
H.R. 4 would restore the Voting Rights Act
to its former strength. The 2013 Shelby deci-
sion effectively ended the federal govern-
ment’s ability, granted by the VRA, to
preclear changes to state and local election
laws before they went into effect. In his deci-
sion, Chief Justice Roberts urged Congress to
update the formula that determines which
jurisdictions need to participate in
preclearance. H.R. 4 does exactly that by cre-
ating a new coverage formula based on the
preceding 25 years.
Voter suppression most harms already
marginalized communities. Since Shelby,
dozens of laws have passed across the coun-
try making it easier to suppress the vote.
These laws disproportionately impact com-
munities of color, minority-language speak-
ers, low-income voters, elderly and young
voters, women, and transgender individuals.
Voting is a fundamental right, protective
of all other rights. Congress has the power
and responsibility to ensure that every eligi-
ble person can cast a ballot by passing H.R.
4.
Sincerely,
JODY RABHAN,
Chief Policy Officer.
PUBLIC CITIZEN,
December 5, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: Tomorrow, the
House of Representatives will vote on the
Voting Rights Advancement Act of 2019 (H.R.
4). This is an historic moment to cure an his-
toric injustice. Public Citizen strongly urges
you to vote for H.R. 4.
The principle of ‘‘one person, one vote’’ is
critical to our constitutional democracy—
but for too much of our history it was hon-
ored in the breach. The passage of the Voting
Rights Act of 1965 (VRA) is one of the proud-
est moments in American history, as it af-
firmed this principle and corrected the
shameful denial and suppression of votes to
African Americans and other people of color.
Shamefully, however, the U.S. Supreme
Court in Shelby County v. Holder stripped
away Section 5 of the VRA, a cornerstone of
the law’s protections. Since the Shelby rul-
ing, 23 states have enacted laws that dis-
enfranchise individuals and groups by re-
stricting their ability to vote. These sorts of
repressive voter suppression tactics are pre-
cisely the sort of draconian, discriminatory
measures the VRA was enacted to prevent.
It is essential that H.R. 4 be enacted into
law to repair the damage done by the Shelby
decision. This legislation would modernize
the VRA and restore protections necessary
to prevent racial voter discrimination, voter
purges and voter suppression.
The heroes of the civil rights movement
fought for the VRA’s original passage in 1965
amidst harsh Jim Crow-era disenfranchise-
ment laws and in the face of violent opposi-
tion. It is utterly unconscionable that our
nation has backtracked on the voting rights
progress achieved after passage of the Voting
Rights Act. Our country is better than this.
Public Citizen urges in the strongest terms
that you to vote in favor of H.R. 4 and oppose
any efforts that could weaken or undermine
the legislation.
Sincerely,
ROBERT WEISSMAN,
President.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time
for debate has expired.
Pursuant to House Resolution 741,
the previous question is ordered on the
bill, as amended.
The question is on the engrossment
and third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 1(c) of rule XIX, further
consideration of H.R. 4 is postponed.
f
EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
REGARDING UNITED STATES EF-
FORTS TO RESOLVE THE
ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICT
THROUGH A NEGOTIATED TWO-
STATE SOLUTION
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on adoption
of the resolution (H. Res. 326) express-
ing the sense of the House of Rep-
resentatives regarding United States
efforts to resolve the Israeli-Pales-
tinian conflict through a negotiated
two-state solution, on which the yeas
and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the adoption of the reso-
lution.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 226, nays
188, answered ‘‘present’’ 2, not voting
14, as follows:
[Roll No. 652]
YEAS—226
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06DE7.041 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9331
December 6, 2019
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Posey
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—188
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Nunes
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Pressley
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Tlaib
Turner
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—2
Garcı́a (IL) McCollum
NOT VOTING—14
Barr
Bass
Byrne
Cartwright
Emmer
Gabbard
Gosar
Hunter
Kinzinger
Marchant
Norman
Porter
Serrano
Shimkus
b 1209
Mr. WESTERMAN changed his vote
from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois changed his
vote from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘present.’’
So the resolution was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
THE VOTING RIGHTS
ADVANCEMENT ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 1(c) of rule XIX, further
consideration of the bill (H.R. 4) to
amend the Voting Rights Act of 1965 to
revise the criteria for determining
which States and political subdivisions
are subject to section 4 of the Act, and
for other purposes, will now resume.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
MOTION TO RECOMMIT
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, I have a motion to recommit
at the desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the
gentleman opposed to the bill?
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. I am
in its current form.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion to recom-
mit.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mr. Davis moves to recommit the bill H.R.
4 to the Committee on the Judiciary with in-
structions to report the same back to the
House forthwith with the following amend-
ment:
Page 39, after line 9, insert the following:
SEC. 11. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
Nothing in this Act or the amendments
made by this Act may be construed to allow
fines or other amounts paid to the United
States in connection with a violation of title
I of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 (52 U.S.C.
10301 et seq.), including any amount paid
pursuant to a settlement agreement (includ-
ing a plea agreement, deferred prosecution
agreement, or non-prosecution agreement),
to be used to make a payment in support of
a campaign for election for the office of Sen-
ator or Representative in, or Delegate or
Resident Commissioner to, the Congress.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois (dur-
ing the reading). Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent to waive the read-
ing of the motion to recommit.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Illinois?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from Il-
linois is recognized for 5 minutes in
support of his motion.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, H.R. 4 is the fourth partisan
attempt by this majority to federalize
our elections. One thing all four of
these partisan bills have in common is
they all have good titles.
In October, the majority jammed
through H.R. 4617, the SHIELD Act, an
attempt to federally hijack campaign
finance law in this country. In June,
the majority jammed through H.R.
2722, the SAFE Act, an attempt to fed-
erally hijack election infrastructure in
this country. And in February, the ma-
jority jammed through H.R. 1, the For
the People Act, a piece of legislation
that, as introduced, would fund all of
our campaigns with tax dollars from
hardworking Americans.
Catchy titles can’t hide the facts,
and the facts are that these four bills
are bad partisan policy that would neg-
atively affect the American people.
When the Democrats proposed public
financing of campaigns in H.R. 1, I
could hardly believe it. The 6-to-1
small-dollar campaign match program
would create a mandatory donation
from the American taxpayer to a polit-
ical candidate.
For every $200 donated by hard-
working Americans to any political
campaign of all of us in this institu-
tion, the Federal Government, on the
backs of the taxpayers, would give
$1,200 to that same politician’s cam-
paign.
This program would do nothing but
fill the swamp, and any Member who
voted for it was voting to fill their own
pockets and the pockets of political
operatives nationwide.
At Rules Committee, though, this
was changed. The shell game now in-
cludes a fund which is supposedly fi-
nanced through fines and settlements.
But we have now seen the CBO score,
and this fund does not support itself.
So what happens when it fails? I will
tell you. It will ultimately fall to the
taxpayers in this country to support
this Democratic policy.
But fines and settlements take us
back to the legislation we hope to re-
commit to the committee today. There
are Members who would have you be-
lieve that there are currently no exist-
ing laws protecting the right for every
American to vote or that the Voting
Rights Act is no longer in place. How-
ever, the Voting Rights Act is in effect
today and protecting every American’s
right to vote, and it includes many im-
portant provisions:
Title I of the Voting Rights Act, 52
United States Code 10501(a) says: No
citizen shall be denied, because of his
failure to comply with any test or de-
vice, the right to vote in any election.
That is still in effect today, without
H.R. 4, and it comes with a $5,000 fine
if you don’t follow that.
Section 307(a): No person shall pre-
vent another who is entitled to vote,
from voting. Still in effect, $5,000 fine.
Section 308(b): No person shall de-
stroy, deface, or alter official voting
ballots. Still in effect, $5,000 fine.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06DE7.023 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9332 December 6, 2019
307(c): No person shall provide false
information in registering to vote, or
in voting. Still in effect, $10,000 fine.
307(e): No person shall vote more
than once. Still in effect, $10,000 fine.
307(d): No person shall falsify or con-
ceal material facts. Still in effect,
$10,000 fine.
307(b): No person shall intimidate,
threaten, or coerce any person for vot-
ing or attempting to vote. Still in ef-
fect.
Do not let anyone tell you the Voting
Rights Act is not alive and well in this
country. What we have debated today
is not a reauthorization of this impor-
tant, historically bipartisan legislation
that has prevented discrimination at
the ballot box, because it does not need
reauthorization.
Sections 2 and 3 of the VRA that are
currently in effect are continuing to
help safeguard the public from dis-
crimination at the ballot box. Every el-
igible American who wants to vote in
our country’s elections should be able
to cast their vote.
This bill is only about preclearance
and the Democrat majority giving the
Department of Justice and the Federal
Government control over all election
activity.
Jurisdictions under preclearance can-
not move a polling location, expand
vote-by-mail efforts, nor properly
maintain their voting rolls without a
partisan Department of Justice clear-
ing everything they do. This is about
control and taking power away from
State and local election officials who
they don’t like and putting it in the
hands of the Federal Government.
This bill does not reauthorize the
Voting Rights Act. What does it do? It
opens the doors for fines and settle-
ments in this country, including under
this act, to be hijacked once again by
my colleagues for their own political
campaigns if they get their way.
My motion to recommit is simple:
Make it clear to your constituents that
fines and settlements under the VRA
will not be going to your own campaign
coffers.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Mr. Speak-
er, I oppose the amendment.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from Alabama is recognized
for 5 minutes.
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Mr. Speak-
er, I oppose this amendment because it
is a mere distraction. It is an attempt
to politicize the Voting Rights Act of
1965 by interjecting campaign finance
and settlement terms into civil rights
legislation.
If Republicans were really serious
about voting rights—about voting
rights—they would actually be willing
to come to the table and talk about
how we can fully restore section 4 of
the Voting Rights Act of 1965.
Leave it up to our colleagues across
the aisle to interject money and fi-
nance into civil rights law. What has
been lost today in this debate is the
very heart of this bill; it is the central
meaning of the bill.
Let’s not forget the brave patriots of
the civil rights and voting rights move-
ment who marched, prayed, and died
for the right to vote. These foot sol-
diers for equality, like our very own
JOHN LEWIS, were ordinary citizens who
dared to achieve extraordinary social
change by forcing this Nation to live
up to its ideals of equality and justice
for all.
We know, Mr. Speaker, that the price
of freedom is not free. It has been
bought and paid for by those brave foot
soldiers so that, one day, a little Black
girl from Selma, Alabama, could sit in
this august body.
I know I am not the only Black and
Brown colleague of ours who owes our
very presence in this Chamber to the
Voting Rights Act of 1965.
Mr. Speaker, old battles have become
new again. We fight for the same eq-
uity that these foot soldiers fought for
in Selma.
Progress is elusive. Every generation
must fight to maintain the progress
that we have had and to seek to ad-
vance it.
Since the Supreme Court’s decision
in 2013 in Shelby v. Holder, States across
this country have enacted harsh meas-
ures that make it more difficult to
vote.
Mr. Speaker, I dare say that Selma is
now. Since the Shelby decision, 25
States have put in place new voting re-
strictions.
Selma is still now, because, since the
Shelby decision, 12 States have laws
making it harder for citizens to reg-
ister and stay registered.
Selma is now. Since the Shelby deci-
sion, 10 more States have made early
and absentee voting more difficult.
While today there are no poll taxes
or literacy tests, these modern-day
barriers to voting are no less discrimi-
natory or suppressive than those old
practices.
Voting rights should be a non-
partisan issue, and the fact that, in
this amendment, they would try to po-
liticize voting rights, we should all—
all—be appalled by that.
Voting rights have been, always, very
nonpartisan, and it used to be that the
Voting Rights Acts passed overwhelm-
ingly with Republicans and Democrats.
In fact, the VRA was reauthorized five
times—yes—under Republican and
Democratic Presidents. So what has
changed?
I ask my colleagues across the aisle:
What are you afraid of? Why are you
afraid to let more Americans vote?
Is it because your own political inter-
ests are only realized when you limit
access to the ballot box?
I say: Shame on you. Shame on you.
Could it be that what we need more
than anything else is to look at our
North Star; that is, JOHN LEWIS. Mr.
LEWIS, we are all honored, every day,
to be able to call you ‘‘colleague,’’ and
the reality is that what happened on
that bridge in Selma, Alabama, in 1965
is still occurring today.
If one person who is an American and
who is a voter is not allowed to vote, it
goes to the very heart of the integrity
of all of our elections. We should all
want to make sure that every Amer-
ican can vote.
So, let us make sure that we remem-
ber what Elijah Cummings would say.
He would say: We are better than this.
We are better than this. Having an
amendment that deals with politicizing
the Voting Rights Act is appalling.
I ask my colleagues to vote ‘‘no’’ on
the amendment and to remember the
words of another civil rights activist,
Amelia Boynton Robinson, who also
was bludgeoned on that bridge with
JOHN LEWIS in 1965, who came to this
Chamber in 2015, as my special guest,
for the State of the Union. Many of you
on both sides of the aisle were willing
to host her.
I say to you what she said. When peo-
ple said: ‘‘I stand on your shoulders,’’
she said, ‘‘Get off my shoulders. Do
your own work.’’
I say now: Miss Amelia, we are doing
our own work because we are voting to
restore the Voting Rights Act of 1965.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to address their re-
marks to the Chair.
Without objection, the previous ques-
tion is ordered on the motion to recom-
mit.
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to recommit.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Ms. SEWELL. Mr. Speaker, I demand
a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, the Chair
will reduce to 5 minutes the minimum
time for any electronic vote on the
question of passage.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 200, noes 215,
not voting 15, as follows:
[Roll No. 653]
AYES—200
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Cunningham
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Estes
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06DE7.040 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9333
December 6, 2019
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Hudson
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McAdams
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Simpson
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spanberger
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Torres Small
(NM)
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—215
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Barragán
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Smith (WA)
Soto
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—15
Barr
Bass
Byrne
Cartwright
Emmer
Gabbard
Gosar
Hunter
Kinzinger
Larson (CT)
Marchant
Norman
Porter
Serrano
Shimkus
b 1231
So the motion to recommit was re-
jected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, I demand a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 228, noes 187,
answered not voting 16, as follows:
[Roll No. 654]
AYES—228
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pelosi
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOES—187
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06DE7.027 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9334 December 6, 2019
NOT VOTING—16
Barr
Bass
Byrne
Cartwright
Emmer
Gabbard
Gosar
Hunter
Kinzinger
Larson (CT)
Marchant
McHenry
Norman
Porter
Serrano
Shimkus
b 1239
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Mr. Speaker,
on Friday, December 6, 2019, I was unfortu-
nately not present for roll call votes 653
through 654, in order to attend a funeral. If I
had been present for these votes, I would
have voted:
Nay on roll call vote 653 on the motion to
recommit with instructions.
Yea on roll call vote 654 on the passage of
H.R. 4.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
PRESSLEY). The Chair will remind all
persons in the gallery that they are
here as guests of the House and that
any manifestation of approval or dis-
approval of proceedings is in violation
of the rules of the House.
f
b 1245
LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM
(Mr. SCALISE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, I rise
for the purpose of inquiring of the ma-
jority leader the schedule for the week
to come, and I yield to the gentleman
from Maryland (Mr. HOYER), my col-
league and friend.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding, and
I apologize for a little bit of lateness
here.
On Monday, Madam Speaker, the
House will meet at 12 p.m. for morning
hour debate and 2 p.m. for legislative
business with votes postponed until
6:30 p.m.
On Tuesday and Wednesday, the
House will meet at 10 a.m. for morning
hour debate and 12 p.m. for legislative
business.
On Thursday, the House will meet at
9 a.m. for legislative business. Mem-
bers are advised that votes on Thurs-
day could occur later than usual. It is
now approximately 12:30 when Members
could get out. I want to make it clear
that next Thursday we may go later
than the usual time that Members are
expecting to leave.
We will consider several bills, Madam
Speaker, under suspension of the rules.
The complete list of suspension bills
will be announced by the close of busi-
ness today.
The House will consider H.R. 3, the
Elijah E. Cummings Lower Drug Costs
Now Act. This legislation would lower
prescription drug costs for every Amer-
ican, as well as level the playing field
for American patients and taxpayers.
Last year, House Democrats promised
to lower healthcare costs by lowering
the price of prescription drugs for the
people, and we are proud to deliver on
that promise this coming week.
In addition, Madam Speaker, the
House will consider H.R. 729, the Coast-
al and Great Lakes Communities En-
hancement Act. This bill is a package
of bipartisan legislation that protects
vulnerable coastal and Great Lakes
communities impacted by the climate
crisis.
Lastly, it is possible the House will
consider the NDAA conference report.
Other legislation is possible, as well, as
we come to the close of this first ses-
sion of the Congress of the United
States.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, I
would like to ask—I know there are a
lot of good-faith negotiations that con-
tinue on the United States-Mexico-
Canada trade agreement, USMCA. We
have been having productive conversa-
tions, meetings, some potential
changes that I know we are negotiating
with the other countries involved, as
well. Does the gentleman have any idea
if we may be close to bringing USMCA
to the floor for a vote?
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, the an-
swer is, I hope so. As the gentleman
probably knows, we have made some
proposals back. Mr. NEAL has talked to
representatives from the Mexican Gov-
ernment about this and representatives
of the Canadian Government about the
enforcement issue, which has been
somewhat the holdup.
As the gentleman knows, both the
Speaker and I voted for NAFTA. We be-
lieve that what is being worked on now
is an improvement to NAFTA, but it is
only an improvement if you can en-
force its provisions. As the gentleman
knows, over the last two decades plus,
there has been no successful enforce-
ment action issued under the present
NAFTA. When the Speaker and I voted
for NAFTA, we voted for it on the the-
ory that it could be enforced, and there
was a side-bar agreement. Unfortu-
nately, as the gentleman also knows,
the side-bar agreement did not lead to
effective enforcement.
As a result, I know that enforcement
is being discussed by Mr. Lighthizer.
And I want to say that we perceive Mr.
Lighthizer as representing the adminis-
tration and negotiating in good faith
and as an honest broker. We are appre-
ciative of that fact.
But we are now, as I understand it,
and don’t hold me to this, but as I un-
derstand it, we are in discussions with
the Mexican Government as to whether
or not they will agree to some of the
enforcement actions, which implies
there is a general agreement between
the administration and ourselves on
what should be or could be included to
effect enforcement.
But in answer specifically to the gen-
tleman’s question, I will be very happy
if we can get agreement and bring this
bill to the floor as early as next week,
if it is ready to come.
Now, the problem is, as the gen-
tleman knows, there is a process that
needs to be effected, but I will tell the
gentleman that the Speaker and I both
would like to see this legislation pass
as soon as possible, if, and in the con-
text, we have effective enforcement in-
cluded.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, I
share the gentleman’s interest in get-
ting this passed as soon as possible.
Clearly, the job benefits to our coun-
try, over 160,000 new jobs will come,
and better trading relationships with
Mexico and Canada when we pass
USMCA, as well as the message it
sends to our friends around the world.
There are other countries, Japan,
United Kingdom and others who would
love to negotiate better trade deals
with us, but this has to come first for
us to prove that we can get trade deals
done.
I appreciate that the gentleman and
your side have been working with Am-
bassador Lighthizer. I don’t think
there is anybody who has worked hard-
er and in more good faith than Ambas-
sador Lighthizer. And I am glad that
those talks continue with the Mexican
Government, and, hopefully, we can get
a final agreement that we can then
bring to this floor. And we stand ready
to help deliver the votes to pass that
legislation, hopefully, as soon as pos-
sible, so our country can get those ben-
efits.
I do want to shift gears to talk about
where we are with impeachment, but
specifically, something that came to
light just the other day when the re-
port from Chairman SCHIFF came out.
There were, of course, multiple hear-
ings, public hearings, some in secret,
but at no time did it come up that the
chairman was spying on people, using
phone records and subpoenaing phone
records, that wasn’t discussed in those
conversations in the hearings, and yet,
in the final report, it seemed like there
was very selective targeting of certain
people by the chairman in this listing
of phone records that he had been sub-
poenaing.
From what I have heard, Chairman
SCHIFF has over 3,500 pages of surveil-
lance on people, whether it is members
of the press—which he did spy on mem-
bers of the press—Members of Con-
gress, and who knows who else? It is a
real concern. It is a real concern that
we don’t know what he is doing with
this, why he is doing this. Is it being
used for political retribution? Which is
a serious concern.
But my question to the gentlemen
is—I am not sure if you are aware of
how much data there is out there. I
have heard reports of 3,500 pages of
phone records. How many members of
the press are being spied on by Chair-
man SCHIFF? How many other Members
of Congress are being spied on? And
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06DE7.028 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9335
December 6, 2019
why is this going on? Is this something
that the majority party condones or
encouraged or was it a surprise to you
as it was to us?
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I will
say to the gentleman that I don’t ac-
cept his premise that Mr. SCHIFF or the
committee spied on anybody. They do
have records, apparently.
The gentleman asked me how deep
my knowledge is. And I will tell him,
frankly, not very deep. But I do not ac-
cept his premise that either Mr.
SCHIFF, personally, or the committee
spied on people.
They did receive information as a re-
sult of subpoenas and discovery with
reference to what was going on, what
were the facts, but I would have to get
greater knowledge of the information
to give the gentleman a broader re-
sponse than that in terms of volume or
substance.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, I
would just ask—because we have ex-
pressed a deep concern about this when
we found out about it. It wasn’t some-
thing that was discussed in the hear-
ings, and yet, it shows up in the report.
And it seemed to be designed in a way
to seek political retribution on people
that the chairman might have had dis-
agreements with, which is an abuse of
power, if that is what happened.
So the questions are, number one:
With the press, that is a serious con-
cern, that the chairman of a committee
is using Federal subpoena powers to
spy on or seek phone records of mem-
bers of the press who have a job to do.
We might not always agree or like
some of the articles they write, but
they play an important role in our de-
mocracy, and many times they talk to
people in candid discussions where they
have anonymous sources.
b 1300
Is the chairman trying to go after
anonymous sources of members of the
press? How many other Members of
Congress is the chairman spying on?
This is unprecedented. I have never
seen a chairman of a committee abuse
their subpoena power to go after other
Members of Congress that they have
political disagreements with or mem-
bers of the press that they have polit-
ical disagreements with. That is over
the line. It is an abuse of power if it is
going on.
Whether or not the gentleman is
aware of all the details, if there are
3,500 pages, why would there be a ne-
cessity for the chairman to secretly be
holding 3,500 pages of phone records of
people that he is going to then selec-
tively leak out to try to punish his po-
litical enemies in a retributive way?
That is something we all ought to be
concerned about.
We don’t know a lot because we
haven’t been told a lot about it, but if
there are 3,500 pages of phone records,
I think we ought to know that.
What the chairman’s objectives are, I
think we ought to know that. How
many more members of the press the
chairman is spying on, I think we
ought to know that, and how many
other American citizens. It is a con-
cern.
I would hope the gentleman would
work with us, number one, to stop this,
to not allow a chairman to abuse his
power to go and seek retribution after
people he has political disagreements
with, whether they are members of the
press, Members of Congress, or the
legal counsel of people across this
country.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, what
we do know, by the facts, is that the
President abused his power.
The gentleman does not want to
speak to that, Madam Speaker. We do
know the facts that were testified to in
the committee.
The gentleman, like the President,
seeks to distract.
I reject out of hand any assertion
that either Mr. SCHIFF or the com-
mittee spied on anybody. Did they pur-
sue discovery so that they could get
the facts and the truth? They did.
I don’t know the amount. I am not a
member of the committee. I am not a
member of the Intelligence Committee.
I am not privy to all the information
that may be available, but I reject,
again, out of hand that either the
chairman or the committee spied on
people.
The gentleman has been a Member of
this body for some period of time, and
I am sure he watched what went on
with Benghazi. Thousands and thou-
sands and thousands of pages were re-
ceived by subpoena, with cooperation
by the Obama administration. The
chairman of the Government Oversight
Committee had thousands and thou-
sands and thousands of pages of sub-
poenaed evidence or information.
But I will, frankly, Madam Speaker,
look at this information because I be-
lieve it is a very serious and egregious
accusation that Mr. SCHIFF or the com-
mittee spied on anybody.
They may not like the discovery
process. They may not like the infor-
mation that was complied by the dis-
covery process. They may be upset that
it did not absolve the President of the
United States from clearly abusing his
power as President of the United
States for his personal gain. But I have
no reason to believe it, and no evidence
has been offered, just a bald-faced as-
sertion that somehow, Madam Speaker,
Mr. SCHIFF spied on people. I reject
that and believe that to be totally
without merit.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, I
would hope that the gentleman would
work with us to get to the bottom of
this. As the gentleman pointed out, he
is not aware of what the chairman is
really doing. Neither am I, but I am
very concerned about what the chair-
man has done.
He selectively put in a report the
names of members of the press, of
Members of Congress whom he has had
political disagreements with. He didn’t
put the names of everybody else in
there.
If he has 3,500 pages of reports of
phone records of people he has been
spying on, he won’t share all of those
people that he is spying on, but he is
selectively going to leak out names of
members of the press who have written
articles maybe that he disagrees with?
That is frightening.
That would be an abuse of power, but
we don’t know because the chairman
won’t share the details of what he is up
to. But he did selectively put some of
that in a report that wasn’t even dis-
cussed in the hearings.
So, yes, it raises alarms. It raises
concerns, and I would hope we get to
the bottom of it.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, the
gentleman said he was in my position
of not having a lot of information, yet
he makes conclusions, assertions, and
accusations that I believe are not based
in fact.
He continues the process argument
that the Republicans have made over
and over and over and over again. Why?
Because they do not want to address
the facts of this case, because they do
not believe, correctly, that the facts
are on their side.
I would hope that we could move on.
We will see whether there are any facts
to sustain what the Republican whip
has asserted. I believe there are not,
but I am not going to continue to
argue process here.
There will be a time in the relatively
near future when we will argue sub-
stance, the Constitution, the laws in
this country, and our oath of office to
protect and defend the Constitution of
our country, our national security, and
the integrity of our elections.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, we
are beyond the process arguments be-
cause we are into the details now. The
facts have been very clear that the
President did not abuse power, that the
President did not commit impeachable
offenses.
The Mueller report confirmed that,
first of all, and then even the witnesses
that the Democrats brought forward
time and time again were asked, ‘‘Can
you name an impeachable offense?’’
Not one. ‘‘Can you name bribery?’’
which was the new term after the ma-
jority party focus-grouped ‘‘quid pro
quo’’ and realized that wasn’t getting
them where they wanted to go.
Bribery, they were asked, ‘‘Can you
name any cases of bribery?’’ Not one.
Even the witnesses earlier this week,
none of whom had any firsthand knowl-
edge of anything. Why they were there,
who knows. But not one of them could
name any firsthand account of wrong-
doing. So those are facts.
What we do know is that over 100
Democrats in this Chamber voted for
impeachment prior to the phone call
with President Zelensky, voted for im-
peachment without any facts because
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06DE7.048 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9336 December 6, 2019
the objective of many in the majority
was to impeach the President just be-
cause they didn’t agree with the re-
sults of the 2016 election, not because
there were high crimes and mis-
demeanors. They still haven’t been
able to lay out any.
They have innuendo, hopes, and
dreams, none of which have come to
fruition when the witnesses have come
forward.
Basically, the two people who really
are most pertinent to this are Presi-
dent Trump and President Zelensky be-
cause they were the two who partici-
pated in the phone call. Both of them
said there was nothing wrong done. In
fact, President Zelensky appreciated
the phone call from President Trump,
thanked him for the help he has given
that President Obama didn’t give to
help them stand up to Russia, and ulti-
mately said there was no pressure. And
he got the money for additional aid
that he requested. Those are the facts.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman if there is anything else that he
had.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, appar-
ently he got $391 million to say he
wasn’t intimidated.
The witnesses to which the Repub-
lican whip referred, 75 percent of those
witnesses, three out of four, said they
believed that the offenses that were
testified to by some members of the
White House National Security Coun-
cil, by an Ambassador, by an Under
Secretary to Mr. Pompeo who Mr.
Pompeo has said is a very credible indi-
vidual, they all testified, and based
upon that testimony, witnesses con-
cluded, three out of four, that, in fact,
they believed the offenses that were
discussed were worthy of impeachment.
So, I don’t know what hearings the
gentleman is listening to, Madam
Speaker, but the hearings that I lis-
tened to had three out of four constitu-
tional experts saying very emphati-
cally that, in fact, if those facts were
true—and, of course, we are not going
to try them here.
They are going to be tried in the
United States Senate. All we do in this
body under the Constitution is see
whether or not, effectively—although
it doesn’t say this—there is probable
cause to believe that, in fact, an abuse
of power occurred.
The three experts who testified yes-
terday said it was. One expert said it
was not. So 75 percent of the experts
who testified and, frankly, literally
hundreds and thousands of editorial
writers, op-ed writers, citizens of this
country have said this is an abuse of
power.
The Senate will make that conclu-
sion. They will decide whether or not
in the trial phase of this matter. But to
indicate that the evidence is not over-
whelming that was elicited in the hear-
ings by the Intelligence Committee is
simply to see no evil, hear no evil,
speak no evil.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, I
guess the gentleman is acknowledging
it is a foregone conclusion that they
are going to pass impeachment of the
President by saying it is going to go to
the Senate.
But let’s keep in mind, when you
talk about three out of the four wit-
nesses from this week, all four of them,
first of all, acknowledged that they had
absolutely no firsthand knowledge of
anything that happened, so they were
giving their opinions.
All four of them acknowledged not
one of them voted for President Trump,
which is their prerogative, but some of
them actually testified under oath that
they have given money to Democratic
candidates for President who were run-
ning against President Trump.
They are actively engaged in defeat-
ing President Trump, and then we are
supposed to expect that they are giving
some impartial scholarly assessment of
evidence that they have seen, acknowl-
edging they have no firsthand knowl-
edge themselves.
They are incredibly biased because
they are campaigning against the
President, but you brought them in to
try to make it look like they are objec-
tive witnesses. I think that came out
very clearly, their political bias. I am
glad that, at least under oath, they ac-
knowledged that they had a political
bias. But even one of the witnesses, all
of whom said they voted against the
President, said it would be abuse of
power of this committee, of your ma-
jority, to impeach a President based on
him exercising his rights and, frankly,
following the law. Part of the law,
which the gentleman from Maryland,
the chairman of the committee, and
even the Speaker of the House voted
for, requires a President of the United
States, prior to sending hard-earned
taxpayer money to a foreign country,
to ensure that they are rooting out cor-
ruption, the platform on which Presi-
dent Zelensky ran.
But the old Reagan doctrine of ‘‘trust
but verify’’ was in process, where they
were verifying that President Zelensky
was, in fact, the real deal. We deter-
mined that, and we have high con-
fidence that President Zelensky is fol-
lowing through on rooting out corrup-
tion.
The money was released prior to the
deadline for the money being released.
There was no investigation, no an-
nouncements, and all these other
things.
Let’s keep in mind the bias of those
witnesses. Ultimately, the people of
this country, I think, are deciding this
already. But the people of the country
are the ones next year who should se-
lect the President of the United States,
not some people who have said since
2016 that they didn’t like that election
so they are going to try to impeach the
President regardless of facts.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman if he had anything else.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
One of the facets of this conversation
always is that, I believe, the Repub-
lican whip adopts premises that are not
supported by the evidence.
Ambassador Sondland, a contributor
of $100,000, maybe more, to the Trump
campaign in 2016, appointed by Presi-
dent Donald Trump and sent to rep-
resent the United States abroad, testi-
fied that, in fact, he heard and believed
that there was a relationship between
releasing the $391 million and having a
visit at the White House to confirm the
United States’ continuing support for
Ukraine, our ally and friend, assaulted
by Russia, which, of course, Putin is
pursuing.
Ambassador Sondland made it very
clear that those were the conditions for
that money being released. This was
not hearsay. This is not Democrats.
This is somebody who was a substan-
tial supporter.
Apparently, the whip believes that if
you are a supporter of somebody else,
you must have a bias. So apparently,
Ambassador Sondland either had a bias
for or maybe he had a bias against be-
cause his testimony is firsthand, not
hearsay, and, in fact, his testimony is
there was a relationship between that.
Now, what I said, Madam Speaker, is
not what the Republican whip attrib-
uted to me. What I said was the proc-
ess, not that we had made any conclu-
sion at this point, that the process is
this House, under the Constitution, has
the responsibility if it believes, and we
will see if the Judiciary Committee
concludes that, if it believes that there
is probable cause to think that bribery
was committed, an abuse of power was
committed, a solicitation of a foreign
government to participate in Amer-
ica’s elections. If it concludes that,
then the process is not that we make
the decision that, yes, those are the
facts. It is to be tried in the United
States Senate under our Constitution.
b 1315
They will then conclude, like a jury
in any case in our courts will conclude,
whether or not those facts lead to the
conclusion that abuse of power was
committed.
I just want to make sure the gen-
tleman characterizes what I said. A
conclusion has not yet been made.
What I said was the facts seem to be
pretty clear, however. There does not
seem to be much difference.
The President of the United States,
himself, gave to us and the public notes
of the conversation he had: By the way,
‘‘I would like you to do us a favor.’’
That was in the context, Madam
Speaker, of the President’s withholding
$391 million. And, of course, Mr.
Mulvaney said that it happens all the
time; get over it.
Well, I don’t know whether the
American public is going to get over it
or whether the House or the Senate is
going to get over it or not. But that
was the attitude of Mr. Mulvaney: Of
course we did this. It is always done.
Get over it.
We will see what is concluded.
There is one more point I want to
make.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06DE7.050 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9337
December 6, 2019
The gentleman says that over 100
Democrats voted. Three times—in 2017,
in 2018, and in 2019—prior to that July
25 phone call, Articles of Impeachment
were filed. Three times, the majority of
Democrats voted not to proceed and
moved to table those resolutions.
Three times a majority of Democrats
voted. There was no rush to judgment.
And, very frankly, prior to this July
25 phone call and the whistleblower
having the courage to come forward
and say to the inspector general, I
think this is of concern, and the in-
spector general making a determina-
tion that, yes, this was a serious mat-
ter requiring urgent consideration and
that being transmitted to here, before
that point, there was a Democratic
Party that was saying, whatever our
personal feelings may be about the
election or about this President’s oper-
ations in office, there was not suffi-
cient evidence on which to move for-
ward.
We were having hearings, and we
said, until the facts are such that we
feel it is timely and appropriate to
move, we would not move.
There was no rush to judgment. 2017,
2018, and 2019 rejected a rush to judg-
ment, a majority of Democrats. I made
a couple of motions to table.
So, Madam Speaker, we are now pro-
ceeding, as our constitutional responsi-
bility dictates that we do, and we will
see what happens. But all this talk
about process—and I reject any asser-
tions with respect to Mr. SCHIFF and/or
the committee—is to distract.
We will focus on the facts; we will
focus on the evidence; and we will focus
on what the reasonable conclusions
based upon that evidence will be at
some point in time in the future if the
Judiciary Committee makes that de-
termination that they want to rec-
ommend the House considering such
action.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, hope-
fully, we will get to the bottom of
whatever Chairman SCHIFF has done
with these phone records.
I do want to correct the RECORD. Am-
bassador Sondland was asked, under
oath, in committee: Has anyone on the
planet shown any direction between, a
link between financial aid and inves-
tigations? Anyone on the planet. And
under oath, he said no. That is clear.
That was on the record. I just want to
make that clear.
We are going to litigate this. We are
going to debate this for hours and
hours.
Mr. HOYER. Will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. SCALISE. I yield to the gen-
tleman from Maryland.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
Madam Speaker, what he said was he
thought there was, in fact, a quid pro
quo.
Of course, as the gentleman points
out, he had a bias: a substantial con-
tributor to Mr. Trump, appointed by
Mr. Trump as Ambassador to the Euro-
pean Union.
His response to that question was—I
would suggest if there was a bias from
these witnesses that testified yester-
day, simply because they support him,
the same would apply to Mr. Sondland.
But when asked whether or not there
was a quid pro quo, his answer was yes.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, when
asked under oath whether or not he
had any evidence of any link between
investigations and money, he said no.
And the bottom line is President
Zelensky got the money. The quid pro
quo that was being alleged didn’t hap-
pen. President Zelensky got the
money. There were no investigations.
But this will continue anyway, and,
clearly, over 100 Members had made up
their mind prior to the phone call.
I know we are going to continue this
debate over the next weeks. Hopefully,
we get beyond it and deal with other
issues.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will remind Members to refrain
from engaging in personalities toward
the President.
f
ADJOURNMENT FROM FRIDAY, DE-
CEMBER 6, 2019, TO MONDAY, DE-
CEMBER 9, 2019
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that when the
House adjourns today, it adjourn to
meet on Monday next, when it shall
convene at noon for morning-hour de-
bate and 2 p.m. for legislative business.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Maryland?
There was no objection.
f
SENATE INACTION
(Ms. OMAR asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. OMAR. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to remind our constituents of
the work that we have been doing on
their behalf. The House of Representa-
tives has passed nearly 400 bills this
Congress for the people.
For our Dreamers and TPS recipi-
ents, we passed an immigration reform
bill, the American Dream and Promise
Act.
For our workers, we passed the Raise
the Minimum Wage Act, to increase
the Federal minimum wage to $15 an
hour, and the Butch Lewis Act, to pro-
tect the pensions of more than 1 mil-
lion workers and retirees.
For the personal and financial secu-
rity of America’s women, we passed a
strong reauthorization of the Violence
Against Women Act.
For our elections, we passed H.R. 1,
which restores transparency and ac-
countability to our elections, which in-
cluded my own legislation to restrict
foreign lobbying.
To strengthen our defenses against
foreign attacks, we also passed the
SAFE Act and the SHIELD Act.
And for our LGBTQ community, we
passed the Equality Act.
All of these bills have been ignored.
MITCH MCCONNELL brags about being
the grim reaper, and that is exactly
what he has been for the hopes and the
dreams of the American people.
I would like to call for us to remind
every single American of the work that
we have been doing.
f
HONORING JO MARIE BANKSTON
(Mr. OLSON asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, today,
I rise to honor the life of Jo Marie
Bankston, the first woman police offi-
cer to serve the people of Houston,
Texas.
The year was 1955, 7 years before I
was born, when Jo Marie—or Fena, as
she was called by her friends and fam-
ily—graduated in the first Houston Po-
lice Department class to include
women. At that time, the mere idea of
a woman police officer was something
very few could imagine, much less pur-
sue.
Fena paved the way for new female
recruits through the 1950s and 1960s,
ushering in a new era of strength and
passion.
Fena passed away, sadly, last week,
on Thanksgiving Day. She leaves be-
hind a pioneering legacy of protecting
and serving the Houston community.
She also left behind a loving family, in-
cluding her son, Jimmy, who carries
out her spirit as a veteran of the HPD
and as a current U.S. marshal.
Jo Marie inspired so many—some she
knew and many more that she never
knew. She made history in her own
humble way.
May she enjoy fair winds and fol-
lowing seas in Heaven.
f
12 DAYS OF SALT
(Ms. SHERRILL asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. SHERRILL. Madam Speaker, on
this third day of SALT, my constitu-
ents have said to me that they think
the holiday season is the perfect time
to eliminate the SALT marriage pen-
alty.
The 2017 tax law violated more than
100 years of Federal tax policy, capping
the State and local tax deduction at
$10,000. That means married couples fil-
ing jointly are constrained to the same
$10,000 level that applies to individual
filers.
This penalizes tens of thousands of
couples in my district. In Morris Coun-
ty alone, there were more than 52,000
middle-class joint filers in 2016, and
well over half were above the $10,000
cap. They are now likely subject to a
marriage penalty simply for filing
their taxes jointly.
I am a member of the SALT task
force, and my bipartisan bill, the SALT
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06DE7.052 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9338 December 6, 2019
Relief and Marriage Penalty Elimi-
nation Act, should be the basis for
righting this wrong done to families. It
will raise the SALT deduction across
the board and restore incentives for
charitable giving and homeownership.
f
ONE VOTE, ONE PERSON
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker,
I rise to again indicate the enormity of
what we accomplished today in voting
for H.R. 4.
It seems like H.R. 4 has been the cen-
ter point of giving opportunity to so
many across the Nation. That is a bill
to give every American one vote, one
person.
It was derailed in the Shelby case
from Alabama, misguided by a 5–4 deci-
sion by the Supreme Court, ignoring
the sacrifice of our colleague, the Hon-
orable JOHN LEWIS, who almost died on
the Edmund Pettus Bridge, brutally at-
tacked by State and local police. That
is the same as local laws and State
laws continuing into the decade to op-
press voters.
I indicated in that case, that 5–4 deci-
sion, that wrongheaded decision, that
H.R. 4 corrects, that it was as if we
were getting the best of polio and we
said we no longer need the vaccine.
I have lived through the question of
purging, along with my friends from
MALDEF and the NAACP legal defense
fund, and I worked hard to get lan-
guage into H.R. 4 that would stop peo-
ple being purged illegally off the polls,
off the rolls.
Madam Speaker, I include in the
RECORD a letter from MALDEF and a
letter from The Leadership Conference
on Civil and Human Rights.
MALDEF,
Los Angeles, CA, December 4, 2019.
Re MALDEF Urges Support of the Voting
Rights Advancement Act of 2019, H.R. 4.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: There is no right
more fundamental to our democracy than
the right to vote, and for Latino voters and
other voters of color, that right is in danger.
Following the 2013 Shelby County v. Holder
decision, which effectively ended
preclearance review under Section 5 of the
Voting Rights Act of 1965 (VRA), states and
localities moved to implement discrimina-
tory voting practices that would previously
have been blocked by the VRA. What we
have seen post-Shelby County confirms what
we have long-known—that voter discrimina-
tion lives on. Congress must act to restore
the preclearance coverage formula in the
VRA, legislation that has long-enjoyed bi-
partisan support. MALDEF (Mexican Amer-
ican Legal Defense and Educational Fund),
the nation’s leading Latino legal civil rights
organization, urges you to support the Vot-
ing Rights Advancement Act (VRAA) of 2019,
H.R. 4, to reenact safeguards to protect mi-
nority voters from discriminatory voting
laws.
The VRA is regarded as one of the most
important and effective pieces of civil rights
legislation due to its ability to protect vot-
ers of color from discriminatory voting prac-
tices before they take place. Since its found-
ing, MALDEF has focused on securing equal
voting rights for Latinos, and promoting in-
creased civic engagement and participation
within the Latino community, as among its
top priorities. MALDEF played a significant
role in securing the full protection of the
VRA for the Latino community through the
1975 congressional reauthorization of the
VRA. Over its now 51–year history, MALDEF
has litigated numerous cases under section 2,
section 5, and section 203 of the VRA, chal-
lenging at-large systems, discriminatory re-
districting, ballot access barriers, undue
voter registration restrictions, and failure to
provide bilingual materials. As the growth of
the Latino population expands, our work in
voting rights increases as well.
Section 5 of the VRA required states with
a history of discrimination in voting to seek
pre-approval of voting-related changes from
the U.S. Department of Justice or a three-
judge panel in Washington, DC. A voting-re-
lated change that would have left minority
voters worse off than before the change
would be blocked. The states and political
subdivisions that were required to submit
voting-related changes for preclearance were
determined by a coverage formula in section
4 of the VRA. The preclearance scheme—an
efficient and effective form of alternative
dispute resolution—prevented the implemen-
tation of voting-related changes that would
have denied voters of color a voice in our
elections, and it deterred many more restric-
tions from ever being conceived. The Su-
preme Court in Shelby County struck down
section 4 and called on Congress to enact a
new formula better tailored to current his-
tory. As a result, currently, states or polit-
ical subdivisions are no longer required to
seek preclearance unless ordered by a federal
court.
However, Chief Justice Roberts recognized
in the majority opinion in Shelby County
that, ‘‘voting discrimination still exists; no
one doubts that.’’ Across the U.S., racial,
ethnic, and language-minority communities
are rapidly growing—the country’s total pop-
ulation is projected to become majority-mi-
nority by 2044. Many officials in states and
local jurisdictions fear losing political
power, and the rapid growth of communities
of color is often seen as a threat to existing
political establishments. Fear provokes
those in positions of power to implement
changes to dilute the voting power of the
perceived threatening minority community.
Unfortunately, now that states and local ju-
risdictions are not required to submit vot-
ing-related changes for review, there is no
longer a well-kept track record on newly-im-
plemented discriminatory practices. None-
theless, we know, based on our litigation and
analysis of voting changes, that states and
local jurisdictions are still using discrimina-
tory voting tactics to suppress the political
power of minority communities.
Last month, MALDEF, NALEO, and Asian
Americans Advancing Justice—AAJC re-
leased a new report, Practice-Based
Preclearance: Protecting Against Tactics Per-
sistently Used to Silence Minority Communities’
Votes, detailing the need for forward-looking
voting rights legislation that provides pro-
tections for emerging minority populations.
During the VRA’s more than 50-year history,
all racial and ethnic populations grew, but
the growth of communities of color signifi-
cantly outpaced nonHispanic whites. While
there are states and localities where commu-
nities of color have traditionally resided in
larger numbers, growing communities of his-
torically underrepresented voters are now
emerging in new parts of the U.S. Between
2007 and 2014, five of the ten U.S. counties
that experienced the most rapid rates of
Latino population growth were in North Da-
kota or South Dakota, two states whose
overall Latino populations still account for
less than ten percent of their residents and
are dwarfed by Latino communities in states
like New Mexico, Texas, and California. It is
precisely this rapid growth of different racial
or ethnic populations that results in the per-
ception that emerging communities of color
are a threat to those in political power.
H.R. 4 includes important protections for
these emerging populations in the form of
practice-based preclearance, or ‘‘known-
practices’’ coverage. Known-practices cov-
erage would focus administrative or judicial
review narrowly on suspect practices that
are most likely to be tainted by discrimina-
tory intent or to have discriminatory effects,
as demonstrated by a broad historical
record. This coverage would extend to any
jurisdiction in the U.S. that is home to a ra-
cially, ethnically, and/or linguistically di-
verse population and that seeks to adopt a
covered practice, despite that practice’s
known likelihood of being discriminatory
when used in a diverse population. The
known practices that would be required to be
pre-approved before adopted in a diverse
state or political subdivision include: 1)
changes in method of election to add or re-
place a single-member district with an at-
large seat to a governing body, 2) certain re-
districting plans where there is significant
minority population growth in the previous
decade, 3) annexations or deannexations that
would significantly alter the composition of
the jurisdiction’s electorate, 4) certain iden-
tification and proof of citizenship require-
ments, 5) certain polling place closures and
realignments, and 6) the withdrawal of mul-
tilingual materials and assistance when not
matched by the reduction of those services
in English. The Practice-Based Preclearance
report looked at these different types of
changes and found, based on two separate
analyses of voting discrimination, that these
known practices occur with great frequency
in the modem era.
Congress must protect access to the polls
and pass the VRAA, with known-practice
coverage provisions. The VRAA is a critical
piece of legislation that will restore voter
protections that were lost due to the Shelby
County decision. We cannot allow another
federal election cycle to take place without
ensuring that every voter can register and
cast a meaningful ballot. MALDEF urges
you to stand with all voters and to vote
‘‘yes’’ on H.R. 4.
Please feel free to contact me.
Sincerely,
ANDREA SENTENO,
Regional Counsel.
THE LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE ON CIVIL
AND HUMAN RIGHTS,
December 4, 2019.
SUPPORT H.R. 4, VOTING RIGHTS AND
ADVANCEMENT ACT
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of The
Leadership Conference on Civil and Human
Rights, a coalition of more than 200 national
organizations committed to promoting and
protecting the civil and human rights of all
persons in the United States, and the 68 un-
dersigned organizations, we write in strong
support of H.R. 4, the Voting Rights Ad-
vancement Act. We oppose any Motion to
Recommit.
The Voting Rights Act of 1965 (VRA) is one
of the most successful civil rights laws ever
enacted. Congress passed the VRA in direct
response to evidence of significant and per-
vasive discrimination across the country, in-
cluding the use of literacy tests, poll taxes,
intimidation, threats, and violence. By out-
lawing the tests and devices that prevented
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06DE7.053 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9339
December 6, 2019
people of color from voting, the VRA and its
prophylactic preclearance formula put teeth
into the 15th Amendment’s guarantee that
no citizen can be denied the right to vote be-
cause of the color of their skin.
H.R. 4 has received vocal and vigorous sup-
port from the civil rights community be-
cause it responds to the urgent need to stop
the abuses by state and local governments in
the aftermath of the Supreme Court’s infa-
mous 2013 decision in Shelby County v. Holder,
when five justices of the Supreme Court in-
validated the VRA’s preclearance provision.
In its decision, the Court stated: ‘‘Our coun-
try has changed, and while any racial dis-
crimination in voting is too much, Congress
must ensure that the legislation it passes to
remedy that problem speaks to current con-
ditions.’’
Since Shelby County, discriminatory poli-
cies have proliferated nationwide and contin-
ued in areas formerly covered by the
preclearance requirement. In states, coun-
ties, and cities across the country, public of-
ficials have pushed through laws and policies
designed to make it harder for many commu-
nities to vote. While we have celebrated suc-
cessful legal challenges to discriminatory
voter ID laws in Texas and North Carolina,
such victories occurred only after elections
in those states were tainted by discrimina-
tion. Lost votes cannot be reclaimed and dis-
criminatory elections cannot be undone.
But voter suppression is not merely the
province of those states with a long history
of discrimination. Pernicious practices such
as voter purging and restrictive identifica-
tion requirements—which disproportionately
affect voters of color—occur in states
throughout the nation. Although progress
has been made, some elected leaders in this
country are still working to silence people
who were historically denied access to the
ballot box.
During the 116th Congress, the U.S. House
Committee on the Judiciary held extensive
hearings and found significant evidence that
barriers to voter participation remain for
people of color and language-minority voters
in African-American, Asian American,
Latinx, and Native American communities.
The hearings examined the History and En-
forcement of the Voting Rights Act of 1965
(March 12, 2019), Enforcement of the Voting
Rights Act in the State of Texas (May 3,
2019), Continuing Challenges to the Voting
Rights Act Since Shelby County v. Holder
(June 25, 2019), Discriminatory Barriers to
Voting (September 5, 2019), Evidence of Cur-
rent and Ongoing Voting Discrimination
(September 10, 2019), Congressional Author-
ity to Protect Voting Rights After Shelby
County v. Holder (September 24, 2019), and
Legislative Proposals to Strengthen the Vot-
ing Rights Act (October 17, 2019). The Com-
mittee on House Administration also con-
ducted numerous hearings and amassed sig-
nificant evidence of voter suppression during
the 116th Congress.
H.R. 4 restores and modernizes the Voting
Rights Act by:
Creating a new coverage formula that
hinges on a finding of repeated voting rights
violations in the preceding 25 years.
Significantly, the 25-year period is meas-
ured on a rolling basis to keep up with ‘‘cur-
rent conditions,’’ so only states and political
subdivisions that have a recent record of ra-
cial discrimination in voting are covered.
States and political subdivisions that qual-
ify for preclearance will be covered for a pe-
riod of 10 years, but if they establish a clean
record during that time period, they can be
extracted from coverage.
Establishing ‘‘practice-based preclear-
ance,’’ a targeted process for reviewing vot-
ing changes in jurisdictions nationwide fo-
cused on measures that have historically
been used to discriminate against voters of
color. The process for reviewing changes in
voting is limited to a set of practices, includ-
ing:
Changes to the methods of elections (to or
from at-large elections) in areas that are ra-
cially, ethnically, or linguistically diverse;
Reductions in language assistance;
Annexations changing jurisdictional
boundaries in areas that are racially, eth-
nically, or linguistically diverse;
Redistricting in areas that are racially,
ethnically, or linguistically diverse;
Reducing, consolidating, or relocating
polling locations in areas that are racially,
ethnically, or linguistically diverse; and
Changes in documentation or requirements
to vote or register.
H.R. 4 also:
Allows a federal court to order states or ju-
risdictions to be covered for results-based
violations, where the effect of a particular
voting measure is racial discrimination in
voting and denying citizens their right to
vote;
Increases transparency by requiring rea-
sonable public notice for voting changes;
Allows the attorney general authority to
request the presence of federal observers
anywhere in the country where there is a se-
rious threat of racial discrimination in vot-
ing; and
Revises and tailors the preliminary injunc-
tion standard for voting rights actions to
recognize that there will be cases where
there is a need for immediate preliminary re-
lief.
For over half a century, protecting citizens
from racial discrimination in voting has
been bipartisan work. The VRA was passed
with leadership from both the Republican
and Democratic parties, and the reauthoriza-
tions of the enforcement provisions were
signed into law each time by Republican
presidents: President Nixon in 1970, Presi-
dent Ford in 1975, President Reagan in 1982,
and President Bush in 2006.
Voting must transcend partisanship. No
matter what policy issues we care most
about, we get closer to these goals through
the ballot box. The integrity of our democ-
racy depends on ensuring that every eligible
voter can participate in the electoral proc-
ess. Passing H.R. 4 would be a giant step to-
ward restoring the right to vote and undoing
the damage done by the Supreme Court’s
Shelby County decision. During the civil
rights movement, brave Americans gave
their lives for the right to vote, and we can-
not allow their legacy and the protections
they fought for to unravel. We urge Congress
to pass this historic legislation.
Sincerely,
The Leadership Conference on Civil and
Human Rights; Advancement Project; Amer-
ican Federation of Labor and Congress of In-
dustrial Organizations; African American
Ministers In Action; American Association
of University Women; American Civil Lib-
erties Union; American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees
(AFSCME); American Federation of Teach-
ers; Andrew Goodman Foundation; Anti-Def-
amation League.
Arab American Institute; Asian Americans
Advancing Justice—AAJC; Autistic Self Ad-
vocacy Network; Bend the Arc: Jewish Ac-
tion; Blue Future; Brennan Center for Jus-
tice at NYU School of Law; Campaign Legal
Center; Connecticut Citizen Action Group;
Clean Elections Texas; Communications
Workers of America (CWA).
Congregation of Our Lady of Charity of the
Good Shepherd, U.S. Provinces Democracy;
21; Democracy Initiative; Demos; End Citi-
zens United Action Fund; FairVote Action;
Fix Democracy First; Franciscan Action
Network; Generation Progress; Greenpeace
USA.
Human Rights Campaign; In Our Own
Voice: National Black Women’s Reproduc-
tive Justice Agenda; International Union,
United Automobile Aerospace and Agricul-
tural Implement Workers of America,
(UAW); Jewish Council for Public Affairs;
Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under
Law; Leadership Conference of Women Reli-
gious; League of Conservation Voters Edu-
cation Fund; League of Women Voters of the
United States.
Main Street Alliance; Mexican American
Legal Defense and Educational Fund
(MALDEF); National Association for the Ad-
vancement of Colored People (NAACP);
NAACP Legal Defense and Educational
Fund, Inc.; NALEO Educational Fund; Na-
tional Action Network; National Advocacy
Center of the Sisters of the Good Shepherd;
National Council of Jewish Women; National
Disability Rights Network (NDRN); National
Education Association.
National Urban League; Native American
Rights Fund; NETWORK Lobby for Catholic
Social Justice; New American Leaders Ac-
tion Fund; People Demanding Action; People
For the American Way; Planned Parenthood
Federation of America; Progressive Turnout
Project; Public Citizen; Religious Action
Center of Reform Judaism.
Service Employees International Union
(SEIU); Sierra Club; Southern Poverty Law
Center Action Fund; Stand Up America;
Texas Progressive Action Network;
UnidosUS; Union for Reform Judaism;
United Church of Christ, Justice and Witness
Ministries; Voices for Progress; YWCA USA.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker,
now we have a recognition, that one
vote, one person, we will fight to get
this signed by the President because
the Constitution allows and declares
one vote, one person.
f
TRIBUTE TO MINNESOTA
NATIONAL GUARD SOLDIERS
(Ms. MCCOLLUM asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Madam Speaker, it
is with a heavy heart today that I rise
to pay tribute to three brave soldiers
from the Minnesota National Guard
who lost their lives yesterday in a heli-
copter accident.
To the families and friends who have
lost loved ones, this is a terrible, ter-
rible tragedy.
Their loved ones answered the call to
serve the Minnesota National Guard.
Those who answer that call do so be-
cause they are committed to making
our Nation safer and stronger. They de-
fend our Nation abroad, and they serve
their friends and family at home by
digging us out of snowstorms and
shielding us from rising floodwaters.
We recognize that their loved ones
were not just citizen soldiers; they
were cherished members of their fam-
ily.
To the Minnesota National Guard
who have lost a fellow servicemember,
Governor Walz, the congressional dele-
gation, the whole State of Minnesota,
and our Nation stand with them at this
time of great sadness.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues
to keep these citizen soldiers and their
families in our thoughts.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06DE7.044 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9340 December 6, 2019
b 1330
CIVIL RIGHTS
(Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend her remarks.)
Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma.
Madam Speaker, today I rise to mark a
historic moment for our democracy as
the House passed the Voting Rights
Advancement Act.
Today, more than 50 years after the
original Voting Rights Act was passed
into law, the right to be heard at the
ballot box is under threat.
The VRAA defends our right to vote
with provisions that increase election
oversight, strengthen transparency in
voting changes, and ensure that the
fundamental principle of one person,
one vote is intact.
As an Oklahoman, I am truly hon-
ored to stand here today to honor the
history of a city as well as individuals
with strong civil rights histories.
Just over 61 years ago in Oklahoma
City, Clara Luper led a group of 13 chil-
dren at the first sit-in in the Nation at
the Katz Drugstore that integrated the
first lunch counter, to be followed by
much more.
Without Clara and those 13 children
and without all of those who came be-
fore us, we wouldn’t be here today rec-
ognizing the passage of the VRAA.
We have more work to do, but as we
celebrate today’s legislation, we should
give thanks to the foot soldiers and
those who came before who have laid
the foundation and acknowledged the
work we have yet to do.
f
HIGHER EDUCATION
(Mr. LEVIN of California asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. LEVIN of California. Madam
Speaker, I am honored to represent the
University of California at San Diego,
which is one of the leading research
universities in the Nation.
As I have worked with my friends on
the Education and Labor Committee to
reauthorize the Higher Education Act,
I have kept all the incredible students
at UCSD in mind. I am especially proud
of our work to improve access for grad-
uate students and ease their financial
burden.
Graduate students are the backbone
of research universities, teaching and
mentoring undergraduates, performing
groundbreaking research, and inno-
vating the solutions for 21st century
problems. Unfortunately, many of
those same students have crippling stu-
dent loan debt.
That is why I am so glad that the
College Affordability Act recreates the
Federal Perkins Loan Program and
strengthens the Pell Grant Program to
better address the needs of our under-
graduate and graduate students.
While there is much more that we
need to do to support students, I am
proud to cosponsor the College Afford-
ability Act and will continue to work
with my colleagues to improve out-
comes for our students.
f
ISSUES OF THE DAY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. GOHMERT) is recognized for 60 min-
utes as the designee of the minority
leader.
Mr. GOHMERT. Madam Speaker, I
have been reminded again this week in
conversations with some friends across
the aisle that there are some people in
here with whom I have extremely dif-
ferent views. But I know them, they
have got good hearts, and they want to
do the right thing; we just disagree on
what that is.
There was a lot said today in the de-
bate over the Voting Rights Act
change. Some have tried to say and
have just been mistaken—I don’t think
they were intentionally trying to mis-
represent anything—but what we voted
on today was not a reauthorization of
the Voting Rights Act. The Voting
Rights Act has been in effect, and it is
still in effect.
But going back to the previous reau-
thorization that came through the Ju-
diciary Committee I am on, it became
clear that between the Republican and
Democrat leaders in Judiciary, there
was an agreement, and they weren’t
going to allow changes to their agree-
ment. I pointed out to both of them
back at the time: You have a provision
in here that is reauthorized that will
punish States for sins committed by
grandparents—in some cases great-
grandparents—that happened decades
before, in many cases decades before
some were born who were there. This is
not supposed to be a country where we
intentionally punish the children and
grandchildren of somebody who com-
mitted an offense.
It was wrongdoing in preventing peo-
ple from voting, and the Voting Rights
Act addressed that. But it was reau-
thorized more than once, continuing to
punish the same States that have been
found to be lacking, and the data we
had at the previous reauthorization
showed clearly there were places in
some districts, in places like New
York, Wisconsin, and California, where
the voting disparity and racial dis-
parity was worse than in the States
that were still being punished.
I know some say: Well, it is not a
punishment for the Federal Govern-
ment to say you are not trustworthy
and so you don’t get to be in charge of
your elections; we have to approve
every single thing you do.
That is an extraordinary and basi-
cally unconstitutional action by the
Federal Government that has been
deemed to be constitutional, but only
until such time as the States that were
offending have corrected the situation.
I know there was one newspaper in
my district that reported I was against
the voting rights reauthorization.
When I provided them a copy of my
transcript from the reporters, the ste-
nographers here, exactly as it was and
they read what I actually said, instead
of taking talking points from the left-
wing alt-left media, the editor at the
time—I know from things she had said,
she apparently was a Democrat—but
she was an honorable person, and they
printed a correction and corrected
what they had said.
I was in favor of the voting rights re-
authorization, but not to continue to
punish States that were not in viola-
tion and hadn’t been for decades. So, in
fact, my amendment would have re-
quired the punitive parts of the Voting
Rights Act to apply to any State in the
Union that was found to be in violation
of the constitutional protections on
voting.
I pointed out to the Republican lead-
er at the time and the Democratic
leader, John Conyers.
And actually, John Conyers was
more open to making the change. He
said: Well, you made a good point. Let
me talk to some of our lawyers about
it.
The Republican leader said: Abso-
lutely not. We are not changing any-
thing at all.
I said: But this is going to be struck
down. There are some things we don’t
really know. This is one that is going
to be struck down. Why risk the court
just striking the whole thing down? If
you allow my amendment, it will be
constitutional, it won’t any of it be
struck down.
The Republican leader at the time
said: Absolutely not.
Mr. Conyers came back to me later
and said: I have talked to our lawyers,
and they say you do make a good
point, but since we have an agreement
on it, it is just easier if we go forward,
and if they strike something down,
they strike it down.
The Supreme Court came back and
did just what I said they would do.
They struck down an unconstitutional
part that I had tried to amend and
make it constitutional.
But that is where we are. This today
does not reauthorize the Voting Rights
Act.
It is interesting hearing comments
from folks across the aisle about why
this is so important that we don’t dis-
enfranchise votes. If you look at what
the activity is, and even saying: Oh,
there are 17 million people who have
been disenfranchised because they are
no longer allowed to vote.
Despite what some who make com-
ments online might say, I am not stu-
pid. I have won awards at every school
I have been in. But I know that tradi-
tionally dead people who vote, vote
Democrat. That has just been the way
it is. Republicans have had a very dif-
ficult time getting dead people to vote
Republican.
William F. Buckley talked about an
uncle he had had who voted Republican
his whole life until the year after he
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06DE7.056 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9341
December 6, 2019
died, and then he started voting Demo-
crat. He said he wasn’t kidding, and
that it actually happened there in
Texas. Sometimes we kid about it.
Lyndon Johnson, according to David
Brinkley, told a story back in the six-
ties to reporters about how when he
was running for Congress that he and
his campaign manager were going
through the cemetery writing down
names of people they needed to have
vote the next day, and they got to one
tombstone and you couldn’t read the
name. There was moss and all this stuff
on it. So the campaign manager said:
Come on, Lyndon, let’s go to the next
tombstone. Johnson said: I grabbed
him, and I told him, no, sir, this man
has every bit a right to vote as any-
body else in this cemetery. It was
funny, and people laughed.
But people who knew about the dis-
crepancies in Duval County and the
Dukes of Duval and voting irregular-
ities, the investigation, and the court-
house burning with the records, those
kinds of things were what got reported,
and Johnson was able to get a good
joke out of it. But, nonetheless, it is
still true. If you find somebody who is
dead who has voted, normally they
voted Democrat.
So I hope that my friends will under-
stand. Some of the people they are
talking about being disenfranchised by
what Republicans want to do to fix
election law, it will disenfranchise the
dead who are continuing to vote. Their
vote will not be allowed to count as it
did when they were alive.
We also have had millions reported to
have voted who were in this country il-
legally or voting more than once or
were registered more than one place.
My friend, John Fund, used to be a
writer with The Wall Street Journal.
John had a fantastic book on voting
fraud, and I have heard him say to me:
Do you know that the biggest fraud
about elections is the statement that
there is no election fraud today?
So this Voting Rights Act amend-
ment that was voted on by the House
today is yet another effort for the Fed-
eral Government to ignore the Con-
stitution and ignore the mandate that
elections are to be controlled locally,
and that is according to the 10th
Amendment, not just reserved to the
States and people it specifically talked
about.
Exceptions have been made over the
years that allow the Federal Govern-
ment to have some say, and that was
the case because of abuses and people
who were prevented from voting. So I
am surprised that we have colleagues
here who don’t want the dead people to
be disenfranchised, whose names have
been taken off rolls in areas where Re-
publicans are trying to update the vot-
ing rolls. I understand my colleagues
are not stupid either. They know that
dead people vote more for Democrats
than Republicans. So I get it, and why
they would want to keep them voting.
But it is something that needs to be
done.
b 1345
The other vote we had today regard-
ing Israeli-Palestinian two-nation
peace, peace with two independent
states, I couldn’t vote for that. I pray
for the peace of Israel, but I couldn’t
vote for that, a two-state solution
being rammed down the throat of the
one of the parties that doesn’t want to
totally destroy those who want to to-
tally destroy them.
I mean, we send money over to the
Palestinians still. One of the things
that President Trump has been want-
ing to do—he agreed with me once
when I pointed it out—we don’t have to
pay people to hate us. They will do it
for free.
There is corruption in different
places around the world, and espe-
cially, there has been in Ukraine. I was
glad that President Trump was doing
something about it. Obviously, Presi-
dent Obama didn’t do anything about
it, and we have a huge effort now from
our friends across the aisle that want
to stop the reform and the elimination
of corruption in Ukraine that Presi-
dent Trump was trying to undertake.
Apparently, Ukraine has been quite
helpful to our friends across the aisle.
Obviously, in the last Presidential
campaign, plenty of information indi-
cates they were trying to help Hillary
Clinton. That is why it was reported
that after the election, they realized:
Well, gee, since we were trying to help
Hillary Clinton, maybe we better try to
warm up to Donald Trump.
But when it comes to Israel, an effort
to push through a two-state solution
forcing Israel to sign an agreement or
an effort to try to push them to sign an
agreement with the Palestinians, while
the Palestinians in response to each bi-
lateral and unilateral effort that Israel
has made to reach out with an olive
branch, to try to bring about an effort
at peace, they have been slapped down.
As a result of those efforts at peace,
Israelis have died; places have been de-
stroyed; and Israelis live in fear. All
you have to do is go to southern Israel
to find out, because they are coming
every day these rockets get fired.
They are not that accurate on where
they hit, so nobody can be sure they
won’t hit them, their homes. Their
homes there have to have a safe place
within there so that when the warning
comes, which may only be seconds be-
fore the rocket hits, you have to grab
your kids and head for the safe room
and hope that you aren’t killed.
I heard from one mother once when I
was over there. The rockets were flying
from the strip that Israel had unilater-
ally given as a show of peace, an effort
to reach out unilaterally, asking noth-
ing in return. I thought it was a huge
mistake, but they did it. As a result,
rockets fly every day.
But this lady was saying she had her
little son in the car, and the warning
sounded, the siren. She didn’t have
time to get her child to a safe place, so
she laid on top of him in the car seat,
put him down on the car seat and laid
on top of him.
When the rockets hit far enough
away that it was not a threat to them,
and the rockets stopped temporarily,
and she sat up, her son cried and said:
Mama, if you are going to die, I don’t
want to keep living. Don’t do that to
me again. I want to be with you wher-
ever you are.
This kind of stuff gets played out
day-after-day in Israel because the Pal-
estinians want to wipe them off the
map. They don’t want any Jews be-
tween the Jordan River and the Medi-
terranean Sea, and they make that
very clear: We want to wipe them out.
They never agreed to back off that
position. It is pretty clear that no mat-
ter what kind of agreement you have,
when you are still teaching children in
your schools, which received money
from the United States, that Jews are
vermin and rats and need to be wiped
out—the same kind of things the Nazis
were saying and printing, they print
them, say them, teach them.
We are going to want to do them fa-
vors, send them more money while
they use money themselves to teach
that kind of hatred?
I was mentioning to my friend LEE
ZELDIN earlier today that if the Demo-
crats who were pushing through this
demand for a two-state solution were
successful, then they could historically
stand with Neville Chamberlain and
say, as he did, that this two-state solu-
tion means peace in our time, when ac-
tually it would just be a precursor to
the killing of millions of Jews.
We don’t need a two-state solution
where one of those states is still intent
on wiping Israel off the map. It made
no sense, and the people on this side of
the aisle, most everybody, I think,
voted against it, not that they were
against peace in the Middle East.
We also heard yesterday—actually,
Wednesday, yesterday, today—a lot
made about a comment by President
Trump when he was talking about
whether he would fire Mr. Mueller,
Robert Mueller, as special counsel.
This article by Charlie Spiering, 6 De-
cember, points out what the President
said: ‘‘Look, Article II, I would be al-
lowed to fire Robert Mueller. Assuming
I did all of the things, I said I want to
fire him. Number one, I didn’t. He
wasn’t fired. Very importantly, but
more importantly, Article II allows me
to do whatever I want. Article II would
allow me to fire him. I wasn’t going to
fire him. You know why? Because I
watched Richard Nixon firing every-
body, and that didn’t work out too
well.’’
That is the context the President was
talking about. Yes, he is exactly right.
He had the authority to fire Robert
Mueller. I encouraged him not to fire
him, just appoint a special prosecutor
to investigate Bob Mueller. Why in the
world would he hire nothing but people
who hated him?
He said: Could I do that?
I said: Yes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06DE7.057 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9342 December 6, 2019
The authority of the Attorney Gen-
eral to hire and fire a special pros-
ecutor comes from the President. It is
his power. He could do it if he wants to.
He is exactly right that Article II
would allow him to fire Mueller, which
he never did. So when the Speaker
takes that quote, ‘‘I can do whatever I
want,’’ when he is talking about wheth-
er or not he were to fire Robert Mueller
and try to apply that to this is why we
have to remove him from office, that is
such a dangerous, dangerous direction
to go.
It is why I was so saddened to hear
that our Speaker wants to now move
forward with Articles of Impeachment.
As Jonathan Turley testified before
us Wednesday, this bar is so low. His-
torically speaking, when a governing
document like our Constitution is de-
generated to this point, you don’t nor-
mally come back from that.
What you could expect historically, if
my friends do as they say they are
going to do, they are going to vote to
impeach President Trump. He hasn’t
committed any crime. He has tweeted
out some offensive tweets, but to have
a bar this low and try to, for the first
time in American history, remove a
duly elected President, then any Presi-
dent, regardless of party, in the future
can expect that when the opposition
party controls the House, they will
spend 2 to 4 years, however long the op-
posing party is in power, fighting im-
peachment. That is what this will do
for the future.
I know some of our Democratic col-
leagues have seen before that they can
attack Republicans. They can be un-
fair. They can encourage people to be
unfair to Republicans.
Republicans will not want to treat
others the way they got treated when
it was so unfair. I can’t help but won-
der if people think: We can do this to
them, and they won’t do it to a Demo-
cratic President.
There are people who were often
pointing out to me bases for President
Obama to be impeached. Going back to
Fast and Furious, all kinds of things
that we should have been inves-
tigating. But at the time, we had a
Speaker who didn’t want to go to court
and get court orders in order to get the
documents that were demanded. So we
had a show vote to hold in contempt,
but it was meaningless unless we went
to court and had it enforced by a court
order, as Jonathan Turley was saying,
is the right of the Congress or the
President to do.
If the Congress or the President does
that, it is not an impeachable offense
for the Member of Congress or the
President. It is a constitutional right.
Once the court orders that it has to be
produced or orders that it does not
have to be produced, then if the Presi-
dent or the Congress says they are not
going to abide by the court order, then
that gets into an area that you may
want to look at impeachment, but that
is not what has happened here. But it is
what the next couple weeks’ actions
may lead us to.
It is unfortunate that the President’s
comments were taken out of context in
whether or not he had the power to fire
Mueller. He was right that he did. Arti-
cle II gives him that power. Then to
say he thinks he can do anything he
wants to do, well, no. If he thought he
could do anything he wanted to do, if
he was a monarch, then he would just
say he is going to take all the money
and shut down the Department of Edu-
cation totally and divert all that
money to securing our border, pro-
tecting American citizens, as he wants
to do. He has made it very clear.
Instead, he can take only some
money here that is, under the law,
open enough that it could be used for
the purpose of building a wall. Other-
wise, he would have a wall all built by
now.
But he knows he is not a monarch. So
it is a pretty outrageous thing to say.
But when it comes to going to court,
Daniel Huff, a smart lawyer who used
to be at the Committee on the Judici-
ary here, had an article published in
The Wall Street Journal. The Supreme
Court last week blocked a House com-
mittee subpoena for 8 years’ worth of
President Trump’s tax returns. The
committee will press the matter in fur-
ther litigation, but the logic that sup-
ports the subpoena undercuts House
Democrats’ effort to impeach Mr.
Trump for asking Ukraine to inves-
tigate Joe Biden.
In both cases, the use of official
power to get dirt on a political rival is
consistent with a broader, valid, offi-
cial purpose, and that is to try to fight
corruption. So Daniel Huff makes a
great point in that editorial that he
wrote.
What we were dealing with in the
Committee on the Judiciary on
Wednesday, if we are really going to
examine a report—and I found out
there is a hearing Monday morning at
9:00 a.m.
I asked who the witnesses are. Well,
we don’t know yet. What are we going
to be taking up? Well, we don’t know
yet.
Well, you are trying to destroy the
Presidency, remove a man out of office.
Something so serious that the Found-
ers would say this is something that
rises to the level—it needs to be trea-
sonous. It has to be really serious.
b 1400
Under the Constitution itself, it
makes very clear you cannot convict
someone of treason under this Con-
stitution, Federal court, unless you
have the direct testimony of two wit-
nesses. All they had was hearsay on
hearsay on hearsay.
They can’t try President Trump for
something like treason because they
don’t have two direct witnesses. So
much of what they brought would
never be allowed or admitted into
court.
We deserve to hear from former
members of the Obama administration
who were holdovers. I know that Mr.
McMaster made a comment that he
didn’t want to hear any more of his
employees at the National Security
Council ever mention the word ‘‘hold-
over,’’ that just because somebody was
hired by the Obama administration and
Trump hadn’t gotten rid of them yet
didn’t mean they were holdovers, that
they are government employees.
Well, no. They were holdovers, and he
should have never been in the position
he was. He spent his time trying to un-
dermine the President the best he
could.
As of March of this year, our own
Speaker said impeachment must be
compelling and overwhelmingly bipar-
tisan. She is violating her own state-
ment if she has this go forward next
week.
In 1998, our own Judiciary Chairman
NADLER said there must never be a nar-
rowly voted impeachment supported by
one of our major political parties and
opposed by the other. Such would
produce divisiveness in our politics and
will call into question the very legit-
imacy of our political institutions.
You know what? JERRY NADLER was
exactly right when he said that. If they
go through with this in the next 2
weeks or in January—whenever—it is
going to do exactly what he said, which
is what Professor Jonathan Turley
said. It is going to produce even more
divisiveness in this country and will
call into question the very legitimacy
of our political institutions.
It absolutely will. He was right back
then. I don’t know what has happened
since 1998 when he was so acutely
aware of the Constitution and the
ramifications of actions like they are
taking now, but this is where we are.
Some of us were encouraged to file
impeachment on President Obama, and
some were angry that I wouldn’t file
for impeachment of President Obama.
But I cared so deeply about this coun-
try, and I knew that if we had impeach-
ment proceedings on President Obama,
no matter what he did, this country
would be so divided that it would never
recover. Of course, we became much
more divided during those years.
Somebody asked me: When President
Obama was in office, did you ever have
any positive thoughts about him being
President?
I said: When he was elected, I didn’t
vote for him, but I thought, you know
what? He could end up being like Coach
Williams was to us back where I grew
up. Coach Williams was my favorite
coach. He happened to be Black, and I
loved the guy. He was such a great
coach.
But he brought us all together as a
team. We had a few good athletes, but
most were like me. I was a quarterback
and captain on the team at the time,
and he brought us together. He treated
everybody tough, but he treated every-
body the same.
We came together as a team, and we
had an extremely winning team. We
didn’t win every game. We nearly did.
But he was a great coach.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06DE7.059 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9343
December 6, 2019
I didn’t mention to the reporter that
I was quarterback, but I said that I
hoped that President Obama would
bring us together as a Nation the way
Coach Williams did as a team. I didn’t
say what sport, what position I played.
So, the first story I see about my
comment from some big liberal was
how I said my high school basketball
coach was my favorite coach. Appar-
ently, if you are a liberal like that re-
porter was, you just assume, well, if he
was a Black coach, it must have been
basketball. I didn’t say basketball or
football. She just assumed it. I found
that rather ironic.
One of my great joys last year: I was
asked to come to speak to my old alma
mater high school to try to fire them
up before the game. Somebody told me
Coach Williams was up in the press
box, so I went up there. Arms flew open
by both of us. He is just a good man,
just a good man. He was a great coach,
and I treasure the times I got to play
with him.
But that hasn’t happened here. The
country got more divided.
But Sharyl Attkisson had a good ac-
count. This was November 25 and up-
dated November 30. Some of the things
she pointed out was Mueller, as anti-
Trump as he, Weissmann, and all those
folks were that he hired, Mueller testi-
fied there were instances of Russian so-
cial media support for Hillary Clinton
as well. Try to find that in the main-
stream media.
She also says, according to reporting
by Politico, though, in January 2017—it
is hard to find at Politico now because
they, I am sure, deeply regret they ever
reported this. But they reported back
then efforts by Democrats and Ukraine
to sabotage the Trump campaign in
2016 did impact the race, even though
Trump won in the end.
She points out that in March 2016, Al-
exandra Chalupa reportedly met with
top Ukrainian officials at the Ukrain-
ian Embassy in Washington in an effort
to tarnish the Trump campaign by ex-
posing ties by Trump, top campaign
aide Paul Manafort, and Russia, ac-
cording to Politico.
Now, this is Alexandra Chalupa. She
was a consultant with the Democratic
National Committee in 2016 and pre-
viously worked under the Clinton ad-
ministration. She acknowledged in 2017
that she worked as a consultant for the
DNC during the 2016 campaign with the
goal of publicly exposing Trump cam-
paign aide Paul Manafort’s links to
pro-Russian politicians in Ukraine.
‘‘Chalupa admitted coordinating with
the Ukrainian Embassy, and with
Ukrainian and U.S. news reporters.’’
But on August 8, 2016, that is when
Peter Strzok wrote to Lisa Page that
they would stop Trump from becoming
President.
Ukraine had formed the National
Anticorruption Bureau in 2014 as a con-
dition to receive aid. Why? Because,
nominally, the Obama administration
wanted to say, as Congress was dic-
tating back then, that we wanted to
see some advances in anticorruption by
Ukraine.
A recent poll indicated that, in the
last year, 68 percent of those randomly
chosen for the poll had bribed a govern-
ment official. Sixty-eight percent, that
is just here recently.
But August 19, 2016, Manafort re-
signed as Trump campaign chairman. I
think he was there only 3 months,
something like that.
The same day, Ukrainian parliament
member Serhiy Leshchenko, who was
part of the Petro Poroshenko bloc, held
a news conference to draw attention to
Manafort and Trump’s pro-Russia ties.
The original link to a photograph of
the news conference was recently re-
moved.
‘‘At the news conference in Ukraine,
Leshchenko was said to be exposing ‘a
firm run by U.S. businessman and Re-
publican Party Presidential candidate
Donald Trump’s campaign chairman
Paul Manafort, who reportedly directly
orchestrated a covert Washington lob-
bying operation on behalf of Ukraine’s
ruling political party, attempting to
sway the American public’s opinion in
favor of the country’s pro-Russian Gov-
ernment.’ ’’
Anyway, those were just some of the
things that were going on that really
need to be investigated.
One of the important results to some
of those who appear to have been con-
spiring with Ukraine, Americans who
appear to be conspiring with Ukraine
to affect our U.S. election, gee, they
did have an effect, but it wasn’t enough
to change the outcome of the 2016 elec-
tion.
In 2018, Senator RON JOHNSON, chair-
man of the Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs Committee in
the Senate, and CHUCK GRASSLEY,
chairman of the Finance Committee,
asked Attorney General William Barr
and FBI Director Christopher Wray for
various records, including forensic im-
ages of Chalupa’s devices. They are
seeking records also from the National
Archives to obtain White House visitor
logs regarding any meetings between
Chalupa, Ukrainians, and Obama offi-
cials.
August 8, 2018, that is when Strzok
wrote Page they would stop Trump.
But that is 2016, so this has been going
on for some time, and more informa-
tion has come out.
Aaron Klein had a good article No-
vember 26 that a second ADAM SCHIFF
staffer linked to a Burisma-backed
think tank—Burisma being the com-
pany that paid millions to people to be
on their boards, including Hunter
Biden. But this article is very inter-
esting, that another staffer for ADAM
SCHIFF served as a fellow for the Atlan-
tic Council think tank funded by and
working in partnership with Burisma.
Isn’t that convenient?
But Sean Misko was close friends
with a guy named Eric Ciaramella. In
2015, Sean Misko was a yearlong mil-
lennial fellow at the Burisma-funded
Atlantic Council.
Thomas Eager, a staffer on SCHIFF’s
House Intel Committee staff, is cur-
rently a fellow at the Atlantic Coun-
cil’s Eurasia Congressional Fellowship,
and that educates congressional staff
on current events in the Eurasia re-
gion, which is obviously the take on
issues that Burisma wants them to
have or they wouldn’t have funded this
thing. Burisma cosigned a cooperative
agreement with the council to specifi-
cally sponsor the Atlantic Council’s
Eurasia Center, where Eager served as
a fellow.
But a trip to Ukraine in August orga-
nized by the Atlantic Council revealed
that Eager and others had a meeting
with Acting U.S. Ambassador Bill Tay-
lor. That name should ring a bell. It
may have been perfectly innocent, but
nonetheless, Burisma has helped fund
some things for some of ADAM SCHIFF’s
staff.
Of course, it quotes Chairman SCHIFF
on September 17 saying: ‘‘We have not
spoken directly with the whistle-
blower. We would like to.’’ Of course, it
turns out his staff had talked with
him, and, in fact, that is apparently
the first people that were talked to
about the conversation, for good rea-
son.
Misko is listed as providing a small
donation of up to $999 to that think
tank in 2016 but also contributions
from the Open Society network that
George Soros had so much to do with.
b 1415
Another big donor, Perkins Coie, the
law firm that was used to help the DNC
and the Clinton campaign with hiring
Fusion GPS and Christopher Steele and
getting the Russian dossier hoax going.
But it is just amazing when you start
seeing: Wait a minute. There was a lot
going on between people in our govern-
ment and the Ukrainian Government,
corrupt people over there.
And then we find out Kerry Picket,
October 11, reported: ‘‘Abigail Grace,
who worked at the NSC until 2018, was
hired in February, while Sean Misko,
an NSC aide until 2017, joined Schiff’s
staff in late August.’’
That was the best information they
had at the time.
But it points out that Abigail Grace,
36, ‘‘was hired to help Schiff’s com-
mittee investigate the Trump White
House.’’ But she had worked for the
Trump White House as an Obama hold-
over. ‘‘ . . . Trump accused Schiff of
‘stealing people who work at the White
House.’ ’’ She had worked there 2016 to
2018 and briefly for the Center for a
New American Security think tank,
founded by two former senior Obama
administration officials.
But Sean Misko, 37, ‘‘worked in the
Obama administration as a member of
the Secretary of State’s policy plan-
ning staff under Deputy Chief of Staff
Jake Sullivan, who became Hillary
Clinton’s top foreign policy official
during her 2016 Presidential campaign.
In 2015, Misko was the director for the
Gulf States at the NSC, remaining
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06DE7.061 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9344 December 6, 2019
there into the Trump administration’s
first year.
‘‘A source familiar with Grace’s work
at the NSC told the Washington Exam-
iner, ‘Abby Grace had access to execu-
tive privilege information, and she has
a duty not to disclose that informa-
tion. She is not authorized to reveal
that information.’
‘‘The same source said that Misko
had not been trusted by Trump ap-
pointees. ‘There were a few times
where documents had been signed off
for final editing before they go to the
National Security Advisor for signa-
ture’. . . . ‘And he actually went in and
made changes after those changes were
already finished.’ So he basically tried
to insert, without his boss’ approval.’
‘‘ ‘There were meetings in which he
protested very heavily, and the next
thing you know, there’s an article in
the paper about the contents of that
meeting.’
‘‘Misko often clashed with other NSC
personnel at meetings, another source
said. Both Grace and Misko were close
to Lieutenant General H.R. McMaster,
Trump’s National Security Advisor’’—
unfortunately—‘‘from February 2017
until May 2018.
‘‘Misko was a CNAS fellow in 2014.
Misko’s name surfaced in the Hillary
Clinton email controversy when he
worked in the State Department dur-
ing the Obama administration.
‘‘In a December 1, 2009, email re-
leased by Judicial Watch, Clinton ad-
viser Huma Abedin sent classified in-
formation regarding foreign military
contributions to the Afghanistan war
effort to her private email account.
That email originated with Misko, who
wrote to Sullivan that he initially ‘ac-
cidentally’ sent it on the ‘high side’—
which is secure—but was sending the
email again.
‘‘The intelligence committee did not
respond to a request for comment.’’
And then, updated information, De-
cember 3, Kerry Picket reports that,
actually, House Intelligence Com-
mittee Chairman ADAM SCHIFF hired a
former National Security Council aide
during the Obama and Trump adminis-
trations the day after the phone call
between President Trump and Ukrain-
ian President Zelensky.
So it turns out, call on July 25, July
26 Sean Misko gets hired. Sean Misko,
Abigail Grace, Eric Ciaramella, they
had worked together at the National
Security Council. In fact, Misko and
Ciaramella, they were reported to be
brother-like, or bro-like, that they
were just always hanging around.
And then we find out that, after the
phone call, apparently, Ciaramella goes
over to the staff, and, based on what we
know—it appears to me, my opinion—
that he goes over there and says, wow,
you know, all the work we did with
Biden, with Ukraine, maybe they were
saying maybe the work we did trying
to set some things up to help the Clin-
ton campaign, whatever it was, they
were scared. Clearly, they were scared.
And somebody comes up with the idea,
why not use the whistleblower statute
even though it really didn’t apply.
And you know, some people say, oh,
you guys, you know, you are all dead
set on getting the whistleblower.
The whistleblower, as a whistle-
blower, whoever it is is irrelevant. But
these three key people, including
Misko and Grace, who worked together
at the Obama administration and the
Trump administration temporarily, at
the National Security Council, that
worked with Ukraine, worked with
Biden, these people are at the heart of
everything about this whole Ukrainian
hoax.
Why are we having a Ukrainian
hoax? Because all the other hoaxes
were exposed, and maybe that is why
we are rushing through this in record
time, so that people don’t find out
more about how this all came about.
But we need to talk to Alexandra
Chalupa. She met with people involved
in this, including Ukrainians, Misko
and Abigail Grace and Ciaramella.
Regardless, it doesn’t matter who the
whistleblower was. What matters is the
information these people know about
what went on with Ukraine’s inter-
ference in our election—not the coun-
try officially, but the Ukrainian offi-
cials that interfered and what all went
on. They are in it up to their eyeballs.
We need to be able to talk to these
people, and these are the three people—
well, four people that neither ADAM
SCHIFF nor JERRY NADLER are willing
to produce.
Now, I made the request, provided it
to our ranking member. Under H.R. 660,
he has to provide it, and apparently
there is somebody he had to talk to be-
fore he was willing to provide it. But at
least I am making that request.
To be official, our ranking member
has to hand it over. It needs to be done.
We need to be able to talk to these peo-
ple before they irreparably destroy the
institutions, as JERRY NADLER said this
kind of impeachment would. We need
to talk to the people that got it all—
that brought about the circumstances
in dealing with Ukraine, Biden, Russia.
We need to be able to question them
about Ukraine, about Biden, about
Russia and all these intermingling ties.
It is critical. We have got to be able to
have that.
And, of course, reference the same
person in the Mueller report even,
where he is in the Mueller report, is
shown or is indicated to be the source
of allegations that Russia told, or
Putin told Trump to fire Mueller—or
Comey.
In any event, this is all rather tragic,
where partisan politics, just as JERRY
NADLER predicted in 1998, is about to
take a huge step toward finishing off
this little experiment in self-govern-
ment.
No government lasts forever. This
one won’t. But the actions that are
being taken now have far-ranging con-
sequences toward destroying the best
hope for freedom the world has ever
had.
People may hate this country, but
you talk to people honestly around the
world that have some freedom, like I
did with three people from Australia.
And I was kidding around. I had a few
Members say: If we lose our freedom,
we can all go to Australia.
None of them smiled, even.
One of them said: Do you not under-
stand if you lose your freedom here in
the United States, China will take us
over before you could ever get there?
You have got to be strong.
I heard that in Nigeria when I went
to meet with mothers whose children
had been kidnapped and were being
raped daily, and officials there said:
Well, you know, your Obama adminis-
tration said if we want more help with
Boko Haram we have got to adopt
same-sex marriage and we have got to
have abortions.
As one Catholic Bishop reported: Our
religious beliefs are not for sale, not to
the Obama administration, not to any-
body.
So it is not uncommon, as we have
been told, and some people want to
deny, but there are good reasons to
withhold aid. I don’t think trying to
force somebody to change their reli-
gious beliefs, like in Nigeria and Kenya
and Togo, some of the places I talked
with officials, but, nonetheless, there is
nothing wrong with it if it is a legiti-
mate purpose.
And what President Trump is trying
to get to the bottom of, you know, it is
a legitimate purpose: How do you stop
corruption from foreign countries in
our 2020 election if you are not allowed
to figure out what they did in 2016? We
need to be able to know that in order
to stop it from happening again.
This is really serious stuff. And I ap-
preciate the comments that so many
who are participating on the other side
of the aisle have made in talking about
this impeachment.
Of course, we even heard that from
Feldman, from Harvard. Oh, he was re-
luctant to bring up this impeachment.
My gosh, the guy was all over Twitter
over 2 years ago. He thought, gee, we
may be able to impeach Trump for his
tweet. We may be able to impeach him
for this, that, and the other. This guy
has been talking about it forever. He
had no qualms about wanting to im-
peach Trump using any little thing
possible, until he comes before our
committee, and then he is reluctant.
And we have heard that from some
other people: We are reluctant to pur-
sue this impeachment. Well, you sure
can’t tell it the way you are moving
forward like you have got a posse and
are to hang somebody that you have
just run into.
So let me just finish up by stating
something I hope.
It was reported this week that, after
the Intelligence Committee’s Demo-
cratic staff had finished rolling up this
ball of collusion and, supposedly, send-
ing it to the Judiciary Committee, it
was reported that the Speaker provided
a cake, and it was decorated as a flag.
There was a big drinking celebration.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06DE7.063 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9345
December 6, 2019
So I hope that if the Judiciary Com-
mittee does what I really do hope and
pray they don’t, and that is move for-
ward with impeachment on something
Trump didn’t even do wrong, that if
they have another celebration for the
Judiciary staff and people are drinking
and eating cake and having a good
time, I hope they will continue to do
their drinking and celebration prayer-
fully, reluctantly, and soberly, as we
have heard they are approaching all of
this.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess subject to
the call of the Chair.
Accordingly (at 2 o’clock and 28 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1548
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. NEGUSE) at 3 o’clock and
48 minutes p.m.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, I
move that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 3 o’clock and 49 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until Monday, Decem-
ber 9, 2019, at noon for morning-hour
debate.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
3213. A letter from the Acting Principal Di-
rector, Defense Pricing and Contracting,
Federal Acquisition Regulation System, De-
partment of Defense, transmitting the De-
partment’s final rule — Defense Federal Ac-
quisition Regulation Supplement: Modifica-
tion of DFARS Clause ‘‘Accident Reporting
and Investigation Involving Aircraft, Mis-
siles, and Space Launch Vehicles’’ (DFARS
Case 2018-D047) [Docket: DARS-2019-0030]
(RIN: 0750-AK12) received December 3, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
3214. A letter from the Chairman, Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation, transmitting
the Corporation’s FY 2018 report titled
‘‘Preservation and Promotion of Minority
Depository Institutions’’, pursuant to 12
U.S.C. 1463 note; Public Law 101-73, Sec. 308
(as amended by Public Law 111-203, Sec.
367(4)); (124 Stat. 1556); to the Committee on
Financial Services.
3215. A letter from the Deputy Assistant
General Counsel for Regulatory Affairs, Pen-
sion Benefit Guaranty Corporation, trans-
mitting the Corporation’s final rule — Bene-
fits Payable in Terminated Single-Employer
Plans; Interest Assumptions for Paying Ben-
efits received December 3, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
3216. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting notification that effec-
tive October 13, the Department authorized
danger pay for Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tions employees in areas of Egypt, Sudan,
and Tunisia, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.5928; Sec.
131 of Public Law 98-164; Public Law 101-246,
as amended by Sec. 11005 of Public Law 107-
273; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
3217. A letter from the Deputy Assistant
Secretary for Export Administration, Bureau
of Industry and Security, Department of
Commerce, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Temporary General License: Ex-
tension of Validity [Docket No.: 191115-0082]
(RIN: 0694-AH97) received December 3, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
3218. A letter from the Deputy Assistant
Secretary for Export Administration, Bureau
of Industry and Security, Department of
Commerce, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Temporary General License: Ex-
tension of Validity [Docket No.: 191115-0082]
(RIN: 0694-AH97) received December 3, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
3219. A letter from the Acting Assistant
Secretary for Legislation, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting
the Department’s Office of Inspector General
Semiannual Report to Congress for the pe-
riod ending September 30, 2019, pursuant to
Public Law 95-452; to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
3220. A letter from the Chair, Federal Elec-
tion Commission, transmitting the Commis-
sion’s Office of Inspector General’s Semi-
annual Report to Congress, covering the pe-
riod from April 1, 2019, through September
30, 2019, pursuant to Public Law 95-452; to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
3221. A letter from the Administrator, Gen-
eral Services Administration, transmitting
the Administration’s Semiannual Manage-
ment Report to Congress, covering the pe-
riod April 1, 2019, through September 30, 2019
pursuant to Public Law 95-452, as amended 5
U.S.C 5; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
3222. A letter from the Chairman, Occupa-
tional Safety and Health Review Commis-
sion, transmitting the Commission’s FY 2019
Performance and Accountability Report,
pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3515(a)(1); Public Law
101-576, Sec. 303(a)(1) (as amended by Public
Law 107-289, Sec. 2(a)); (116 Stat. 2049); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 3. A bill to establish a fair
price negotiation program, protect the Medi-
care program from excessive price increases,
and establish an out-of-pocket maximum for
Medicare part D enrollees, and for other pur-
poses; with an amendment (Rept. 116–324, Pt.
1). Ordered to be printed.
Mr. NEAL: Committee on Ways and Means.
H.R. 3. A bill to establish a fair price nego-
tiation program, protect the Medicare pro-
gram from excessive price increases, and es-
tablish an out-of-pocket maximum for Medi-
care part D enrollees, and for other purposes;
with an amendment (Rept. 116–324, Pt. 2). Or-
dered to be printed.
Mr. NEAL: Committee on Ways and Means.
H.R. 4650. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide coverage for
certain dental items and services under part
B of the Medicare program; with an amend-
ment (Rept. 116–325, Pt. 1). Ordered to be
printed.
Mr. NEAL: Committee on Ways and Means.
H.R. 4618. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide coverage for
certain hearing items and services under
part B of the Medicare program; with an
amendment (Rept. 116–326, Pt. 1). Ordered to
be printed.
Mr. NEAL: Committee on Ways and Means.
H.R. 4665. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide coverage for
certain vision items and services under part
B of the Medicare program; with an amend-
ment (Rept. 116–327, Pt. 1). Ordered to be
printed.
f
TIME LIMITATION OF REFERRED
BILL
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XII, the
following action was taken by the
Speaker:
H.R. 3. Referral to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor extended for a period end-
ing not later than December 9, 2019.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. STEWART (for himself, Mr.
BISHOP of Utah, Mr. CURTIS, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. SIMPSON, Mr.
UPTON, Ms. STEFANIK, Mr. AMODEI,
and Mr. JOYCE of Ohio):
H.R. 5331. A bill to prohibit discrimination
on the basis of sex, sexual orientation, and
gender identity; and to protect the free exer-
cise of religion; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary, and in addition to the Committees
on Education and Labor, Ways and Means,
Financial Services, Oversight and Reform,
and House Administration, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. GOTTHEIMER (for himself and
Mr. REED):
H.R. 5332. A bill to amend the Fair Credit
Reporting Act to ensure that consumer re-
porting agencies are providing fair and accu-
rate information reporting in consumer re-
ports, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services.
By Ms. DELBENE (for herself, Mrs.
WALORSKI, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. BILI-
RAKIS, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, and
Mr. MARSHALL):
H.R. 5333. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to ensure prompt cov-
erage of breakthrough devices under the
Medicare program, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Ways and Means, and in
addition to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. CARBAJAL (for himself and
Mr. LAMALFA):
H.R. 5334. A bill to amend the FAST Act to
authorize appropriations for the United
States Forest Service, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06DE7.064 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9346 December 6, 2019
By Mr. TONKO (for himself, Mr. FOR-
TENBERRY, and Mrs. LEE of Nevada):
H.R. 5335. A bill to require the Secretary of
Energy to establish or designate the Distrib-
uted Energy Opportunity Board to carry out
a program to facilitate a voluntary stream-
lined processes for local permitting of dis-
tributed renewable energy, energy storage,
and electric vehicle charging systems, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce, and in addition to the
Committee on Ways and Means, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. FOSTER (for himself, Mrs.
CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York,
Mr. MEEKS, Mr. CASTEN of Illinois,
Mr. LYNCH, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Mr. CLAY, Ms. DEAN, and
Mr. HECK):
H.R. 5336. A bill to amend the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 to prohibit mandatory
predispute arbitration agreements, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Finan-
cial Services.
By Mr. NADLER (for himself, Mr.
ROUZER, Mr. CUNNINGHAM, Mr.
ZELDIN, Mr. ENGEL, and Mr. KING of
New York):
H.R. 5337. A bill to amend the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act to provide assistance for com-
mon interest communities, condominiums,
and housing cooperatives damaged by a
major disaster, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
By Mr. MCCAUL (for himself and Mr.
ENGEL):
H.R. 5338. A bill to authorize the Secretary
of State to pursue public-private partner-
ships, innovative financing mechanisms, re-
search partnerships, and coordination with
international and multilateral organizations
to address childhood cancer globally, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs.
By Ms. SPANBERGER (for herself and
Mr. WITTMAN):
H.R. 5339. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to permit certain expenses
associated with obtaining or maintaining
recognized postsecondary credentials to be
treated as qualified higher education ex-
penses for purposes of 529 accounts; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. RUSH:
H.R. 5340. A bill to award posthumously a
Congressional Gold Medal to Hazel M. John-
son, in recognition of her achievements and
contributions to the environmental justice
movement; to the Committee on Financial
Services, and in addition to the Committee
on Foreign Affairs, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. RICE of South Carolina (for
himself, Mr. AMODEI, Mr. BANKS, Mr.
CALVERT, Mr. DUNCAN, Mr. FLORES,
Mr. GIANFORTE, Mr. HARRIS, Mrs.
HARTZLER, Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH, Mr.
KELLY of Mississippi, Mr. MARCHANT,
Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. MOONEY of West
Virginia, Mr. NORMAN, Mr. OLSON,
Mr. PALAZZO, Mr. PERRY, Mr.
ROUZER, Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Geor-
gia, Mr. STEWART, Mrs. WALORSKI,
Mr. YOHO, Mr. YOUNG, Mr. KING of
Iowa, Mr. BUDD, Mr. THOMPSON of
Pennsylvania, Mr. BROOKS of Ala-
bama, Mr. GIBBS, Mr. SMITH of Ne-
braska, and Mr. WEBER of Texas):
H.R. 5341. A bill to amend the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act with respect to
citizen suits and the specification of disposal
sites, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
By Mr. PASCRELL:
H.R. 5342. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow certain expenses of
first responders as an above-the-line deduc-
tion; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. RUSH:
H.R. 5343. A bill to provide for the issuance
of a commemorative postage stamp in honor
of Hazel M. Johnson, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. AGUILAR:
H.R. 5344. A bill to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to provide support to
State and local governments in their efforts
to counter violent extremist threats, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Home-
land Security.
By Mr. BUCK (for himself, Mr. COLLINS
of Georgia, and Mr. RATCLIFFE):
H.R. 5345. A bill to amend title 28, United
States Code, to prevent fraudulent joinder;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. CASTRO of Texas (for himself
and Ms. JAYAPAL):
H.R. 5346. A bill to require investigations
and reports regarding individuals who died in
the custody of certain Federal authorities,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
the Judiciary, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security, for a period to
be subsequently determined by the Speaker,
in each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. COX of California (for himself,
Mr. COSTA, Mr. HARDER of California,
and Mr. HUFFMAN):
H.R. 5347. A bill to require the Secretary of
the Interior to establish a grant program to
close gaps in access to safe drinking water in
disadvantaged communities, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources, and in addition to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. CROW (for himself and Mr.
BURCHETT):
H.R. 5348. A bill to require the Adminis-
trator of the Small Business Administration
to establish an Innovation Voucher Grant
Program; to the Committee on Small Busi-
ness.
By Ms. DELAURO (for herself, Ms. LEE
of California, Ms. FUDGE, Mrs. DIN-
GELL, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Ms. MOORE,
Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr. MEEKS,
Ms. TLAIB, Mr. SCHIFF, Ms. SPEIER,
Mr. RUSH, Mr. COHEN, Mr. CARSON of
Indiana, Mr. RYAN, Mr. BROWN of
Maryland, Ms. ESHOO, Mr. DEFAZIO,
Mr. KHANNA, Mr. WELCH, Mrs. TORRES
of California, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. NAD-
LER, Mr. TAKANO, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr.
GRIJALVA, Ms. OMAR, Ms. ADAMS, Ms.
WATERS, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr. LAN-
GEVIN, Mr. SCOTT of Virginia, Mr.
MCEACHIN, Mr. VEASEY, Mr. BISHOP of
Georgia, Mr. COSTA, Mr. STANTON,
Ms. BARRAGÁN, Ms. ESCOBAR, Mr.
TRONE, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr. LUJÁN,
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina, Mr. TED
LIEU of California, Ms. PINGREE, Mr.
COURTNEY, Mr. CASE, Ms. MENG, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. BEYER, Ms.
DELBENE, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. RICH-
MOND, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Ms. HAALAND,
Mr. LEWIS, Mr. SHERMAN, Mr.
DEUTCH, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. CÁRDENAS,
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mrs.
KIRKPATRICK, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms.
SEWELL of Alabama, Ms. SLOTKIN,
Mr. VAN DREW, Ms. WILD, Mr. PA-
NETTA, Mr. SERRANO, Ms. WILSON of
Florida, Mr. GALLEGO, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Ms.
SÁNCHEZ, Mrs. DAVIS of California,
Ms. BASS, Mr. CISNEROS, Ms. JACKSON
LEE, Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts,
Mr. COX of California, Mr. CLAY, Mr.
CLYBURN, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Ms.
PLASKETT, Ms. CLARKE of New York,
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr. GREEN
of Texas, Mr. PAYNE, Mr. THOMPSON
of Mississippi, Mr. LAWSON of Flor-
ida, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Mrs.
DEMINGS, Ms. WEXTON, Ms. KELLY of
Illinois, Mrs. HAYES, Mr. DELGADO,
Mr. EVANS, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. HAS-
TINGS, and Mr. KENNEDY):
H.R. 5349. A bill to prevent the changing of
regulations governing the provision of waiv-
ers under the supplemental nutrition assist-
ance program, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Agriculture.
By Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois (for himself,
Mrs. HAYES, Mr. TAKANO, Mr. GRI-
JALVA, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. KHANNA,
Mr. CISNEROS, Ms. SCANLON, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Ms. NORTON, Mr. RUSH,
Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mr. BISHOP of
Georgia, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. KENNEDY,
Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr. PANETTA, Mrs.
LURIA, Mr. SCHIFF, Ms. HAALAND, Mr.
CARSON of Indiana, Ms. ADAMS, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr.
COURTNEY, Ms. MENG, Mr. NADLER,
Ms. JUDY CHU of California, and Mr.
COHEN):
H.R. 5350. A bill to remove college cost as
a barrier to every student having access to a
well-prepared and diverse educator work-
force, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on the Budget, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. HIGGINS of New York (for him-
self and Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania):
H.R. 5351. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to exempt certain shipping
from the harbor maintenance tax; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. HORSFORD:
H.R. 5352. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to increased the above-the-
line deduction for certain expenses of ele-
mentary and secondary school teachers; to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. HOULAHAN (for herself and
Mr. MEADOWS):
H.R. 5353. A bill to establish a policy to
promote and maintain digital and software
development expertise in the workforce of
the Department of Defense; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
By Mr. HUFFMAN (for himself, Mr.
POCAN, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, and Mr. LOWENTHAL):
H.R. 5354. A bill to amend title 23, United
States Code, to require transportation plan-
ners to consider projects and strategies to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Trans-
portation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. NEGUSE (for himself, Ms.
BONAMICI, and Mr. CASTEN of Illinois):
H.R. 5355. A bill to amend the America
COMPETES Act to prevent political inter-
ference in the communication of scientific
research, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Science, Space, and Technology.
By Mr. NEGUSE:
H.R. 5356. A bill to amend the America
COMPETES Act to strengthen reporting re-
quirements relating to deficiencies in Fed-
eral research infrastructure, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Science,
Space, and Technology.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L06DE7.100 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9347
December 6, 2019
By Mr. PETERS:
H.R. 5357. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to authorize a pilot pro-
gram to develop, expand, and enhance the
commercialization of biomedical products,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee:
H.R. 5358. A bill to amend title 28, United
States Code, to expand the definition of
‘‘other institutions’’ for purposes of acquisi-
tion, preservation, and exchange of identi-
fication records and information, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. STIVERS (for himself, Miss
RICE of New York, Mr. KATKO, Ms.
SPANBERGER, and Ms. KENDRA S.
HORN of Oklahoma):
H.R. 5359. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to expand the exclusion for
employer-provided educational assistance
and to expand the availability of the student
loan interest deduction; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Ms. LEE of California:
H. Con. Res. 78. Concurrent resolution sup-
porting the goals and ideals of World AIDS
Day; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, and in addition to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Ms. JAYAPAL (for herself and Mr.
WATKINS):
H. Res. 745. A resolution urging the Repub-
lic of India to end the restrictions on com-
munications and mass detentions in Jammu
and Kashmir as swiftly as possible and pre-
serve religious freedom for all residents; to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. KIND (for himself, Mr.
SCHWEIKERT, Mr. BEYER, Mr. MARCH-
ANT, Ms. DELBENE, Mr. SMITH of Mis-
souri, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, and
Mr. ESTES):
H. Res. 746. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives that
the United States should reaffirm its com-
mitment as a member of the World Trade Or-
ganization (WTO) and work with other WTO
members to achieve reforms at the WTO that
improve the speed and predictability of dis-
pute settlement, address longstanding con-
cerns with the WTO’s Appellate Body, in-
crease transparency at the WTO, ensure that
WTO members invoke special and differen-
tial treatment reserved for developing coun-
tries only in fair and appropriate cir-
cumstances, and update the WTO rules to ad-
dress the needs of the United States and
other free and open economies in the 21st
century; to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN (for her-
self, Mr. TAKANO, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Ms. NORTON, Mr. LEWIS, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. MOORE, Ms.
PRESSLEY, Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr. PAYNE,
Mr. HORSFORD, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas,
Ms. FUDGE, Ms. BASS, Mr. BROWN of
Maryland, Ms. ADAMS, Ms. CLARKE of
New York, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. DANNY
K. DAVIS of Illinois, and Mr. POCAN):
H. Res. 747. A resolution acknowledging
that the War on Drugs has been a failed pol-
icy in achieving the goal of reducing drug
use, and for the House of Representatives to
apologize to the individuals and commu-
nities that were victimized by this policy; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
and in addition to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. STEWART:
H.R. 5331.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clauses 1, 3, and 18 of
the United States Constitution
By Mr. GOTTHEIMER:
H.R. 5332.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution
By Ms. DELBENE:
H.R. 5333.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. CARBAJAL:
H.R. 5334.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3 and Article I, Section
8
By Mr. TONKO:
H.R. 5335.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1. The Congress
shall have Power To lay and collect Taxes,
Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay the
Debts and provide for the common Defence
and general Welfare of the United States; but
all Duties, Imposts and Excises shall be uni-
form throughout the United States;
By Mr. FOSTER:
H.R. 5336.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clauses 1 and 18 of the United States Con-
stitution.
By Mr. NADLER:
H.R. 5337.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 18
By Mr. MCCAUL:
H.R. 5338.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution.
By Ms. SPANBERGER:
H.R. 5339.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. RUSH:
H.R. 5340.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. RICE of South Carolina:
H.R. 5341.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause I:
The Congress shall have Power to lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises,
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defense and general Welfare of the United
States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises
shall be uniform throughout the United
States.
By Mr. PASCRELL:
H.R. 5342.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to Article I, Section 8 of the
United States Constitution.
By Mr. RUSH:
H.R. 5343.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. AGUILAR:
H.R. 5344.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, section 8, clause 18 of the United
States Constitution
By Mr. BUCK:
H.R. 5345.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. CASTRO of Texas:
H.R. 5346.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Constitutional Authority—Necessary and
Proper Clause (Art. I, Sec. 8, Clause 18)
THE U.S. CONSTITUTION
ARTICLE I, SECTION 8: POWERS OF
CONGRESS
CLAUSE 18
The Congress shall have power . . . To
make all laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into execution the fore-
going powers, and all other powers vested by
this Constitution in the government of the
United States, or in any department or offi-
cer thereof.
By Mr. COX of California:
H.R. 5347.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. CROW:
H.R. 5348.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8—To regulate commerce
with foreign nations, and among the several
states, and with the Indian tribes;
By Ms. DELAURO:
H.R. 5349.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8; U.S. Constitution
By Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois:
H.R. 5350.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section VIII, Clause III
By Mr. HIGGINS of New York:
H.R. 5351.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8.
By Mr. HORSFORD:
H.R. 5352.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution of the United States
By Ms. HOULAHAN:
H.R. 5353.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. HUFFMAN:
H.R. 5354.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1: The Congress
shall have Power to lay and collect Taxes,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L06DE7.100 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9348 December 6, 2019
Duties, Impost and Excises; to pay the Debts
and provide for the common Defense and
general Welfare of the United States; but all
Duties, Imposts and Excises shall be uniform
throughout the United States.
By Mr. NEGUSE:
H.R. 5355.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. NEGUSE:
H.R. 5356.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. PETERS:
H.R. 5357.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee:
H.R. 5358.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. STIVERS:
H.R. 5359.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause I
The Congress shall have Power To lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises,
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises
shall be uniform throughout the United
States
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 3: Mrs. FLETCHER.
H.R. 94: Mr. SCHIFF.
H.R. 141: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 218: Mr. PENCE.
H.R. 369: Mr. GUEST.
H.R. 535: Mr. CÁRDENAS.
H.R. 587: Ms. ADAMS, Mr. ROSE of New
York, and Ms. GRANGER.
H.R. 640: Ms. JUDY CHU of California, Mr.
DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. HIGGINS of
New York, Mr. LARSON of Connecticut, Ms.
MOORE, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Mr. DEFA-
ZIO, Ms. KAPTUR, Mr. THOMPSON of Mis-
sissippi, and Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 763: Mr. VARGAS.
H.R. 784: Mr. NEWHOUSE.
H.R. 884: Mr. HUFFMAN and Mr. YARMUTH.
H.R. 912: Mr. HIMES, Ms. KAPTUR, Mr.
ENGEL, Mr. SERRANO, Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr.
KIM, Mr. MALINOWSKI, Mr. PAPPAS, and Mr.
THOMPSON of California.
H.R. 934: Mr. BEYER.
H.R. 943: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico, Ms. TLAIB, and Mr. SPANO.
H.R. 945: Ms. TLAIB.
H.R. 1002: Mrs. DINGELL and Mr. COX of
California.
H.R. 1043: Mr. BILIRAKIS and Mr. GUEST.
H.R. 1179: Mr. ROGERS of Alabama and Mr.
COOPER.
H.R. 1228: Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania and Mr. MCCAUL.
H.R. 1349: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 1367: Ms. PORTER and Mr. RUIZ.
H.R. 1379: Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana.
H.R. 1398: Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma
and Mr. SENSENBRENNER.
H.R. 1468: Mr. HECK.
H.R. 1507: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 1530: Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania and
Ms. FINKENAUER.
H.R. 1646: Ms. FINKENAUER.
H.R. 1652: Mr. CÁRDENAS.
H.R. 1692: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 1694: Mrs. DAVIS of California.
H.R. 1695: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 1766: Mr. LIPINSKI.
H.R. 1799: Mr. KATKO.
H.R. 1828: Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 1863: Mr. STANTON.
H.R. 1880: Mr. CARSON of Indiana.
H.R. 1923: Mr. YARMUTH, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas, Mrs. MURPHY of Florida, Mr. LAMB,
Mr. GOTTHEIMER, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, Mr.
CORREA, Mr. TONKO, and Mr. RUPPERS-
BERGER.
H.R. 1926: Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 1948: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 1970: Mr. LAMB.
H.R. 1973: Mr. FERGUSON.
H.R. 1975: Ms. WILD.
H.R. 1992: Mrs. AXNE and Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 2096: Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr. CASE, and
Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 2117: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 2144: Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio.
H.R. 2147: Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Ms. MENG,
Mr. VARGAS, Miss RICE of New York, Mrs.
MILLER, Mr. WOODALL, Mr. CLAY, and Mrs.
TORRES of California.
H.R. 2153: Mr. CUNNINGHAM, Mr. SUOZZI, and
Mr. MOULTON.
H.R. 2179: Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio.
H.R. 2213: Mr. RUTHERFORD and Mr. KIL-
MER.
H.R. 2219: Mr. RICE of South Carolina.
H.R. 2258: Mr. COMER.
H.R. 2279: Mr. GOSAR, Mr. LATTA, Ms. STE-
VENS, and Mr. COMER.
H.R. 2282: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire
and Mr. FERGUSON.
H.R. 2339: Mr. EVANS.
H.R. 2381: Mr. GUEST.
H.R. 2382: Mr. CALVERT and Mr. MOONEY of
West Virginia.
H.R. 2412: Mr. WENSTRUP.
H.R. 2435: Mrs. NAPOLITANO and Ms. UNDER-
WOOD.
H.R. 2481: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD and Mr.
ROY.
H.R. 2532: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 2541: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 2585: Mr. BEYER.
H.R. 2599: Mr. UPTON.
H.R. 2616: Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 2643: Mr. WITTMAN.
H.R. 2651: Mr. LAMB and Mr. JOYCE of Ohio.
H.R. 2694: Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania and Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 2698: Ms. FINKENAUER.
H.R. 2701: Mr. PAPPAS, Ms. HAALAND, Mr.
RASKIN, Mr. YARMUTH, and Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 2711: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 2720: Mr. YARMUTH and Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 2808: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 2815: Mrs. FLETCHER.
H.R. 2818: Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, Mr.
MALINOWSKI, and Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 2831: Mr. SCHRADER.
H.R. 2874: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mr.
TRONE, and Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 2881: Mr. CÁRDENAS and Mr. ROSE of
New York.
H.R. 2896: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 2918: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 2931: Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 2976: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 2985: Mr. MARCHANT, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Ohio, and Mrs. FLETCHER.
H.R. 3048: Ms. WILD.
H.R. 3077: Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia.
H.R. 3107: Mr. SMUCKER and Mr. GARCÍA of
Illinois.
H.R. 3114: Mr. SCOTT of Virginia and Mr.
MCNERNEY.
H.R. 3127: Mr. HIMES, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, and Mr. FERGUSON.
H.R. 3138: Mr. DELGADO.
H.R. 3159: Mr. HUIZENGA.
H.R. 3162: Mr. BERGMAN and Ms. KENDRA S.
HORN of Oklahoma.
H.R. 3197: Ms. SHALALA.
H.R. 3222: Mr. VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 3265: Mr. BEYER.
H.R. 3306: Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania.
H.R. 3349: Mrs. FLETCHER.
H.R. 3400: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 3414: Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 3502: Mrs. BEATTY and Ms. ADAMS.
H.R. 3522: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 3553: Mr. BEYER.
H.R. 3570: Ms. TLAIB.
H.R. 3584: Mr. BARR.
H.R. 3593: Ms. LOFGREN, Ms. MOORE, and
Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 3623: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 3657: Mr. TRONE and Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 3749: Ms. SHERRILL, Ms. HOULAHAN,
and Mr. KINZINGER.
H.R. 3760: Ms. SLOTKIN and Mrs. DAVIS of
California.
H.R. 3783: Mr. MCADAMS.
H.R. 3794: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 3798: Ms. GARCIA of Texas.
H.R. 3799: Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 3817: Ms. SHERRILL.
H.R. 3961: Mrs. LEE of Nevada and Mr. CON-
NOLLY.
H.R. 3969: Mr. BUCHANAN.
H.R. 3972: Mr. CLOUD and Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 4022: Mr. PAYNE.
H.R. 4069: Mr. FLEISCHMANN and Mrs. MIL-
LER.
H.R. 4077: Mr. ROSE of New York.
H.R. 4092: Mr. KINZINGER.
H.R. 4227: Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr. OLSON, Mrs.
AXNE, Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia, Ms.
WEXTON, Mrs. HARTZLER, Mr. AGUILAR, Mr.
STAUBER, Mr. BERGMAN, Mr. ROUDA, Ms.
SPANBERGER, Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico, Mr. COX of California, Ms. FINKENAUER,
Mr. KINZINGER, Mr. ALLEN, Mr. CARSON of In-
diana, Mr. SMITH of Missouri, Mr. DELGADO,
Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr. GRAVES of Missouri, Mr.
KELLER, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, and Mr. TIP-
TON.
H.R. 4229: Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana, Mr. BUR-
GESS, Mrs. HARTZLER, Mrs. AXNE, Mr. AUSTIN
SCOTT of Georgia, Ms. FINKENAUER, Ms.
WEXTON, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr. STAUBER,
Mr. AGUILAR, Mr. ROUDA, Mr. KELLER, Ms.
SPANBERGER, Mr. LARSEN of Washington, Ms.
TORRES SMALL of New Mexico, Mr. BERGMAN,
Mr. ALLEN, MR. CARSON of Indiana, Mr.
SMITH of Missouri, Mr. DELGADO, Mr. EMMER,
Mr. GRAVES of Missouri, Mr. THORNBERRY,
Mr. RIGGLEMAN, Mr. LUETKEMEYER, and Mr.
TIPTON.
H.R. 4230: Ms. HOULAHAN.
H.R. 4248: Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 4307: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 4348: Mr. PERLMUTTER and Mr.
DELGADO.
H.R. 4469: Mr. COX of California and Mr.
BALDERSON.
H.R. 4545: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois and Mr.
SHERMAN.
H.R. 4579: Ms. SHALALA and Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 4588: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 4589: Mrs. HARTZLER, Ms. SLOTKIN, and
Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia.
H.R. 4671: Mr. NORCROSS.
H.R. 4672: Ms. PELOSI and Mr. MCCARTHY.
H.R. 4680: Ms. JAYAPAL, Ms. BONAMICI, and
Mr. SCHIFF.
H.R. 4681: Mrs. KIRKPATRICK and Mr. CAL-
VERT.
H.R. 4701: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 4722: Ms. PORTER.
H.R. 4735: Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia,
Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. KELLER, and Mr. SMUCKER.
H.R. 4810: Mr. KINZINGER and Mrs. WAGNER.
H.R. 4817: Mr. BALDERSON and Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 4836: Mr. BEYER.
H.R. 4873: Mr. WENSTRUP, Mr. GALLEGO,
and Mr. MCGOVERN.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:25 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06DE7.011 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9349
December 6, 2019
H.R. 4899: Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 4901: Ms. NORTON and Ms. MENG.
H.R. 4903: Mr. EMMER, Mr. CRENSHAW, and
Mr. WENSTRUP.
H.R. 4920: Mr. KILMER and Ms. BROWNLEY of
California.
H.R. 4926: Mr. BEYER, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Ohio, and Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 4928: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 4932: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 4979: Mr. PETERSON, Mr. WITTMAN, Ms.
WEXTON, Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia, Mr.
PERLMUTTER, Mr. STAUBER, Mr. NEWHOUSE,
Mrs. AXNE, and Mr. DELGADO.
H.R. 4995: Mr. CUNNINGHAM.
H.R. 5028: Ms. MOORE.
H.R. 5046: Mrs. AXNE and Mr. SABLAN.
H.R. 5051: Mr. HILL of Arkansas.
H.R. 5102: Mr. ROONEY of Florida.
H.R. 5104: Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 5118: Mr. COHEN and Ms. JAYAPAL.
H.R. 5190: Ms. STEFANIK.
H.R. 5194: Mr. VARGAS and Ms. GABBARD.
H.R. 5213: Ms. KAPTUR, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr.
SCOTT of Virginia, and Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 5216: Mr. GALLEGO.
H.R. 5220: Mr. GOSAR and Mr. STEWART.
H.R. 5221: Mr. COX of California, Ms. KAP-
TUR, and Mr. RICHMOND.
H.R. 5225: Ms. KAPTUR.
H.R. 5230: Mrs. DEMINGS.
H.R. 5231: Mr. BLUMENAUER and Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 5243: Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 5248: Mr. BISHOP of Georgia.
H.R. 5267: Mr. KEATING.
H.R. 5288: Mr. LAHOOD.
H.R. 5297: Ms. FUDGE and Mr. GOSAR.
H.R. 5306: Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr.
DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. HIGGINS of
New York, Mr. RICE of South Carolina, and
Mr. REED.
H.R. 5319: Mr. CASE and Mr. LAMALFA.
H.R. 5328: Mr. GALLEGO and Mr. FOSTER.
H.J. Res. 2: Mr. PANETTA.
H. Con. Res. 10: Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio.
H. Res. 174: Mr. SPANO.
H. Res. 189: Mr. HUIZENGA.
H. Res. 223: Mr. WRIGHT.
H. Res. 452: Mr. RUSH.
H. Res. 527: Mr. CORREA.
H. Res. 538: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H. Res. 574: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi
and Mr. PANETTA.
H. Res. 688: Mr. COSTA, Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire, and Ms. JUDY CHU of California.
H. Res. 723: Mr. MCCAUL, Mr. NEGUSE, Ms.
BASS, Ms. DEAN, Ms. SCANLON, Mr.
BURCHETT, Mr. MALINOWSKI, Ms. SCHRIER,
Mr. PHILLIPS, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, and
Mrs. HAYES.
H. Res. 727: Mr. MEEKS, Ms. MENG, Ms.
FRANKEL, Mr. STIVERS, Mr. JOYCE of Ohio,
and Mr. COSTA.
H. Res. 742: Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr. RUSH, Ms.
LEE of California, and Mr. PANETTA.
H. Res. 743: Mr. HIMES, Mr. MOULTON, and
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H. Res. 744: Mr. GIANFORTE.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06DE7.019 H06DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1549
December 6, 2019
HONORING HAROLD WILLIAM
‘‘BUD’’ MARESKO
HON. PETER J. VISCLOSKY
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, December 6, 2019
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Speaker, it is with
deep sadness but great respect that I take this
time to remember one of Northwest Indiana’s
finest citizens, Mr. Harold William ‘‘Bud’’
Maresko, of Crown Point, who passed away
on October 17, 2019, at the age of 91. Mr.
Maresko’s military service to our nation and
his dedication to the community of Northwest
Indiana is noteworthy and admirable. While he
will be truly missed by his family and friends,
the impact he has had on his community will
live on for generations to come.
Harold William Maresko was born in East
Chicago, Indiana. He attended Tolleston High
School in Gary, Indiana, before joining the
United States Merchant Marine at the age of
seventeen. Serving during World War II, Bud
transported ammunitions, equipment, and sup-
plies to the Allied Forces on six different lib-
erty ships. Following his discharge in 1946,
Bud worked as a crane operator at US Steel
in Gary. In 1951, Bud was drafted into the
United States Army during the peak of the Ko-
rean War and the beginning of the Cold War.
He was stationed at Fort Monmouth, New Jer-
sey, where he received military communica-
tions training. In 1952, Bud was deployed to
Germany and was assigned to the 7th Army
(5th Corps), 816th Battalion, which was at-
tached to the 30th FA Group. The unit trained
at USAG Baumholder and was stationed in
Darmstadt. In 1953, Bud was discharged from
the United States Army. He went on to grad-
uate from Merrillville High School in 1965 and
then became a telephone repairman for AT&T,
where he worked for thirty-five years until his
retirement from his position of Repair Fore-
man. Post retirement, Bud worked for Gary
Methodist Hospitals as a Communications Di-
rector, overseeing the installation and mainte-
nance of the phone systems, a position he
held for ten years.
Bud is most remembered for his willingness
to lend a hand or his assistance with solving
a problem. He was also a devoted fisherman
who always owned a boat and loved to be on
the water. Harold was a loving husband, fa-
ther, grandfather, and friend. He is survived by
his wonderful wife, Grace, and their two be-
loved children, William A. Maresko and his
wife, Elizabeth, and Laura Ann Low and her
husband, Kevin, as well as two amazing
grandchildren. He also leaves to cherish his
memory many other dear family members and
friends, as well as a saddened but grateful
community.
Madam Speaker, I respectfully ask that you
and my other distinguished colleagues join me
in honoring Harold William ‘‘Bud’’ Maresko for
his outstanding service to the United States
military and for his devotion to the community
of Northwest Indiana and beyond. Bud’s life of
service is truly commendable, and he serves
as an inspiration to us all.
f
RECOGNIZING BUFFY SMITH OF
HELENA
HON. GREG GIANFORTE
OF MONTANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, December 6, 2019
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Buffy Smith of Helena for en-
couraging female students to study computer
science and for emphasizing the importance of
Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathe-
matics (STEM) education.
Buffy grew up in and graduated high school
in Gardiner. She then went to Carroll College
where she majored in English and minored in
Computer Science. Following her under-
graduate studies, she earned a secondary
high school teaching endorsement in computer
science. It was there she found her call to
teach.
As an educator for 27 years, Buffy is break-
ing down barriers, paving the way for female
and minority students to find their way into
computer science.
This year, Buffy received the National Edu-
cator Award from the National Center for
Women and Information Technology. The
award honors educators who encourage
underrepresented students to participate in
computer science. Buffy won statewide
awards in 2014, 2015, and 2017.
When Buffy began teaching, she thought
she would focus mostly on academics. Years
later, she came to believe the relationships
developed in the classroom are as critical.
With her commitment to her students and
her knowledge of computer science, Buffy has
created an all-inclusive approach to the sub-
ject. She prioritizes encouraging students to
work with others who have different views and
thus enhance the outcome of a project.
Buffy mentors’ girls in her class and encour-
ages them to explore computer science and
technology careers. She says, as with her
classroom, computer science and other STEM
fields can only improve with greater diver-
sification.
Madam Speaker, for her dedication to edu-
cating Montana students and for encouraging
more young people, particularly young women,
to study computer science and other STEM
fields, I recognize Buffy Smith of Helena for
her Spirit of Montana.
f
CONGRATULATING WASHOE RTC
CEO LEE GIBSON ON HIS RETIRE-
MENT
HON. MARK E. AMODEI
OF NEVADA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, December 6, 2019
Mr. AMODEI. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate Mr. Lee Gibson on his retire-
ment from the Washoe County Regional
Transportation Commission (RTC), where he
served as Chief Executive Officer since Sep-
tember 2009.
Having begun his career at Washoe RTC
during the height of the Great Recession, Mr.
Gibson immediately restructured the agency’s
transit service to cut costs, preserve service,
and build a stronger footing toward sustain-
ability.
With a career spanning 36 years, Mr. Gib-
son has become a recognized leader in the
transportation community, earning some of the
highest awards from the Nevada Chapter of
the American Planning Association (APA), in-
cluding the prestigious DeBoer Award for his
planning leadership in Nevada. Mr. Gibson
has also served on the American Public
Transportation Association’s (APTA) Board of
Directors, as Chairman of its Policy and Plan-
ning Committee, and as an APTA speaker on
performance-based planning.
During his tenure at the Washoe RTC, Mr.
Gibson’s organizational leadership, planning
policies, and innovative project delivery meth-
ods have successfully resulted in well over
$750 million of multimodal highway projects in
Washoe County, eventually leading the RTC
to earn a Silver-level of recognition from the
APTA’s Sustainability Program in August
2017.
Today, Washoe RTC’s transit service em-
ploys cutting-edge electric buses, customer
service information technologies, and is pre-
paring to expand service. Additionally, our re-
gion’s highway system supports connectivity
that has greatly improved the traveling public’s
accessibility to jobs, while offering new oppor-
tunities to move throughout the region.
Without a doubt, Mr. Gibson’s investment in
our community’s infrastructure projects have
significantly improved Nevadans’ ability to
travel more safely and efficiently.
On behalf of Nevada’s Second Congres-
sional District, I offer my sincerest appreciation
to Mr. Gibson for his service and wish him all
the best on his retirement.
f
HONORING DR. BENJAMIN BABST
FOR FORESTRY SCIENCE RE-
SEARCH AWARD
HON. BRUCE WESTERMAN
OF ARKANSAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, December 6, 2019
Mr. WESTERMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate Dr. Benjamin Babst on
receiving the 2019 Ouachita Society of Amer-
ican Forester’s Award for Forestry Science
Research.
Dr. Babst and his students at the University
of Arkansas at Monticello have spent the past
five years studying the impact of certain forest
management practices on the development of
ecosystems. This research includes a study
on environmental factors such as flooding or
contact with insect species which can influ-
ence the growth of the nation’s forests. The
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:05 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K06DE8.001 E06DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1550 December 6, 2019
development of this knowledge has also
served to influence more innovative forest
management practices.
His contribution is not limited to the sphere
of research, but also includes his commitment
to educating the young people of our district
and our state. As a fellow forester, it is a su-
preme encouragement to see the dedication of
Fourth District Arkansans like Dr. Babst to the
proper management and stewardship of our
nation’s forests. I take this time to commend
him on receiving this honor and to thank him
for his years of study and service.
f
TRIBUTE HONORING MAYOR
SAMUEL EUGENE MURRAY
HON. JAMES E. CLYBURN
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, December 6, 2019
Mr. CLYBURN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to pay tribute to an outstanding South
Carolinian, leader, public servant, and per-
sonal friend. Samuel Eugene Murray has ably
served as Mayor of Port Royal, South Carolina
for the past 24 years, and will be leaving office
at the end of 2019.
Mr. Murray is a native of Dorchester County
and received his Bachelor’s and Master’s de-
grees from South Carolina State University.
He continued his graduate studies at The Cita-
del, University of South Carolina, Appalachian
State and Harvard University.
Mr. Murray is an educator at heart and
served 16 years as a teacher in the Beaufort
Country School System. He rose to become
an elementary school principal for another 20
years. During his tenure as principal, Mr. Mur-
ray was the recipient of a $50,000 Science
Foundation Grant and was the only Principal
from South Carolina chosen to attend that
Summer’s Principal Institute at Harvard Uni-
versity.
He has always had a passion for public
service. Mr. Murray served on the Port Royal
Town Council for 17 years before becoming
mayor. During his tenure as mayor, he worked
to improve his city’s infrastructure with a new
town hall, police station, and fire station. He
also oversaw the city’s growth with the con-
struction of new health care centers, several
commercial buildings, numerous businesses,
apartment complexes, single family homes,
and fast food facilities. During his time in of-
fice, Port Royal’s population increased from
1,500 to approximately 13,600.
In addition, Mr. Murray has been a servant
leader in his community by mentoring a young
man with special needs for thirty years, serv-
ing as coach for the Neighborhood Youth Core
Baseball Team, and volunteering as a home-
builder for Habitat for Humanity. He is involved
in many organizations and has served in lead-
ership roles in several of them.
He is currently a board member of the Low
Country Blood Alliance and a member of the
South Carolina Black Mayors Association. He
has served on the Beaufort County Board of
Special Needs, the Board of the Municipal As-
sociation and the Reconstruction Era Com-
mittee that laid the foundation for what is now
the Reconstruction Era National Park.
Because of his tremendous service, Mr.
Murray has received numerous awards and
special recognitions. He was awarded the Life-
time Achievement CIVITAS Award for Busi-
ness excellence presented by the Beaufort
Chamber of Commerce, Congressman Joe
Wilson Second Congressional District Minority
Advisory Committee Award, and the Special
President’s Award by the Montford Point Ma-
rine Association.
Madam Speaker, I ask that you and my col-
leagues join me in offering congratulations and
sincere gratitude to Mayor Samuel Eugene
Murray for his unwavering service to his com-
munity. His extraordinary work has made a
great impact in the lives of the citizens of Port
Royal and I honor him for his selfless deeds
throughout his career.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF JONATHAN
DROPIEWSKI FOR A DISTIN-
GUISHED CAREER IN PUBLIC
SERVICE
HON. DEBBIE DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, December 6, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and honor the distin-
guished career of Jonathan Dropiewski as
Mayor of Flat Rock for nine years.
Jonathan Dropiewski has become a corner-
stone of the Flat Rock community. After re-
ceiving his B.S. from Georgetown University
and MBA from the University of Michigan’s
Ross School of Business, Dropiewski moved
to Flat Rock to begin a family with his wife,
Robin, in 2001. Together, the pair raised two
children, Nicholas and Alexander, who in-
spired Dropiewski to strive to ensure Flat Rock
remained a wonderful city for people to live,
work, and grow. In addition to his successful
career in business and technology, Dropiewski
set his sights on public service. In 2004,
Dropiewski was elected to serve as a City
Council member, and simultaneously served
as Mayor Pro-Tempore from 2006 to 2007. In
2010, Dropiewski was elected as Flat Rock’s
Mayor, a position he has held ever since.
Mayor Dropiewski began his tenure at a crit-
ical moment in Flat Rock’s history. Mayor
Dropiewski faced a significant budget cut cou-
pled with the worst financial crisis since the
1980s. Despite these challenges, Mayor
Dropiewski’s leadership and business exper-
tise led the city to incredible progress and in-
creased economic development, and his ef-
forts have been paramount in ensuring Flat
Rock continues to be a vibrant and welcoming
destination for businesses, families, young
professionals, and the like. Moreover, his lead-
ership has been widely recognized amongst
his colleagues and peers. On two occasions,
Dropiewski was elected by his fellow mayors
and supervisors to be the treasurer and chair-
man of the Downriver Community Conference.
Among a host of other awards and accolades,
Dropiewski was also recognized as a Crain’s
Detroit Business ‘‘40 Under 40’’ Leader, a De-
troit Rotary Club Citizen of the Month, and a
WWJ Citizen of the Week. Undoubtably,
Mayor Dropiewski is beloved, respected, and
appreciated by many, and he has left a mark
on the City of Flat Rock that will be remem-
bered forever. He started community events
that have brought people together and have
become traditions such as the Riverfest, Sum-
mer Blast, and Taste of Flat Rock.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring Jonathan Dropiewski for his
years of service to the Flat Rock community.
Flat Rock’s continued success can be attrib-
uted in no small part to Mayor Dropiewski’s
hard work, leadership, and dedication. We are
all grateful for his exemplary service and wish
him luck in his future endeavors.
f
RECOGNIZING THE RETIREMENT
OF WILLIAM ‘‘BILL’’ MOREAU, JR.
HON. ANDRÉ CARSON
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, December 6, 2019
Mr. CARSON of Indiana. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor William ‘‘Bill’’ Moreau, Jr.
who is retiring from Barnes and Thornburg
Law Firm. As a partner in the Firm’s Indianap-
olis and Washington, D.C. offices, Bill has
been named as one of ‘‘The Best Lawyers in
America’’ for his expertise in higher education
and government relations practices.
Bill has provided legal, tactical and fiduciary
guidance to a variety of post-secondary edu-
cation institutions including his undergraduate
alma mater. As a graduate of Purdue Univer-
sity, he proudly serves as a trustee. He is also
a member of the Indiana State University
President’s National Advisory Board and the
Board of Advisors of Indiana University-Pur-
due University Indianapolis, located in the
heart of my congressional district. Bill’s exper-
tise in higher education issues was instru-
mental in the development of Indiana’s com-
munity college system as a gubernatorial ap-
pointee to the Community College Policy
Committee.
Bill’s government relations practice has in-
cluded representation at all levels of govern-
ment over a broad array of issues. Bill is no
stranger to Capitol Hill, having worked in both
the House and Senate. He also served as
Chief of Staff to then-Indiana Secretary of
State, Evan Bayh.
For his extensive and passionate work, he
has won numerous awards, including being
named Master Fellow of the Indiana Bar Foun-
dation. He also received the 2017 Leadership
in Law Distinguished Barristers Award from
The Indiana Lawyer and, in 2015, he was
Barnes and Thornburg’s winner of the Joseph
A. Marley Pro Bono Award. As an advocate
and engaged citizen, Bill has dedicated his ef-
forts to promote civic literacy and engagement
and has worked to reduce homelessness in
Indianapolis. He led our community in the ef-
fort to create the Blueprint to End Homeless-
ness, which is still hailed as a national model.
His ongoing support of this priority includes an
annual fellowship funded by Bill and his wife,
Ann, to support a graduate student training
program to advocate for those impacted by
homelessness.
I am proud to call Bill Moreau a friend and
advisor, and I’m incredibly grateful for his sup-
port and counsel through the years. His pas-
sionate work on behalf of all Hoosiers shows
that he truly understands the meaning of com-
munity, and I applaud him for his efforts to im-
prove ours. I have no doubt that he will con-
tinue to make a big impact in his next chapter,
and I wish him all the best in his retirement.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:05 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K06DE8.004 E06DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1551
December 6, 2019
IN MEMORY OF CATHY THOMAS
HON. JOE COURTNEY
OF CONNECTICUT
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, December 6, 2019
Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Speaker, I rise to
observe and mourn the passing of one of the
pillars of civic life in the Northeastern Corner
of the state of Connecticut, Cathy Thomas.
Sadly, Cathy passed away on November 26,
2019 surrounded by family and friends at Day
Kimball Hospital in Putnam, Connecticut.
Madam Speaker, Cathy served for 40 years
as the Chair of the Thompson Democratic
Town Committee—a record that I am con-
fident will never be broken. In that role, Cathy
supported hundreds and hundreds of can-
didates for town, state and federal office, gen-
erously volunteering her time to the nuts and
bolts of campaigns—organizing conventions,
lining up delegates, filing the critical paperwork
to ensure ballot access and most of all, giving
wise, common sense counsel to public officials
about what the important issues were and how
to talk about them, and address them. Forty
years ago, Cathy was a pioneer political lead-
er paving the way for women to occupy posi-
tions of power. Over time, the respect she gar-
nered with her quiet, steely manner became
an inspiration for other women to succeed in
public office. It was truly fitting that she was
awarded the 2019 Ella Grasso Women’s
Leadership Award this year. This is a special
honor reserved to an elite group of Women in
Connecticut named after the first woman in
America to be elected the governor of a state
in her own right. I personally experienced and
benefitted from Cathy’s dedicated work during
all my campaigns for Congress. I will be for-
ever grateful to her for her unstinting, unselfish
help.
Her life was not solely defined by politics
and government. Cathy grew up in Thompson
and attended Annhurst College and Nichols
College where she received her degree in ac-
counting. She worked as an accountant for
many years at Davis publications in Worces-
ter, Massachusetts. She was close to her
brother Paul LaRoche of North Grosvenordale
and had many friends in town with whom she
enjoyed going to concerts, the beach, and
Kittery, Maine. She was also an avid New
York Yankees fan, living in an area that leans
in favor of the Red Sox. Nonetheless, she rev-
eled in the rivalry.
Cathy’s passing is a big loss for North-
eastern Connecticut and was felt far and wide
by all who knew her and will miss her. Madam
Speaker, I ask the House to please join me in
expressing our deepest condolences to her
family and friends.
f
HONORING MR. FELIPE ‘TRES’
BARRERA
HON. VICENTE GONZALEZ
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, December 6, 2019
Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to honor Mr. Felipe ‘Tres’ Barrera,
a member of the Washington Nationals 2019
World Series Champions and a Rio Grande
Valley Native.
Tres Barrera is an incredibly talented pro-
fessional baseball catcher for the Washington
Nationals. He was born in Eagle Pass, Texas,
and moved to the Rio Grande Valley when he
was 10 years old. Tres played on the baseball
team for Hidalgo High School his freshman
year, winning the District 32–3A Most Valuable
Player award, before transferring to Sharyland
High School. At Sharyland High School, Tres
played football and baseball, and quickly be-
came a standout athlete and student. He was
selected to two all-state teams, and won the
30–5A Most Valuable Player and the All-Valley
Player of the Year as a senior. His batting av-
erage was an astonishing .452, hitting 22
home runs during his time at Sharyland High
School.
Tres’ incredible work ethic, determination,
and sheer talent earned him a spot on the re-
nowned baseball team for the University of
Texas at Austin. As a freshman, Tres was the
team’s starting catcher, won the 2014 College
Home Run Derby, and led Texas to the Col-
lege World Series. His achievements contin-
ued on.
During his sophomore year, Tres was a vital
part of the University of Texas’ Big 12 cham-
pionship team, while adding his name to the
All-Big 12 second team. In his junior year
campaign, Tres earned the 2016 Academic
All-Big 12 baseball honors and was named an
All-Big 12 honorable mention. He left Texas
after his junior year to join the minor leagues,
but only after walking away with 20 home runs
and 106 runs batted in (RBIs) for the Univer-
sity of Texas at Austin.
Tres Barrera’s hard work and dedication
continued for the next three years as he
played for a number of minor league teams
before being called up to the Major League
Baseball, MLB, on September 8, 2019, for the
Washington Nationals. Being a member of the
Nationals, Tres participated in one of the most
unlikely runs in the history of professional
baseball.
The Nationals’ record through 50 games
was a poor 19 wins and 31 losses before they
won 74 of their next 122 games. This secured
the Nationals a wild-card spot in the
postseason. The Nationals continued their un-
likely playoff run until the very end, where they
beat the Houston Astros in seven games, win-
ning the World Series on October 30, 2019.
On that day, Tres earned himself the coveted
World Series ring.
Madam Speaker, Mr. Tres Barrera worked
tirelessly to prove that with determination, will
power, and commitment, we can accomplish
anything we set ourselves to do in life. Tres
made history, gave young people across our
country the hope to achieve anything they set
their mind to and for that I stand here today
to recognize him. He is a proud son of South
Texas and the Rio Grande Valley, and we ap-
preciate him for his work and dedication to the
Washington Nationals.
f
TRIBUTE TO THE HEROIC ACTIONS
OF FAIRPLAY, PARK COUNTY,
COLORADO
HON. JOE NEGUSE
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, December 6, 2019
Mr. NEGUSE. Madam Speaker, each and
every day, across America our fellow commu-
nity members find opportunities to be of serv-
ice to one another. These small acts of her-
oism, pinnacles of our values and ideals as
Americans, are far too frequently lost in the ra-
pidity of our society.
I would like to take a moment to draw atten-
tion to one of those small acts of heroism in
the town of Fairplay in Park County, Colorado.
In a small mountain town of just 762 people,
nearly 750 people were stranded last Friday
and Saturday after snow, wind, and low visi-
bility made travel impossible. At the height of
the post-Thanksgiving travel rush, with their
town’s limited shelter resources strained to
breaking, the people of Fairplay jumped to ac-
tion to ensure safety and comfort for all those
who could not continue their travels. Hotel op-
erators housed people in every space pos-
sible; churches opened their stores of food to
ensure no one went hungry; neighbors went
door-to-door to gather blankets and supplies;
transportation authorities brought vehicles
abandoned on the highways to the town and
reconnected drivers to their cars. In the end,
everyone remained safe and sheltered. This is
the type of hospitality and generosity that
makes Park County and Colorado such an in-
credible place.
This year I am grateful for citizens like these
in Park County, and throughout our nation,
who remind us during this holiday season of
the essential goodness of people.
f
THANKING LC ‘‘BUCKSHOT’’ SMITH
FOR HIS 56 YEARS OF LAW EN-
FORCEMENT SERVICE
HON. BRUCE WESTERMAN
OF ARKANSAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, December 6, 2019
Mr. WESTERMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and extend my gratitude to
Mr. LC ‘‘Buckshot’’ Smith of Camden, Arkan-
sas.
Officer Smith has spent a lifetime in law en-
forcement. His career spans over five decades
in the Fourth District of Arkansas. Having
spent 46 of those years with the Ouachita
County Sheriff’s Department, he officially re-
tired in September 2010. However, after only
a few short months in retirement, he decided
to return to the Camden Police Department. At
the age of 90 years old, he is still serving the
community after 56 years of service.
President George H.W. Bush said, ‘‘Public
service is a noble calling.’’ Officer Smith has
answered this call to service everyday as a
police officer, church deacon, and community
member for decades. The Ouachita County
and Camden communities can attest to the
exemplary character and dedication to service
found in Officer Smith.
I’m proud to know of the lifelong commit-
ment to service men like Officer ‘‘Buckshot
Smith’’ have. His life serves as a powerful re-
minder of what an impact a lifetime of service
can have on our communities. I take this time
to thank him for the decades he has given to
the Fourth District of Arkansas and for the ex-
ample he has provided for generations of
Americans to come.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:05 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A06DE8.004 E06DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1552 December 6, 2019
IN RECOGNITION OF MARY ZATINA
FOR HER DISTINGUISHED CAREER
HON. DEBBIE DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, December 6, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Mary Zatina and recognize her
years of distinguished service with Beaumont
Health.
Mary Zatina was the Senior Vice President
of Government Relations and Community Af-
fairs at Beaumont Health. In this role, Zatina
advanced Beaumont and Oakwood
Healthcare’s relationship with government
leaders, significantly improving the well-being
of patients community-wide. Zatina joined
Oakwood from the Office of the Governor,
where she served as an advisor to Governor
Jennifer M. Granholm and chief of staff to First
Gentleman Daniel Granholm Mulhern. Prior to
her career in the state government, Zatina
was the Senior Vice President and Director of
Corporate Communications and Strategy at
Campbell-Ewald and Director of Corporate
Communications for the MichCon/MCN Energy
Group.
Throughout all her professional endeavors,
Mary Zatina has been recognized as a dy-
namic, accomplished, and effective leader who
strives to effect meaningful and lasting
change. She has used all her experiences to
enhance Beaumont’s partnerships with local,
state, and national officials, chambers of com-
merce, and community leaders at all levels,
enabling Beaumont to strengthen its outreach
and expand its services. Beyond this, Zatina
has also been an active member of her local
Michigan community. She is a member of the
American Arab Chamber of Commerce, the
Michigan Fitness Foundation Board of Direc-
tors, the Southwest Solutions Board and De-
velopment Committee of the Greening of the
Detroit, and serves on the Citizens Advisory
Committee for the University of Michigan-
Dearborn. In addition, she was a founding
member of the Arab-American Women’s Busi-
ness Council and the Chicago Boulevard East
Block Club. Zatina’s work has earned her
widespread acclaim, evident in her designation
as a Fall 2017 Arab American Business
Woman of the Year and a Crain’s Detroit Busi-
ness ‘‘40 Under 40’’ Honoree.
Still, Mary Zatina’s accomplishments and
accolades only scratch the surface. Put sim-
ply, Zatina is a good person with a kind heart.
Despite her busy life, she is dedicated to up-
lifting everyone she encounters and is always
willing to lend a helping hand. Zatina is known
amongst her friends, family, and colleagues as
an accomplished chef, master gardener, and
friend who will always do the right thing. More-
over, she is a creative hostess who is wel-
coming of all, whether it be at spontaneous
gathering or one of her famous annual parties.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in recognizing Mary Zatina for her accom-
plished career at Beaumont Health. We deeply
appreciate her dedication to improving the
lives of others and wish her the best of luck
in her future endeavors.
PARTISAN IMPEACHMENT
PROCEEDINGS
HON. JOE WILSON
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, December 6, 2019
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Madam
Speaker, even before President Donald Trump
was elected, Democrats have been scraping
for any excuse, threatening impeachment to
overturn the election results. It is shameful
that House Democrats are wasting time and
money, over $30 million dollars, on this Im-
peachment Hoax instead of fixing trade deals,
funding our military, and addressing issues
that create jobs.
House Speaker NANCY PELOSI continues to
move forward with these warrantless attacks
which undermine the results of the last elec-
tion, nullifying 63 million votes. House Demo-
crats should stop misleading the American
public and work for those who put them in of-
fice. This partisan witch hunt diverts attention
from the President’s successes.
The lives of Americans have truly changed
for the better under President Trump. The un-
employment rate has it record lows, wages
have continued to increase, and there is
record job creation, showing that President
Trump keeps his promises.
In conclusion, God Bless our Troops, and
we will never forget September 11th in the
Global War on Terrorism.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE DIVERSI-
FYING BY INVESTING IN EDU-
CATORS AND STUDENTS TO IM-
PROVE OUTCOMES FOR YOUTH
ACT
HON. JESÚS G. ‘‘CHUY’’ GARCÍA
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, December 6, 2019
Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to support the Diversifying by In-
vesting in Educators and Students to Improve
outcomes For Youth (DIVERSIFY) Act.
It should be a guarantee that all students in
our country are taught by expert teachers and
attend schools where the teacher workforce
reflects our nation’s rich diversity.
However, research tells us that while people
of color comprise 40 percent of our nations’
population and majority of our public school
students, only 20 percent of all teachers are
people of color.
One of the barriers to a well-prepared and
diverse teacher workforce is the high cost of
college and student loan debt.
High quality teacher preparation is also
more likely to be financially out of reach for
students of color, while the high cost of col-
lege and increasing student loan debt burdens
hits students of color especially hard as they
are more likely to come from families that are
unable to contribute financially to their higher
education.
These facts come at a time when college af-
fordability has reached crisis levels.
Today, more than two-thirds of individuals
entering the field of education borrow money
to pay for their higher education, resulting in
an average debt of about $20,000 for those
with a bachelor’s degree and $50,000 for
those with a master’s degree.
Our nation’s service scholarship for teach-
ers—The TEACH Grant Program—has not in-
creased to keep up with the rising cost of col-
lege.
While college cost have increased, the
TEACH Grant has been cut each year for
most of its existence.
Failing to protect and increase the TEACH
Grant limits the program’s potential to support
high needs schools in ensuring that all stu-
dents are taught by a well-prepared and di-
verse educator workforce.
I urge this body to pass this bill.
f
CONGRATULATING REV. JESSE
TURNER IN RECOGNITION OF HIS
DISTINGUISHED SERVICE
HON. BRUCE WESTERMAN
OF ARKANSAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, December 6, 2019
Mr. WESTERMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate Rev. Jesse Turner of
Pine Bluff on his recent selection to receive
the Distinguished Service Award on behalf of
the 400 Years of African American History
Commission.
This award is given to those who have
made a lasting commitment to community
service and work to commemorate the con-
tributions of African Americans to our nation’s
history. Rev. Turner easily fits this description
and is well deserving of this honor by the
commission due to the profound impact he
has had in his community.
As the pastor of the historic Elm Grove Bap-
tist Church, Rev. Turner’s commitment to serv-
ice has touched the lives of individuals across
the country. The City of Pine Bluff issued a
proclamation in his honor, highlighting his dec-
ades of work promoting African American his-
tory in the State of Arkansas and the impacts
it has had on the people in his community.
I’m proud to know of men like Rev. Jesse
Turner and the commitment he has dem-
onstrated to public service over his lifetime.
His is a life well lived and truly is part of ‘‘The
Distinguished 400.’’
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF MARIE
GREENWOOD
HON. JOE NEGUSE
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, December 6, 2019
Mr. NEGUSE. Madam Speaker, each and
every day we must honor the legacy of those
who came before us; those who dedicated
their lives to promoting freedom and forging
the path on which all future generations walk.
Today, I wish to honor the life and work of
Ms. Marie Greenwood whose long and full life
was devoted to creating a more equitable and
just society for countless Coloradans. Marie
passed away on November 18th at 106 years
old.
As one of the first Black teachers to be
hired by Denver Public Schools in Colorado,
Marie spent her entire teaching career fighting
segregation and uplifting students through one
simple creed: every child can learn.
A first-grade teacher for 30 years, Marie
guided educators throughout her long and il-
lustrious career in the importance of early lit-
eracy programs. ‘‘Teaching first grade was the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:05 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A06DE8.007 E06DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1553
December 6, 2019
joy of my life,’’ she once said, ‘‘I believe it is
there that one lays the beginning of a sound
education foundation upon which a child can
continue to learn successfully.’’
Marie continued her passion for literacy by
participating in the Each One Teach One pro-
gram which aims to improve early literacy by
building vocabulary through hands-on commu-
nity projects. This program allows students to
contribute to their communities while building
topical vocabulary.
To Marie’s four children, to her entire family,
and to all those who loved and admired her,
I share my condolences and my gratitude for
the exceptional dedication and progress made
possible by Marie’s life and work.
f
TRIBUTE HONORING VICTORIA
BARNES ANDERSON
HON. JAMES E. CLYBURN
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, December 6, 2019
Mr. CLYBURN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to pay tribute and wish a happy birthday
to a Centenarian and constituent who serves
as an example for how we all might live to see
100 years of life. Mrs. Victoria Barnes Ander-
son is celebrating this remarkable milestone
on December 23, 2019, an added blessing
during our nation’s most joyous season.
The daughter of a foreman, Mrs. Anderson
grew up on a sharecropper’s farm in Pineville,
South Carolina, and was the fifth of eight chil-
dren born to parents, William and Mariah
Barnes. She attended Barhill Elementary
School and later Dubass in Bonneau. She was
forced to quit school in the sixth grade when
the bus service stopped. However, she later
went back to school at night so she could help
her children with their homework.
She was married to the late James Ander-
son, and the couple was blessed with eight
children. To support the family, she was a do-
mestic worker earning just $5 to $10 per day.
The family did not have much, but never went
without. The Andersons were able to put three
children through college, an accomplishment
she attributes to the Grace of God.
Since she was a young child, Mrs. Ander-
son has had a great faith. She attended Sun-
day School and church at the Good Shepherd
Reformed Episcopal Church until her mar-
riage, when she joined Bethel United Meth-
odist Church. She has been a member there
for 81 years, participating in many ministries:
Junior and Senior Choir, Vice President and
President of United Women, Women’s Day
Program Chairperson, Prayer Band Member,
and Harvest Day Program Co-Founder. Mrs.
Anderson frequently says, ‘‘I’ve been serving
the Lord a long, long time, and I’m not tired
yet.’’
During her more active days, Mrs. Anderson
had a number of hobbies such as gardening,
canning, and cooking. She still cooks from
time to time with family assistance. Mrs. An-
derson enjoys singing and her favorite song is
‘‘Your Grace and Mercy.’’ As a devout Chris-
tian, Mrs. Anderson’s favorite book is the
Bible, and her favorite scripture is Psalm 27,
‘‘The Lord is my light and my salvation, whom
shall I fear?’’
Mrs. Anderson has lived through six wars
and 18 presidents. She says the proudest mo-
ment in her life was witnessing the election of
President Barack Obama. Mrs. Anderson
never imagined she would see the election of
the first African American President of the
United States of America. Her response was
simply, ‘‘Look at God.’’
In addition to her 8 children, she has 30
grandchildren, 68 great-grandchildren, and 49
great-great-grandchildren who love and cher-
ish her.
Madam Speaker, I ask that you and my col-
leagues join me in offering congratulations and
a special happy 100th birthday to Victoria
Barnes Anderson. Her longevity has set an
example for all of us and inspires us to per-
severe no matter the circumstances. I am
pleased to honor her for her lifelong devotion
to faith and family.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JOE CUNNINGHAM
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, December 6, 2019
Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Madam Speaker, on
December 5, 2019, I was not recorded on Roll
Call Vote No. 651 on H. Res. 741, providing
for consideration of the bill (H.R. 4) Voting
Rights Advancement Act and providing for
consideration of the resolution (H. Res. 326)
expressing the sense of the House of Rep-
resentatives regarding United States efforts to
resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict through
a negotiated two-state solution. I would have
voted Aye.
f
IN HONOR OF THE 50TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE MONTGOMERY
FIRE DEPARTMENT
HON. KEVIN BRADY
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, December 6, 2019
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, today I rise in
celebration ofthe 50th Anniversary of the
Montgomery Fire Department in Montgomery,
Texas.
From its inception in February of 1969, the
Montgomery Fire Department has protected
and served the entire Montgomery area—ap-
proximately 232 square miles—in the Eighth
District of Texas, including the Cities of Mont-
gomery, Dobbin, Walden, and Bentwater. This
area was originally covered by two fire depart-
ments, the Montgomery and the Walden Vol-
unteer Fire Departments but the two merged
in 1982 to keep up with the growing popu-
lation of the county.
As more and more people came into the
area, more fire stations were built in Walden,
Cape Conroe, the City of Dobbin, and Mont-
gomery. In1989, in response to growing de-
mand for their services, the Montgomery Fire
Department hired its first full time firefighter,
and in 2001 they opened another station in
Bentwater that housed both volunteer and full-
time firefighters.
Today, the Montgomery Fire Department
has five manned stations and an administra-
tive building. Their full staff includes a Fire
Chief, four Battalion Chiefs, 51 full-time fire-
fighters, and 25 part-time or volunteer fire-
fighters.
The Montgomery County Fire Department
employs the use of three booster trucks, five
pumpers, three tankers, and one All-Terrain-
Vehicle. This equipment allows the fire depart-
ment to respond to fires, car accidents, and
any other emergency or natural disaster in
Montgomery County.
Under the leadership of Fire Chief Brian
Edwards, the fire department serves Mont-
gomery County by offering not only protection
from fires and other emergencies, but edu-
cation and prevention. It’s incredible to see
just how much they’ve grown these past 50
years.
I would like to thank the Montgomery Fire
Department for half a century of service, and
congratulate them on a job well-done. The en-
tirety of Montgomery County is grateful for
their service and keeping our community safe.
Congratulations on 50 prosperous years, and
we look forward to 50 more.
f
COMMEMORATION OF THE 90TH
ANNIVERSARY OF THE DAUGH-
TERS OF PENELOPE
HON. GUS M. BILIRAKIS
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, December 6, 2019
Mr. BILIRAKIS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to mark an important anniversary. Last
month, the Daughters of Penelope, an inter-
national woman’s organization and affiliate or-
ganization of the American Hellenic Edu-
cational Progressive Association (AHEPA),
celebrated its 90th anniversary on November
16. Founded in San Francisco, the Daughters
of Penelope originally worked to improve the
status and well-being of women and their fam-
ilies. They also sought to provide women with
the opportunity to make significant contribu-
tions to their communities and country. After
successfully achieving many of their early
goals, the Daughters of Penelope now pro-
mote the ideals of ancient Greece: philan-
thropy, education, civic responsibility, and fam-
ily and individual excellence, achieved through
community service and volunteerism.
I am a proud Greek-American. As a young
boy, my grandparents, parents, aunts and un-
cles instilled in me an appreciation for our
beautiful Greek culture, which focuses on fam-
ily, community, and faith. As Co-Chairman of
the Congressional Caucus on Hellenic Issues,
it is with great pride that I see these values
shine through the Daughters of Penelope
today, across all its 250 chapters worldwide.
Through the exceptional Penelope House in
Mobile, Alabama and Penelope’s Place in
Brockton, Massachusetts, the organization vig-
orously supports efforts to combat domestic vi-
olence in Greece as well as the United States.
The development of these shelters brought re-
newed hope to many areas with suffering fam-
ilies who previously did not have access to the
same level of care.
As a member on the Health Subcommittee
of the Energy and Commerce Committee, I
am impressed with the organization’s efforts to
provide financial support and raise awareness
for medical research on treatments for breast
cancer, Thalassemia (Cooley’s anemia), mus-
cular dystrophy, and Alzheimer’s disease. The
Daughters of Penelope are also a leading
sponsor of the U.S. Department of Housing
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:05 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A06DE8.010 E06DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1554 December 6, 2019
and Urban Development’s Section 202 Hous-
ing for the Elderly Program, which offers af-
fordable housing to senior citizens in Alabama,
Indiana, Iowa, Massachusetts, Minnesota and
Texas. Recently, the Daughters of Penelope
has also demonstrated support for senior nu-
trition and isolation with support for Meals on
Wheels of America.
In addition to helping the elderly, the Daugh-
ters of Penelope Foundation, Inc., supports
the educational objectives of the Daughters of
Penelope by providing tens of thousands of
dollars annually for scholarships, sponsoring
educational seminars, and donating children’s
books to schools, shelters and churches
through the ‘‘Penelope’s Books’’ program.
After ninety meaningful and productive years,
it excites me to see what the Daughters of Pe-
nelope will accomplish and how they will help
our country and our culture in the next ninety
years.
f
HONORING ROGER E. HEDGEPETH
HON. H. MORGAN GRIFFITH
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, December 6, 2019
Mr. GRIFFITH. Madam Speaker, I offer
these remarks in honor of Roger E.
Hedgepeth, one of the longest-serving mayors
of Blacksburg, Virginia and a professor at Vir-
ginia Tech in that town, who died on Novem-
ber 12, 2019 at the age of 89.
Born in Norfolk, Virginia, on January 17,
1930, Roger E. Hedgepeth went to Maury
High School and then graduated from Virginia
Tech, where he received a degree in mechan-
ical engineering. Following graduation, Mr.
Hedgepeth served in the Armed Forces during
the Korean War. Mr. Hedgepeth returned to
Virginia Tech after serving his country and re-
ceived a master’s degree in mechanical engi-
neering.
He married Jenny in 1956. They would re-
main happily married for 55 years until her
death.
Mr. Hedgepeth used the education from his
two degrees in mechanical engineering to
teach students at Virginia Tech for 38 years.
As a resident of Blacksburg while teaching
at Virginia Tech, he was active in his commu-
nity and decided to make the leap to elected
office. After two years of serving on the
Blacksburg Town Council, Mr. Hedgepeth be-
came mayor. Mr. Hedgepeth served in that
position for 24 years, the second-longest ten-
ure in Blacksburg’s history.
As mayor, Mr. Hedgepeth was respected by
his colleagues in government as well as his
constituents. The relationship between
Blacksburg and Virginia Tech during his ten-
ure was so cordial that representatives from
other college towns around the country would
come to study their success.
Virginia Tech and the town of Blacksburg
were fortunate to have this leader and educa-
tor in the community. Mr. Hedgepeth is sur-
vived by his children Natalie and Michael and
grandchildren, Taylor and Austin of Bristol, Vir-
ginia, and Risher and Azat of Blacksburg. I
offer my condolences to the Hedgepeth family
on their loss.
RECOGNIZING THE 11TH ANNUAL
FAMILY CHRISTMAS EXTRAVA-
GANZA
HON. BILL POSEY
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, December 6, 2019
Mr. POSEY. Madam Speaker, on December
21, 2019, Brevard County families, businesses
and local community organizations will gather
to celebrate the 11th Annual Family Christmas
Extravaganza. Having become one of the larg-
est Christmas celebrations on the Space
Coast, this year’s event will be bigger and bet-
ter than ever, promising a place for family and
friends to partake in a wide variety of holiday
festivities to get them in the Christmas spirit.
This year’s event will take place at Fred
Poppe Regional Park in Palm Bay from 11
am–4:30 pm and will be completely free of
charge thanks to over 80 local businesses and
organizations that came together to donate
food, gift certificates and equipment. Because
of their generous contributions, families will be
able to enjoy cotton candy, hotdogs, snow
cones, bouncy houses, ride horses and trains
and even go rock climbing.
Hosting the event will be Eddie Anthony
Izquierdo as ‘‘Eddie Frost’’ and Ahriel Brown
as ‘‘Arctic Ahriel,’’ who will engage families
with Christmas singalongs, short skits, and
giveaways. A variety of exclusive perform-
ances will follow by Grammy Award-winning
bassist Trae Pierce and the T-Stones, Chagy
the Clown and the acrobats of Cirque Adven-
ture.
The House of Palm Bay, City of Palm Bay
Parks and Recreation along with several com-
munity business partners such as Thrifty Spe-
cialty Produce, Chick-Fil-A, Gator Automotive
and Edible Arrangements are just among the
few names of many we have to thank for pro-
viding the venue and resources to make the
celebration unforgettable.
Senior Pastor Ken Delgado of the House at
Palm Bay said in anticipation of the event,
‘‘With today’s news being filled with division,
contention and expressions of hatred, it is ex-
citing to see the City of Palm Bay, along with
its businesses and citizens, create an event
where love, joy and peace is expressed. The
Family Christmas Extravaganza is the greatest
expression that so many people yearn for and
is what the angels proclaimed at the birth of
Jesus saying, ‘Peace and good will towards all
men.’ ’’
The City of Palm Bay issued a proclamation
in support for this year’s celebration, pro-
claiming December 21, 2019 Family Christmas
Extravaganza Day.
The spirit ofthe holidays is all about giving
and spending time with loved ones. This
year’s Extravaganza brings our community to-
gether to remind us of that.
I ask my colleagues to join me in saluting all
those who are doing their part to spread the
Christmas spirit this holiday season and those
who have worked so hard to make the Annual
Family Christmas Extravaganza possible.
DECEMBER VETERAN OF THE
MONTH
HON. KEVIN HERN
OF OKLAHOMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, December 6, 2019
Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma. Madam
Speaker, I rise to honor the American heroes
who nobly defended our nation, and those
who lost their lives in the name of that cause,
during the surprise attack on Pearl Harbor on
December 7, 1941.
With the 78th anniversary of the infamous
attack on Pearl Harbor approaching, I cannot
think of a better time to take pause and to re-
member those Americans who courageously
jumped into action upon seeing enemy air-
planes overhead. In what would remain the
deadliest foreign attack on American soil for
60 years until the devastating events of Sep-
tember 11, 2001, 2,335 American servicemen
were killed that day and an additional 1,143
were wounded. In an effort to cripple Amer-
ica’s naval might, the Japanese destroyed or
damaged 19 United States Navy ships, includ-
ing eight battleships during the attack. In spite
of their best efforts, the Japanese could not
defeat American resolve and although our na-
tion was wounded, as the world would later
learn, the Japanese had simply awoken a
sleeping giant.
As time marches on and we lose more and
more members of America’s Greatest Genera-
tion, I am proud to recognize Arles Cole.
Quartermaster Cole was aboard the USS
West Virginia on December 7, 1941, and hero-
ically defended his ship and its crew at all
costs. Quartermaster Cole is one of the few
survivors of Pearl Harbor still with us and I am
proud that he is my constituent in Oklahoma’s
First Congressional District. I am honored to
recognize Quartermaster Arles Cole not only
for his venerable service on December 7th
and throughout World War II, but also for his
continued commitment to his community.
Every American should take heed of the ex-
ample set by those brave servicemembers
who fought and those who died at Pearl Har-
bor on December 7, 1941. In the face of over-
whelming odds, they remained committed to
their mission and to their country even if it
meant sacrificing their life. I am proud to rec-
ognize them today and to remember and
honor their service and sacrifice everyday as
we enjoy the freedoms that they so gallantly
defended.
f
IN HONOR OF GERTIE
WILKERSON’S 100TH BIRTHDAY
HON. RICHARD HUDSON
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, December 6, 2019
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Mrs. Gertie Wilkerson and wish her
a very happy 100th birthday.
Gertie was born on December 7, 1919, to
Everett and Gracie Cline Carter. Throughout
her life she has developed the reputation of
living a life full of purpose, commitment and
keenness in acknowledging blessings from
God.
Gertie and her family moved to Annapolis in
the 1920’s where she began a 30 year career
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:05 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A06DE8.014 E06DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1555
December 6, 2019
at Cannon Mills, which at the time was the
world’s largest producer of sheets and towels.
She married her husband Henry R.C.
Wilkerson, a United States Army veteran who
fought in World War II. They spent 59 years
together and raised three children, who later
blessed them with six grandchildren and five
great grandchildren.
In her free time, Gertie has led a full life.
She was a passionate bowler who played reg-
ularly until she was 98 years old. In addition
to being a fervent bowler, she has been a
faithful member of Central Baptist Church for
the last 63 years. Gertie has earned the es-
teemed reputation of being a funny, dedicated
and compassionate individual, who possesses
the true principles and morals to which we all
aspire. I know all of you will agree with me
when I say, she is a blessing to all who know
her and a treasured part of this community.
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
wishing Mrs. Gertie Wilkerson a very happy
100th birthday.
f
IN HONOR OF THE 150TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF ST. JOSEPH CATHOLIC
CHURCH AND PARISH
HON. KEVIN BRADY
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, December 6, 2019
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, today I rise in
celebration of the 150th Anniversary of St. Jo-
seph Catholic Church and Parish in New Wa-
verly, Texas.
St. Joseph Catholic Church, now a cele-
brated place of worship, first began as a small
gathering for planter families who formed the
Waverly Emigration Society. In 1869, Father
Orzechowski officially formed the Parish of St.
Joseph. The parish met at various farms until
1877 when they opened the first church—a
small box building only 20 by 30 feet. The
land they built the church and school upon
was acquired for the modest price of one dol-
lar.
In 1892, as the parish expanded, a second
building was constructed to make room for the
growing congregation. This building, designed
by Tom Lawandorski, was much larger and
more ornate than the first. Mrs. Catherine
Ripowski donated trees from her property to
aid with construction.
The longest serving priest was the adored
Father Bily, whose tenure lasted 19 years.
Under his leadership, the church still in use
today was built. The gothic style building was
designed by architect L.S. Green and took
three years to finish. At its opening, it was
deemed the finest church in the South. In
1909, four years after the opening of the third
church building, St. Joseph’s school was built
on the property for 160 students.
Since its opening, the church has been re-
stored and repaired, but the welcoming com-
munity atmosphere and the parishioners’ en-
thusiasm for worship has remained constant
for the last 150 years.
As St. Joseph’s Catholic Church celebrates
a century and a half of worship, I thank them
for creating a welcoming space dedicated to
bringing people together to worship The Lord.
Congratulations on 150 years, and may the
next be just as prosperous.
RECOGNIZING THE 50TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE GREAT LAKES
MARITIME ACADEMY
HON. JACK BERGMAN
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, December 6, 2019
Mr. BERGMAN. Madam Speaker, it is my
honor to recognize the 50th Anniversary of the
Great Lakes Maritime Academy. Through its
commitment to excellence and dedication to
its students, GLMA has become an indispen-
sable part of Michigan’s First District.
Founded in 1969, the Great Lakes Maritime
Academy is one of only six maritime acad-
emies in the United States. The first cadets of
the academy received an associate degree
and a license allowing for service on the Great
Lakes upon graduation. In the 1980s, GLMA
partnered with Ferris State University to allow
cadets to earn bachelor’s degrees, opening
opportunities for graduates to serve in the
United States Navy and Coast Guard. In 2012,
thanks to the dedicated efforts of President
Nelson and other public leaders, Governor
Snyder signed legislation allowing community
colleges to award bachelor’s degrees in dis-
ciplines including maritime technology. This
change allowed GLMA to partner with North-
western Michigan College and enabled cadets
to earn a bachelor’s degree at a fraction of the
cost.
The work of the Great Lakes Maritime Acad-
emy is essential for providing the next genera-
tion of Merchant Marine officers with the edu-
cation, training, and credentials needed to
serve on the Great Lakes and the high seas.
Piloting everything from cruise ships and fer-
ries to tankers and cargo ships, graduates of
GLMA play an essential role in supporting our
economy, national security, and everyday
lives. The impact of their work on the people
of Michigan and the United States cannot be
overstated.
Madam Speaker, Michigan’s proud maritime
history is continued every day by the students,
graduates, faculty, and leaders of the Great
Lakes Maritime Academy, and it is my honor
to congratulate them for fifty years of excel-
lence. Michiganders can take great pride in
knowing the First District is home to such
dedicated citizens. On behalf of my constitu-
ents, I wish GLMA all the best as it ventures
into the future.
f
CONGRATULATING MARY RYMAN
ON HER RETIREMENT AFTER 46
YEARS AS BRISTOL TOWN
CLERK
HON. JACKIE WALORSKI
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, December 6, 2019
Mrs. WALORSKI. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate Mary Ryman on her re-
tirement after 46 years as Bristol Town Clerk,
making her the longest-serving town clerk in
the State of Indiana.
For the people of Bristol, Indiana, walking
into Town Hall means seeing a friendly face
every day. For nearly half a century, Mary has
been there to serve the community of Bristol,
and she is always the right person to ask
when residents have a question or need as-
sistance. Her unparalleled commitment to her
community exemplifies what it truly means to
be a Hoosier and a public servant.
Guided by the values of integrity and re-
spect for all people, Mary has proven to be a
pillar of the town and a model citizen. Her un-
mistakable passion for making Bristol a better
place inspires all who know her, and it’s no
surprise that she plans to continue serving her
community as a volunteer at Bristol’s Commu-
nity Food Pantry.
Mary’s compassion and warmth go far be-
yond her duties at Town Hall. She constantly
strives to give back to those in need and to
strengthen her community. As a member of
the Bristol United Methodist Church, she has
taught Sunday School for many years and en-
joyed singing in the choir. She is also often
found helping stray animals by providing them
food and comfort. And she is a devoted wife
and loving mother, grandmother, and great-
grandmother.
Madam Speaker, on behalf of Indiana’s 2nd
District, I want to thank Mary for the many
years she has dedicated to serving the hard-
working Hoosiers of Bristol and building a
brighter future for northern Indiana. With her
retirement, she leaves behind a legacy full of
accomplishments, but her impact on the com-
munity is sure to last far into the future.
f
TRIBUTE HONORING COMMIS-
SIONER RAYMOND BUXTON, II
HON. JAMES E. CLYBURN
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, December 6, 2019
Mr. CLYBURN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor an outstanding leader Ray-
mond Buxton, II, who is retiring after 40 years
of service to the State of South Carolina. Mr.
Buxton is a personal friend and his many con-
tributions have not gone unnoticed.
Mr. Buxton received his Bachelor of Science
degree from Savannah State University in Sa-
vannah, Georgia. He went on to serve his
country as a dental technician in the United
States Army with the 87th Medical Detach-
ment in Nuremberg, Germany and at Moncrief
Army Hospital in Fort Jackson, South Caro-
lina. He furthered his education by taking
graduate courses at the University of South
Carolina and graduating from the South Caro-
lina Executive Institute.
In 1979, when I was South Carolina Human
Affairs Commissioner, I hired Ray as a com-
munity relations consultant. While in this posi-
tion, he consulted with community leaders
around the state to build relationships among
a diverse group of citizens to promote unity.
He went on to work as an employment investi-
gator, senior analyst for employment discrimi-
nation, division director of the private sector/
employment, and executive assistant for inter-
nal affairs before being tapped to run the
agency in July 2012.
As the agency director, Mr. Buxton has
worked diligently to make positive changes
within the agency. He was responsible for fully
restoring the once underfunded budget for the
agency and increased staff from 20 to 46 em-
ployees. Also, Mr. Buxton instituted a new ini-
tiative, the ‘‘Quality of Life’’ dialogue, within
the Community Relations Department to pro-
mote better human relations among diverse
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:05 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A06DE8.018 E06DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1556 December 6, 2019
populations in South Carolina. Professionally,
he serves as vice president of the South Caro-
lina Fair Housing Council, Inc. and as a South
Carolina Human Affairs Representative for the
International Association of Official Human
Rights Agencies.
Mr. Buxton is also committed to serving the
community. He is a member of Omega Psi Phi
Fraternity, Inc. He has served as the Frater-
nity’s Chapter President and has been hon-
ored as its Man of the Year. He also volun-
teers at the Meals on Wheels Senior Re-
source Center and is an active board member
on several committees including the Budget
and Finance Committee and Board of Trust-
ees at Saint John Baptist Church, the Colum-
bia Housing Authority Development Board,
and the Israel Brooks Foundation Board.
Madam Speaker, I ask that you and my col-
leagues join me in offering congratulations and
well wishes to Raymond Buxton, II, for his 40
years of service at the South Carolina Human
Affairs Commission. His extraordinary work
has made a great impact in the lives of South
Carolinians. I wish him all the best as he tran-
sitions into retirement, but I know he will con-
tinue to be an active pa1ticipant in the com-
munity always striving to improve the quality of
life for everyone.
f
IN MEMORY OF DR. ROY
LAWRENCE WILSON
HON. MICHAEL C. BURGESS
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, December 6, 2019
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to remember the life of Roy Lawrence
Wilson who passed away recently. He had a
distinguished military career, retiring from the
U.S. Army in 1997 at the rank of Colonel. Be-
tween 1967 through 1971, he served three
tours of duty in Vietnam and was decorated
with multiple awards and citations including a
Bronze Star Medal with an oak leaf cluster
and an Army Commendation Medal with an
oak leaf cluster. Subsequently, he was re-
called to active service for Operations Desert
Storm and Desert Shield.
Dr. Wilson had a private practice in Richard-
son, Texas as a dentist and oral surgeon and
was a member of the American Association of
Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons and the
American Dental Association. After twenty
years in private practice, he devoted his time
during retirement to train students as a clinical
advisor at the Texas A&M College of Den-
tistry.
It is my honor to recognize Roy Wilson’s no-
table service in the military and medical field.
He was a beloved husband, father and grand-
father and will be sorely missed by his family
and friends to whom I extend my sincere con-
dolences.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:05 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A06DE8.022 E06DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D1334
Friday, December 6, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
The Senate was not in session and stands ad-
journed until 3:00 p.m., on Monday, December 9,
2019.
Committee Meetings
No committee meetings were held.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 29 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 5331–5359; and 4 resolutions, H.
Con. Res. 78; and H. Res. 745–747 were intro-
duced. Pages H9345–47
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H9348–49
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
H.R. 3, to establish a fair price negotiation pro-
gram, protect the Medicare program from excessive
price increases, and establish an out-of-pocket max-
imum for Medicare part D enrollees, and for other
purposes, with an amendment (H. Rept. 116–324,
Part 1);
H.R. 3, to establish a fair price negotiation pro-
gram, protect the Medicare program from excessive
price increases, and establish an out-of-pocket max-
imum for Medicare part D enrollees, and for other
purposes, with an amendment (H. Rept. 116–324,
Part 2);
H.R. 4650, to amend title XVIII of the Social Se-
curity Act to provide coverage for certain dental
items and services under part B of the Medicare pro-
gram, with an amendment (H. Rept. 116–325, Part
1);
H.R. 4618, to amend title XVIII of the Social Se-
curity Act to provide coverage for certain hearing
items and services under part B of the Medicare pro-
gram, with an amendment (H. Rept. 116–326, Part
1); and
H.R. 4665, to amend title XVIII of the Social Se-
curity Act to provide coverage for certain vision
items and services under part B of the Medicare pro-
gram, with an amendment (H. Rept. 116–327, Part
1). Page H9345
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Brown (MD) to act as
Speaker pro tempore for today. Page H9297
Expressing the sense of the House of Represent-
atives regarding United States efforts to resolve
the Israeli-Palestinian conflict through a nego-
tiated two-state solution: The House agreed to H.
Res. 326, expressing the sense of the House of Rep-
resentatives regarding United States efforts to resolve
the Israeli-Palestinian conflict through a negotiated
two-state solution, by a yea-and-nay vote of 226 yeas
to 188 nays with two answering ‘‘present’’, Roll No.
652. Pages H9298–H9308, H9330–31
Pursuant to the Rule, the amendments to the res-
olution and the preamble recommended by the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs now printed in the bill,
modified by the amendments printed in part B of H.
Rept. 116–322, shall be considered as adopted.
Page H9298
H. Res. 741, the rule providing for consideration
of the bill (H.R. 4) and the resolution (H. Res. 326)
was agreed to yesterday, December 5th.
Voting Rights Advancement Act of 2019: The
House passed H.R. 4, to amend the Voting Rights
Act of 1965 to revise the criteria for determining
which States and political subdivisions are subject to
section 4 of the Act, by a recorded vote of 228 ayes
to 187 noes, Roll No. 654. Pages H9308–30, H9331–34
Rejected the Rodney Davis (IL) motion to recom-
mit the bill to the Committee on the Judiciary with
instructions to report the same back to the House
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:18 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D06DE9.REC D06DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1335
December 6, 2019
forthwith with an amendment, by a recorded vote of
200 ayes to 215 noes, Roll No. 653. Pages H9331–33
Pursuant to the Rule, the amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute recommended by the Committee
on the Judiciary now printed in the bill, modified
by the amendment printed in part A of H. Rept.
116–322, shall be considered as adopted. Page H9308
H. Res. 741, the rule providing for consideration
of the bill (H.R. 4) and the resolution (H. Res. 326)
was agreed to yesterday, December 5th.
Meeting Hour: Agreed by unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it adjourn to meet
at 12 noon on Monday, December 9th for Morning
Hour debate. Page H9337
Recess: The House recessed at 2:28 p.m. and recon-
vened at 3:48 p.m. Page H9345
Quorum Calls—Votes: One yea-and-nay vote and
two recorded votes developed during the proceedings
of today and appear on pages H9330–31,
H9332–33, and H9333–34. There were no quorum
calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 9 a.m. and ad-
journed at 3:49 p.m.
Committee Meetings
ROBOTS ON WALL STREET: THE IMPACT
OF AI ON CAPITAL MARKETS AND JOBS IN
THE FINANCIAL SERVICES INDUSTRY
Committee on Financial Services: Task Force on Artifi-
cial Intelligence held a hearing entitled ‘‘Robots on
Wall Street: The Impact of AI on Capital Markets
and Jobs in the Financial Services Industry’’. Testi-
mony was heard from public witnesses.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR MONDAY,
DECEMBER 9, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House
Committee on the Judiciary, Full Committee, hearing en-
titled ‘‘The Impeachment Inquiry into President Donald
J. Trump: Presentations from the House Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence and House Judiciary Com-
mittee’’, 9 a.m., 1100 Longworth.
Committee on Rules, Full Committee, hearing on H.R.
729, the ‘‘Tribal Coastal Resiliency Act’’ [Coastal and
Great Lakes Communities Enhancement Act], 5 p.m.,
H–313 Capitol.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:18 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D06DE9.REC D06DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D1336 December 6, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
3 p.m., Monday, December 9
Senate Chamber
Program for Monday: Senate will resume consideration
of the nomination of Patrick J. Bumatay, of California,
to be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit,
and vote on the motion to invoke cloture thereon at 5:30
p.m.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
12 noon, Monday, December 9
House Chamber
Program for Monday: To be announced.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Amodei, Mark E., Nev., E1549
Bergman, Jack, Mich., E1555
Bilirakis, Gus M., Fla., E1553
Brady, Kevin, Tex., E1553, E1555
Burgess, Michael C., Tex., E1556
Carson, André, Ind., E1550
Clyburn, James E., S.C., E1550, E1553, E1555
Courtney, Joe, Conn., E1551
Cunningham, Joe, S.C., E1553
Dingell, Debbie, Mich., E1550, E1552
Garcı́a, Jesús G. ‘‘Chuy’’, Ill., E1552
Gianforte, Greg, Mont., E1549
Gonzalez, Vicente, Tex., E1551
Griffith, H. Morgan, Va., E1554
Hern, Kevin, Okla., E1554
Hudson, Richard, N.C., E1554
Neguse, Joe, Colo., E1551, E1552
Posey, Bill, Fla., E1554
Visclosky, Peter J., Ind., E1549
Walorski, Jackie, Ind., E1555
Westerman, Bruce, Ark., E1549, E1551, E1552
Wilson, Joe, S.C., E1552
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:18 Dec 07, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D06DE9.REC D06DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
