Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H9187
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2019 No. 192
House of Representatives
The House met at 2 p.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. ROSE of New York).
f
DESIGNATION OF THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
December 3, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable MAX ROSE
to act as Speaker pro tempore on this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
God of light, we give You thanks for
giving us another day.
Send Your spirit of peace and calm,
that all might have confidence in Your
faithfulness to us, and that no matter
what lies ahead, Your grace is abun-
dantly available.
For millions of Americans, it is a
season of anticipation of the coming of
God’s blessing. It is also a season of dif-
ficult memories for many because of
addiction, divorce, or the first Christ-
mastime without a loved one. Bless all
who are in need of Your healing pres-
ence.
These same realities are shared by
many in the people’s House, even while
they engage in ongoing tense and dif-
ficult negotiations and address conten-
tious issues. Lord, have mercy on Your
people, and provide the grace that is
needed for the work of the House to be
fruitful and beneficial for all Ameri-
cans.
May all that is done in the days to
come be for Your greater honor and
glory.
Amen.
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will lead the House in the Pledge
of Allegiance.
The SPEAKER pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, December 3, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on De-
cember 3, 2019, at 12:00 p.m.:
That the Senate passed without amend-
ment H.R. 1138.
With best wishes, I am
Sincerely,
CHERYL L. JOHNSON.
f
RECOGNIZING THE WORK OF THE
STATEN ISLAND COUNCIL OF
JEWISH ORGANIZATIONS
(Mr. ROSE of New York asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mr. ROSE of New York. Mr. Speaker,
I rise today to recognize my dear
friends, Mendy Mirocznik and Scott
Maurer, and the Staten Island Council
of Jewish Organizations.
Every year, COJO puts on incredible
events that celebrate Jewish tradition
and bring together the Jewish commu-
nity with other communities of faith
from across Staten Island. Now, more
than ever, this work is essential to
maintaining and building upon the fab-
ric of our great borough.
All too often, though, external forces
work to separate communities and iso-
late them, which leads to polarization,
misunderstanding, and fear.
Not with COJO, though. COJO works
to build bridges between communities
so that we can come together. Most im-
portantly, COJO ensures the security
of the Jewish community on Staten Is-
land, which, unfortunately, feels more
and more at risk due to recent events.
Across the country and around the
world, we see a rising tide of anti-Sem-
itism, from hate speech and graffiti in
my district to terror attacks at syna-
gogues across the country.
Now, more than ever, COJO’s work is
necessary, and I am proud to work with
them each and every day to build a
safer Staten Island for all.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM LEGISLA-
TIVE DIRECTOR, THE HONOR-
ABLE LANCE GOODEN, MEMBER
OF CONGRESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
TRONE) laid before the House the fol-
lowing communication from Ryan
Ethington, Legislative Director, the
Honorable LANCE GOODEN, Member of
Congress:
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, December 2, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: This is to notify
you formally, pursuant to Rule VIII of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:24 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03DE7.000 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9188 December 3, 2019
Rules of the House of Representatives, that
I, Ryan Ethington, have been served with a
subpoena for testimony and documents
issued by the United States District Court
for the Southern District of New York.
After consultation with the Office of the
General Counsel, I have determined that
compliance with the subpoena is consistent
with the privileges and rights of the House.
Sincerely,
RYAN ETHINGTON,
Legislative Director,
Office of Congressman Lance Gooden.
f
APPOINTMENT OF INDIVIDUAL TO
BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
AMERICAN FOLKLIFE CENTER IN
THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair announces the Speaker’s ap-
pointment, pursuant to 20 U.S.C.
2103(b), and the order of the House of
January 3, 2019, of the following indi-
vidual to the Board of Trustees of the
American Folklife Center in the Li-
brary of Congress on the part of the
House for a term of 6 years:
Mr. Robert Anacletus Underwood,
Hagatna, Guam
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 3:45 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 2 o’clock and 6 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1545
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. CLAY) at 3 o’clock and 45
minutes p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or votes objected
to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
CITIZENSHIP FOR CHILDREN OF
MILITARY MEMBERS AND CIVIL
SERVANTS ACT
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 4803) to facilitate the automatic
acquisition of citizenship for lawful
permanent resident children of mili-
tary and Federal Government per-
sonnel residing abroad, and for other
purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4803
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Citizenship
for Children of Military Members and Civil
Servants Act’’.
SEC. 2. FACILITATING THE AUTOMATIC ACQUISI-
TION OF CITIZENSHIP FOR LAWFUL
PERMANENT RESIDENT CHILDREN
OF MILITARY AND FEDERAL GOV-
ERNMENT PERSONNEL RESIDING
ABROAD.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 320 of the Immi-
gration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1431) is
amended—
(1) by striking the section header and in-
serting ‘‘CHILDREN BORN OUTSIDE THE UNITED
STATES AND LAWFULLY ADMITTED FOR PERMA-
NENT RESIDENCE; CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH
CITIZENSHIP AUTOMATICALLY ACQUIRED’’;
(2) by redesignating subsection (c) as sub-
section (d); and
(3) by inserting after subsection (b) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(c) Subsection (a)(3) is deemed satisfied in
the case of a child who is lawfully admitted
for permanent residence in the United States
if—
‘‘(1) the child is residing in the legal and
physical custody of a citizen parent who is—
‘‘(A) stationed and residing abroad as an
employee of the Government of the United
States; or
‘‘(B) residing abroad in marital union with
an employee of the Government of the
United States who is stationed abroad; or
‘‘(2) the child is—
‘‘(A) residing in the legal and physical cus-
tody of a citizen parent who is—
‘‘(i) stationed and residing abroad as a
member of the Armed Forces of the United
States; or
‘‘(ii) authorized to accompany and reside
abroad with a member of the Armed Forces
of the United States pursuant to the mem-
ber’s official orders, and is so accompanying
and residing abroad with the member in mar-
ital union; and
‘‘(B) authorized to accompany such mem-
ber and reside abroad with the member pur-
suant to the member’s official orders, and is
so accompanying and residing with the mem-
ber.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents for the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act is amended by striking the item re-
lating to section 320 and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘Sec. 320. Children born outside the United
States and lawfully admitted
for permanent residence; condi-
tions under which citizenship
automatically acquired.’’.
SEC. 3. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. NADLER) and the gen-
tleman from Virginia (Mr. CLINE) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and include extra-
neous material on the bill under con-
sideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to urge my
colleagues on both sides of the aisle to
support H.R. 4803, the Citizenship for
Children of Military Members and Civil
Servants Act. This bipartisan legisla-
tion provides a simple solution to ease
the burdens imposed by our current
citizenship laws on those who have
chosen to serve our Nation abroad, and
their children.
Most children who are born outside
the United States to U.S. citizen par-
ents are deemed U.S. citizens at birth.
But under our current citizenship laws,
this process can be more complicated
for children whose parents don’t meet
certain bureaucratic requirements re-
lated to residency, a concept that is
generally defined according to where
one physically resides.
This often affects military families
and certain other Federal employees
serving abroad. As a result, when es-
tablishing U.S. residency is not pos-
sible because of a parent’s overseas
service to the Nation, these families,
who make great sacrifices for our coun-
try, are at a disadvantage.
Without access to a streamlined citi-
zenship process, parents must either
guide their children through a lengthy
and expensive naturalization process or
find some alternative way to establish
U.S. residency, which may even require
them to cut short their overseas serv-
ice commitment to the armed services.
In August, Members on both sides of
the aisle were taken aback by the ad-
ministration’s reversal of a 15-year-old
policy that allowed families of military
servicemembers and Federal Govern-
ment employees to meet the residency
requirement for acquisition of citizen-
ship purposes while serving abroad.
H.R. 4803 will implement a small but
important fix to our citizenship laws
by restoring and codifying the previous
policy and bringing consistency to
what were once differing policy provi-
sions between the Department of
Homeland Security and the Depart-
ment of State.
H.R. 4803 will provide greater flexi-
bility to individuals who have dedi-
cated their lives and careers to serving
our Nation by treating their children
like other children of U.S. citizens who
were born overseas, allowing them to
be automatically recognized as U.S.
citizens once certain conditions are
met.
H.R. 4803 will thus eliminate the in-
convenience, expense, and delays of the
naturalization process that such chil-
dren are required to undergo under cur-
rent law and allow their parents to
continue serving our Nation in the
military without interruption.
I want to thank the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. COLLINS), my friend and
colleague, for partnering with me on
this commonsense, bipartisan fix, as
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:24 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03DE7.003 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9189
December 3, 2019
well as Chairman SMITH, Ranking
Member THORNBERRY, Subcommittee
Chair LOFGREN, Subcommittee Rank-
ing Member BUCK, along with Mr.
GALLEGO and Mr. LIEU. I appreciate
their willingness to work across the
aisle and to demonstrate that it is pos-
sible to find common ground on some
immigration and nationality issues.
I urge my colleagues to support this
bipartisan legislation, and I reserve
balance of my time.
Mr. CLINE. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong
support of H.R. 4803, the Citizenship for
Children of Military Members and Civil
Servants Act.
Most people believe that, in all cir-
cumstances, as long as one parent is a
U.S. citizen, a child is automatically a
U.S. citizen. In reality, the Immigra-
tion and Nationality Act lays out spe-
cific residency, physical presence, and
other requirements for when a child is
deemed a U.S. citizen and what proce-
dures a parent must go through to
claim that citizenship.
For instance, section 320 of the INA
requires that a child of a U.S. citizen
automatically becomes a U.S. citizen if
the child is under the age of 18 and is
‘‘residing in the United States in the
legal and physical custody of the cit-
izen pursuant to a lawful admission for
permanent residence.’’
This creates a problem for some U.S.
citizens and their families who are
serving overseas in the military or
other U.S. Government positions and
who cannot return to the United
States.
Until very recently, U.S. Citizenship
and Immigration Services, USCIS, had
been interpreting the term ‘‘residing
in’’ to cover children of U.S. citizen
government employees or members of
the U.S. Armed Forces who were em-
ployed or stationed outside the U.S.
That interpretation, however, was in-
consistent with other parts of the INA
and inconsistent, even, with the State
Department’s interpretation.
Thus, there were instances when a
U.S. citizen parent was told by USCIS
that their child was automatically a
U.S. citizen, but when the parent tried
to obtain a U.S. passport for the child,
they were told that the child was not
yet a U.S. citizen because the proper
process had not been followed.
In late August, USCIS issued policy
guidance aimed at correctly inter-
preting ‘‘residing in’’ to be consistent
with the INA and the State Depart-
ment’s interpretation.
It should be noted that, even if H.R.
4803 is not enacted, the children af-
fected by USCIS’ new guidance will
still be able to claim U.S. citizenship;
however, their families will have to
jump through many more hoops to do
so.
Luckily, this issue affects fewer than
100 families per year, most of whom are
cases of adoption or where the child is
a teenager when the parent natural-
izes.
USCIS was legally correct to do what
it did, but we in Congress are also right
to make the technical change that al-
lows the affected child to be automati-
cally considered a U.S. citizen.
The committee ranking member
worked closely with Chairman NADLER
to craft H.R. 4803. The bill deems the
child of a U.S. citizen parent to be in
compliance with the residence require-
ments of INA section 320 in cir-
cumstances where: one, the U.S. citizen
parent is an employee of the U.S. Gov-
ernment stationed abroad or a spouse
of that employee residing abroad with
that employee; or, two, the U.S. citizen
parent is a member of the Armed
Forces stationed abroad or spouse of
that member residing abroad with that
member, and the child is authorized to
and is accompanying the member.
The bill ensures that children of U.S.
Armed Forces members and U.S. Gov-
ernment personnel are not disadvan-
taged merely because their parents’
service to our country requires them to
be deployed abroad.
I am pleased that the legislative
process worked as it should, that Re-
publicans and Democrats saw a legal
issue that needed to be fixed and we
worked together to pass the affecting
legislation.
I urge my colleagues to support the
bill, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
This bipartisan legislation would pro-
vide greater flexibility and support to
those who have dedicated their careers
to serving our Nation when they have
children born abroad.
I again thank my colleagues for the
bipartisan nature of the work and sup-
port of this bill. I urge all my col-
leagues to support the bill, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, I rise
in strong support of H.R. 4803, the Citizenship
for Children of Military Members and Civil
Servants Act.
I applaud Judiciary Chairman JERROLD NAD-
LER (D–NY) and House Judiciary Ranking
Member DOUG COLLINS (R–GA) for introducing
this bipartisan legislation aimed to fix a prob-
lem in current citizenship laws.
The current citizenship law implemented by
this Administration in October, serves as a dis-
advantage to certain children who are born
abroad and reside with a parent serving over-
seas in the military or as a federal government
employee.
Under current law, such children are re-
quired to establish U.S. residency in order to
obtain citizenship, which can be difficult when
a parent is stationed overseas.
This small but important change is the nec-
essary fix for U.S. armed forces and in federal
government positions overseas.
I am glad we could work together to intro-
duce this bipartisan legislation that provides
greater flexibility and support to those who
have dedicated their careers to serving our
nation.
American citizens who are deployed mem-
bers of our military or government officials
working abroad should have confidence their
children will receive U.S. citizenship.
Military families are already making tremen-
dous sacrifices to serve our country abroad
and the children should not have to be penal-
ized.
I urge my colleagues to join me in sup-
porting H.R. 4803 because our military fami-
lies should not have to deal with the bureauc-
racy of this Administration for their children to
be United States citizens.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
NADLER) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 4803, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
ADVANCING MUTUAL INTERESTS
AND GROWING OUR SUCCESS ACT
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 565) to include Portugal in the
list of foreign states whose nationals
are eligible for admission into the
United States as E1 and E2 non-
immigrants if United States nationals
are treated similarly by the Govern-
ment of Portugal, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 565
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Advancing
Mutual Interests and Growing Our Success
Act’’ or the ‘‘AMIGOS Act’’.
SEC. 2. NONIMMIGRANT TRADERS AND INVES-
TORS.
For purposes of clauses (i) and (ii) of sec-
tion 101(a)(15)(E) of the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(E)), Por-
tugal shall be considered to be a foreign
state described in such section if the Govern-
ment of Portugal provides similar non-
immigrant status to nationals of the United
States.
SEC. 3. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Rhode Island (Mr. CICILLINE) and the
gentleman from Virginia (Mr. CLINE)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Rhode Island.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend remarks and include extraneous
material on the bill under consider-
ation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:55 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03DE7.006 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9190 December 3, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Rhode Island?
There was no objection.
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, the AMIGOS Act is a bi-
partisan bill that I introduced, along
with the gentleman from California
(Mr. COSTA), my colleague, to encour-
age greater investment and trade be-
tween the United States and Portugal.
H.R. 565 makes Portuguese nationals
eligible for E–1 and E–2 nonimmigrant
visas if the Government of Portugal
provides similar nonimmigrant status
to U.S. nationals. Access to these in-
vestor visas will allow Portuguese in-
vestors to support projects in the
United States, which will benefit our
economy as well as that of Portugal.
As one of the first countries to recog-
nize the United States after the Revo-
lutionary War, Portugal is one of our
closest economic partners and strong-
est allies. Today, the United States
maintains that longstanding relation-
ship as the fifth largest export market
for Portugal and its largest trading
partner outside of the European Union.
I am proud to represent the First
District of Rhode Island, home to one
of the country’s largest and most vi-
brant Portuguese communities, a com-
munity that has made outstanding
contributions in the arts, culture, busi-
ness, and public service in this country
for many decades.
From 2010–2015, we saw a 30 percent
increase in trade between the United
States and Portugal. 2015 also marked
the year that the United States became
Portugal’s largest trading partner out-
side the European Union, with bilateral
trade reaching $4.2 billion. Bilateral
trade in goods and services between the
United States and Portugal has contin-
ued to grow, with a 9 percent increase
from $8 billion in 2018 when compared
to just a year earlier. There are cur-
rently over 130 American companies
operating in Portugal in a wide range
of economic sectors, including pharma-
ceutical, chemical, technology, bank-
ing, and health sectors.
In 2018, the United States’ direct in-
vestment position in Portugal was $2.8
billion, an increase of 37 percent from
2017. The direct investment position
from Portugal in the United States,
however, experienced a 3.5 percent de-
crease to $1 billion from 2017 to 2018.
While the majority of the countries
within the European Union had pre-
existing bilateral investor treaties
with the United States before joining
the EU, Portugal did not and is one of
the only five EU countries whose citi-
zens are not currently eligible for E–1
or E–2 visas.
In the absence of a bilateral treaty,
which Portugal cannot enter due to the
rules of the European Union, Congress
has the power to authorize E–1 and E–
2 benefits to other countries; and we
have exercised our authority to do so
for both Israel in 2012 and New Zealand
just last year. I am pleased to lead the
effort to do the same for Portugal.
Foreign direct investment plays a
significant role in the U.S. economy.
One of the most important factors in
encouraging investments in the United
States is the availability of business-
related visas, like nonimmigrant E–1
and E–2 visas. Allowing Portuguese
citizens access to conduct substantial
trade between the United States and
Portugal or invest a substantial
amount of capital in the United States
to qualify for nonimmigrant E–1 and E–
2 visas will help strengthen U.S.-Por-
tugal ties and promote an increase in
Portugal’s investments in the United
States.
Extending visas to Portugal not only
gives Portuguese businesses an oppor-
tunity to invest in the United States,
but it is a mutually beneficial relation-
ship that promotes jobs in both coun-
tries and growth in United States busi-
nesses and our economy.
b 1600
I am proud to lead this effort to sup-
port our ally and friend, Portugal. I
want to thank Chairman NADLER for
his strong support of this legislation
and for bringing this bill to the floor
today. I encourage all of my colleagues
to support H.R. 565, the AMIGOS Act.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. CLINE. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, as the gentleman said,
currently the nationals of 84 countries
are eligible for E–1 and/or E–2 status.
During fiscal year 2017, about 48,000 E–
1 and E–2 visas were issued.
In the past, countries became eligible
for these programs through treaties
signed with the U.S. However, in 2003,
the Judiciary Committee reached an
understanding with the U.S. Trade
Representative that no immigration
provisions were to be included in future
trade agreements. Henceforth, legisla-
tion would be required to add coun-
tries.
This bill would make Portuguese na-
tionals eligible for E–1 and E–2 visas.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this legislation, which will
strengthen the really important and
historical relationship between the
United States and Portugal, which will
help to promote economic growth in
both of our countries, lead to the cre-
ation of good paying jobs, and really
strengthen the long and important eco-
nomic relationship between our two
great countries.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong support of H.R. 565, ‘‘The Advancing
Mutual Interests and Growing Our Success
Act’’ or AMIGOS Act.
Despite deep ties with Portugal, it remains
one of only five EU countries whose citizens
are ineligible for E–1 and E–2 visas.
Under the Immigration and Nationality Act,
nationals of countries with which the United
States maintains a treaty of commerce and
navigation may be admitted temporarily to the
United States to engage in international trade,
an E–1 visa, or to develop and direct an in-
vestment enterprise, E–2 visa.
E–1 and E–2 visas may be granted to indi-
vidual traders and investors or to employees
of organizational traders and investors.
Applicants for E–1 and E–2 visas must gen-
erally demonstrate the existence of a bilateral
treaty of commerce and navigation between
the applicant’s country of nationality and the
United States.
Some treaties allow for the admission of
both E–1 and E–2 nonimmigrants, while oth-
ers allow for the admission of only E–1 or E–
2 nonimmigrants.
In addition, the visa applicant must be a na-
tional of the treaty country.
If the applicant is an employee of an organi-
zational trader or investor, both the applicant
and the organization must possess the nation-
ality of the treaty country.
The nationality of the organization is deter-
mined by the nationality of the individual own-
ers—at least 50 percent of the organization
must be owned by nationals of the treaty
country.
The enterprise must be more than marginal
and must generate income beyond that which
is required to provide a minimal living for the
investor and their family.
An individual investor must be coming to the
United States to develop and direct the busi-
ness.
An applicant who is an employee of an or-
ganizational trader or investor must be coming
to the United States to fulfill an executive or
supervisory position or possess skills that are
essential to the firm’s U.S. operations.
Spouses and minor children accompanying
or following to join the principal E–1 or E–2
nonimmigrant will be admitted for the same
period of stay as the principal trader or inves-
tor.
Congress has the ability to take action to
improve the historical relationship between the
United States and Portugal.
If H.R. 565 is enacted, Portuguese nationals
would become eligible for E–1 and E–2 visas,
but only after an agreement for reciprocal
treatment between Portugal and the United
States is finalized.
In 2012, Congress passed—and the presi-
dent signed into law—H.R. 3992 to permit
Israeli nationals to participate in the E–2 treaty
investor program. However, Israeli nationals
did not have the ability to apply for E–2 visas
until May 1, 2019, when an agreement with
Israel was finalized and took effect.
It was favorably reported by the House Judi-
ciary Committee without amendment by voice
vote; passed by the House on motion to sus-
pend the rules (371 to 0) and passed by the
Senate, without amendment, by Unanimous
Consent.
Similarly, S. 2245, the ‘‘Knowledgeable
Innovators and Worthy Investors (KIWI) Act,’’
became law on August 1, 2018, but New Zea-
landers were unable to apply for E–1 and E–
2 visas until June 10, 2019 when an agree-
ment for reciprocal treatment took effect.
It was Discharged by the Senate Judiciary
Committee by Unanimous Consent and
passed by the Senate without amendment by
Unanimous Consent; passed by the House on
motion to suspend the rules by voice vote.
The last two bills to add countries to the E–
1 and E–2 visa programs passed Congress
without controversy.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:55 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K03DE7.009 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9191
December 3, 2019
Portugal is a longstanding United States
ally, with ‘‘bilateral ties dating from the earliest
years of the United States, when Portugal rec-
ognized the United States in 1791 following
the Revolutionary War.’’
The United States is also Portugal’s largest
trading partner outside the European Union
(EU), with bilateral trade in goods and serv-
ices reaching $8 billion in 2018, a 9 percent
increase from the previous year.
Similarly, U.S. direct investment in Portugal
reached $2.1 billion in 2017, with U.S. compa-
nies playing a significant role, investing in the
Portuguese banking, pharmaceutical, and
chemical industries.
Both countries have also agreed to a bilat-
eral income tax agreement to prevent double
taxation.
Portuguese participation in the E–1 and E–
2 visa programs will deepen an already strong
bilateral trade and investment relationship, and
benefit business communities in both coun-
tries.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join
me in supporting H.R. 565, ‘‘The Advancing
Mutual Interests and Growing Our Success
Act’’ or AMIGOS Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Rhode Island (Mr.
CICILLINE) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 565, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
GOOD CONDUCT TIME CREDITS
FOR CERTAIN ELDERLY NON-
VIOLENT OFFENDERS
Mr. DEUTCH. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 4018) to provide that the amount
of time that an elderly offender must
serve before being eligible for place-
ment in home detention is to be re-
duced by the amount of good time cred-
its earned by the prisoner, and for
other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4018
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. GOOD CONDUCT TIME CREDITS FOR
CERTAIN ELDERLY NONVIOLENT OF-
FENDERS.
Section 231(g)(5)(A)(ii) of the Second
Chance Act of 2007 (34 U.S.C.
60541(g)(5)(A)(ii)) is amended by striking ‘‘to
which the offender was sentenced’’ and in-
serting ‘‘reduced by any credit toward the
service of the prisoner’s sentence awarded
under section 3624(b) of title 18, United
States Code’’.
SEC. 2. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Florida (Mr. DEUTCH) and the gen-
tleman from Virginia (Mr. CLINE) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Florida.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. DEUTCH. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and include extra-
neous materials on the bill under con-
sideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Florida?
There was no objection.
Mr. DEUTCH. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 4018 is a modest,
but important, bill that I introduced
with Ranking Member COLLINS to ad-
dress an inadvertent drafting error in
the Second Chance Act, one that has
prevented elderly offenders who qualify
for early release under a pilot program
for compassionate release from receiv-
ing credit for the good conduct time
they have accrued while in custody.
Our Nation’s Federal prison popu-
lation is rapidly aging. Of the 1.5 mil-
lion adults currently in State and Fed-
eral prisons, there has been a 300 per-
cent spike in the elderly population
since 1999. By 2050, it is estimated that
one-third of the prison population of
the United States will be over age 50.
Today more people die of old age in
U.S. prisons than ever before, and from
2001 to 2007 alone, nearly 8,500 people
over age 55 died behind bars. The Fed-
eral prisoner reentry initiative, a pilot
program created under the Second
Chance Act, allows offenders who are
elderly and have served at least two-
thirds of their sentence to petition for
release from prison and to serve their
remaining term of imprisonment in a
halfway house. This program is not
only humane, it is fiscally responsible.
The increasing number of elderly
prisoners is leading to soaring costs for
the Bureau of Prisons. With a more el-
derly prisoner population, prison infra-
structure must be outfitted or equipped
to accommodate the unique needs of el-
derly prisoners. Prisons need to be out-
fitted with ramps, lower bed heights,
bunk beds eliminated, handrails in-
stalled in showers, and other structural
changes. Also, prison staff need to be
trained to work with elderly prisoners
and move elderly prisoners around the
facilities.
We imprison too many elderly in-
mates unnecessarily for far too long,
and the data reveals that the recidi-
vism rate is reduced dramatically as
the population ages. Good conduct
time is provided to all prisoners who
have satisfactory behavior in the Bu-
reau of Prisons. A prisoner can earn 54
days of good conduct time or days off
their sentence per year, however, due
to an inadvertent error in the Federal
prisoner reentry initiative, elderly in-
mates are not permitted to receive
credit for good conduct.
Elderly inmates, who otherwise have
satisfactory behavior, should not lose
the good conduct time they have
earned solely as a result of this draft-
ing error. Such an unjust result was
not the intent of Congress when draft-
ing the Second Chance Act, as the in-
tent behind this compassionate pro-
gram is to release a vulnerable popu-
lation from prison when they present
little risk to their communities.
H.R. 4018 would correct this problem,
and therefore, I urge my colleagues to
join me in supporting this important
bill. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. CLINE. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
4018, the elderly offender good conduct
time legislation. Last year, Ranking
Member COLLINS and Congressman
HAKEEM JEFFRIES led the way in draft-
ing and shepherding through Congress
the First Step Act. Attorney General
Barr has repeatedly stated his intent
to fully implement the provisions of
the act.
Our job as legislators in this space is
twofold; first, to conduct oversight to
ensure the First Step Act is respon-
sibly implemented; and, two, to address
issues in that implementation.
One such technical issue is addressed
by H.R. 4018. This bill would allow the
Bureau of Prisons to transfer eligible
elderly, nonviolent offenders from BOP
facilities into home confinement when
they have reached 60 years of age and
served two-thirds of the term of impris-
onment to which they were sentenced.
This is a bill technical in nature de-
signed to correct a flaw in the First
Step Act that will promote fairness in
the implementation of good conduct
time, as reformed in the First Step
Act, and ensure our prisons do not be-
come nursing homes. I believe that if
we do not ensure that this act works,
we will lose credibility with the Amer-
ican people, and any future efforts to
reform our criminal justice system will
fail.
Mr. Speaker, I support this legisla-
tion and urge my colleagues to do the
same. I thank the gentleman for his
support of this fine legislation, and I
yield back the balance of my time
Mr. DEUTCH. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. CLINE,
Chairman NADLER, Ranking Member
COLLINS, and Mr. JEFFRIES for their
leadership on this effort.
Mr. Speaker, the process for earning
time off for good conduct in prison is
important as a matter of fairness and
also effective prison administration.
Individuals who earn good conduct
time should not lose credit for this
time because of an error in a statute,
and elderly, nonviolent offenders
should receive credit for the time they
have earned.
Therefore, H.R. 4018 is required to ad-
dress an unfortunate, inadvertent
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:55 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03DE7.011 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9192 December 3, 2019
error. I am glad that it will. I appre-
ciate the support, and for all of these
reasons I urge my colleagues to join me
in supporting this good, bipartisan bill.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Florida (Mr.
DEUTCH) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 4018, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
SUPPORT FOR THE GLOBAL FUND
TO FIGHT AIDS, TUBERCULOSIS
(TB), MALARIA, AND ITS SIXTH
REPLENISHMENT
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and agree to the reso-
lution (H. Res. 517) supporting the
Global Fund to fight AIDS, tuber-
culosis (TB), malaria, and its Sixth Re-
plenishment, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The text of the resolution is as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 517
Whereas the Global Fund to fight AIDS,
tuberculosis (TB), and malaria is an effective
partnership of governments, the private sec-
tor, civil society, and affected communities
to transform the response to these
epidemics;
Whereas since the Global Fund’s creation
in 2002, and in close cooperation with the
President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief
(PEPFAR), more than 32,000,000 lives have
been saved in countries where the Global
Fund invests;
Whereas the Global Fund has contributed
to extraordinary improvements in global
health, including by helping to reduce by
half the number of AIDS-related deaths since
2005, contributing to a 37-percent decline in
TB deaths from 2000 to 2016, and a 60-percent
decline in the number of malaria deaths
since 2000;
Whereas the Global Fund and its partners
work to uphold a steadfast commitment to
transparency and accountability, receiving
high marks in multilateral aid reviews and
by independent watchdogs;
Whereas despite progress achieved to date
in combating AIDS, TB, and malaria, signifi-
cant challenges threaten future progress, in-
cluding drug and insecticide resistance,
reaching marginalized and vulnerable popu-
lations, and complacency in the fight against
infectious diseases;
Whereas United States leadership has been
critical to the Global Fund’s success as its
largest donor and through its oversight role
on the Board of the Global Fund;
Whereas the Global Fund amplifies and
supports the results of United States bilat-
eral heath programs, including the PEPFAR,
the President’s Malaria Initiative, and the
United States Agency for International De-
velopment TB program;
Whereas a statutory cap on United States
contributions to the Global Fund has suc-
cessfully leveraged increased contributions
from other donors in prior Global Fund re-
plenishments;
Whereas the United Kingdom and Japan,
for example, already have pledged significant
increases to the Global Fund for the Sixth
Replenishment;
Whereas the Global Fund’s requirements
for cofinancing have spurred domestic in-
vestments, with recipient countries commit-
ting 41 percent more of their own funding to
fight AIDS, TB, and malaria for 2018 to 2020
compared to 2015 to 2017;
Whereas recipient countries are expected
to increase their co-financing by 48 percent,
growing to $46,000,000,000 from 2021 to 2023;
and
Whereas with these resources secured, the
Global Fund projects it will reduce the num-
ber of deaths due to AIDS, TB, and malaria
by nearly 50 percent, avert 234,000,000 infec-
tions or disease cases, and save an additional
16,000,000 lives: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the House of Representa-
tives—
(1) encourages the Global Fund and its
partners to continue their valuable contribu-
tions to end the epidemics of AIDS, TB, and
malaria;
(2) affirms previous commitments of the
United States to providing 33 percent of the
budget to the Global Fund, including for the
Sixth Global Fund Replenishment held on
October 10, 2019, in Lyon, France, as dem-
onstrated by the $1,560,000,000 provided by
H.R. 2839 in the 116th Congress (providing
FY2020 appropriations for the Department of
State, foreign operations, and related pro-
grams), as passed by the House of Represent-
atives;
(3) urges donor countries to step up the
fight and increase their pledges for the Sixth
Global Fund Replenishment and supports
continued diplomatic engagement to im-
prove burden sharing;
(4) urges Global Fund recipient countries
to continue to make and meet ambitious co-
financing commitments to sustain progress
in ending the epidemics of AIDS, TB, and
malaria; and
(5) encourages United States bilateral aid
programs to continue their collaboration
with the Global Fund to maximize the life-
saving impact of global health investments.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New Jersey (Mr. SIRES) and the gen-
tleman from New Jersey (Mr. SMITH)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New Jersey (Mr. SIRES).
b 1615
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I ask unani-
mous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on H. Res. 517.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New Jersey?
There was no objection.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, there is no better exam-
ple of American interests and values
intersecting in our foreign policy than
global health issues.
On the one hand, global health chal-
lenges are strategic challenges. Coun-
tries and communities with poor access
to healthcare are less productive, less
stable, less able to act as strong part-
ners. Unchecked, pandemics can blow
across borders and make their way to
our own shores, threatening the Amer-
ican people, so we have a real interest
in working to tackle global health
problems.
At the same time, we, as Americans,
want to see people everywhere lead
healthy, happy lives, and access to
healthcare allows more people to pur-
sue greater opportunity.
That is why, over the last two dec-
ades, the Global Fund has been such a
remarkable foreign policy initiative. It
has helped reduce by half the number
of AIDS-related deaths worldwide since
2005. From 2000 to 2016, it contributed
to a 37 percent decline in tuberculosis
deaths. Since the year 2000, the Global
Fund has helped reduce the number of
deaths from malaria by 60 percent.
America’s contributions to the Glob-
al Fund have helped to fund these vital
programs, and our leadership has
helped drive billions in additional in-
vestments from other donors and re-
cipient states. In October, the Global
Fund received pledges of more than $14
billion for the next 3 years from 75 do-
nors. Sixteen million people will ben-
efit from this lifesaving assistance.
This is work that we should all be
proud of. It has helped advance core
American interests around the world.
It has shown the character of our coun-
try, our spirit of generosity and com-
passion.
It is essential that the Global Fund’s
work continues. That is why I am
proud to support this measure from
Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman
ENGEL and Ranking Member MCCAUL.
This resolution puts the House on the
record reaffirming our support for the
Global Fund, reiterating how impor-
tant its work is. It says that the fund-
ing the House already approved for
next year shall go forward because the
Global Fund’s future success depends
on American involvement.
The Global Fund has built a tremen-
dous record of success. We need to keep
that record going so that we can con-
tinue to help people around the world
withstand life-threatening but prevent-
able diseases.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong
support of H. Res. 517, a resolution by
Chairman ENGEL and Ranking Member
MCCAUL, supporting the Global Fund to
fight AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria.
The Global Fund is a financing part-
nership of governments, private do-
nors, and civil societies that have a
shared purpose of ending HIV/AIDS,
TB, and malaria. Since its founding in
2002, the Global Fund is credited with
saving millions of lives.
Nor is our contribution to combat
these diseases limited to the Global
Fund. As my colleagues know, since its
inception in 2002, the Global Fund has
worked with U.S. programs, such as the
President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS
Relief, or PEPFAR, which has radi-
cally and positively changed the course
of health outcomes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:55 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03DE7.012 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9193
December 3, 2019
President Bush initiated the
PEPFAR program, which has been
transformative in so many countries,
particularly in sub-Saharan Africa. Ac-
cording to PEPFAR’s latest data, over
18 million lives have been saved due to
PEPFAR’s intervention.
I would note the success in blocking
mother-to-child transmission of AIDS
during pregnancy. At the end of Sep-
tember 2019, Mr. Speaker, over 2.6 mil-
lion babies born of HIV-infected moth-
ers have been born HIV free.
In addition to President Bush’s ex-
traordinary leadership, we should also
note the lasting reforms and contribu-
tions of Mark Dybul. Mark served as
the U.S. Global AIDS Coordinator from
2006 to 2009, implementing PEPFAR
during that critical period. He then
went on to serve as the executive direc-
tor of the Global Fund, instituting re-
forms such that we stand here today
recognizing the critical role that the
Global Fund is playing in the fight
against HIV/AIDS.
Among other things, Mark insisted
on the key role that faith-based organi-
zations play in the fight against the
spread of HIV. Africa, in particular, is
a faith-based continent, and to neglect
the role of the churches, as some had
advocated at the time, would be to ne-
glect the single most important grass-
roots institution in the lives of the
people on the continent.
Mark also spearheaded risk avoid-
ance strategies, including keeping ado-
lescent girls in school, which has prov-
en critical in delaying the onset of sex-
ual activity and reducing the trans-
mission of AIDS.
Mr. Speaker, the American people al-
locate $6 billion a year to the Presi-
dent’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Re-
lief, or PEPFAR, which Congress ex-
tended for another 5 years via legisla-
tion that I authored with Democrat
BARBARA LEE and that President
Trump signed into law on December 11
last year.
Along with funds we dedicate in
USAID’s global health account to com-
bat AIDS, TB, and malaria, our con-
tributions to PEPFAR and the Global
Fund make our global leadership un-
paralleled in the entire world. And it is
not just simply providing funds. It is
the leadership and commitment to ex-
cellence demonstrated by people such
as our Global AIDS Coordinator today,
Deborah Birx, and her team, which
makes our commitment so impactful.
Yet, to sustain its progress, the Glob-
al Fund needs at least $14 billion over
the next 3 years. To help the fund
reach its goal, the U.S. commitment
would need to be $1.56 billion. I am
happy to say, 2 months ago, the Global
Fund held its replenishment meeting,
where pledge amounts for the next 3
years were submitted. The United
States Government pledged $1.56 bil-
lion, with other donors coming to the
table to help the Global Fund raise the
critically needed money.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Ms. LEE).
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding and
for his leadership, and also Chairman
ENGEL as well as Mr. SMITH for their
commitment on this and so many
issues.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H. Res. 517. This important resolu-
tion reaffirms our commitment to end-
ing AIDS and calls on our government
to maintain its historic contribution to
the Global Fund.
As one of the original authors of the
Global Fund and as co-chair of the HIV/
AIDS Caucus, I am pleased that we are
moving this bill forward.
This legislation has one of the great-
est impacts on lives of people around
the world. Since 2002, the Global Fund
and PEPFAR have saved 32 million
lives. That is 32 million lives. That is
unbelievable.
What is more, the Global Fund has
cut the number of AIDS-related deaths
in half since 2005 and helped to reduce
TB deaths by 37 percent.
Mr. Speaker, our country’s strong
support of this program, which has
been bipartisan, coupled with new sci-
entific advances, has helped us turn the
tide on achieving an AIDS-free genera-
tion.
Just this year, during the Global
Fund’s Sixth Replenishment Con-
ference, the United States maintained
its strong commitment to $1.56 billion
a year. That is a 33 percent contribu-
tion to this important fund.
I am glad that we are here today to
reaffirm our commitment to the Global
Fund and its sixth replenishment fund.
The bipartisan and multilateral com-
mitment to this program cannot be
overstated.
Finally, Mr. Speaker, I want to close
by lifting up the legacy of my prede-
cessor, a great statesman, Congress-
man Ron Dellums, who inspired my
legislation to establish the framework
for the Global Fund.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my partner, Re-
publican Congressman Jim Leach, for
his spirit of bipartisanship in helping
me get this bill through the Banking
and Financial Services Committee;
former President Bill Clinton, who
signed the Global AIDS and TB Relief
Act of 2000 to establish the Global
Fund; and, of course, the late Kofi
Annan, who served as Secretary Gen-
eral of the United Nations and who
boldly took this idea to the U.N. and
led the global effort for support.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
vote ‘‘yes’’ on this resolution, vote
‘‘yes’’ to saving lives.
Mr. Speaker, again, I thank everyone
for being here today. Sunday, of
course, was World AIDS Day, and we
led a delegation to the United Nations.
We had high-level meetings, and every-
one applauded the United States for its
leadership.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I yield such time as he may
consume to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. MCCAUL), the ranking member of
the Foreign Affairs Committee.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentlemen from New Jersey, Mr.
SMITH and Mr. SIRES, and Mr. ENGEL
for their hard work on this important
resolution that I support, the Global
Fund to fight AIDS, tuberculosis, and
malaria.
Over the last 17 years, 32 million
lives have been saved as a result of the
Global Fund partnering with U.S. pro-
grams to change the course of health
outcomes. Yet, there is much more
work to do. The Global Fund set a
fundraising goal of $14 billion over the
next 3 years in order to save an addi-
tional 16 million lives.
Since 2003, the United States has
been a longtime and consistent partner
of the Global Fund and the largest bi-
lateral donor. The U.S. has historically
provided $1 for every $2 raised by other
donors.
Our contributions have been an effec-
tive tool to leverage other donors and
secure greater commitments. However,
uncertainty over final spending bills
has complicated the U.S. contribution.
That is why my friend Chairman ENGEL
and I introduced this resolution, to re-
affirm our commitment to the Global
Fund and assure our donors of this U.S.
commitment.
In October, pledge amounts for the
next 3 years were submitted, and I am
pleased that this resolution played a
role in affirming the U.S. commitment
to the Global Fund and helped spur
more donors to step up to the fight
against AIDS, tuberculosis, and ma-
laria.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this important resolution, and
I also hope that we can consider a final
appropriation bill soon that provides
the necessary $1.56 billion over the
next 3 years to the Global Fund.
Rarely, Mr. Speaker, in this Chamber
do we pass laws and resolutions that
have such a direct impact on the lives
of others. That is the true calling, the
true mission, that I think we share on
both sides of the aisle, to make this
world a better place. This resolution
will certainly do that.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I have no further requests for
time, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self as much time as I may consume for
the purpose of closing.
Mr. Speaker, a lot of factors have
come together over nearly 20 years to
account for the success of the Global
Fund, but in my view, the most crucial
piece of the puzzle has been American
leadership.
I worry about what has happened to
American leadership in recent years. I
worry when an American administra-
tion sends budget after budget to Cap-
itol Hill asking us to slash our invest-
ments in diplomacy and development
by a third. I worry about the message
that sends to the rest of the world,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:55 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03DE7.015 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9194 December 3, 2019
about the lives which could be lost if
we reduce our commitment to the fund,
and about what it could mean for all
the success that efforts like the Global
Fund have achieved.
Mr. Speaker, it is important today
that the House send this message, that
we express our clear support for the
Global Fund and our support for bring-
ing American leadership to bear on
global health challenges.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to
support this measure, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
today, I rise in support of H. Res. 517, which
I have proudly cosponsored. This resolution
reaffirms our nation’s commitment to fight
AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria. Amid the
worldwide progress that has been made to
counter these diseases, it is critical that we
maintain our financial contribution to the Glob-
al Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Ma-
laria.
As the first registered nurse elected to Con-
gress, I wholeheartedly support the funding of
efforts to prevent and eradicate infectious dis-
eases. The Global Fund is the world’s largest
supporter of prevention, treatment, and care
programs for AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria.
With these investments, it has decreased the
number of AIDS-related deaths by half since
2005, contributed to a 37 percent decline in
tuberculosis deaths from 2000 to 2016, and
facilitated a 60 percent decline in the number
of malaria deaths since 2000.
On behalf of families and young children
across the world, it is our duty to advance the
resources needed to address health in all our
communities. We must maintain our long-
standing commitment to the Global Fund. This
is a critical commitment to saving lives, avert-
ing new cases, and increasing the ability of
people around the world to withstand life-
threatening but preventable diseases.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
MALINOWSKI). The question is on the
motion offered by the gentleman from
New Jersey (Mr. SIRES) that the House
suspend the rules and agree to the reso-
lution, H. Res. 517, as amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the resolu-
tion, as amended, was agreed to.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
END NEGLECTED TROPICAL
DISEASES ACT
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 3460) to facilitate effective re-
search on and treatment of neglected
tropical diseases through coordinated
international efforts.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 3460
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘End Ne-
glected Tropical Diseases Act’’.
SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.
Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
Sec. 3. Statement of policy.
Sec. 4. Findings.
Sec. 5. Definition.
Sec. 6. Rule of construction.
Sec. 7. Expansion of United States Agency
for International Development
Neglected Tropical Diseases
Program.
Sec. 8. Actions by Department of State.
Sec. 9. Multilateral development and health
institutions.
SEC. 3. STATEMENT OF POLICY.
It is the policy of the United States to sup-
port a broad range of implementation and re-
search and development activities that work
toward the achievement of cost-effective and
sustainable treatment, control, and, where
possible, elimination of neglected tropical
diseases for the economic and social well-
being of all people.
SEC. 4. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) The World Health Organization (WHO)
has identified 17 neglected tropical diseases
(NTDs). Approximately 2 billion people, al-
most one-third of the world’s population, are
at risk of contracting an NTD, and more
than 1.4 billion people are currently afflicted
with 1 or more NTDs.
(2) In 2013, WHO adopted a comprehensive
resolution on NTDs recognizing that in-
creased national and international invest-
ments in prevention and control of neglected
tropical diseases have succeeded in improv-
ing health and social well-being in many
countries.
(3) NTDs have an enormous impact in
terms of disease burden and quality of life.
NTDs cause the loss of up to 534,000 lives and
57 million disability-adjusted life-years each
year. NTDs surpass both malaria and tuber-
culosis in causing greater loss of life-years to
disability and premature death. Many NTDs
cause disfigurement and disability, leading
to stigma, social discrimination, and soci-
etal marginalization.
(4) NTDs create an economic burden of bil-
lions of dollars through the loss of produc-
tivity and high costs of health care required
for treatment. People afflicted by NTDs are
less productive than their healthy counter-
parts. NTDs jeopardize the ability of people
to attend work and school, or to produce at
full capacity. For example, controlling one
NTD, hookworm, in children can result in a
43-percent increase in future wage earnings.
(5) The social, economic, and health burden
of NTDs falls primarily on low- and middle-
income countries, where access to safe
water, sanitation, and health care is limited.
At least 100 countries face 2 endemic NTD
burdens, and 30 countries carry 6 or more en-
demic NTDs.
(6) NTDs are not confined to the developing
world, however. Several NTD outbreaks have
been reported in the United States and other
developed countries, especially among the
poor. In the United States, NTDs dispropor-
tionately affect people living in poverty, and
especially minorities, including up to 2.8
million African Americans with toxocariasis
and 300,000 or more people, mostly Hispanic
Americans, with Chagas disease.
(7) Many NTDs can be controlled, pre-
vented, and even eliminated using low-cost,
effective, and feasible solutions. Under-
standing the economic burden of NTDs on
productivity and health care costs can help
to assure governments and donors that the
resources directed toward NTDs represent a
good investment.
(8) Research and development efforts are
immediately needed for all NTDs, especially
those for which limited or no treatment cur-
rently exists.
(9) Critical to developing robust NTD con-
trol strategies are epidemiological data that
identify at-risk populations, ensure appro-
priate treatment frequency, and inform deci-
sions about when treatment can be reduced
or stopped.
(10) Of the 14 most common NTDs, roughly
80 percent of infections are caused by soil-
transmitted helminths (STH) and schistoso-
miasis. STH are a group of 3 parasitic worms
(roundworms, whipworms, and hookworms)
that afflict more than 1 billion people world-
wide, including 600 million school-age chil-
dren, of whom more than 300 million suffer
from severe morbidity. Schistosomiasis is
another helminth infection affecting at least
200 million people in developing countries,
but some estimates indicate that the true
number of people affected may be double or
even triple that number.
(11) The benefits of deworming are imme-
diate and enduring. A rigorous randomized
controlled trial has shown school-based
deworming treatment to reduce school ab-
senteeism by 25 percent. School-based
deworming also benefits young siblings and
other children who live nearby but are too
young to be treated, leading to large cog-
nitive improvements equivalent to half a
year of schooling.
SEC. 5. DEFINITION.
In this Act, the term ‘‘neglected tropical
diseases’’ or ‘‘NTDs’’—
(1) means infections caused by pathogens,
including viruses, bacteria, protozoa, and
helminths that disproportionately impact
individuals living in extreme poverty, espe-
cially in developing countries; and
(2) includes—
(A) Buruli ulcer (Mycobacterium Ulcerans
infection);
(B) Chagas disease;
(C) dengue or severe dengue fever;
(D) dracunculiasis (Guinea worm disease);
(E) echinococcosis;
(F) foodborne trematodiases;
(G) human African trypanosomiasis (sleep-
ing sickness);
(H) leishmaniasis;
(I) leprosy;
(J) lymphatic filariasis (elephantiasis);
(K) onchocerciasis (river blindness);
(L) scabies;
(M) schistosomiasis;
(N) soil-transmitted helminthiases (STH)
(roundworm, whipworm, and hookworm);
(O) taeniasis/cysticercosis;
(P) trachoma; and
(Q) yaws (endemic treponematoses).
SEC. 6. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to
increase authorizations of appropriations for
the United States Agency for International
Development.
SEC. 7. EXPANSION OF UNITED STATES AGENCY
FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT NEGLECTED TROPICAL DIS-
EASES PROGRAM.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds the fol-
lowing:
(1) Since fiscal year 2006, the United States
Government has been an essential leader in
global efforts to control seven targeted ne-
glected tropical diseases: lymphatic fila-
riasis (elephantiasis), onchocerciasis (river
blindness), schistosomiasis, soil-transmitted
helminthiases (roundworm, whipworm, and
hookworm), and trachoma. Additional infor-
mation suggests that such efforts could also
produce collateral benefits for at least three
other neglected tropical diseases: foodborne
trematodiases, scabies, and yaws (endemic
treponematoses).
(2) The United States Government is a
partner in the London Declaration on Ne-
glected Tropical Diseases (2012), which rep-
resents a new, coordinated international
push to accelerate progress toward elimi-
nating or controlling 10 NTDs by 2020.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:55 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03DE7.017 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9195
December 3, 2019
(3) While many of the most common NTDs
have safe, easy to use, and effective treat-
ments, treatment options for the NTDs with
the highest death rates, including human Af-
rican trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness),
visceral leishmaniasis, and Chagas disease,
are extremely limited.
(4) The United States Agency for Inter-
national Development (USAID) Neglected
Tropical Diseases Program has made impor-
tant and substantial contributions to the
global fight to control and eliminate 5 of the
most common NTDs. Leveraging more than
$15,700,000,000 in donated medicines, USAID
has supported the distribution of more than
1 billion treatments in 31 countries across
Africa, Asia, and Latin America and the Car-
ibbean.
(5) Since 2014, the USAID Neglected Trop-
ical Diseases Program has been investing in
research and development for the treatment
of certain NTDs to ensure that promising
new breakthrough medicines can be rapidly
evaluated, registered, and made available to
patients.
(6) The USAID Neglected Tropical Diseases
Program is a clear example of a successful
public-private partnership between the Gov-
ernment and the private sector and should be
judiciously expanded, as practicable and ap-
propriate.
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that the USAID Neglected Tropical
Diseases Program, as in effect on the date of
the enactment of this Act, should—
(1) provide integrated drug treatment
packages to as many individuals suffering
from NTDs or at risk of acquiring NTDs, in-
cluding individuals displaced by manmade
and natural disasters, as logistically fea-
sible;
(2) better integrate NTD control and treat-
ment tools and approaches into complemen-
tary development and global health pro-
grams by coordinating, to the extent prac-
ticable and appropriate, across multiple sec-
tors, including those relating to HIV/AIDS,
malaria, tuberculosis, education, nutrition,
other infectious diseases, maternal and child
health, and water, sanitation, and hygiene;
(3) establish low-cost, high-impact
community- and school-based NTD programs
to reach large at-risk populations, including
school-age children, with integrated drug
treatment packages, as feasible;
(4) as opportunities emerge and resources
allow, engage in research and development of
new tools and approaches to reach the goals
relating to the elimination of NTDs as set
forth by the 2012 World Health Organization
publication ‘‘Accelerating Work to Overcome
the Global Impact of Neglected Tropical Dis-
eases: A Roadmap for Implementation’’, in-
cluding for Chagas disease, Guinea worm,
human African trypanosomiasis (sleeping
sickness), leprosy, and visceral leishmani-
asis; and
(5) monitor research on and developments
in the prevention and treatment of other
NTDs so breakthroughs can be incorporated
into the USAID Neglected Tropical Diseases
Program, as practicable and appropriate.
(c) PROGRAM PRIORITIES.—The Adminis-
trator of USAID should incorporate the fol-
lowing priorities into the USAID Neglected
Tropical Diseases Program (as in effect on
the date of the enactment of this Act):
(1) Planning for and conducting robust
monitoring and evaluation of program in-
vestments in order to accurately measure
impact, identify and share lessons learned,
and inform future NTD control and elimi-
nation strategies.
(2) Coordinating program activities with
complementary USAID development and
global health programs, including programs
relating to water, sanitation, and hygiene,
food and nutrition security, and education
(both primary and secondary), in order to ad-
vance the goals of the London Declaration
on Neglected Tropical Diseases (2012).
(3) Including morbidity management in
treatment plans for high-burden NTDs.
(4) Incorporating NTDs included in the
Global Burden of Disease Study 2010 into the
program as opportunities emerge, to the ex-
tent practicable and appropriate.
(5) Continuing investments in the research
and development of new tools and ap-
proaches that complement existing research
investments and ensure that new discoveries
make it through the pipeline and become
available to individuals who need them
most.
SEC. 8. ACTIONS BY DEPARTMENT OF STATE.
(a) OFFICE OF THE GLOBAL AIDS COORDI-
NATOR.—It is the sense of Congress that the
Coordinator of United States Government
Activities to Combat HIV/AIDS Globally
should fully consider evolving research on
the impact of NTDs on efforts to control
HIV/AIDS when making future programming
decisions, as necessary and appropriate.
(b) GLOBAL PROGRAMMING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of State
should encourage the Global Fund to take
into consideration evolving research on the
impact of NTDs on efforts to control HIV/
AIDS when making programming decisions,
particularly with regard to female genital
schistosomiasis, which studies suggest may
be one of the most significant cofactors in
the AIDS epidemic in Africa, as necessary
and appropriate.
(2) GLOBAL FUND.—In this subsection, the
term ‘‘Global Fund’’ means the public-pri-
vate partnership known as the Global Fund
to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria es-
tablished pursuant to Article 80 of the Swiss
Civil Code.
(c) G–20 COUNTRIES.—The Secretary of
State, acting through the Office of Global
Health Diplomacy, should encourage G–20
countries to significantly increase their role
in the control and elimination of NTDs.
SEC. 9. MULTILATERAL DEVELOPMENT AND
HEALTH INSTITUTIONS.
(a) CONGRESSIONAL FINDING.—Congress
finds that the treatment of NTDs, including
community- and school-based deworming
programs, can be a highly cost-effective
intervention, and schools can serve as an ef-
fective delivery mechanism for reaching
large numbers of children with safe treat-
ment for soil-transmitted helminthiases
(roundworm, whipworm, and hookworm) in
particular.
(b) UNITED NATIONS.—The President should
direct the United States permanent rep-
resentative to the United Nations to use the
voice, vote, and influence of the United
States to urge the World Health Organiza-
tion and the United Nations Development
Programme to—
(1) ensure the dissemination of best prac-
tices and programming on NTDs to govern-
ments and make data accessible to practi-
tioners in an open and timely fashion;
(2) highlight impacts of community- and
school-based deworming programs on chil-
dren’s health and education, emphasizing the
cost-effectiveness of such programs;
(3) encourage governments to implement
deworming campaigns at the national level;
(4) consider the designation of a portion of
grant funds of the institutions to deworming
initiatives and cross-sectoral collaboration
with water, sanitation, and hygiene efforts
and nutrition or education programming, as
practicable and appropriate;
(5) encourage accurate monitoring and
evaluation of NTD programs, including
deworming programs; and
(6) engage governments in cross-border ini-
tiatives for the treatment, control, preven-
tion, and elimination of NTDs, and assist in
developing transnational agreements, when
and where necessary.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New Jersey (Mr. SIRES) and the gen-
tleman from New Jersey (Mr. SMITH)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New Jersey (Mr. SIRES).
b 1630
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I ask unani-
mous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on H.R. 3460.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New Jersey?
There was no objection.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, let me start by thank-
ing Mr. SMITH from New Jersey, a sen-
ior member of the Foreign Affairs
Committee, for his hard work on this
bill, which seeks to make progress on
this pressing global health challenge.
There is a category of diseases—what
we call neglected tropical diseases—
that pack a particularly nasty punch
on populations living in poverty with-
out adequate sanitation. These are pre-
cisely the kinds of diseases that hold
entire communities back. They drive
up health costs, lead to lost wages, un-
dercut productivity, and deprive chil-
dren of the shot at a better future.
What is especially wrenching about
these diseases is that they cause all
this harm, despite the fact that we
have the tools to combat them. Very
elementary public health efforts can
stop these diseases in their tracks: re-
search, drug distribution, and basic
public health intervention. Yet these
diseases affect more than 1 billion peo-
ple around the world, according to the
World Health Organization.
To its credit, USAID is already focus-
ing on these diseases. The Agency’s Ne-
glected Tropical Disease Program has
worked to distribute nearly $16 billion
worth of donated medicines in more
than 30 countries. It is a good start,
but these efforts aren’t yet equal to the
challenge.
This legislation underscores the seri-
ous challenge posed by neglected trop-
ical diseases and encourages USAID to
expand its work to grapple with this
problem. It also sets up a stronger dip-
lomatic approach for dealing with
these diseases by requiring the State
Department to push for broader action
through the U.N., the Global Fund, and
the G–20.
In short, this measure pushes for a
smart, broad-based effort for getting at
these preventable diseases.
Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to support
it, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:55 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03DE7.012 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9196 December 3, 2019
Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. SIRES for
his strong support for this legislation
and for his leadership on neglected
tropical diseases. I thank my other col-
leagues, Mr. MCCAUL and, of course,
Ms. BASS, who has also been a great
supporter of this legislation.
Mr. Speaker, neglected tropical dis-
eases, or NTDs, are a group of parasitic
and bacterial diseases, including
worms, which blind, disfigure, and
sometimes kill victims from among the
world’s poorest people, trapping the
most marginalized communities in cy-
cles of poverty. There are numerous ex-
amples of them, including Chagas, den-
gue, and leprosy.
Can you believe, Mr. Speaker, that
there are over 200,000 cases of leprosy
in the world today? And there is an
intervention. There are drugs that can
treat, mitigate, and even cure it, but
sometimes people do not get access to
them, and that causes serious, serious
problems.
The worms—and I will get into that
in a minute—are absolutely dev-
astating, as well, and they need to be
addressed very aggressively.
Mr. Speaker, approximately 2 billion
people—almost one-third of the world’s
population—are at risk of contracting
an NTD, and over 1.4 billion people are
currently afflicted with one or more
NTDs.
Over the years, Mr. Speaker, I have
chaired numerous hearings on this: one
in 2013; one in 2016, the global Zika epi-
demic; and many others, always focus-
ing on the fact that we need to do
more.
These are preventable, but they are
certainly treatable. But if you don’t
get the drugs and you don’t get the
intervention, that person is made—and
those who are like that person—to suf-
fer horrifically.
I introduced the End Neglected Trop-
ical Diseases Act in four separate Con-
gresses—2014, 2015, 2017, and again this
year—so I deeply appreciate Chairman
ENGEL and Ranking Member MCCAUL’s
strong support for this legislation and
the leadership for bringing it up today.
NTDs have an enormous impact in
terms of disease burden and quality of
life. It causes the loss of life to about
534,000 people. NTDs surpass both ma-
laria and tuberculosis in causing great-
er loss of life-years to disability and
premature death. They cause disfigure-
ment and disability, often leading to
stigma, social discrimination, and soci-
etal marginalization.
NTDs create an economic burden of
billions of dollars through the loss of
productivity and the high costs of
healthcare required for treatment
when it gets, especially, to a critical
stage.
People afflicted by NTDs are less pro-
ductive than their healthy counter-
parts. They jeopardize the ability of
people to attend work and school or to
produce at full capacity.
The social, economic, and health bur-
den of NTDs falls primarily on low- and
middle-income countries, where access
to safe water, sanitation, and
healthcare is limited.
At least 100 countries face two en-
demic NTD burdens, and 30 countries
carry six or more endemic neglected
tropical diseases.
As I said, they can be controlled.
They can be prevented and even elimi-
nated, using low-cost, effective, and
feasible solutions, especially when
treated early.
Research and development efforts are
immediately needed for all NTDs, espe-
cially those for which no treatment
currently exists.
Recent data published by the WHO
confirm that, in 2018, more than 1 bil-
lion people were treated for at least
one of five neglected tropical diseases.
Not well understood, Mr. Speaker, is
the fact that neglected tropical dis-
eases are infecting large numbers of
vulnerable people—especially chil-
dren—in developed countries, including
the United States. Of course, these in-
clude West Nile virus, dengue fever,
and, most recently, Zika.
An article published in the medical
journal The Lancet scrutinized this
emerging threat and was titled, ‘‘Ne-
glected Tropical Diseases: No Longer
Someone Else’s Problem.’’ The article
references world-renowned NTD expert
Dr. Peter Hotez of Baylor College of
Medicine, who, I note parenthetically,
twice testified at hearings that I
chaired.
I read his book—and I read it not
once, but twice. It is a wake-up call to
what these horrible diseases do. But he
estimates that more than half of the 20
million Americans living in extreme
poverty are infected with at least one
neglected tropical disease. That is
right here in the United States of
America.
The End Neglected Tropical Diseases
Act supports the treatment, control,
and elimination of NTDs primarily by
ensuring that USAID’s NTD Program
effectively integrates treatment, con-
trol, and elimination efforts with other
development issues, such as HIV/AIDS,
malaria, water and sanitation, and edu-
cation.
It also directs, as my good friend Mr.
SIRES pointed out a moment ago, the
U.S. Government to advocate for in-
creased efforts to address NTDs among
international institutions such as the
U.N., World Health Organization, and
World Bank.
Let’s not forget that of the 14 most
common NTDs, roughly 80 percent of
infections are caused by soil-trans-
mitted helminths and schistosomiasis.
Soil-transmitted helminths are a
group of three parasitic worms—
roundworms, whipworms, and
hookworms—that afflict more than 1
billion people worldwide, including 600
million school-age children, of whom
more than 300 million suffer from se-
vere morbidity.
Schistosomiasis is another helminth
infection affecting at least 220 million
people in developing countries, and the
World Health Organization estimates
that 90 percent of those individuals are
in sub-Saharan Africa.
The benefits of deworming are imme-
diate and enduring. A rigorous, ran-
domized controlled trial has shown
that school-based deworming treat-
ment reduces absenteeism by 25 per-
cent. School-based deworming also
benefits young siblings and other chil-
dren who live nearby but are too young
to be treated, leading to large cog-
nitive improvements equivalent to half
a year of schooling.
Let me also point out to my col-
leagues that the treatment for worms
is simple and cost-effective. Treatment
for hookworm, for example, in Tan-
zania costs about 4 cents per treatment
to knock this terrible disease out of
the intestinal tract. Yet one-off
deworming treatment is not enough,
as, without sanitary and hygiene be-
havioral changes, people will get rein-
fected.
What we need to do, and what this
bill does, is to integrate our USAID
deworming programs with our WaSH
programs—water, sanitation, and
health—coupled with our nutrition
interventions.
Let me just also make a point that
needs to be underscored with excla-
mation points. There is a very, very ro-
bust public-private partnership that
USAID leads with pharmaceutical in-
dustry companies such as
GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Johnson,
and Merck.
And, of course, my friend in the chair
and my friend managing the bill on the
Democrat side know, because these
companies hail from the great State of
New Jersey—Merck in Rahway, for ex-
ample—every U.S. taxpayer dollar in-
vested is leveraged with $26 in donated
medicines, resulting in $22 billion
worth of donated medicine, which is ex-
traordinary. I don’t know of any other
health program where the pharma-
ceuticals have stepped up like this to
say: We are not going to sell you these
drugs; we are going to donate them.
We also have helped train 6.5 million
individuals in countries around the
world to fight NTDs, helping them
build and strengthen health systems.
So we are, I think, making a difference.
We need to do more.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, it is my privilege to yield
such time as he may consume to the
gentleman from Texas (Mr. MCCAUL),
the distinguished ranking member of
the Foreign Affairs Committee.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of the End Neglected
Tropical Diseases Act, a bill sponsored
by my good friend, Mr. SMITH of New
Jersey. I want to commend him for his
efforts as being a steadfast leader on
this very important issue that is going
to save lives—and has saved lives. He is
really the conscience, I think, of this
body when it comes to this issue.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:55 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03DE7.020 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9197
December 3, 2019
NTDs represent a group of parasitic
and bacterial diseases that currently
afflict more than 1.4 billion people
worldwide. They can result in severe
disabilities such as blindness,
compounding existing social and eco-
nomic challenges in the areas where
these diseases thrive.
To be clear, the United States has
taken a leadership role in the fight
against NTDs. As many of these dis-
eases have approved treatments,
USAID’s NTD program has supplied
medicine to key impacted countries
using an innovative public-private
partnership, as Congressman SMITH al-
luded to.
Since 2006, USAID has leveraged
more than $22 billion in donated medi-
cines to provide about $2.6 billion in
treatments. However, there is much
more to be done, especially to build
global political support to fight NTDs.
To that end, this bill directs our flag-
ship global health program, PEPFAR,
to find opportunities to integrate NTD
research and care into their existing ef-
forts to fight HIV/AIDS, where appro-
priate.
To lessen the U.S. burden in this
fight, this bill also encourages greater
participation in the research, treat-
ment, and care of NTDs from the Glob-
al Fund, the United Nations, and other
G–20 partners.
NTDs pose a significant threat to
health outcomes and have a detri-
mental effect on developing economies.
I again thank Mr. SMITH for his great
leadership on this issue. And, once
again, to pass something in this House
that will save lives is truly one of the
most gratifying experiences that we, as
Members of Congress, have.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I continue
to reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I have no further requests for
time, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume for
the purpose of closing.
Mr. Speaker, let me again thank Mr.
SMITH for all his hard work on this bill.
This legislation shows so clearly how
we can use development and diplomacy
in tandem to help meet serious global
challenges. It is why diplomacy and de-
velopment are so important in our for-
eign policy.
There is no doubt that neglected
tropical diseases have a major road-
block for impoverished communities
around the world. There is also no
doubt that we have the tools to combat
them if we can garner the resources
and the political will to get the job
done. That is what this bill aims to do.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to
vote ‘‘yes’’ on this measure, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
SIRES) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 3460.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
b 1645
DISAPPROVING THE RUSSIAN FED-
ERATION’S INCLUSION IN FU-
TURE GROUP OF SEVEN SUM-
MITS UNTIL IT RESPECTS THE
TERRITORIAL INTEGRITY OF ITS
NEIGHBORS AND ADHERES TO
THE STANDARDS OF DEMO-
CRATIC SOCIETIES
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and agree to the reso-
lution (H. Res. 546) disapproving the
Russian Federation’s inclusion in fu-
ture Group of Seven summits until it
respects the territorial integrity of its
neighbors and adheres to the standards
of democratic societies.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The text of the resolution is as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 546
Whereas, in 2014, Russia illegally occupied
Ukraine’s Crimea region and parts of eastern
Ukraine;
Whereas these actions are in direct viola-
tion of fundamental principles of inter-
national law, as well as the United Nations
Charter, the Helsinki Final Act, and the 1994
Budapest Memorandum;
Whereas, in 1998, the Group of Seven in-
vited Russia to join the group in an effort to
encourage continued political and economic
reforms in Russia;
Whereas, in March 2014, the Group of Eight
suspended Russia as a direct result of its ac-
tions in Ukraine, and instead continued as
the Group of Seven;
Whereas, on April 3, 2014, President Barack
Obama signed into law the Support for the
Sovereignty, Integrity, Democracy, and Eco-
nomic Stability of Ukraine Act of 2014,
which states that ‘‘it is the policy of the
United States that the continued participa-
tion of the Russian Federation in the Group
of Eight (G–8) nations should be conditioned
on the Government of the Russian Federa-
tion respecting the territorial integrity of
its neighbors and accepting and adhering to
the norms and standards of free, democratic
societies as generally practiced by every
other member nation of the G–8 nations.’’;
Whereas, since 2014, the President of Rus-
sia, Vladimir Putin, has continued to violate
international law in Ukraine’s Crimea region
and elsewhere, and has continued to under-
mine democracy and human rights both at
home and abroad; and
Whereas, on August 26, 2019, President
Donald Trump, announced his intention to
invite the President of Russia to next year’s
Group of Seven summit: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the House of Representa-
tives—
(1) reiterates its unwavering support for
the sovereignty and territorial integrity of
Ukraine;
(2) condemns Russia’s aggressive actions in
Ukraine, including the illegal occupation of
Crimea and ongoing destabilization of east-
ern Ukraine;
(3) condemns the Kremlin’s assaults on
democratic societies worldwide, including in
the United States and other Group of Seven
countries;
(4) reaffirms its full support for the suspen-
sion of Russia from the Group of Eight;
(5) calls on all leaders of the Group of
Seven to oppose the readmission of Russia
unless and until it has ended its occupation
of all of Ukraine’s sovereign territory, in-
cluding Crimea, and halts its attacks on de-
mocracies worldwide; and
(6) disapproves of Russia’s inclusion in fu-
ture Group of Seven summits until it re-
spects the territorial integrity of its neigh-
bors and adheres to the standards of demo-
cratic societies.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New Jersey (Mr. SIRES) and the gen-
tleman from New Jersey (Mr. SMITH)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New Jersey (Mr. SIRES).
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I ask unani-
mous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on H. Res. 546.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New Jersey?
There was no objection.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Chair-
man ENGEL, Ranking Member MCCAUL,
and members of the House Foreign Af-
fairs Committee for their unanimous
support for H. Res. 546 during its mark-
up, and I urge my colleagues to support
this resolution.
In 2014, Russia was expelled from the
Group of Eight as a direct result of its
aggressive actions in Ukraine, includ-
ing the invasion of the Crimea region.
The remaining seven nations agreed
that Russia’s future inclusion would be
conditioned on its respect of Ukraine’s
sovereignty and territorial integrity.
Later in 2014, this international
agreement was codified into U.S. law
when the Support for the Sovereignty,
Integrity, Democracy, and Economic
Stability of Ukraine Act was signed
into law by President Barack Obama.
Within this legislation, introduced by
my colleague from Kentucky, Con-
gressman HAL ROGERS, is a clause stat-
ing that continued Russian participa-
tion in the Group of Eight shall be con-
ditioned on Russia respecting the terri-
torial integrity of its neighbors and ac-
cepting and adhering to the norms and
standards of free, democratic societies
as generally practiced by every other
member nation of the G–8.
In the time since this legislation was
signed into law, Russia has not
changed course. Instead, it has in-
creased its aggression in Ukraine and
has undermined democracy in numer-
ous nations. In response to Russia’s
continued flouting of international
democratic standards, I introduced H.
Res. 546 to reiterate longstanding bi-
partisan congressional sentiment that
Russia’s actions should have con-
sequences on the international stage.
If we allow Russia to participate in
future G–7 summits without meeting
the previously set conditions, we are
signaling that Russia can continue to
act with impunity and that the United
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:55 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03DE7.022 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9198 December 3, 2019
States will not stand firm in the face of
Russian aggression.
It is my hope that the House of Rep-
resentatives can, once again, come to-
gether as we did in 2014 to condemn
Russia’s actions in Ukraine, reaffirm
support for Russia’s expulsion from the
G–8, and stress that future participa-
tion must hinge on respecting the ter-
ritorial integrity of other nations.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H. Res. 546.
I want to thank Mr. SIRES for author-
ing this very important resolution,
which reiterates that Russia should
not be permitted to rejoin the Group of
Eight summits until Putin’s flagrant
aggression radically changes.
Since the Russian invasion in 2014,
Ukraine has been embroiled in a battle
for territorial sovereignty. For 6 years,
Russia has illegally occupied the Cri-
mean Peninsula and supported sepa-
ratist fighting in the Donbas region of
Ukraine.
For over a decade, Russia has also il-
legally occupied the Abkhazia and
South Ossetia regions of Georgia,
which constitute 20 percent of Geor-
gia’s territory.
Mr. Speaker, I visited Tbilisi within
a week after Putin’s invasion into
South Ossetia when the thought was
they might even go the rest of the way
into Tbilisi, and I can say I saw first-
hand the IDPs—the internally dis-
placed persons—the refugees, the loss
of life, and people who were wounded;
and, again, it was all reminiscent of
the bad old days of the Soviet Union
now being replicated by Vladimir
Putin.
Putin has violated fundamental prin-
ciples of international law, and he has
done so with impunity. He has refused
to respect the territorial integrity of
its neighbors and denied the standards
of democratic societies.
These invasions and occupations
have displaced thousands of ethnic
Ukrainians and Georgians and resulted
in severe human rights abuses against
both populations. Moreover, Russia’s
meddling in the democratic elections
of the United States and our allies
throughout Europe have further dem-
onstrated Putin’s complete disrespect
for the values and beliefs shared by
other members of the Group of Seven.
This resolution condemns Russia’s
occupation of Crimea and other desta-
bilization efforts in eastern Ukraine,
reaffirms U.S. support for Ukraine’s
territory and sovereignty, and admon-
ishes Putin’s assaults on democratic
processes around the world.
Most importantly, this legislation es-
tablishes that Russia should continue
to be suspended from the Group of
Seven until Putin adheres to the stand-
ards of democratic societies.
Again, Mr. Speaker, I want to thank
my good friend and colleague from New
Jersey for authoring this important
legislation.
Mr. Speaker, it is my privilege to
yield such time as he may consume to
the distinguished gentleman from
Texas (Mr. MCCAUL), who is the rank-
ing member.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong support of H. Res. 546.
Under President Putin’s leadership,
Russia has invaded and occupied parts
of Ukraine and Georgia, assassinated
political opponents at home and
abroad, and enabled the corrupt re-
gimes of Assad in Syria and Maduro in
Venezuela.
Putin has also waged cyber warfare
and disinformation campaigns against
the United States and our allies, inter-
fered in our elections, and spied off of
our coasts with their submarine war-
fare capability.
All of these actions go against the
fundamental principles of the Group of
Seven and threaten democracies
around the world.
As I have said many times over the
years, Mr. Putin is not our friend. The
United States and our allies cannot
trust him to be a reliable partner as
long as he continues to lead his coun-
try down a path of corruption, assas-
sinations, and oppression.
As stated in this resolution, Russia
should not be readmitted to the Group
of Seven until Putin respects the prin-
ciples shared by the other members, re-
linquishes his choke hold over Crimea,
and ceases his global attacks on demo-
cratic institutions. Maintaining the in-
tegrity of the Group of Seven is vital
to the group’s success, and Russia can-
not be allowed to bully its way back in.
I would like to thank Representative
SIRES for his hard work on this resolu-
tion, and my good friend, Representa-
tive SMITH, for championing this reso-
lution today. Under Putin’s leadership,
the world has become more deadly and
more dangerous, and his people have
fewer freedoms and greater poverty.
In closing, we need to stand up to
dictators like Mr. Putin. I do think
this is not, again, a Republican or a
Democrat issue. Standing up against a
hostile enemy, Mr. Putin and the Rus-
sian Federation, is an American issue.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I have no further requests for
time, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume for
the purpose of closing.
Mr. Speaker, this is a good, bipar-
tisan measure. I thank my colleague,
Mr. SHIMKUS, for supporting it and my
good friend from New Jersey, Congress-
man SMITH.
Time and time again, Russia ignores
the standards and norms of democratic
societies and actively operates counter
to American interests. If we do not
stand firm against Russian aggression
and allow them to participate in future
G–7 summits, we will be rewarding
Putin for his attacks on our country
and our allies and that will damage our
partnerships and alliances around the
world.
With this measure, Congress makes
it clear that we do not support Russia’s
inclusion in the G–7 as he continues to
attack us, our partners, and demo-
cratic institutions around the world.
Mr. Speaker, I hope all Members
would join me in supporting its pas-
sage, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
SIRES) that the House suspend the
rules and agree to the resolution, H.
Res. 546.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
REAFFIRMING SUPPORT FOR THE
GOOD FRIDAY AGREEMENT AND
OTHER AGREEMENTS TO EN-
SURE A LASTING PEACE IN
NORTHERN IRELAND
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and agree to the reso-
lution (H. Res. 585) reaffirming support
for the Good Friday Agreement and
other agreements to ensure a lasting
peace in Northern Ireland.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The text of the resolution is as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 585
Whereas, on April 10, 1998, the Government
of Ireland and the Government of the United
Kingdom signed the Good Friday Agreement;
Whereas the main goal of the Good Friday
Agreement was to bring an end to the vio-
lence on the island of Ireland and to ensure
self-determination, peace, and reconciliation
for the people of the island of Ireland;
Whereas the successful negotiation of the
Good Friday Agreement stands as a historic
and groundbreaking success that has proven
critical to the decades of relative peace that
have followed;
Whereas an exit from the European Union
by the United Kingdom that does not appro-
priately protect the Good Friday Agreement
threatens to undermine progress that has
been made in moving beyond the legacy of
the past in Northern Ireland;
Whereas the power-sharing agreement ne-
gotiated between the Government of Ireland,
the Government of the United Kingdom, and
parties in Northern Ireland in 1998 was a
critical step toward negotiating lasting solu-
tions to the issues described in the Good Fri-
day Agreement and in other agreements that
followed;
Whereas the collapse of the power-sharing
institutions in 2017 has created additional
difficulties and is serving as a roadblock to
continued progress;
Whereas despite the historic progress of
the Good Friday Agreement and subsequent
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:55 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03DE7.025 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9199
December 3, 2019
agreements, important issues remain unre-
solved in Northern Ireland, including secur-
ing justice for victims of state-sponsored vi-
olence and other violence and providing for
the rights of all sections of the community;
Whereas the reintroduction of barriers,
checkpoints, or personnel, also known as a
‘‘hard border’’, between the Republic of Ire-
land and Northern Ireland would further
threaten economic cooperation between the
Republic of Ireland and the United Kingdom
as well as the successes of the Good Friday
Agreement;
Whereas the United States Congress served
a prominent assisting role in the negotiation
of Good Friday Agreement and has taken a
leading role in striving for peace on the is-
land of Ireland more broadly; and
Whereas Congress greatly values the close
relationships the United States shares with
both the United Kingdom and the Republic
of Ireland and stands steadfastly committed
to supporting the peaceful resolution of any
and all political challenges in Northern Ire-
land: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the House of Representa-
tives—
(1) urges the United Kingdom and the Eu-
ropean Union to ensure that any exit from
the European Union by the United Kingdom
supports continued peace on the island of
Ireland and the principles, objectives, and
commitments of the Good Friday Agree-
ment;
(2) urges a successful outcome to the dia-
logue between all parties in Northern Ireland
to ensure that all of the institutions of the
Good Friday Agreement operate again and
that ongoing political challenges and de-
bates can be overcome;
(3) expresses support for the full implemen-
tation of the Good Friday Agreement and
subsequent agreements;
(4) expresses opposition to the reintroduc-
tion of a hard border between the Republic of
Ireland and Northern Ireland;
(5) supports the right of all the people on
the island of Ireland to self-determine their
future as provided for in the Good Friday
Agreement; and
(6) will insist that any new or amended
trade agreements and other bilateral agree-
ments between the Government of the
United States and the Government of the
United Kingdom include conditions requiring
obligations under the Good Friday Agree-
ment to be met.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New Jersey (Mr. SIRES) and the gen-
tleman from New Jersey (Mr. SMITH)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New Jersey (Mr. SIRES).
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I ask unani-
mous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on H. Res. 585.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New Jersey?
There was no objection.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
I want to start by thanking my col-
leagues, Mr. SUOZZI and Mr. KING, for
authoring this excellent bipartisan
measure that reaffirms Congress’ sup-
port for lasting peace in Northern Ire-
land. The Good Friday Agreement and
the fulfillment of every obligation
under it is the only way to ensure that
those times of violence and division
never return.
That is why I am alarmed by the cur-
rent situation with Brexit, which could
reintroduce a hard border between the
north and the Republic. This is a dan-
gerous prospect not only for the peace
process but for the economic stability
of the island and for the rights of the
border communities.
With this bipartisan resolution we
send a clear signal to the United King-
dom and the European Union. It is a
priority for Congress that any Brexit
deal must protect the Good Friday
Agreement and all of its components.
b 1700
We must ensure that nothing com-
promises the peace, security, and eco-
nomic prosperity across Ireland.
I am proud to be a cosponsor of this
measure, and I urge all Members to
join me in supporting it.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS,
Washington, DC, December 2, 2019.
Hon. ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN ENGEL: In recognition of
the desire to expedite consideration of H.
Res. 585, ‘‘Reaffirming Support for the Good
Friday Agreement and other agreements to
ensure a lasting peace in Northern Ireland,’’
the Committee on Ways and Means agrees to
waive formal consideration of the bill as to
provisions that fall within the rule X juris-
diction of the Committee on Ways and
Means.
The Committee on Ways and Means takes
this action with the mutual understanding
that we do not waive any jurisdiction over
the subject matter contained in this or simi-
lar legislation, and the Committee will be
appropriately consulted and involved as the
bill or similar legislation moves forward so
that we may address any remaining issues
within our jurisdiction. The Committee also
reserves the right to seek appointment of an
appropriate number of conferees to any
House-Senate conference involving this or
similar legislation.
Finally, I would appreciate your response
to this letter confirming this understanding
and would ask that a copy of our exchange of
letter on this matter be included in the Con-
gressional Record during floor consideration
of H. Res. 585.
Sincerely,
RICHARD E. NEAL,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, December 2, 2019.
Hon. RICHARD E. NEAL,
Committee on Ways and Means,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN NEAL: I am writing to you
concerning H. Res. 585, Reaffirming support
for the Good Friday Agreement and other
agreements to ensure a lasting peace in
Northern Ireland. I appreciate your willing-
ness to work cooperatively on this resolu-
tion.
I acknowledge that provisions of this
measure fall within the jurisdiction of the
Committee on Ways and Means under House
Rule X, and that your Committee will forgo
action on H. Res. 585 to expedite floor consid-
eration. I further acknowledge that the inac-
tion of your Committee with respect to the
bill does not waive any future jurisdictional
claim over the matters contained in the bill
that fall within your jurisdiction. I will also
support the appointment of Committee on
Ways and Means conferees during any House-
Senate conference convened on this legisla-
tion.
Lastly, I will ensure that our exchange of
letters is included in the Congressional
Record during floor consideration of the bill.
Thank you again for your cooperation re-
garding the legislation. I look forward to
continuing to work with you as the measure
moves through the legislative process.
Sincerely,
ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.
Res. 585, which calls for the protection
of the Good Friday Agreement and any
Brexit deal that may come to fruition.
I congratulate the bill’s sponsor, TOM
SUOZZI from New York, for this impor-
tant initiative.
The Good Friday Agreement brought
resolution to the decades-long violent
conflict known as The Troubles. The
signing of the Good Friday Agreement
20 years ago was truly historic, ex-
traordinarily difficult to achieve, a re-
markable framework for peace, and the
hope for the beginning of reconcili-
ation.
In its most important provisions, the
agreement launched a series of chal-
lenging protocols by which the leaders
of the nationalist and unionist commu-
nities in Northern Ireland agreed to
strive for better governance and a
peaceful solution of differences. It was
characterized by prisoner releases, new
government structures, British demili-
tarization of the North, the decommis-
sioning of paramilitary weapons, and
systemic police reform.
In terms of realizing peace, consider
this: In the 30 years between 1969 and
1998, approximately 3,500 people were
killed in political violence, while in the
20 years since the Good Friday Agree-
ment, fewer than 100 have lost their
lives due to intersectarian violence—
though there was also the ongoing phe-
nomenon of intrasectarian killings at-
tributable to internal disputes among
paramilitary groups.
Mr. Speaker, there is a broad bipar-
tisan consensus on peace for Northern
Ireland, dating back to the integral
role played by President Bill Clinton
and Senate Majority Leader George
Mitchell in the negotiation of the 1998
Good Friday Agreement.
Congressman SUOZZI’s resolution, in-
troduced with PETER KING as the lead
Republican—and I am proud, like Mr.
SIRES, to be a cosponsor—reflects this
bipartisan interest. I, myself, Mr.
Speaker, have personally chaired 16
congressional hearings and markups of
legislation on human rights issues in
Northern Ireland, most of them with a
special focus on police reform and the
need to establish a public, independent
judicial inquiry into state-sponsored
collusion in the murder of human
rights attorney Patrick Finucane and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:55 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03DE7.015 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9200 December 3, 2019
others who were the victims of polit-
ical assassinations on both sides of the
divide.
Mr. Speaker, I also sponsored an
amendment that resulted in suspending
all U.S. support for and exchanges with
the then-British police force in North-
ern Ireland, the Royal Ulster Constabu-
lary. Vetting standards for RUC offi-
cers were implemented and then en-
forced. President Bush was then able to
certify that human rights principles
were part of police training going for-
ward, both in the RUC and in its re-
formed successor, the Police Service of
Northern Ireland.
Thus, I, too, like many in this Cham-
ber, have a strong personal interest in
the subject of Congressman SUOZZI’s
resolution.
Also, I am extremely worried about
the negative implications of a hard
Brexit. This 1998 agreement has kept
the peace on the island of Ireland for
over two decades by maintaining a soft
border between the two entities. A
Brexit deal that results in a hard bor-
der between Northern Ireland and the
Republic of Ireland could very possibly
instigate another outbreak of violence.
The fact is that armed paramilitary
groups still exist and could reengage in
killing, should there be a sustained
backsliding attributable to the failure
to achieve an equitable Brexit resolu-
tion.
It is vital to the safety and security
of Ireland that any potential Brexit
deal effectively address the Irish back-
stop issue and maintain all components
of the Good Friday Agreement. This
resolution affirms this as the U.S. posi-
tion on Brexit, and I commend its au-
thor. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. SUOZZI), the author of this
resolution.
Mr. SUOZZI. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Mr. SIRES for yielding me time.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of the bipartisan H. Res. 585, which I
introduced along with my Republican
colleague PETER KING.
This resolution reaffirms the United
States’ support for the Good Friday
Agreement and other agreements in
order to ensure a lasting peace in
Northern Ireland.
I want to start by thanking Chair-
man ENGEL for his support of this bi-
partisan resolution and for his decades-
long commitment to bringing a lasting
peace to the island of Ireland.
I also thank, again, my fellow Long
Islander PETER KING, my lead Repub-
lican cosponsor of this resolution, who
has been a staunch advocate for the
Good Friday Agreement and the peace
process for the length and breadth of
his entire career in public service, over
30 years.
I thank all of my colleagues from
both sides of the aisle on the House
Committee on Foreign Affairs and from
the Congressional Friends of Ireland
who cosponsored this resolution. Par-
ticularly, I thank my friend BILL
KEATING, chairman of the Foreign Af-
fairs Subcommittee on Europe, Eur-
asia, Energy, and the Environment.
Mr. Speaker, the signing of the Good
Friday Agreement in 1998 was a mo-
mentous achievement that marked the
official end of The Troubles, a dark pe-
riod in history that saw communities
torn apart, thousands of people killed,
and the island of Ireland literally di-
vided by a hard border.
While the Good Friday Agreement
has been largely responsible for the rel-
ative peace on the island of Ireland
over the last two decades, recent
events have created uncertainty and
put the agreement at risk.
The collapse of the key power-shar-
ing agreement in early 2017 has created
a roadblock to continued progress on
several important issues. Furthermore,
the uncertainty created by Brexit has
led to fears of instability and even the
reintroduction of a hard border sepa-
rating the Republic of Ireland and
Northern Ireland.
Next week, the people of the United
Kingdom will go to the polls in a cru-
cial election that will determine the
outcome of Brexit. While it would be
inappropriate for any American elected
official to interfere in another coun-
try’s electoral process, it is important
that the United States makes our posi-
tion clear on policies in which we have
a vested interest.
This resolution reiterates the United
States’ full support for the implemen-
tation of the Good Friday Agreement.
It also urges the parties to continue
their dialogues in the hope that the
governing institutions created by the
agreement can once again operate.
This resolution also makes it clear
that as the United Kingdom continues
to work through the Brexit process, all
parties should ensure that the final
outcome supports peace on the island
of Ireland, as well as all the principles,
objectives, and commitments of the
Good Friday Agreement. In particular,
this resolution expresses strong opposi-
tion to the reintroduction of a hard
border between the Republic of Ireland
and Northern Ireland. A return to a
hard border, as Congressman BOYLE has
repeatedly pointed out, could do im-
mense damage and must be avoided at
all costs.
I am pleased that in Brexit negotia-
tions so far, all parties seem to agree
that a hard border is unacceptable, and
I urge continued adherence to this po-
sition.
Finally, this resolution makes it
clear that should the United States and
the United Kingdom pursue a bilateral
trade agreement in the aftermath of
Brexit, that any such deal will be con-
tingent on meeting the obligations of
the Good Friday Agreement.
As a member of the House Ways and
Means Committee, which I would have
jurisdiction over any such deal, I prom-
ise to ensure that this clause of this
resolution is strictly enforced.
I know that my good friend Richie
Neal, who has cosponsored this resolu-
tion and who serves not only as chair-
man of the Ways and Means Committee
but also as co-chair of the bipartisan
Congressional Friends of Ireland, feels
exactly the same way.
Mr. Speaker, I also want to take a
moment to thank my good friend and
constituent Marty Glennon for his
years of activism in support of the
peace process. His wisdom and support
of this resolution as it made its way
through the legislative process has
been extremely valuable.
During these difficult times of often
partisan and divided government, it is
gratifying to see such overwhelming bi-
partisan support to ensure that Brexit
and other political challenges do not
threaten the Good Friday Agreement
or the peace process.
When my great-grandfather, Jere-
miah Holmes, first emigrated from the
Emerald Isle in the late 1800s, leaving
his home in Bweeng outside of Malllow
in County Cork, little did he know that
his son would go on to work for IBEW,
putting lights on the Empire State
Building. Little did he know that, one
day, his great-grandson would be a
Member of the House of Representa-
tives and work to continue the United
States’ important role in preserving
peace on the island of Ireland.
Mr. Speaker, I strongly urge the pas-
sage of this important bipartisan legis-
lation.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Con-
necticut (Mr. COURTNEY).
Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise
in strong support of Mr. SUOZZI’s reso-
lution, again saying that it is in Amer-
ica’s national interest to protect the
Good Friday Agreement peace accords.
As was stated on the floor, the U.S.
has equities in this agreement. The
work of George Mitchell back in the
1990s was instrumental, according to
all the parties involved, in terms of its
success.
Since then, Congress has reaffirmed
that involvement by appropriating
funds for the Northern Ireland Trust
Fund, which promotes reconciliation
amongst the sectarian factions that
unfortunately are still apart, to an un-
fortunate degree. Nonetheless, it has
been a great success over the last 21
years.
As an undergraduate student study-
ing in England in 1973, I visited Belfast
and Enniskillen in those dark days of
The Troubles, with 30,000 British sol-
diers patrolling the streets, bombings
taking place, over 3,000 causalities.
Fast forward to today, I brought a
trade mission from Connecticut over
with an aerospace-focus. There is calm.
There is a functioning government and
system and rule of law that has trans-
formed that island and, particularly,
Northern Ireland’s society. It is all
about trying to protect that future
with this resolution.
I would just end by saying this is in
accordance with the people of Northern
Ireland. When Brexit was voted on, the
people of Northern Ireland voted al-
most 56 percent to remain in the Euro-
pean Union because they wanted to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:41 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03DE7.030 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9201
December 3, 2019
make sure there was no risk of a hard
border.
Again, the measure passed, including
Great Britain’s votes, but only by an
even smaller margin of 51 percent. So
this resolution is not just a senti-
mental expression by people here in the
U.S. It is totally in accordance with
what I think is the will and the wishes
of the people of Northern Ireland.
I thank the sponsors on both sides of
the aisle, in terms of making sure that
this important diplomatic success for
the 20th century, that the U.S. was an
instrumental part of, will be protected.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Michi-
gan (Mr. KILDEE).
Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding, and I thank
my friends, Mr. SUOZZI and Mr. KING,
for offering this resolution, and par-
ticularly Mr. SUOZZI for his leadership
on this issue.
Like many Members who have spo-
ken, I am proud of my own Irish herit-
age. It is a heritage that continues to
this day. My sister lives in Ireland with
her husband, Daithi, and their chil-
dren, Siofra, Paddy, Ciaran, and Fiach.
Those four children are part of the first
generation alive that have been able to
live with the guarantee of some sort of
peace on that island.
It is important that we recognize
that, as much as many of us have this
familial connection to the people of
Ireland, this question is so much bigger
than that. This is really a question as
to whether or not we are going to sup-
port a negotiated peace, which is an
achievement not just of the people of
the U.K. and the island of Ireland but
as an achievement of the American
people as well because we are a guar-
antor of that agreement.
It even goes beyond that, however.
What message does it send to the peo-
ple of the world, especially in those
places that continue to have long-
standing conflicts, if in the name of a
hasty decision to implement Brexit, we
were to set aside this achievement that
says to the people of the world, not
just the people of that island, not just
to the people of the U.K., not just to
the people of the U.S., but to the peo-
ple of the world that peace can be
achieved through face-to-face negotia-
tion? That is a powerful message that
goes beyond the direct impact that its
reversal would have on the people of
Ireland.
Finally, as my friends have said, no-
body in the U.K. or in the U.K. Govern-
ment should expect that the United
States would pursue and willingly sign
any U.S.-U.K. trade agreement that
does not respect the principles that the
Good Friday Agreement implemented.
So, the question is: Are we going to
deal with this now? Will we ensure, as
the people of the world want, that we
protect this important peace? I think
we should. The people of the world
think we should.
Mr. Speaker, I hope my friends join
me in supporting this really important
resolution.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Penn-
sylvania (Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE).
Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gen-
tleman from New Jersey.
The Good Friday Agreement was just
the start of the creation of peace and
reconciliation on the island of Ireland,
not the end. Brokered by the United
States, this agreement was one of our
Nation’s great foreign policy achieve-
ments of the 20th century.
This ongoing peace process requires
our continued engagement, especially
now as Brexit becomes a reality. We
cannot and, let’s be clear, will not
stand by idly and watch the Good Fri-
day Agreement weakened or destroyed.
I was proud to introduce a similar
resolution back in January, and I am
equally proud to cosponsor Mr.
SUOZZI’s bill, which reaffirms our bi-
partisan support in this Chamber for
the Good Friday Agreement, and I urge
my colleagues to support it.
b 1715
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I have no further requests for
time, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume for
the purpose of closing.
Once again, I thank Mr. SUOZZI and
Mr. KING for introducing this good, bi-
partisan measure. The United Kingdom
and European Union must safeguard
Ireland’s continued peace, safety, and
prosperity as they work to secure a
Brexit deal.
We must ensure Ireland continues to-
ward a bright, strong future, never re-
turning to the violence and the divi-
sion of The Troubles. The Good Friday
Agreement must be protected.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all the Members
to support this important resolution,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
SIRES) that the House suspend the
rules and agree to the resolution, H.
Res. 585.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the resolu-
tion was agreed to.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
UYGHUR HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY
ACT OF 2019
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill (S.
178) to condemn gross human rights
violations of ethnic Turkic Muslims in
Xinjiang, and calling for an end to ar-
bitrary detention, torture, and harass-
ment of these communities inside and
outside China, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
S. 178
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Uighur
Intervention and Global Humanitarian Uni-
fied Response Act of 2019’’ or the ‘‘UIGHUR
Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
The purpose of this Act is to direct United
States resources to address human rights
violations and abuses, including gross viola-
tions of human rights, by the People’s Re-
public of China’s mass surveillance and in-
ternment of over 1,000,000 Uighurs and other
predominantly Turkic Muslim ethnic mi-
norities in China’s Xinjiang Uighur Autono-
mous Region.
SEC. 3. APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.
In this Act, the term ‘‘appropriate congres-
sional committees’’ means—
(1) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the
Committee on Financial Services, and the
Committee on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives; and
(2) the Committee on Foreign Relations,
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs, and the Committee on Appro-
priations of the Senate.
SEC. 4. FINDINGS.
Congress makes the following findings:
(1) The Government of the People’s Repub-
lic of China has a long history of repressing
Turkic Muslims, particularly Uighurs, in
China’s Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Re-
gion.
(2) In May 2014, Chinese authorities
launched their latest ‘‘Strike Hard against
Violent Extremism’’ campaign, using wide-
scale, internationally-linked threats of ter-
rorism as a pretext to justify pervasive re-
strictions on and human rights violations of
members of the ethnic minority commu-
nities of the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous
Region. The August 2016 transfer of former
Tibet Autonomous Region Party Secretary
Chen Quanguo to become the Xinjiang Party
Secretary prompted an acceleration in the
crackdown across the region. Scholars,
human rights organizations, journalists, and
think tanks have provided ample evidence
substantiating the establishment by Chinese
authorities of ‘‘reeducation’’ camps. Since
2014, Chinese authorities have detained no
less than 800,000 Uighurs, ethnic Kazahks,
Kyrgyz, and other ethnic minorities in these
camps.
(3) Those detained in such facilities have
described forced political indoctrination,
torture, beatings, and food deprivation, as
well as denial of religious, cultural, and lin-
guistic freedoms, and confirmed that they
were told by guards that the only way to se-
cure release was to demonstrate sufficient
political loyalty. Poor conditions and lack of
medical treatment at such facilities appear
to have contributed to the deaths of some de-
tainees, including the elderly and infirm.
(4) Uighurs and ethnic Kazakhs, who have
now obtained permanent residence or citi-
zenship in other countries, attest to receiv-
ing threats and harassment from Chinese of-
ficials. At least five journalists for Radio
Free Asia’s Uighur service have publicly de-
tailed abuses their family members in
Xinjiang have endured in response to their
work exposing abusive policies across the
Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region.
(5) In September 2018, United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights Michele
Bachelet noted in her first speech as High
Commissioner the ‘‘deeply disturbing allega-
tions of large-scale arbitrary detentions of
Uighurs and other Muslim communities, in
so-called re-education camps across
Xinjiang’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:11 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03DE7.031 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9202 December 3, 2019
(6) The Government of the People’s Repub-
lic of China’s actions against Turkic Mus-
lims in the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Re-
gion, whose population was approximately 13
million at the time of the last Chinese cen-
sus in 2010, are in contravention of inter-
national human rights laws, the Inter-
national Convention on the Elimination of
All Forms of Racial Discrimination, and the
Convention against Torture and Other Cruel,
Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punish-
ment, both of which China has signed and
ratified, and the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights and the International Cov-
enant on Civil and Political Rights, which
China has signed.
SEC. 5. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1) the President should condemn abuses
against Turkic Muslims by Chinese authori-
ties and call on such authorities imme-
diately—
(A) to close the ‘‘reeducation’’ camps;
(B) to lift all restrictions on and ensure re-
spect for human rights; and
(C) to allow those inside China to reestab-
lish contact with their loved ones, friends,
and associates outside China;
(2) the Secretary of State should—
(A) fully implement the provisions of the
Frank R. Wolf International Religious Free-
dom Act (Public Law 114–281); and
(B) should consider strategically employ-
ing sanctions and other tools under the
International Religious Freedom Act of 1998
(22 U.S.C. 6401 et seq.), including measures
required by reason of the designation of the
People’s Republic of China as a country of
particular concern for religious freedom
under section 402(b)(1)(A)(ii) of such Act that
directly address particularly severe viola-
tions of religious freedom;
(3) the Secretary of State should work with
United States allies and partners as well as
through multilateral institutions to con-
demn the mass arbitrary detention of
Uighurs in China’s Xinjiang Uighur Autono-
mous Region and coordinate closely with the
international community on targeted sanc-
tions and visa restrictions; and
(4) the journalists of the Uighur language
service of Radio Free Asia should be com-
mended for their reporting on the human
rights and political situation in the Xinjiang
Uighur Autonomous Region despite efforts
by the Government of the People’s Republic
of China to silence or intimidate their re-
porting through the detention of family
members and relatives in China, and the
United States should expand the availability
of and capacity for Uighur language pro-
gramming on Radio Free Asia in the region.
SEC. 6. UPDATING STATEMENT OF UNITED
STATES POLICY TOWARD THE PEO-
PLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA.
Section 901(b) of the Foreign Relations Au-
thorization Act, Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991
(Public Law 101–246; 104 Stat. 84) is amend-
ed—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (7), (8), and
(9) as paragraphs (8), (9), and (10), respec-
tively; and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (6) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(7) United States policy toward the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China should be explicitly
linked with the situation in China’s Xinjiang
Uighur Autonomous Region, specifically as
to whether—
‘‘(A) the mass internment of ethnic Uighur
and other Turkic Muslims in ‘political edu-
cation’ camps has ended;
‘‘(B) all political prisoners in the region
are released;
‘‘(C) the use of high-tech mass surveillance
and predictive policing to discriminate
against and violate the human rights of
members of specific ethnic groups is evident
in other parts of China; and
‘‘(D) the Government of the People’s Re-
public of China has ended efforts aimed at
cultural assimilation and particularly severe
restrictions of religious practice in the re-
gion;’’.
SEC. 7. APPLICATION OF SANCTIONS UNDER
GLOBAL MAGNITSKY HUMAN
RIGHTS ACCOUNTABILITY ACT WITH
RESPECT TO CERTAIN SENIOR OFFI-
CIALS OF THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC
OF CHINA.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 120 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the President shall submit to the appro-
priate congressional committees a list of
senior officials of the Government of the
People’s Republic of China who the President
determines are responsible for or who have
knowingly engaged in serious human rights
abuses against Turkic Muslims in the
Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region and
elsewhere in China. Such list shall include
the following:
(1) Senior Chinese officials, such as
Xinjiang Party Secretary Chen Quanguo,
who are directly responsible for the ongoing
repression in the Xinjiang Uighur Autono-
mous Region.
(2) Senior Chinese officials responsible for
mass incarceration, political indoctrination,
or reeducation efforts targeting Uighurs and
other predominantly Muslim ethnic minori-
ties.
(b) FORM.—The list required under sub-
section (a) shall be submitted in unclassified
form but may contain a classified annex.
(c) SANCTIONS IMPOSED.—On the date on
which the President submits to the appro-
priate congressional committees the list de-
scribed in subsection (a), and as appropriate
thereafter, the President shall impose the
sanctions described in section 1263(b) of the
Global Magnitsky Human Rights Account-
ability Act (subtitle F of title XII of Public
Law 114–328; 22 U.S.C. 2656 note) with respect
to any foreign person that the President has
identified on the list.
(d) EXCEPTION FOR UNITED NATIONS HEAD-
QUARTERS AGREEMENT; ENFORCEMENT.—Sub-
sections (e) and (f) of section 1263 of the
Global Magnitsky Human Rights Account-
ability Act apply with respect to the imposi-
tion of sanctions under this section to the
same extent as such subsections apply with
respect to the imposition of sanctions under
such section 1263.
(e) WAIVER FOR NATIONAL INTERESTS.—The
President may waive the imposition of sanc-
tions under subsection (c) if the President—
(1) determines that such a waiver is in the
national interests of the United States; and
(2) submits to the appropriate congres-
sional committees notice of, and a justifica-
tion for, the waiver.
(f) REGULATORY AUTHORITY.—The President
shall issue such regulations, licenses, and or-
ders as are necessary to carry out this sec-
tion.
(g) EXCEPTION RELATING TO IMPORTATION OF
GOODS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The authorities and re-
quirements to impose sanctions authorized
under this Act shall not include the author-
ity or requirement to impose sanctions on
the importation of goods.
(2) GOOD DEFINED.—In this subsection, the
term ‘‘good’’ means any article, natural or
man-made substance, material, supply or
manufactured product, including inspection
and test equipment, and excluding technical
data.
SEC. 8. REPORT ON HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES IN
CHINA’S XINJIANG UIGHUR AUTONO-
MOUS REGION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of State, in consultation with
the heads of other relevant Federal depart-
ments and agencies and civil society organi-
zations, shall submit to the appropriate con-
gressional committees and make available
on the website of the Department of State a
report on human rights abuses in the
Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region.
(b) MATTERS TO BE INCLUDED.—The report
required by subsection (a) shall include the
following:
(1) An assessment of the number of individ-
uals detained in political ‘‘reeducation
camps’’ in the region and conditions in the
camps for detainees, including an assess-
ment, to the extent practicable, of whether
detainees endure torture, efforts at forced re-
nunciation of their faith, or other mistreat-
ment.
(2) An assessment of, to the extent prac-
ticable, the number of individuals in the re-
gion in highly-controlled forced labor camps.
(3) A description of the methods used by
People’s Republic of China authorities to
‘‘reeducate’’ Uighur detainees, including an
identification of the Chinese agencies in
charge of such reeducation.
(4) An assessment of the use and nature of
forced labor in and related to the detention
of Turkic Muslims in the Xinjiang Uighur
Autonomous Region, and a description of
foreign companies and industries benefitting
from such labor in the region.
(5) An assessment of the level of access to
the region Chinese authorities grant to for-
eign diplomats and consular agents, inde-
pendent journalists, and representatives of
nongovernmental organizations.
(6) An assessment of the repressive surveil-
lance, detection, and control methods used
by Chinese authorities in the region.
(7) A description, as appropriate, of diplo-
matic efforts by United States allies and
other nations to address the gross violations
of universally recognized human rights in
the region and to protect asylum seekers
from the region.
SEC. 9. RESTRICTIONS ON EXPORT, REEXPORT,
AND IN-COUNTRY TRANSFERS OF
CERTAIN ITEMS THAT PROVIDE A
CRITICAL CAPABILITY TO THE GOV-
ERNMENT OF THE PEOPLE’S REPUB-
LIC OF CHINA TO SUPPRESS INDI-
VIDUAL PRIVACY, FREEDOM, AND
OTHER BASIC HUMAN RIGHTS.
(a) STATEMENT OF POLICY.—It is the policy
of the United States to protect the basic
human rights of Uighurs and other ethnic
minorities in the People’s Republic of China.
(b) LIST OF COVERED ITEMS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 120 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
and as appropriate thereafter, the Presi-
dent—
(A) shall identify those items that provide
a critical capability to the Government of
the People’s Republic of China, or any person
acting on behalf of such Government, to sup-
press individual privacy, freedom of move-
ment, and other basic human rights, specifi-
cally through—
(i) surveillance, interception, and restric-
tion of communications;
(ii) monitoring of individual location or
movement or restricting individual move-
ment;
(iii) monitoring or restricting access to
and use of the internet;
(iv) monitoring or restricting use of social
media;
(v) identification of individuals through fa-
cial recognition, voice recognition, or bio-
metric indicators;
(vi) detention of individuals who are exer-
cising basic human rights; and
(vii) forced labor in manufacturing; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:11 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03DE7.014 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9203
December 3, 2019
(B) shall, pursuant to the Export Control
Reform Act of 2018 (50 U.S.C. 4801 et seq.), in-
clude items identified pursuant to subpara-
graph (A) on the Commerce Control List in a
category separate from other items, as ap-
propriate, on the Commerce Control List.
(2) SUPPORT AND COOPERATION.—Upon re-
quest, the head of a Federal agency shall
provide full support and cooperation to the
President in carrying out this subsection.
(3) CONSULTATION.—In carrying out this
subsection, the President shall consult with
the relevant technical advisory committees
of the Department of Commerce to ensure
that the composition of items identified
under paragraph (1)(A) and included on the
Commerce Control List under paragraph
(1)(B) does not unnecessarily restrict com-
merce between the United States and the
People’s Republic of China, consistent with
the purposes of this section.
(c) SPECIAL LICENSE OR OTHER AUTHORIZA-
TION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Beginning not later than
180 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the President shall, pursuant to the
Export Control Reform Act of 2018 (50 U.S.C.
4801 et seq.), require a license or other au-
thorization for the export, reexport, or in-
country transfer to or within the People’s
Republic of China of an item identified pur-
suant to subsection (b)(1)(A) and included on
the Commerce Control List pursuant to sub-
section (b)(1)(B).
(2) PRESUMPTION OF DENIAL.—An applica-
tion for a license or other authorization de-
scribed in paragraph (1) shall be subject to a
presumption of denial.
(3) PUBLIC NOTICE AND COMMENT.—The
President shall provide for notice and public
comment with respect actions necessary to
carry out this subsection.
(d) INTERNATIONAL COORDINATION AND MUL-
TILATERAL CONTROLS.—It shall be the policy
of the United States to seek to harmonize
United States export control regulations
with international export control regimes
with respect to the items identified pursuant
to subsection (b)(1)(A), including through the
Wassenaar Arrangement and other bilateral
and multilateral mechanisms involving
countries that export such items.
(e) TERMINATION OF SUSPENSION OF CERTAIN
OTHER PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES.—Section
902(b)(1) of the Foreign Relations Authoriza-
tion Act, Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991 (Public
Law 101–246; 22 U.S.C. 2151 note) is amended—
(1) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by inserting ‘‘and China’s Xinjiang
Uighur Autonomous Region’’ after ‘‘Tibet’’;
(2) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘and’’
at the end;
(3) in subparagraph (E), by striking ‘‘or’’
after the semicolon and inserting ‘‘and’’; and
(4) by adding the following new subpara-
graph:
‘‘(F) the ending of the mass internment of
ethnic Uighurs and other Turkic Muslims in
the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region, in-
cluding the intrusive system of high-tech
surveillance and policing in the region; or’’.
(f) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COMMERCE CONTROL LIST.—The term
‘‘Commerce Control List’’ means the list set
forth in Supplement No. 1 to part 774 of the
Export Administration Regulations under
subchapter C of chapter VII of title 15, Code
of Federal Regulations.
(2) EXPORT, IN-COUNTRY TRANSFER, ITEM,
AND REEXPORT.—The terms ‘‘export’’, ‘‘in-
country transfer’’, ‘‘item’’, and ‘‘reexport’’
have the meanings given such terms in sec-
tion 1742 of the Export Control Reform Act
of 2018 (50 U.S.C. 4801)
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New Jersey (Mr. SIRES) and the gen-
tleman from New Jersey (Mr. SMITH)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New Jersey (Mr. SIRES).
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I ask unani-
mous consent that all Members may
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on S. 178.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New Jersey (Mr. SIRES)?
There was no objection.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Ms. PELOSI), the Speaker of the
House.
Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding and for his
leadership and thank he and Mr. SMITH,
two gentlemen from New Jersey, for
being champions for human rights.
I also thank Mr. MCCAUL and Mr.
ELIOT ENGEL, the ranking member and
the chair of the committee.
And I thank Mr. MALINOWSKI for
being a champion for human rights
even before he came to Congress.
My colleagues, next week marks 71
years since the nations of the world
gathered in Paris to enshrine our glob-
al commitment to human rights in the
Universal Declaration of Human
Rights.
The opening words of that declara-
tion read: ‘‘Recognition of the inherent
dignity and of the equal and inalien-
able rights of all members of the
human family is the foundation of free-
dom, justice, and peace in the world.
‘‘Whereas, disregard and contempt
for human rights have resulted in bar-
barous acts which have outraged the
conscience of mankind.’’
Today, the human dignity and
human rights of the Uighur community
are under threat from Beijing’s bar-
barous actions, which are an outrage to
the collective conscience of the world.
Across the Xinjiang Uighur Autono-
mous Region, the Uighur people and
other Muslim minorities face brutal re-
pression: a pervasive state of mass sur-
veillance, including the arbitrary and
nonconsensual collection of children’s
DNA; the mass incarceration of 1 to 3
million innocent people with beatings,
solitary confinement, deprivation of
food and medical treatment, forced
sterilizations, and other forms of tor-
ture; incidents of mass shootings and
extrajudicial killings; and the intimi-
dation and suppression of journalists
courageously exposing the truth.
Mihrigul Tursun, a former detainee,
testified she faced treatment so brutal
that ‘‘I thought I would rather die than
go through this torture and begged
them to kill me.’’
Another former detainee, Tursunay
Ziyawudun, testified, ‘‘We were all
helpless and unable to defend our-
selves. We all went through all kinds of
mistreatment. The screaming, plead-
ing, crying is still in my head.’’
Today, with this bicameral and over-
whelmingly bipartisan legislation, the
United States Congress is taking a
critical step to counter Beijing’s hor-
rific human rights abuses against
Uighurs.
I thank Chairman ENGEL, Represent-
ative BRAD SHERMAN, Representative
SUOZZI, and Chairman MCGOVERN for
their leadership on this important leg-
islation.
We are sending a message to Beijing:
America is watching, and we will not
stay silent.
This legislation helps uncover the
truth, requiring reports by the DNI, Di-
rector of National Intelligence; the
State Department; and the FBI about
the depths of the crisis and about Chi-
na’s campaign against journalists ex-
posing the facts.
It creates accountability, ensuring
transparency of Chinese and foreign
companies involved in the camps.
And it engages the full firepower of
American law and leadership, including
by urging the application of Global
Magnitsky and other related sanctions
and the full implementation of the
Frank R. Wolf International Religious
Freedom Act, named for our distin-
guished former colleague and human
rights champion, Congressman Frank
Wolf.
Sadly, Beijing’s human rights abuses
extend beyond the Uighurs, from the
decades-long abuse faced by the Ti-
betan people; to Hong Kong’s fight for
democracy and rule of law; and to the
jailing of journalists, human rights
lawyers, Christians, and democracy ad-
vocates on the mainland.
In the Congress, Democrats and Re-
publicans stand united with all people
fighting for human rights in the face of
China’s abuses. Last month, we were
proud to pass the Hong Kong Human
Rights and Democracy Act, which has
now become law, and we are grateful
that the President has signed that leg-
islation.
If America does not speak out for
human rights in China because of com-
mercial issues, we lose all moral au-
thority to speak out for human rights
anyplace in the world.
In honor of the millions fighting for
their dignity, safety, and rights in
China and around the world, I urge a
strong bipartisan vote for the Uighur
Intervention and Global Humanitarian
Unified Response Act.
I thank Mr. SMITH, Mr. SIRES, Mr.
SHERMAN, Mr. SUOZZI, Chairman ELIOT
ENGEL, and Mr. MCCAUL for their lead-
ership. And I acknowledge the leader-
ship of Senator RUBIO in the United
States Senate on this important legis-
lation.
Mr. Speaker, I urge an ‘‘aye’’ vote.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, first, I want to thank
the Speaker for her very eloquent re-
marks and for her tenacity in pro-
moting human rights and respect for
the rule of law in all of China, includ-
ing and especially with today’s focus
on Xinjiang, where, unfortunately, Xi
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:11 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03DE7.014 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9204 December 3, 2019
Jinping is conducting massive, massive
crimes against humanity against the
Muslim Uighurs. So I thank her for
that leadership.
I thank Chairman ENGEL, Ranking
Member MCCAUL, BRAD SHERMAN, and
Ranking Member TED YOHO for their
deep and abiding commitment to the
suffering people of Xinjiang as well.
I would also like to express my spe-
cial thanks to the 128 bipartisan co-
sponsors of my bill, the Uyghur Human
Rights Policy Act of 2019, H.R. 649,
comprehensive human rights legisla-
tion that I introduced earlier this year
with lead Democratic cosponsor TOM
SUOZZI to address the massive crimes
against humanity committed by the
Chinese Government against the
Uighurs.
The legislation would require the ad-
ministration to categorize and report
on the human rights abuses being com-
mitted by the Chinese Communist
Party each and every day, take specific
steps to sanction Chinese officials for
these abuses, especially through the
use of the Magnitsky Act, and stop, to
the greatest extent possible, the Chi-
nese Government’s efforts to create a
high-tech police and surveillance state.
With endorsement of our bill 12
months ago and cosponsorship by the
Speaker herself, as well as endorse-
ment by the Washington Post, which
said, a full year ago, ‘‘This has be-
come’’—that is to say, the situation in
Xinjiang—‘‘one of the world’s most ur-
gent human rights crises. Congress
should pass the Uyghur Human Rights
Policy Act.’’ Today the Senate bill is
before us, and I encourage my col-
leagues and the cosponsors of H.R. 649
to vote for it.
Mr. Speaker, at a congressional hear-
ing that I cochaired last year, Mihrigul
Tursun recounted her horrifying ordeal
with torture, sexual abuse, and deten-
tion in one of China’s mass internment
camps in Xinjiang.
She broke down weeping, telling us
that she pleaded with God to end her
life. Her Chinese jailers restrained her
to a table, increased the electrical cur-
rents coursing through her body, and
mocked her belief in God. She was tor-
tured simply for being an ethnic
Uighur and a Muslim in China.
There are millions of stories like this
waiting to be told about the crimes
against humanity being committed
each and every day by the Chinese Gov-
ernment against the Uighurs, the
Kazakhs, and the Turkic Muslims.
Given that this year is the 30th anni-
versary of the Tiananmen Square mas-
sacre, maybe we should not be sur-
prised by the cruelty and brutality of
the Chinese Communist Party. But the
size and scale of what is happening in
Xinjiang is audaciously repressive,
even by China’s low standards:
The mass internment of millions of
people on a scale that has not been
seen since the Holocaust; children
ripped from the warm embrace of their
families to be indoctrinated in com-
munist ideology and forced to renounce
their religious culture and language;
rape, sexual abuse, and forced abor-
tions of women being held in intern-
ment camps; forced labor on a scale
that allows Chinese companies to prof-
it from modern-day slavery.
That atrocities such as these can
exist in the 21st century is astounding
and enormously sad.
We cannot be silent. We must de-
mand an end to these barbaric prac-
tices and accountability from the Chi-
nese Government. We must say ‘‘never
again’’ to the cultural genocide and the
atrocities suffered by the Uighurs and
others in China.
Chinese authorities initially denied
the existence of mass internment
camps, Mr. Speaker, and even now por-
tray them as vocational training cen-
ters. What a cruel joke. They employed
lies, censorship, and economic coercion
to stifle discussion of their crimes.
But documents obtained by The New
York Times and the International Con-
sortium of Investigative Journalists
have exposed the brutality behind Bei-
jing’s plans to radically and coercively
transform the culture and religion of
ethnic Uighurs, Kazakhs, and other
Muslims in China.
The leaked internal papers show de-
tailed plans to intern between 1 million
and 3 million Uighurs in modern-day
concentration camps, where they are
subjected to severe human rights
abuses and Orwellian indoctrination ef-
forts for those ‘‘whose thinking has
been infected.’’
At the same time, Beijing instituted
plans to erase the influence of Islam in
western China, bulldozing mosques and
shrines, severely throttling all reli-
gious practice, and forcing camp de-
tainees to renounce their faith.
The leaked documents also show that
Xi Jinping himself has directed the
crackdown, saying that the Communist
Party must put ‘‘the organs of dicta-
torship’’ to work and show—his
words—‘‘absolutely no mercy’’ in deal-
ing with the Uighurs and other Mus-
lims.
In one speech exposed by the leaked
documents, President Xi Jinping says,
‘‘The weapons of the people’s demo-
cratic dictatorship must be wielded
without any hesitation or wavering.’’
In 2017, he told thousands of police
officers and troops standing at atten-
tion to prepare for ‘‘a smashing, oblit-
erating offensive.’’
According to the documents, Com-
munist Party officials who were reluc-
tant to carry out Xi’s draconian poli-
cies were investigated and expunged—
and worse:
‘‘Secret teams of investigators trav-
eled across the region, identifying
those who were not doing enough. In
2017, the party opened more than 12,000
investigations into party members in
Xinjiang.’’
Xi Jinping has created, Mr. Speaker,
one of the worst human rights trage-
dies on the face of the Earth. Xi
Jinping and his government are di-
rectly responsible—directly respon-
sible—for these crimes against human-
ity.
Our hope is that a reckoning is com-
ing, but only if the international com-
munity stands up to China. I would
note with some sadness, notably absent
are voices from many Muslim coun-
tries, and I have raised it myself with
many leaders of Muslim countries.
b 1730
They have not been as critical of
China as they ought to be. They need
to speak out and to do it boldly and
very clearly.
I do want to commend the Trump ad-
ministration for its actions over the
past several years. They have issued
strong statements and, according to
the U.S. Commerce Department just
last month, 28 government agencies
and businesses were placed on the Enti-
ty List and barred.
The way the Secretary of Commerce
put it: ‘‘ ‘The U.S. Government and De-
partment of Commerce cannot and will
not tolerate the brutal suppression of
ethnic minorities within China,’ said
Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross.
‘This action will ensure that our tech-
nologies, fostered in an environment of
individual liberty and free enterprise,
are not used to repress defenseless mi-
nority populations.’ ’’
These are important steps. This leg-
islation, however, takes the next step.
More must be done. Chinese officials,
as I said earlier, need to be held ac-
countable for crimes against humanity,
including Global Magnitsky and inter-
national sanctions and U.N. investiga-
tions.
Those who tortured Mihrigul Turson
should know that justice is coming for
them as well. And the Chinese Govern-
ment companies profiting from forced
labor need to be barred from selling
their products made so horribly by
forced labor from coming into this
country.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Let me first thank the gentleman
from California (Mr. SHERMAN) and the
gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
SMITH) for their work on this legisla-
tion.
I also want to acknowledge the work
of the Congressional-Executive Com-
mission on China, led by the gentleman
from Massachusetts (Mr. MCGOVERN).
His expertise, and that of his staff, has
made a significant contribution to the
development of this legislation.
This bill addresses one of the most
egregious violations of human rights in
the world today. More than 1 million
Uighurs and other Muslim ethnic mi-
norities have been detained by the Chi-
nese Government and sent to camps in
Xinjiang, where they face torture, sex-
ual abuse, brainwashing, and other
abuses in an attempt to erase their cul-
ture and their religion.
The Chinese Government is engaging
in these atrocities under the guise of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:41 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03DE7.035 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9205
December 3, 2019
antiterrorism efforts, and the victims
have been denied any due process. The
severity of this disgrace was recently
confirmed by a trove of leaked con-
fidential Chinese documents that de-
tail just how sinister these policies are.
Meeting with members of the Uighur
American community is a sobering ex-
perience. They have stories about fam-
ily members in China who can no
longer be reached, friends who have
gone missing, report after report of vi-
olence, abuse, and mistreatment.
The intention of the top Chinese
Communist Party leadership through
this campaign is clear: In the short-
term, turn Xinjiang into a prison for
ethnic and religious minorities, and, in
the longer term, force these minorities
to assimilate completely, erasing the
evidence of their unique culture, his-
tory, and religion.
The Chinese Government has a long
record of oppressing Tibetan Chris-
tians, the Falun Gong, and other eth-
nic religious minorities. But what
makes these efforts different is the use
of technology to erase the Uighur peo-
ple and their way of life. In some cases,
these technologies can be traced back
to American companies and research
institutions.
Unfortunately, we have yet to see an
adequate response from the Trump ad-
ministration. While the administra-
tion’s decision to announce its visa re-
strictions and add abuse-enabling Chi-
nese tech firms to the Entity List were
good steps, they do not go far enough.
There needs to be real consequences for
those who have designed and built
these internment camps.
With the bill we are considering
today, the House of Representatives is
making clear that there needs to be
more serious repercussions. Specifi-
cally, this bill calls on the Secretary of
State to designate those responsible for
these abuses with Global Magnitsky
sanctions, including the freezing of
their assets. It would also require the
American firms to do due diligence on
where and how their technology is
being used so that they do not unwit-
tingly become part of the Chinese Gov-
ernment’s campaign to violate the
human rights of their own citizens.
This legislation is a necessary re-
sponse to one of the most pressing
human rights concerns in the world
today. I am glad the House is consid-
ering it, and I encourage all Members
to vote for its passage.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY,
Washington, DC, December 3, 2019.
Hon. ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN ENGEL: This is to advise
you that the Committee on the Judiciary
has now had an opportunity to review the
provisions in S. 178, the ‘‘Uyghur Human
Rights Policy Act of 2019’’ that fall within
our Rule X jurisdiction. I appreciate your
consulting with us on those provisions. The
Judiciary Committee has no objection to
your including them in the bill for consider-
ation on the House floor, and to expedite
that consideration is willing to forgo action
on S. 178, with the understanding that we do
not thereby waive any future jurisdictional
claim over those provisions or their subject
matters.
In the event a House-Senate conference on
this or similar legislation is convened, the
Judiciary Committee reserves the right to
request an appropriate number of conferees
to address any concerns with these or simi-
lar provisions that may arise in conference.
Please place this letter into the Congres-
sional Record during consideration of the
measure on the House floor. Thank you for
the cooperative spirit in which you have
worked regarding this matter and others be-
tween our committees.
Sincerely,
JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMTTTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, December 2, 2019.
Hon. JERROLD NADLER,
Committee on the Judiciary,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN NADLER: I am writing to
you concerning S. 178, the Uyghur Human
Rights Policy Act of 2019. I appreciate your
willingness to work cooperatively on this
legislation.
I acknowledge that provisions of the bill
fall within the jurisdiction of the Committee
on the Judiciary under House Rule X, and
that your Committee will forgo action on S.
178 to expedite floor consideration. I further
acknowledge that the inaction of your Com-
mittee with respect to the bill does not
waive any future jurisdictional claim over
the matters contained in the bill that fall
within your jurisdiction. I will also support
the appointment of Committee on the Judi-
ciary conferees during any House-Senate
conference convened on this legislation.
Lastly, I will ensure that our exchange of
letters is included in the Congressional
Record during floor consideration of the bill.
Thank you again for your cooperation re-
garding the legislation. I look forward to
continuing to work with you as the measure
moves through the legislative process.
Sincerely,
ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I yield such time as he may
consume to the distinguished gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. MCCAUL), the
ranking member.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong support of this bipartisan
UIGHUR Act.
I want to commend my colleagues,
all three of them, from New Jersey—I
think this is New Jersey Day on the
floor—Mr. SMITH, Mr. SIRES, and Mr.
MALINOWSKI.
For the last several years, the Com-
munist dictatorship in Beijing has been
unleashing a brutal crackdown on the
Uighur and Turkic Muslims in western
China.
It is believed that between 1 to 3 mil-
lion ethnic minorities have been de-
tained and sent to internment camps
where they are indoctrinated with
state propaganda and tortured. The
goal of the Chinese Government is to
strip these individuals of their reli-
gious and cultural identity.
Many people detained are never
heard from again. Families have been
torn apart. Sons and daughters are left
wondering if they will ever be reunited
with their moms and dads.
Some of our most senior officials, in-
cluding National Security Advisor Rob-
ert O’Brien, have described these de-
tention centers as ‘‘concentration
camps.’’ Secretary of State Mike
Pompeo has referred to China’s repres-
sion as the ‘‘stain of the century.’’
The Chinese Government states that
these camps are part of their efforts to
combat violent extremism. They also
say these detention centers are job
training facilities. But what is hap-
pening is nothing less than a state-
sponsored and systematic campaign de-
signed to enforce a ‘‘cultural geno-
cide.’’
As the beacon of hope and freedom to
the rest of the world, the United States
cannot stay silent. If we do, our silence
will be remembered as our complicity;
our inaction will become our appease-
ment.
We know that the Chinese Com-
munist Party would love nothing more
than for the rest of the world to mirror
its authoritarianism. We cannot allow
this to happen.
This legislation gives us the oppor-
tunity to take real action and help
stop these evil crimes:
First, it provides that the United
States policy towards China should be
explicitly linked to the human rights
abuses;
Second, it requires the application of
the Global Magnitsky sanctions on
Chinese officials responsible for repres-
sion against Uighur or Turkic Muslims;
Third, it mandates the State Depart-
ment submit to Congress a report on
human rights abuses in this western
province of China; and
Fourth, it restricts the export of cer-
tain U.S. technology items to China
that are used to suppress individual
privacy, freedom of movement, and
basic human rights.
This is a very important bill, and,
again, I would like to thank our col-
leagues—and particularly BRAD SHER-
MAN, who introduced this along with
Senator RUBIO—for all their efforts to
get this done to where we are today.
So let’s come together as Repub-
licans and Democrats to ensure that
atrocities committed by the Com-
munist dictatorship in Beijing will
have consequences. Let’s show the
world that the United States will im-
pose a cost on the Chinese Communist
Party’s leaders for their crimes now
and in the future.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. SHERMAN), the chairman of
the Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific,
and Nonproliferation.
Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
to speak in favor of S. 178, the UIGHUR
Act of 2019.
This bill has the best of both worlds:
It has a Senate bill number and House
of Representatives content. The bill
came over from the Senate, and then
we unanimously adopted, in the For-
eign Affairs Committee, my amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:11 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03DE7.037 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9206 December 3, 2019
which put together three bills focused
on the Uighur issue. It included the
work of Senators MARCO RUBIO and
ROBERT MENENDEZ found in S. 178; the
work found in H.R. 649 of CHRIS SMITH
and TOM SUOZZI of this House; and the
legislation that I reintroduced with the
ranking member of the Asia, the Pa-
cific, and Nonproliferation Sub-
committee, TED YOHO, H.R. 1025.
So this bill represents putting to-
gether those three bills to deal with
the detention of over 1 million Uighurs
and other Muslim minorities in
Xinjiang and other Chinese repression
of its Muslim minority population.
The Chinese Government has sought
to erase the distinct Uighur Muslim
culture and religious traditions
through mass detentions, reeducation
camps, and a coordinated campaign
under the banner ‘‘Strike Hard Against
Violent Extremism’’ launched in 2014.
Thanks to recently leaked Chinese
Communist Party documents, we now
know that the impetus for this cam-
paign came from the highest levels of
the Chinese Communist Party.
In April 2014, General Secretary Xi
ordered the party officials to, and these
are the words, show ‘‘absolutely no
mercy’’ in using ‘‘organs of dictator-
ship,’’ another quoted phrase, to sup-
press Muslim minorities. More than a
million Uighurs were then imprisoned
in camps.
In a country with the rule of law, you
are incarcerated by the state because
you have been convicted of a defined
statutory offense. Why are 1 million
people behind barbed wire in the
Xinjiang province of China? The charge
against them is ‘‘their thinking has
been infected by unhealthy thoughts.’’
Where in the world would anyone be
free if a million people can be incarcer-
ated because the government has deter-
mined that their thoughts are
unhealthy?
Along with reeducation camps, the
Strike Hard campaign has also in-
volved high-tech surveillance and mon-
itoring of Uighurs, monitoring and sup-
pressing Muslim religious practice, in-
cluding funeral practices, and suppres-
sion of the Uighur language.
Beyond its borders, the party has
tried to intimidate Chinese Muslim mi-
norities who are living abroad. And in
China, some individuals with perma-
nent residency status in the United
States have been prohibited from leav-
ing the region. In Xinjiang, the party
has forced Uighur families to have Han
Chinese agents live in their homes.
The extent of this Chinese effort to,
in effect, ‘‘sinofy’’ the Muslim popu-
lation of western China is staggering.
The legislation before us is an impor-
tant start, but it is only a start in our
efforts to counter Chinese repression of
its Muslim minorities, and we will have
hearings in the Asia, the Pacific, and
Nonproliferation Subcommittee to de-
velop additional steps that America
could take.
I want to highlight two parts of this
legislation. First, the bill requires the
President to impose the Global
Magnitsky sanctions against all Chi-
nese officials who are responsible for
the repression of the Uighurs. We are
long past the point when this should
have been done, and it should not be
linked to ongoing negotiations on
trade or any other issue.
Second, the bill requires the Com-
merce Department to update our ex-
port controls to ensure that the Com-
merce Control List, which covers dual-
use items, is updated to create a spe-
cial regime for China. Commerce will
be required to identify items that as-
sist in the monitoring, surveillance,
mass detention, and forced labor we see
going on in China today, and deny li-
censes for the export or reexport of
those items to China.
U.S. technology should not be used to
further one of the most egregious
human rights abuses of our time. And
in writing this legislation and the
amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute that came out of the Foreign
Affairs Committee, we worked dili-
gently to ensure that we avoid cap-
turing too much and unduly hindering
legitimate and beneficial commerce,
including thorough discussions with
the tech industry.
So I thank Chairman ENGEL and
Ranking Member MCCAUL, of course,
our Speaker, NANCY PELOSI, who was
here. I thank Senators RUBIO and
MENENDEZ, CHRIS SMITH, and TOM
SUOZZI. I thank JIM MCGOVERN for his
work, and I thank my partner in run-
ning the Asia, the Pacific, and Non-
proliferation Subcommittee, Mr. YOHO.
b 1745
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I yield such time as he may
consume to the gentleman from Flor-
ida (Mr. YOHO).
Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I just want
to give my strong support for S. 178.
I look back over the years when we
have seen this, and we have had these
discussions in our Foreign Affairs Com-
mittee about the atrocities that are
going on in the Xinjiang province.
Last year we talked about the con-
centration camps that we see going up,
and then there were reports about the
crematoriums that were going in. And
we read advertisements to hire guards
for the crematoriums. They must be
physically fit, they must be able to de-
fend themselves, and they need to
know how to use a weapon. So they had
armed crematoriums set up in this
province.
My question is: Why do you need
armed crematoriums if it is a cremato-
rium to burn people? You know, the
dead.
And I think the intent of what China
is doing is self-evident. And America,
as the leader of the free world, and all
countries that believe in freedom and
liberty, they must stand up against
this injustice because this is going on
around the world. And if you believe
the words of General Eisenhower at
Auschwitz and other Nazi concentra-
tion camps after the end of World War
II when he said: Never again. Never
again will we allow this to happen. But
it is happening right now. And it is
happening in an area that we know in
a country that is suppressing freedom
around the world.
We see it in Hong Kong. We have seen
what they have done with Tibet. They
want to do it to any country or any
population that is against the Com-
munist Party, the Chinese Communist
Party. And this is something, if we
don’t do this, this will go on. And this
is where the world needs to wake up,
and they need to say, any time we buy
something made in China, we are em-
powering this country and Xi Jinping
and the Communist Party complex to
do the same thing over and over again.
It is time we make a strong stand
and S. 178 is a great start to doing this.
I look for strong support in the House.
I look for it to be signed into law and
that we send a strong signal from
America, being the leaders in the free
world, to the rest of the world to follow
suit and send a strong signal back to
China that this is not going to be toler-
ated. We will not put up with this.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank
the sponsors of this bill for doing what
they are doing, because this is a mes-
sage for the people around the world
who don’t know what is going on. It is
this body that is kind of leading the
charge on this, and I am proud to be as-
sociated with it, so thank you all.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. SUOZZI).
Mr. SUOZZI. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Mr. SIRES for yielding me this time.
I rise in strong support of the bipar-
tisan Senate bill 178, which holds the
Chinese Government accountable for
their truly horrific treatment—let me
say that again—truly horrific treat-
ment of the Uighur Muslim minorities,
including the mass internment of over
1 million people who are subjected to
systemized brainwashing, sexual abuse,
and forced labor in western China.
I want to start by thanking Chair-
man ENGEL and Subcommittee Chair-
man SHERMAN for bringing attention to
this issue and supporting this legisla-
tion to penalize China for its egregious
human rights violations against the
Uighurs. I am proud to have worked
with Representative CHRIS SMITH from
New Jersey and Senator MARCO RUBIO
from Florida to help write part of this
truly bipartisan legislation.
Mr. Speaker, Uighur families are pro-
hibited from practicing their Muslim
faith. They are often separated from
their family members and prohibited
from reading the Koran, making their
daily prayers, and in some instances
are forced to eat pork even during
Ramadan, which, of course, violates
their religion.
The so-called reeducation camps in
China where Uighurs are forced to
work in food, textile, or manufacturing
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:11 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03DE7.038 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9207
December 3, 2019
jobs in or near the mass internment
camps are, of course, repugnant to our
values and violate human rights.
The brutal religious-based persecu-
tion of the Uighurs in China is alarm-
ing, but it is not new. China has con-
tinued to repress anyone who does not
conform to their system, including Ti-
betans, Christians, and, of course, the
people of Hong Kong, as we have seen
in recent events.
Since President Nixon went to China
in 1971, most Americans have believed
that with increased economic integra-
tion and exposure to our system of de-
mocracy in the west, the Chinese Gov-
ernment would some day adopt some of
our fundamental values. This clearly
has not happened.
Not only does the Chinese Govern-
ment reject any real steps towards de-
mocracy, continue its unfair trade
practices, and cheat by stealing our in-
tellectual property, but it also contin-
ually violates human rights.
The United States must hold the Chi-
nese Communist Party accountable for
its repression of the Uighurs and active
disregard for international law.
I urge my colleagues to support the
passage of this important and, again,
truly bipartisan legislation.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself the balance of
my time.
Mr. Speaker, beyond what has been
done to date, Chinese companies prof-
iting from forced labor in Xinjiang
must be prohibited from exporting
goods to the United States and to other
countries. The administration has, to
its credit, blocked one Chinese com-
pany for forced labor manufacturing,
but there are many other companies,
particularly in the manufacturing of
cotton and garments, that are profiting
off the slavery of detained Uighurs.
Many more companies need to be
barred from entry into the U.S. mar-
ket.
In addition to the crimes against hu-
manity that Xi Jinping has imposed
upon the people of Xinjiang, the United
States also needs to address the high-
tech authoritarianism of the future
being auditioned in Xinjiang.
Beijing is using Xinjiang as a proving
ground for an all-knowing police and
surveillance state. The technology used
to construct China’s high-tech police
state is being exported around the
world to some countries in Africa, cen-
tral Asia, and beyond. Every petty dic-
tator and aspiring totalitarian can use
this technology to crush democratic
aspirations, human rights, religious
freedom, and the rule of law.
Let me also say a word or two about
Uighur Americans, like the great
Rebiya Kadeer, who I have been friends
with since 2006—I have had her at hear-
ings. She is an unbelievable leader. Her
entire family and extended family, doz-
ens of people, have been rounded up
and have been put into prison. Nury
Turkel, Rushan Abbas, and Gulchehra
Hoja have had their families, as well,
threatened and detained because they
dared to speak up here in the United
States.
So many Uighur Americans have ex-
perienced the agony of family deten-
tions and disappearances, again, a cru-
elty laid at the feet of Xi Jinping. He
not only goes after the individual, he
goes after the whole family. And again,
the women in prisons in China are sex-
ually abused and tortured. The men are
abused, as well.
For those watching us today, the
message you hear should be clear. The
United States wants to hold the Chi-
nese Government and the Chinese com-
panies accountable for crimes against
humanity and the cruelty they inflict
on your families and your loved ones.
We will not be silent. Justice is com-
ing. We are demanding accountability.
I also want to take a moment to
thank the reporters of Radio Free
Asia’s Uyghur Service. Their families
have been rounded up and put into pris-
on, into concentration camps by Xi
Jinping’s dictatorship. This is beyond
horrific, and we need to respond ac-
cordingly.
I also want to thank and note the
contribution of Dr. Scott Flipse to the
legislation before us today, and also
the Uyghur Human Rights Policy Act
and, frankly, to the Hong Kong Democ-
racy and Human Rights Act that was
signed into law just a few days ago.
I also want to thank former CECC
staff directors Paul Protic and Elyse
Anderson and current staff members
Jon Stivers, Peter Mattis, Megan
Fluker, and Amy Reger for helping this
Congress shine a bright light on the
atrocities.
And, of course, our full and sub-
committee staffers, as well, have done
yeoman’s work on this terrible issue.
We are united today. We need to be
united with all Americans in saying,
never again.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self the balance of my time.
It has been more than 3 years since
the Chinese authorities have acceler-
ated and expanded their repressive
campaign in Xinjiang. The global re-
sponse to these abuses, up until now,
has been insignificant, partly due to
the successful campaign by Beijing to
coerce silence from those who speak
out.
Where there has been talk, there has
sadly been little action. Today, we
have an opportunity to turn the tide by
sending a strong message of support to
the Uighur people and accountability
for those Chinese officials who have
violated their own people’s rights and
religious freedom for years with impu-
nity.
I urge my colleagues to join me
today in sending a strong message to
both the perpetrators and the victims
alike with an overwhelming vote in
support for this legislation.
Mr. Speaker, before I yield, I would
like to point out that there are three
Members of the New Jersey delegation
here. Two of them are refugees from
communism.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, today I am
proud the House of Representatives is consid-
ering S. 178, the ‘‘Uighur Intervention and
Global Humanitarian Unified Response Act’’ or
the ‘‘UIGHUR Act.’’
In the last year, Chinese authorities have
expanded their network of mass internment
camps, where it is now estimated that 1.8 mil-
lion or more Uyghurs and other Turkic Mus-
lims have been involuntarily detained in ap-
proximately 1,400 extrajudicial internment fa-
cilities in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Re-
gion (XUAR).
Detainees are subjected to torture, extended
solitary confinement, and political indoctrina-
tion. Many scholars and human rights groups
argue that these practices may amount to
‘‘crimes against humanity.’’
Over the last month, leaks of highly classi-
fied Chinese government documents uncov-
ered operations manuals for the mass intern-
ment camps and exposed details about the
mass detention and surveillance systems in
Xinjiang. Among the findings in the Chinese
government’s own documents:
Reeducation centers are designed to ‘‘wash
clean the brains’’ of those interned in them;
Those who show signs of resistance are
subjected to ‘‘assault-style re-education’’ ef-
forts;
Children of detainees are reportedly often
placed in orphanages, welfare centers, and
boarding schools;
Special security measures are mandated to
ensure detainees cannot ‘‘escape,’’ thereby re-
futing Chinese government assertions that de-
tainees are there voluntarily; and
The establishment and expansion of the
mass internment camps are part of a system-
atic policy directed by General Secretary Xi
Jinping and carried out by XUAR Communist
Party Secretary Chen Quanguo as well as
other senior officials at the central and local
levels.
Further, we also have become more aware
of the widespread use of a government-sub-
sidized and large-scale system of forced labor
in both mass internment camps and in fac-
tories throughout the Xinjiang region.
Satellite imagery, personal testimonies, and
official documents indicate that detainees in
camps, and some who have been released,
are forced to work in food production, textile,
and other manufacturing jobs. Products report-
edly produced with forced labor include:
Textiles, such as yarn, clothing, gloves, bed-
ding, and carpet; Electronics, including cell
phones and computers; Food products, shoes,
tea, and handicrafts.
Current U.S. law prohibits the import of any
product made with forced labor. Any U.S. or
international company that produces or has a
supply chain in Xinjiang may be complicit with
forced labor and human rights violations. Cus-
toms and Border Protection rightly stopped the
import of some goods from Xinjiang, but much
more needs to be done to ensure that Ameri-
cans are not purchasing products made with
forced labor.
The UIGHUR Act is an essential update and
strengthening of U.S. policy in response to
gross human rights abuses in Xinjiang. The
bill calls on the President to submit a list to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:11 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K03DE7.040 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9208 December 3, 2019
Congress of Chinese officials responsible for
the mass incarceration, political indoctrination,
or reeducation efforts and to impose Global
Magnitsky Act sanctions for all those on the
list. It also includes needed export restrictions
on technology critical to the Chinese govern-
ment’s ability to suppress human rights and in-
dividual privacy.
With passage of this legislation, it should be
clear that Congress stands in solidarity with
the Uyghur people and other suppressed mi-
norities affected by the mass internment and
surveillance system in the Xinjiang region, and
we will continue to do all we can to support
the full exercise of their human rights in
Xinjiang and in China.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
SIRES) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, S. 178, as
amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 6:30 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 5 o’clock and 56 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1829
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. SARBANES) at 6 o’clock
and 29 minutes p.m.
f
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.R. 2534, INSIDER TRADING PRO-
HIBITION ACT, AND RELATING
TO CONSIDERATION OF H. CON.
RES. 77, DIRECTING THE PRESI-
DENT PURSUANT TO SECTION
5(C) OF THE WAR POWERS RESO-
LUTION TO REMOVE UNITED
STATES ARMED FORCES FROM
HOSTILITIES IN THE SYRIAN
ARAB REPUBLIC THAT HAVE
NOT BEEN AUTHORIZED BY CON-
GRESS
Mr. PERLMUTTER, from the Com-
mittee on Rules, submitted a privi-
leged report (Rept. No. 116–320) on the
resolution (H. Res. 739) providing for
consideration of the bill (H.R. 2534) to
amend the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 to prohibit certain securities trad-
ing and related communications by
those who possess material, nonpublic
information, and relating to consider-
ation of the concurrent resolution (H.
Con. Res. 77) directing the President
pursuant to Section 5(c) of the War
Powers Resolution to remove United
States Armed Forces from hostilities
in the Syrian Arab Republic that have
not been authorized by Congress, which
was referred to the House Calendar and
ordered to be printed.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on questions pre-
viously postponed. Votes will be taken
in the following order:
Motions to suspend the rules and
agree to H. Res. 546; and
Pass S. 178.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, remaining elec-
tronic votes will be conducted as 5-
minute votes.
f
DISAPPROVING THE RUSSIAN FED-
ERATION’S INCLUSION IN FU-
TURE GROUP OF SEVEN SUM-
MITS UNTIL IT RESPECTS THE
TERRITORIAL INTEGRITY OF ITS
NEIGHBORS AND ADHERES TO
THE STANDARDS OF DEMO-
CRATIC SOCIETIES
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and agree to
the resolution (H. Res. 546) dis-
approving the Russian Federation’s in-
clusion in future Group of Seven sum-
mits until it respects the territorial in-
tegrity of its neighbors and adheres to
the standards of democratic societies
on which the yeas and nays were or-
dered.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
SIRES) that the House suspend the
rules and agree to the resolution.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 339, nays 71,
not voting 20, as follows:
[Roll No. 643]
YEAS—339
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bucshon
Burchett
Bustos
Butterfield
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (PA)
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Wright
Young
NAYS—71
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Babin
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Buck
Budd
Burgess
Carter (GA)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:41 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03DE7.020 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9209
December 3, 2019
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Crawford
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Duncan
Dunn
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Fortenberry
Gaetz
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gooden
Gosar
Graves (GA)
Grothman
Guest
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hudson
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
King (IA)
LaMalfa
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Massie
Mast
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Norman
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Rose, John W.
Scott, Austin
Smith (MO)
Steube
Stewart
Timmons
Weber (TX)
Woodall
Yoho
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—20
Buchanan
Byrne
Carter (TX)
Cunningham
Flores
Gabbard
Griffith
Holding
Hunter
Keating
Kennedy
Lamb
Lamborn
Marshall
McGovern
Moore
Moulton
Rooney (FL)
Serrano
Yarmuth
b 1900
Messrs. COLLINS of Georgia, AUS-
TIN SCOTT of Georgia, MEADOWS,
DUNN, BROOKS of Alabama,
GROTHMAN, MITCHELL, CARTER of
Georgia, SMITH of Missouri,
FLEISCHMANN, BISHOP of North
Carolina, GOODEN, PERRY, ALLEN,
BISHOP of Utah, MEUSER, TIMMONS,
LONG, ADERHOLT, PALMER, and
BILIRAKIS changed their vote from
‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Mrs. DEMINGS, Messrs.
BALDERSON and JOHNSON of Lou-
isiana changed their vote from ‘‘nay’’
to ‘‘yea.’’
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
resolution was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
UYGHUR HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY
ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (S. 178) to condemn gross human
rights violations of ethnic Turkic Mus-
lims in Xinjiang, and calling for an end
to arbitrary detention, torture, and
harassment of these communities in-
side and outside China, as amended, on
which the yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
SIRES) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, as amended.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 407, nays 1,
not voting 23, as follows:
[Roll No. 644]
YEAS—407
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pelosi
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—1
Massie
NOT VOTING—23
Biggs
Buchanan
Byrne
Carter (TX)
Cunningham
Curtis
Flores
Gabbard
Griffith
Grijalva
Holding
Hunter
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Lamb
Marshall
McGovern
Moore
Moulton
Rooney (FL)
Serrano
Yarmuth
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during
the vote). The Chair will remind all
persons in the gallery that they are
here as guests of the House and that
any manifestation of approval or dis-
approval of proceedings is in violation
of the rules of the House.
b 1911
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
EXEMPTING CERTAIN INTERESTS
IN MUTUAL FUNDS, UNIT IN-
VESTMENT TRUSTS, EMPLOYEE
BENEFIT PLANS, AND RETIRE-
MENT PLANS FROM CONFLICT
OF INTEREST LIMITATIONS
Ms. LOFGREN. Madam Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration of the bill
(H.R. 5277) to amend section 442 of title
18, United States Code, to exempt cer-
tain interests in mutual funds, unit in-
vestment trusts, employee benefit
plans, and retirement plans from con-
flict of interest limitations for the
Government Publishing Office, and ask
for its immediate consideration in the
House.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms. DA-
VIDS of Kansas). Is there objection to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:41 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03DE7.019 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9210 December 3, 2019
the request of the gentlewoman from
California?
There was no objection.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 5277
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 442 of title 18,
United States Code, is amended to read as
follows:
‘‘§ 442. Government Publishing Office
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
‘‘(1) the terms ‘diversified’, ‘employee ben-
efit plan’, ‘holdings’, ‘mutual fund’, and ‘unit
investment trust’ have the meanings given
those terms under section 2640.102 of title 5,
Code of Federal Regulations, or any suc-
cessor thereto; and
‘‘(2) the term ‘printing-related interest’
means an interest, direct or indirect, in—
‘‘(A) the publication of any newspaper or
periodical;
‘‘(B) any printing, binding, engraving, or
lithographing of any kind; or
‘‘(C) any contract for furnishing paper or
other material connected with the public
printing, binding, lithographing, or engrav-
ing.
‘‘(b) OFFENSE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), the Director of the Govern-
ment Publishing Office, Deputy Director of
the Government Publishing Office, nor any
of their assistants as determined by the Di-
rector of the Government Publishing Office
shall not, during his or her continuance in
office, have any printing-related interest.
‘‘(2) EXCEPTION FOR MUTUAL FUNDS, UNIT IN-
VESTMENT TRUSTS, EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS,
AND RETIREMENT PLANS.—It shall not be a
violation of paragraph (1) for an individual
who is described in such paragraph to have
an interest in a diversified mutual fund, di-
versified unit investment trust, employee
benefit plan, investment fund under the
Thrift Savings Plan under subchapter III of
chapter 84 of title 5, or pension plan estab-
lished or maintained by a State government
or any political subdivision of a State gov-
ernment for its employees that has 1 or more
holdings that are printing-related interests
if the fund, trust, or plan does not exhibit a
practice of concentrating in printing-related
interests.
‘‘(3) AUTHORITY OF SUPERVISING ETHICS OF-
FICE.—The supervising ethics office for the
Government Publishing Office under the
Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C.
App) shall have the authority to issue rules
and promulgate regulations governing the
implementation of this subsection.
‘‘(c) PENALTY.—Whoever violates sub-
section (b)(1) shall be fined under this title,
imprisoned for not more than 1 year, or
both.’’.
(b) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMEND-
MENT.—The table of sections for chapter 23 of
title 18, United States Code, is amended by
striking the item relating to section 442 and
inserting the following:
‘‘442. Government Publishing Office.’’.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, was read the
third time, and passed, and a motion to
reconsider was laid on the table.
f
b 1915
HONORING THE VANGUARD
THEATER COMPANY
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAYNE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor a small group of artists
with big dreams, the Vanguard Theater
Company.
The company began in Maplewood,
New Jersey, 4 years ago with one goal:
It wanted to increase diversity in the-
ater acting, directing, and training.
The company is based on a dream of di-
versity, reciprocity, education, aware-
ness, and mentorship, with a strong
emphasis on mentorship.
Vanguard has run several programs
and camps to connect young artists
with skilled performers. Recently, it
received a grant from the New Jersey
State Council on the Arts. The grant
will fund acting lessons for 40 students.
Then these new actors will put on
shows for hospital patients, senior citi-
zens, and children across the area.
I am proud of the Vanguard for en-
couraging youth of color to pursue
their dreams in theater, and I wish
them all the best.
f
MEDICARE ORTHOTICS AND PROS-
THETICS PATIENT-CENTERED
CARE
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 5262, the Medicare Orthotics
and Prosthetics Patient-Centered Care
Act, a bill I am happy to cosponsor
with my colleague, Representative
MIKE THOMPSON of California.
After being seriously injured, the last
thing any individual should be worried
about is further hardships like finan-
cial stress or fraud. I have seen these
challenges firsthand, having served
many years as a therapist and a li-
censed nursing home administrator.
I am proud to cosponsor this bipar-
tisan bill to help mitigate these bur-
dens in the O&P sector and ensure
these individuals have access to qual-
ity, affordable orthotics and pros-
thetics.
The Orthotics and Prosthetics Pa-
tient-Centered Care Act aims to:
Ensure truly off-the-shelf orthotics
are eligible for competitive bidding;
Prohibit the practice of drop shipping
prostheses and custom orthoses to
Medicare beneficiaries;
Create requirements that better dis-
tinguish orthotists and prosthetists
from suppliers; and
Standardize the definition of
orthotics and prosthetics.
I urge my colleagues to support H.R.
5262 to ensure quality orthotic and
prosthetic care for Medicare patients
and better protect these individuals
from fraud.
f
LOWER DRUG COSTS NOW
(Mrs. BUSTOS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mrs. BUSTOS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 3, the Lower
Drug Costs Now Act.
Too many hardworking families and
seniors in Illinois can’t afford the ris-
ing costs of prescription drugs. We
must rein in these outrageous prices.
That is why I am proud to cosponsor
this bill.
When I walk the supermarket aisles
and I talk with folks back home, who
also write me notes and send them to
my office, the stories about the high
cost of drugs are absolutely shocking.
Let me share a couple of them with
you.
In Stronghurst, one woman’s medica-
tion spiked from $23 to $98, more than
a 300 percent increase, for no apparent
reason.
In Andalusia, another person’s insu-
lin jumped from $365 to $538 every sin-
gle month, more than $2,100 increase
over the year.
And several counties away, in Pekin,
Illinois, a senior saw his insulin sky-
rocket from $333 to $830 per month, a
250 percent increase—again, no expla-
nation.
We must do more to make prescrip-
tion drug prices more affordable and
lift this unfair burden on families. This
bill would do just that. I ask my col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle to
support this bill.
f
RECOGNIZING THE SERVICE OF
BLOUNT COUNTY SHERIFF
JAMES BERRONG
(Mr. BURCHETT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BURCHETT. Madam Speaker, I
rise to recognize our Blount County
Sheriff, James Berrong, who is cele-
brating his 30th year in office.
Since 1989, Sheriff Berrong and his
deputies have served the community by
maintaining safe neighborhoods, pro-
viding outstanding emergency service,
and busting lawbreakers.
Sheriff Berrong successfully advo-
cated better pay for his deputies and
has prioritized hiring and retaining an
excellent deputy force. Under his lead-
ership, Blount County continues to be
a safe place to live and raise a family.
Sheriff Berrong and his deputies re-
main focused on guaranteeing safety at
religious institutions and schools, in-
creasing the Sheriff’s Office’s presence
when necessary.
Additionally, he ensures that sex of-
fenders and human traffickers are held
accountable. Sheriff Berrong has effec-
tively led the crackdown on these
dirtbags, and the Blount County Sher-
iff’s Office has gained a reputation as
one of the best law enforcement agen-
cies, if not in the State of Tennessee,
in the entire United States of America,
for dealing with sex-related crimes.
It is my honor to recognize Sheriff
Berrong for his outstanding career as
Blount County Sheriff. I know I speak
for many in east Tennessee when I
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:11 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03DE7.047 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9211
December 3, 2019
thank him for his continued service to
our community.
f
SUPPORTING HISTORICALLY
BLACK COLLEGES AND UNIVER-
SITIES
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker,
I rise to join my colleagues in the Con-
gressional Black Caucus to celebrate
and recognize the importance of edu-
cational opportunities at the Histori-
cally Black Colleges and Universities,
creating opportunities for thousands of
young men and women, many of them
first-time college attendees. I am de-
lighted to have Texas Southern Univer-
sity in my congressional district and,
as well, to have Prairie View A&M in
the near area.
I was very instrumental in getting
Hurricane Harvey relief dollars and fi-
nancial aid relief for students at the
campus of Texas Southern University
in the amount of $13 million and to be
able to help digitize the projects for
former U.S. Members of Congress Bar-
bara Jordan and Mickey Leland.
As well, I remember working with
Prairie View A&M when they helped
establish a very grand criminal justice
center that is educating many young
people.
But I am really here to support the
FUTURE Act, Fostering Under-
graduate Talent by Unlocking Re-
sources for Education, supported by
the House and passed out of the House
on September 17, 2019.
Unfortunately, this bill is held up in
the Senate. This House bill is much
better. We support the House bill and
would ask the Senator from Tennessee
to do what he should do, which I be-
lieve he has done: to make sure that
bill goes out, and goes out as the House
bill.
This is a bill to focus on STEM and
to create opportunities for our young
people. I support HBCUs and opportuni-
ties for those young people.
f
CONGRATULATING ROBERT C. ZIM-
MERMAN, JR., 2019 ROTARY CLUB
PERSON OF THE YEAR,
SUNBURY, PENNSYLVANIA
(Mr. KELLER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. KELLER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate Robert C. Zim-
merman, Jr., on being named the 2019
Person of the Year by the Rotary Club
of Sunbury, Pennsylvania. This rec-
ognition is well-deserved for someone
who has exemplified the attributes of
public servant leadership in our com-
munity for over 50 years.
Bob began his service to our commu-
nity by serving our country in the
United States Marine Corps, then later
in the U.S. Army Reserve. His service
also includes active work in commu-
nity organizations like the United
Way, the Greater Susquehanna Valley
Chamber of Commerce, and the
Sunbury Area Community Foundation.
For the last 43 years, Robert has been
working in his family business, Zim-
merman Chrysler, Dodge, Jeep, RAM,
where he continued Zimmerman’s long
tradition of treating customers like
family.
On behalf of the people of Pennsylva-
nia’s 12th Congressional District, I
again congratulate Robert C. Zimmer-
man, Jr., on being named Person of the
Year by the Rotary Club of Sunbury,
Pennsylvania.
f
CONGRESSIONAL UKRAINE CAUCUS
MEETINGS
(Ms. KAPTUR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Speaker, bi-
partisan support for the U.S.-Ukraine
longstanding strategic partnership re-
mains resolute.
Ukraine is the nation on the scrim-
mage line for liberty in Europe. And as
I speak, Ukraine’s armed services are
protecting Europe’s eastern flank from
Russian aggression. Its people have
made their commitment to democracy
clear in its most recent elections, and
over 14,000 Ukrainians have now died
fighting Russia’s illegal invasion.
Tomorrow, the Congressional
Ukraine Caucus will join the Atlantic
Council in hosting a half-day bipar-
tisan, bicameral conference, entitled,
‘‘U.S. Strategic Interests in Ukraine.’’
It will be held tomorrow at 11:30 in the
Visitor Center Meeting Room North. I
encourage my colleagues to come and
spend a few minutes with us.
I am also pleased to host a round-
table with extraordinarily brave,
award-winning Ukrainian journalist
Myroslava Gongadze tomorrow at 10
o’clock in the morning in Rayburn
2362B.
Following the brutal murder of her
husband, Myroslava tirelessly pursued
justice on his behalf in the European
Court of Human Rights and now serves
as the Voice of America’s chief for
Ukrainian service.
Madam Speaker, I kindly invite all
my colleagues to attend these impor-
tant sessions.
f
RECOGNIZING THE SERVICE OF
GERALD BRENCE
(Mr. TAYLOR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, today
I rise to recognize Gerald Brence, the
athletic director for the Plano Inde-
pendent School District, for 39 years of
dedicated service to the students and
athletes in Plano, Texas.
Before earning the title of athletic
director in 2007, Gerald Brence served
as the head coach of the Plano Senior
High School football team from 1992 to
2007. During his tenure, the Plano Sen-
ior Wildcats secured a State champion-
ship title in 1994 and made five trips to
the State quarterfinals. One of the
most winning coaches in Plano Senior
High’s history, Coach Brence has
earned the respect and admiration of
those around him.
Under his steadfast leadership as ath-
letic director, Plano ISD earned State
championships in seven different
sports, including golf, tennis, baseball,
boys basketball, boys soccer, girls soc-
cer, and girls basketball.
Our community is proud of Director
Brence’s leadership within Plano ISD,
and we are grateful for the countless
lives he has inspired throughout his ca-
reer. Now, upon his retirement, I ask
my colleagues in the House of Rep-
resentatives to join me in thanking Di-
rector Gerald Brence for his dedication
to Plano ISD.
f
SUPPORT UKRAINE AND COUNTER
THE RUSSIAN BEAR
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Madam Speaker, ear-
lier tonight, the Democrat leadership
of this House put to the floor a resolu-
tion, H. Res. 546, to state that Russia
should not be allowed to officially re-
join the G7. That resolution calls out
the President’s desire to reengage with
Russia in the G7 in an attempt to put
Republican Members in the House in a
false debate between supporting the
President and supporting Ukraine’s
sovereignty.
Madam Speaker, there is no debate,
at least not in the Republican Con-
ference. As we all have voted before:
Russia must restore Ukraine’s bor-
ders;
The United States must continue to
provide military aid to Ukraine to
withstand Russian aggression;
The United States must continue to
assist our European allies in resisting
Russian influence; and
The United States must continue to
sanction the irresponsible regime of
Vladimir Putin.
In all these policies, President Trump
has actually gone further than Presi-
dent Obama: sanctions have increased;
military aid has been elevated to in-
clude lethal weapons.
I strongly support the President’s
policies to continue to support Ukraine
and counter the Russian bear.
Madam Speaker, NATO—where the
President is over, today, working in
London and remarked that NATO has
become stronger—did not become a
strong alliance by having the House of
Representatives constantly undercut
the Commander in Chief.
f
b 1930
RECOGNIZING HOLLY VEGA
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:11 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03DE7.050 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9212 December 3, 2019
Mr. SPANO. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Holly Vega, a resi-
dent of my district, who was recently
named the 2019 Armed Forces Insur-
ance Military Spouse of the Year.
Military spouses are unsung heroes
that are responsible for securing the
homestead and supporting our service-
members. And for Holly’s husband, Ma-
rine Corps Lieutenant Colonel Javier
Vega, she is a gift to their family and
to their community.
Holly has been recognized for her
generosity, her passion, and her heart
for philanthropy, and for empowering
other military spouses through com-
munity service opportunities and vol-
unteerism. Her own selfless service has
extended to the South Tampa Chamber
of Commerce, Military Hearts Matter,
and the Girl Scouts.
I am so grateful for the thousands of
spouses like Holly whose sacrifices and
stresses are sometimes overshadowed,
but whose contributions to our na-
tional defense and our communities are
priceless.
I thank you, Holly, for your passion
and your drive to give to those in need.
You indeed are a gift to many, and I sa-
lute you.
f
IN SUPPORT OF HISTORICALLY
BLACK COLLEGES AND UNIVER-
SITIES
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentlewoman from
North Carolina (Ms. ADAMS) is recog-
nized for 60 minutes as the designee of
the majority leader.
Ms. ADAMS. Madam Speaker, it is a
pleasure to be here this evening to ad-
dress a very important topic. I rise to
advocate, along with my colleagues
who have come, for the 300,000 students
that attend our Nation’s historically
Black colleges and universities, known
as HBCUs.
As Congress looks to agree on a fund-
ing agreement for fiscal year 2020, we
must keep in mind our Nation’s 102
HBCUs that specialize in providing op-
portunity for low-income, first-genera-
tion African American students.
When I entered Congress, one of my
first tasks when I got here was to
launch the Congressional Bipartisan
HBCU Caucus to bring greater atten-
tion to the issues that affect HBCUs
and their students. I did so because
more than anything I know the impor-
tance of HBCUs, not only in the Afri-
can American community, but for our
economy as a whole.
For more than 150 years, HBCUs have
paved a way where there is no way for
America’s most talented Black minds.
Despite discrimination and neglect,
HBCUs have continued to pull above
their weight. We know the facts and
the figures, but it never hurts to repeat
them.
HBCUs produce 27 percent of all Afri-
can American STEM graduates; 40 per-
cent of all African American engineers;
50 percent of all African American law-
yers; 50 percent of all African Amer-
ican public school teachers; and 80 per-
cent of all African American judges;
despite only educating 10 percent of all
African American college students.
In my home State of North Carolina,
we have 10 HBCUs currently operating
and educating over 33,000 students:
Bennett College; Elizabeth City State
University; Fayetteville State Univer-
sity; Johnson C. Smith University—in
my congressional district; Livingstone
College; the North Carolina A&T State
University, which is my alma mater
and the largest public HBCU that pro-
duces African American engineers and
the largest public HBCU in the Nation;
along with North Carolina Central Uni-
versity; Saint Augustine’s University;
Shaw University; and last but not
least, Winston-Salem State University.
They make a total of $1.7 billion of
economic impact in the State, sup-
porting over 15,000 jobs and guaran-
teeing for their graduates $20.7 billion
in lifetime earnings.
They are more than a worthy invest-
ment for this body and for our State
legislatures back home. And over the
last 50 years, Congress has taken
strides to correct for the historic lack
of engagement and investment in these
schools that contribute so much.
When enacted in 1965, the Higher
Education Act represented the Federal
Government’s first recognition of the
important mission that HBCUs serve.
The HEA of 1965 first authorized Title
III Institutional Aid, which is the key
program that supports academic qual-
ity, institutional management, and fi-
nancial stability at HBCUs.
Through multiple reauthorizations,
Congress has sought to strengthen and
to supplement this law by providing
low-interest loans for schools to make
infrastructure improvements. And, yes,
by authorizing mandatory funding to
help HBCUs prepare students for STEM
careers, a mission that is sorely needed
in a workforce that screams for diver-
sity and inclusion.
So tonight, Madam Speaker, we will
hear from this body’s most tireless ad-
vocates for HBCUs and our students,
many of whom are members of the
HBCU Caucus, which now includes al-
most 100 Members of the House and
Senate, and many of whom are alums
of our Nation’s HBCUs, and many of
my colleagues from the Congressional
Black Caucus, because we know first-
hand what these schools mean to an as-
piring student of color looking at edu-
cation as a ticket to the middle class.
Madam Speaker, I stand tonight as a
living testament to the necessity and
to the importance of HBCUs. My moth-
er, who raised me, was not an educated
woman. She wasn’t able to obtain a
high school education and certainly
not to attend an HBCU or any CU for
that matter. But she understood how
important education would be in my
life.
My mom did domestic work. She
cleaned other folks’ houses for many
years so I wouldn’t have to do that.
But like those visionaries who founded
these schools after surviving the hor-
rors of slavery, my mother dreamed of
a better future for me as her daughter.
And when I could not fully recognize
the potential in myself, it was an
HBCU in North Carolina, North Caro-
lina A&T State University, that saw
something in me and made a com-
mitted investment towards my success.
A&T gave a poor, Black girl from the
ghetto of Newark, New Jersey, an op-
portunity, because that school believed
in opportunity and the fundamental
importance of education that W.E.B.
Du Bois spoke about. When he said, ‘‘Of
all of the civil rights for which the
world has struggled and fought for 500
years, the right to learn is undoubtedly
the most fundamental.’’
That HBCU took me from where they
found me and got me to where I needed
to be. They shaped and molded me into
what they knew I could become, just as
all of our schools have for millions of
Americans since the founding of the
first HBCU, Cheyney University of
Pennsylvania in 1836.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. ADAMS. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the sub-
ject of my Special Order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from North Carolina?
There was no objection.
Ms. ADAMS. Madam Speaker, I yield
to the gentleman from Georgia (Mr.
DAVID SCOTT).
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
Madam Speaker, I thank Congress-
woman ADAMS. Let me just commend
her as our leader of the HBCU Caucus
up here. She does a marvelous job, and
it is a pleasure to work with her. And
I know all the people of North Carolina
are very proud of the leadership that
she is providing.
Madam Speaker, this is a particular
honor for me, because I stand here as a
premier example of why our histori-
cally Black colleges and universities
are so important.
When I graduated from high school,
my mother and father had no money. I
got a job washing dishes in a Daytona
Beach hotel, and the people of Daytona
Beach, Florida, got together and raised
$350, and they said, ‘‘Here, go to the
college of your choice.’’ And thank God
there was a Florida A&M University.
And you know what, Madam Speaker?
Florida A&M was on the trimester sys-
tem. And guess what it cost for one tri-
mester? $350.
God is wonderful. And God has
blessed this Nation because we have a
Florida A&M, a Tuskegee, a North
Carolina A&T, a Fort Valley, a Ten-
nessee State. All of these great institu-
tions to get a way out of no way for
folks just like me.
That is why this is important. I
wouldn’t be in Congress today if it
weren’t for Florida A&M University,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:11 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03DE7.052 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9213
December 3, 2019
because that is why I wanted to tell
how I got here. And I wouldn’t have
been able to meet my loving partner
and wife, Alfredia, had it not been for
Florida A&M University.
So what I am saying is: our histori-
cally Black universities have provided
the foundation for the Black family
structure. That is where you meet your
wife. And I will tell you what, we took
a survey one time, and those individ-
uals that met their wives at college
last a long time. And that is what is so
important, in addition to the great
education that we have.
And I just want to say, also while I
am here, of the great achievement that
we Members of the Congressional
Black Caucus achieved, a historical
event, $80 million in scholarships for
the 19 African American land-grant
colleges and universities, a bipartisan
historic effort. And you know what,
Madam Speaker, it is in the farm bill
now. Five years from now it will come
back. And we have laid the foundation
to make it a permanent appropriation.
That is our goal. This floor is crowded
with African Americans who have
helped make this dream a reality.
I am very grateful for all that our
colleges have done. And I just want to
say thank God for our historically
Black colleges and universities. And
thank Ms. ADAMS.
Ms. ADAMS. Madam Speaker, I
thank gentleman from Georgia.
And he is absolutely right, HBCUs
take you where they find you and mold
and shape you.
I had the privilege to serve on the
faculty and to serve as an adminis-
trator at Bennett College in Greens-
boro, North Carolina, for 40 years. So
the thousands of students that I had an
opportunity to impact certainly have
made a lasting impact on me.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from South Carolina (Mr. CLY-
BURN), our very capable whip.
Mr. CLYBURN. Madam Speaker, I
want to thank the chair of the HBCU
Caucus for yielding to me this evening.
Madam Speaker, we usually approach
almost everything in this body by
looking at the economic impact that it
may have on the budget, on our econ-
omy, and sometimes on just a small
community.
So let’s take a look at the economic
impact that HBCUs have on our Na-
tion’s economy: $15 billion annually
goes into the national economy as a re-
sult of the more than 100 HBCUs that
exist in the country. These colleges
provide pathways of opportunity for
millions of Americans, many of whom
are first-generation college students.
So investing in HBCUs is something
that could be very important for our
Nation. And that is why I am a little
bit concerned tonight that the FU-
TURE Act, a piece of legislation that
passed this House unanimously, is now
sitting in the Senate. We made some
attempt when we passed this current
continuing resolution to attach that
act to the continuing resolution, but
for some reason, the Senate, in its wis-
dom, has decided not to attach that
deal to the continuing resolution.
b 1945
This continuing resolution will ex-
pire on December 20. I have no idea
what we will do after that to fund the
budget. Will there be another con-
tinuing resolution? Will we do an omni-
bus? Will we do a series of minibuses?
Whatever the vehicle may be, I call
upon the Senate tonight to attach the
FUTURE Act to whatever the next ve-
hicle may be because HBCU’s funding
of $255 million under title III is
wrapped into that act. If it is not en-
acted, we will see many of these col-
leges and universities lose their fund-
ing.
Irrespective of what the economic
impact might be, I want to spend a few
minutes talking about the personal,
human impact of HBCUs.
Our illustrious chair of the task
force, as mentioned, graduated from
North Carolina A&T. She graduated
two times, as a student and as a pro-
fessor.
I often tell the story of someone
most people in this country either
knew or knew about, Ronald McNair.
Ron McNair was from the little town
of Lake City, South Carolina, in my
congressional district. I just happen to
have a congressional district that con-
tains seven HBCUs.
Ron and I were pretty good friends,
and as he was about to go up in his
final, fatal flight, he stopped by my of-
fice. We talked that day because he was
talking with the people at the Univer-
sity of South Carolina, who were hope-
ful that when this flight was over, he
would be joining their faculty. Well, we
all know that it was a fatal flight.
Ron said something to me on that
day that I talk about very often. He
said to me: Every time I go someplace
to speak or am in attendance, people
always talk about my Ph.D. in physics
from MIT, but that is not what made
the difference in my life.
He said to me that when he left Lake
City, South Carolina, and Carver High
School, he went to North Carolina
A&T. It was on that campus that those
professors who had similar back-
grounds and experiences that he had,
who understood what it was to come
from a little rural community, took
the time to nurture him and to prepare
him for his journey through life.
I told the story to the current presi-
dent of South Carolina State Univer-
sity, from which I am a graduate. He
said to me that he knew Ron McNair
up at MIT, where he graduated. He said
to me that of all the students on that
campus, Ron McNair was better pre-
pared for the journey at MIT than any-
body else. That is because these HBCUs
take the time not just to explore what
may be in the textbooks, but they look
at what may be in the life experiences
of these students who come there.
I think about those students growing
up on the Sea Islands of Florida, Geor-
gia, South Carolina, North Carolina, in
what we call Gullah Geechee country,
who come to colleges and universities
not knowing a whole lot about what we
call common English, but they know
the Gullah Geechee language. They are
very smart students who know what to
do with calculus and math, and some-
times, they may have problems making
a subject and verb agree because of
their experiences. They go to these col-
leges and universities where the teach-
ers, professors, and other students have
a similar background.
I know so well because that day that
Scott just mentioned, I met my spouse
of 58 years on that campus. She was a
Gullah woman, but she went on to get
a master’s degree in library science.
When she passed away a couple of
months ago, no one in the State of
South Carolina ever got the send-off
that she got. Why? Because of the con-
tributions she made.
Come January or February, I believe,
whatever the date may be, they are
naming the Honors College at South
Carolina State University in her honor.
Why? Because she demonstrated in her
life pursuits that she was worthy of
such recognition.
Through our family foundation, she
left an endowment at her alma mater
of $1.7 million, that for a little Gullah
woman who went to an HBCU that
took her from where she was and made
her what she could be.
That story is repeated time and time
again all over this country.
Madam Speaker, I want to say to my
friends in the other body, the FUTURE
Act is all about the future of people
whose experiences may be different
from theirs but whose intelligence may
even surpass theirs. Let’s do what we
can to make sure that this country
continues to benefit from their life ex-
periences. They are willing to give
back if only given the opportunity.
Ms. ADAMS. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman very much for
that not only inspiring but moving
speech.
I would say, Madam Speaker, that I
had the privilege of meeting Mr. CLY-
BURN’s wife. Certainly, all of those trib-
utes are really due to her. We are not
only proud of the work that she did but
of the life that she led.
Madam Speaker, I say to my col-
leagues who talked about getting mar-
ried, I got married at North Carolina
A&T to my first spouse. It didn’t last
all but 6 or so years, at least not that
one. But you do have an opportunity to
not only interact but to meet folks for
a lifetime, and that is really, really im-
portant.
I want to mention as well that of all
the universities, HBCUs are about 3
percent, yet we educate 10 percent of
all students of African American de-
scent. That means that we do a lot
with a little. We don’t get the kind of
equitable funding that we have needed,
but clearly, we have continued to press
on. These are wonderful examples we
have been hearing tonight.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:11 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03DE7.053 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9214 December 3, 2019
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Virginia (Mr. SCOTT), the
chair of the Committee on Education
and Labor, a gentleman who has
worked hard to make education valu-
able and important also.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for
yielding. I thank the Congressional
Black Caucus and Representative
ADAMS in particular for dedicating this
time to discuss an issue affecting so
many communities across the country,
and particularly Representative ADAMS
for her leadership in congressional sup-
port for historically Black colleges and
universities.
Since their conception, HBCUs and
other minority-serving institutions
have played a vital role in expanding
access to higher education for low-in-
come students and students of color.
Many present leaders, like physi-
cians, dentists, lawyers, judges, and
other professionals, and many elected
officials, would not be where they are
today but for the opportunity provided
by HBCUs, especially the two in the
Third District of Virginia, Hampton
University and Norfolk State Univer-
sity.
That is why earlier this year, the
House unanimously passed the FU-
TURE Act, a proposal to preserve fund-
ing for these institutions that expired
on September 30. The FUTURE Act is
fully paid for, and it would provide an
immediate 2-year extension of funding,
averting a financial crisis that could
eventually result in lost jobs, program
cuts, and reduced financial support for
students.
A month later, the Committee on
Education and Labor advanced the Col-
lege Affordability Act, a comprehen-
sive overhaul of the Higher Education
Act that would increase access and af-
fordability to higher education and
specifically would increase and perma-
nently reauthorize mandatory funding
for historically Black colleges and
other minority-serving institutions.
HBCUs and minority-serving institu-
tions collectively serve more than one-
quarter of all undergraduate students
each year. That is more than 6 million
students, including many from our Na-
tion’s most underserved communities.
It is important that we pass legisla-
tion extending the funding for these
colleges and universities so that they
can continue to fulfill their mission.
Ms. ADAMS. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Virginia for
not only his comments but for his
labor and his support for these very
fine institutions.
Madam Speaker, I do want to ac-
knowledge the chairwoman of the Con-
gressional Black Caucus, KAREN BASS,
who had to leave. She left her com-
ments and asked me to read them, so I
am going to do that.
She begins by talking about the Spe-
cial Order hour tonight and the support
that we need to give to our historically
Black colleges and universities and mi-
nority-serving institutions. Congress,
she says, must provide mandatory
funding for these institutions.
Fighting for historically Black col-
leges and universities is one of the Con-
gressional Black Caucus’ highest prior-
ities because HBCUs are critical con-
tributors to the strength of the Black
community and our country.
Many members of our caucus, the
CBC, have attended great HBCUs, such
as American Baptist College, Central
State University, Clark Atlanta, Fisk
University, Florida A&M, Howard Uni-
versity, Jackson State University,
Morehouse College, North Carolina
A&T, North Carolina Central, Prairie
View A&M University, South Carolina
State, Texas Southern University,
Tougaloo College, Tuskegee Univer-
sity, Virginia State University, Vir-
ginia Union University, and Wiley Col-
lege, among others.
In the 115th Congress, the CBC
launched a tour of HBCUs called CBC
on the Yard. The goal of the tour was
to listen, to involve and mobilize stu-
dents to effect change in their commu-
nities, and to get their thoughts on the
direction of the country and the issues
that impact their lives. The CBC
hosted events at Morehouse College,
Xavier University, Bowie State Univer-
sity, and Howard University.
According to the Thurgood Marshall
Foundation, HBCUs account for 22 per-
cent of the current bachelor’s degrees
granted to African Americans. More-
over, among African Americans, 13 per-
cent of CEOs, 40 percent of engineers,
40 percent of healthcare professionals,
50 percent of teachers, 50 percent of
non-HBCU professors, 50 percent of
lawyers, 80 percent of judges, and 90
percent with bachelor’s degrees in
STEM subjects graduated from HBCUs.
The economic impact of HBCUs, as
the gentlewoman says, is equally im-
pressive. A report by UNCF called
‘‘HBCUs Make America Strong’’ said
the positive economic impact of his-
torically Black colleges and univer-
sities show that HBCUs generate $14.8
billion in economic impact annually.
HBCUs are vital to the students who
attend them and to the entire country,
which makes use of the valuable skills
that these graduates bring to the pri-
vate and public sectors. Our Nation
must continue to invest in HBCUs and
minority-serving institutions.
b 2000
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Illinois (Mr. DANNY K.
DAVIS).
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Speaker, let me, first of all,
congratulate Ms. ADAMS on the tre-
mendous leadership that she has been
providing to those of us who are con-
cerned about Historically Black Col-
leges and Universities, as well as edu-
cation in general. I certainly thank the
gentlewoman for being able to share
this moment as we talk about the im-
portance of these very viable, valuable
institutions.
I represent a congressional district
that has some of the most outstanding
educational institutions in the world,
without a doubt. We don’t have an
HBCU in my district, but I was fortu-
nate, as were so many members of my
family, on my 16th birthday to enroll
in Arkansas AM&N College with no
money—as a matter of fact, on credit.
I had $20 when I got there in my shirt
pocket.
We had a president at the time, Dr.
Lawrence Arnette Davis, that all of us
just simply called ‘‘Prexy,’’ kind of
saying that he was a father surrogate
and a father figure for every one of us
who hit that campus.
My parents were sharecroppers. We
lived in rural Arkansas, a very impor-
tant State because it is the only State
in the Bible Noah looked over his ark
and saw.
But we were able to have Arkansas
AM&N College. Four of my sisters, my-
self, two of my brothers, three of my
nephews, three of my nieces, and an as-
sortment of first cousins all went to
UAPB. Even today, in the community
where I live, large numbers of students
want to go there, and they do.
They go because there is something
unique about these institutions. They
have the capacity to provide individual
attention, in many instances, where
larger universities may not have the
same. They have the understanding to
know that they are individuals who
come from environments where they
may need a little extra attention and a
little extra help, and they provide it.
These are inspirational settings
where individuals go and learn their
profession, develop their abilities, and
know that, when they leave, they leave
with the inspiration.
And so, again, commendations. So I
end by just thinking of some of the
words of our anthem. The person who
wrote it said:
State college, we greet thee with love and
devotion;
Our hearts and our treasures we bring to thy
shrine.
With arms that are strong from all harm, we
defend thee;
Thy name shall we cherish, dear mother of
mine.
We cherish our Historically Black
Colleges and Universities and urge that
they receive the funding that they
need.
Madam Speaker, God bless Rep-
resentative ADAMS for leading the
charge.
Ms. ADAMS. Madam Speaker, I
thank Mr. DAVIS very much for his elo-
quent presentation. As I think about
many of the songs that we sing at our
schools, they have a certain relevance,
strength, and meaning for the students
that we serve.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tlewoman from California (Ms. LEE),
who has been out on this battlefield for
a very long time. I am so happy to
share this hour with her and all of my
colleagues.
Ms. LEE of California. Madam
Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for
yielding, and I thank her for her tire-
less leadership on this issue and so
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:11 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03DE7.054 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9215
December 3, 2019
many issues, and also for forming the
bipartisan caucus as it relates to our
HBCUs; because this bipartisan caucus,
once she got here, she hit the ground
running, and it has never been the
same. I am a proud member of the cau-
cus, and I just want to thank her for
her tremendous leadership.
Also, I thank our chair of the Con-
gressional Black Caucus, Congress-
woman KAREN BASS, for her leadership
in helping to put together this Special
Order tonight.
It is really an honor to be here to-
night to support our Nation’s Histori-
cally Black Colleges and Universities;
and, of course, I am in full support of
the FUTURE Act.
Madam Speaker, Malcolm X once de-
clared: ‘‘Education is our passport to
the future, for tomorrow belongs to the
people who prepare for it today.’’
For over 150 years, Historically Black
Colleges have provided these passports
for students. One of the largest popu-
lations of students at HBCUs come
from my home State of California. In
fact, it may be the largest number of
students at HBCUs are from California,
including my grandson, Jonah, whom
you know.
Black students in California would
never have the opportunity to go to
college if it were not for HBCUs. So, for
them and for their families, I am deep-
ly grateful.
HBCUs have always offered African
American young men and women a
quality, affordable education at times
when access to institutions of higher
learning was limited or completely
closed off to African Americans.
With over 101 HBCUs across the Na-
tion and 9 percent of all African Amer-
ican college students attending HBCUs,
they are more important than ever in
providing students a superior edu-
cation.
And, yes, it is the manifestation of
the fact that Black lives do matter.
They do matter.
Now, as a member of the funding
committee, the Labor-HHS-Education
Appropriations Subcommittee, I know
just how important HBCU funding is.
That is why we fought each and every
year to increase HBCU funding, this
year by $93 million above fiscal year ‘19
levels and the President’s request.
Let me say, also, that I did not have
the honor of attending an HBCU, but I
come from a family with deep roots at
HBCUs. My grandfather and two aunts
graduated from then Huston-Tillotson
College in Austin, Texas.
I just have to tell you, my 99-year-old
aunt, Aunt Lois, whom I spent Thanks-
giving with, spent her whole time talk-
ing to me about her education at her
HBCU, at Huston-Tillotson College.
She wants more young people to re-
ceive the stellar education that she re-
ceived, and she is 99 years old. She is
an unbelievable woman.
HBCUs provided her that educational
foundation for her life. She did an
amazing job working and setting up
businesses. She attributes that to ev-
erything she learned at HBCUs.
Also, my mother attended Prairie
View A&M University and also South-
ern University.
I have been the beneficiary of the
values and the academic foundation
provided to me through my family’s at-
tendance and involvement at these
great institutions.
Two of my nieces, Michelle and Ni-
cole, graduated from Prairie View.
They are amazing young Black women
making their mark in the world.
HBCUs have a rich history to look
back on and a vibrant future ahead, so
I am proud tonight to join my col-
leagues in supporting HBCUs.
I thank Congresswoman ADAMS for
her commitment and her leadership to
the education of our young African
American students because she truly is
securing the future, not only for our
students and their families, but for our
country and for the world.
Ms. ADAMS. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia for not only her contributions,
but the contributions of her family.
I am a proud two-time graduate. My
daughter is a graduate of North Caro-
lina A&T State University, as well, and
my grandson decided he wanted to be a
Bison, so he is at Howard this year as
a freshman. I am just delighted that he
has joined the HBCU family.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from New Jersey (Mr. PAYNE).
Mr. PAYNE. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman for her leader-
ship on this subject. Since coming to
Congress, she has been one of the fore-
most advocates for education, specifi-
cally HBCUs. Prior to her arriving, it
has always been an issue that has been
very important, but she has really
raised awareness and highlighted and
been consistent in her leadership in
this area.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to sup-
port the FUTURE Act in minority-
serving institutions. I thank Rep-
resentative ADAMS once again for an-
choring tonight’s discussion of this
very important subject.
Minority-serving colleges and univer-
sities—not to be mistaken as HBCUs—
serve a critical role in our society. I, in
New Jersey, do not have an HBCU, but
we have many minority-serving insti-
tutions, and several in my district.
These are students who find more sup-
port with teachers and professors who
come from their culture.
Studies have shown that they get
better grades in classes with teachers
of the same culture and race. This
starts even before the students enter
college.
Minority students in the same race
classes have fewer behavioral prob-
lems, regardless of income level or
family structure. They are far more
likely to end up doing well and coming
along on the collegiate level at HBCUs.
They are more likely to be held to a
higher academic standard and pushed
harder to excel in these schools. They
perform better in reading, mathe-
matics, and other core courses.
That is where MSIs become vital to
their continued success. Low-income,
low-performing students’ upward mo-
bility skyrockets on these campuses.
Take Bloomfield College, for exam-
ple. And let me commend its new presi-
dent, Marcheta P. Evans, for her vision
for Bloomfield College.
Bloomfield is a minority-serving in-
stitution of almost 1,700 students lo-
cated in my 10th District, in Bloom-
field, New Jersey. Of these students, 70
percent are low-income or first-genera-
tion college students; 95 percent get fi-
nancial aid; and 75 percent are eligible
for Pell grants. They come from fami-
lies and communities that do not have
many advantages. One Bloomfield col-
lege student was even homeless and
struggled for meals before entering col-
lege.
But the college steps in and addresses
more than their academic needs. In-
stead, they come out of MSIs and be-
come engineers. They become nurses,
teachers, and professors. Bloomfield
College even graduates simulation de-
signers for video games and medical
technicians.
Like most MSIs, Bloomfield takes
low-income students and turns them
into middle- to high-income graduates,
and they do it at rates that far exceed
other universities. In other words, they
solve several social problems at once.
HBCUs are criticized in this country
for their necessity, but the creation of
HBCUs comes out of the inability for
the larger population to accept minor-
ity students at colleges that were al-
ready in place.
b 2015
So where do they have to go?
So it is disingenuous to criticize
HBCUs for remedying a problem of
equality that still exists in this Na-
tion. They keep today’s low-income
students on a path to success. They
help close the wealth gap between
Whites and non-Whites, and they pro-
vide hope and a future to a segment of
America that needs it so much.
So, in closing, Madam Speaker, we
will continue to advocate for these in-
stitutions because, although I did not
go to an HBCU, so many of my distin-
guished colleagues—the whip, Ms.
ADAMS, and so many others—were edu-
cated at HBCUs. We see their talent
and their brilliance every day on these
floors of the House of Representatives.
So we need HBCUs to continue to
strive and be strong and continue to do
the service that they have done for this
country for decades.
Ms. ADAMS. Madam Speaker, I want
to thank the gentleman from New Jer-
sey—where I grew up—for not only his
service there, but for his contributions
tonight.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Florida (Mr. LAWSON).
Mr. LAWSON. Madam Speaker, I rise
to speak for HBCUs. I would like to
thank my colleague, Ms. ADAMS, for all
her input and how she has worked ex-
tremely hard to put HBCUs at the fore-
front.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:11 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03DE7.056 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9216 December 3, 2019
I grew up in a rural area in the coun-
try where we were let out of high
school early so that we could work in
the tobacco fields in Gadsden County. I
had no idea what college was really
like until Florida A&M gave me the op-
portunity to attend college there.
For 132 years Florida A&M has been
educating a large number of bacca-
laureate degree-holders in this coun-
try, as well as engineers, pharmacists,
and you just name it, especially in the
school of business where we had one of
the greatest leaders in this country of
all time to head up that school that
really contributed to corporate Amer-
ica.
Without HBCUs, I know that I
wouldn’t be here. A boy walking bare-
footed in the countryside had the op-
portunity to represent HBCUs, not only
in the State legislature but now in
Congress. They have made a major im-
pact on this country and on economics
that many of my colleagues have
talked about today.
When you think about it, where
would this country be without that im-
pact?
On September 30 of this year, the
funding was not authorized. But that
$255 million that the House unani-
mously passed is now sitting in the
Senate. It is imperative that we en-
courage our Senators to approve this
because many of these schools would
not be able to function without that
funding. I happen to represent not only
Florida A&M University but Edward
Waters College where it is critically
needed for these schools to survive.
Over the past 30 or 40 years, the issue
also comes up, Madam Speaker, about
where HBCUs are going. Many of to-
day’s HBCUs have taken minorities
and international students from all
over the country, more so than some of
the majority institutions, and they
have done well. In the area of STEM
and technology, in science, we need
more and more people in STEM around
the country.
Where can they come from?
They come from HBCUs.
When you look at the number of
Ph.D. candidates and the number one
to get Ph.D.s in this country, where do
they come from?
They come from HBCUs.
I am really proud of the fact that
HBCUs, especially Florida A&M Uni-
versity, molded me into the leader that
I am today. It made me appreciate hard
work. I had the opportunity to have
professors that really cared about me
and a goal. So for some 30-some years
I have been a part of this leadership.
I applaud Congresswoman ADAMS for
all of her hard work and for bringing it
to the forefront. We stand here tonight
to send a message out there that we
are a part of America. We are part of
the American Dream, and we urge our
colleagues to support it.
Ms. ADAMS. Madam Speaker, I want
to thank the gentleman from Florida.
Madam Speaker, how much time is
remaining?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman has 10 minutes remaining.
Ms. ADAMS. Madam Speaker, I yield
to the gentlewoman from Pennsylvania
(Ms. SCANLON).
Ms. SCANLON. Madam Speaker, I am
honored to take part in this Special
Order hour tonight in which we honor
the Nation’s HBCUs and highlight our
support for the FUTURE Act.
My district, Pennsylvania’s fifth, is
home to the oldest HBCU in the United
States, Cheyney University. Founded
in 1837, Cheyney is also a charter mem-
ber of the Pennsylvania State System
of Higher Education. Cheyney is a his-
torical, cultural, and academic beacon
in our community, where it has long
provided academic and professional op-
portunities for students in Pennsyl-
vania and beyond. The university
boasts tens of thousands of loyal and
accomplished alumni who share their
diverse talents with the Nation.
Unfortunately, in recent years,
Cheyney has faced financial insta-
bility, and 3 years ago nearly lost its
accreditation. But last week there was
good news. Based on strong leadership
from Cheyney’s new president, Aaron
Walton, increased community and
alumni engagement and strong enroll-
ment numbers, Cheyney learned that
its accreditation had been renewed.
Moving forward, Cheyney is increas-
ing academic offerings and developing
innovative public-private partnerships
that will help students to graduate and
be ready to compete in the 21st cen-
tury.
I am extremely proud to represent
Cheyney and to testify to the impor-
tance of HBCUs across the United
States.
Lastly, I am also proud to be a new
member of the Congressional HBCU
Caucus led by my colleague, a fierce
supporter of these institutions, Rep-
resentative ALMA ADAMS.
Ms. ADAMS. Madam Speaker, I want
to thank the gentlewoman from Penn-
sylvania. I know Cheyney very well.
The gentlewoman is right. It was the
first university, and I want to con-
gratulate Cheyney on that accomplish-
ment.
When we talk about that, it should
not be funding that separates our stu-
dents in a way that they are not able
to get the education that they need.
We have had since 1873 18 HBCUs that
have closed. All of us who have gotten
together tonight and continue to work
this area don’t want to see another
school close, especially because of
money.
When you look back at those who
have had difficulty, it hasn’t been be-
cause the academics weren’t in order.
There are strong academic programs at
these colleges and universities, and we
want to continue that tradition. We
want not only these schools to survive
but to thrive. That is really important,
and that is where we need to go.
Having said that, I want to read a
couple of letters because they are very
important. They are from two of my
colleagues from the CBC.
The first is from EDDIE BERNICE
JOHNSON who has been very involved
with HBCUs well before I got here, and
I want to just thank her for her leader-
ship as well.
She writes, Madam Speaker:
Historically Black colleges and univer-
sities, HBCUs, have played an important role
in our Nation’s history. These places of high-
er education have given opportunities to
millions of young people to get a quality
post-secondary education. Many of these stu-
dents are the first in their family to attend
college.
I am proud to say that one of these institu-
tions, Paul Quinn College, is located within
my district.
Currently, the top priority for HBCUs is to
ensure that they have the resources needed
to prepare students for a competitive,
globalized workforce. The FUTURE Act,
which passed in this Chamber some time ago,
does exactly that. The bill reauthorizes crit-
ical funding for all minority-serving institu-
tions for the next 2 years.
Sadly, like most of the legislation that has
passed the House of Representatives this
Congress, the Senate refuses to do their job
and vote on this noncontroversial bipartisan
bill.
The College Affordability Act, which was
introduced in October, would go beyond what
the FUTURE Act does and provide HBCUs
more flexibility, so that they can strengthen
their endowments, academic quality, and in-
stitutional management.
The College Affordability Act also provides
States with incentives to lower the cost for
students to obtain a quality college edu-
cation by raising the maximum amount for
Pell grants and simplifying the student loan
repayment program.
These two bills are great examples of what
we should strive for to guarantee the best
outcome for students attending HBCUs and
other MSIs.
Madam Speaker, we need to make sure our
higher education system serves all the stu-
dents that hope to receive a degree. Histori-
cally Black colleges and universities, along
with other minority-serving institutions,
play a vital role for African Americans and
other minority students. We need to con-
tinue passing legislation that provides true
educational opportunities for those who de-
sire to learn and who are unable to afford it.
Madam Speaker, one of my col-
leagues from Ohio, Representative
MARCIA FUDGE, who is a former CBC
chair, states the following:
Madam Speaker, more than one-quarter of
all undergraduate students in the United
States attend historically Black colleges and
universities and other minority-serving in-
stitutions. These schools play a critical role
in unlocking higher education opportunities
for millions of degree seekers, including stu-
dents of color and low-income students of
which many are the first in their family to
attend college.
To protect these essential institutions
from the threat of closure and financial de-
spair, we must continue to provide them
with the resources they need to prepare stu-
dents for the modern economy.
Title III, part F of the Higher Education
Act authorizes important mandatory funding
for historically Black colleges and univer-
sities, Tribal colleges and universities, and
minority-serving institutions to educate and
prepare students for professions in the
sciences, technology, engineering, and math,
or STEM, fields.
Unfortunately, these critical sources of
funding expired on September 30, and this
lapse jeopardizes the viability of these insti-
tutions, as well as the STEM readiness of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:11 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03DE7.058 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9217
December 3, 2019
students they serve. At a time when diverse
representation is low in the STEM economy,
Congress must immediately restore manda-
tory funding to prevent permanent and irre-
versible damage to STEM programs at these
historical institutions that give students
from underserved communities an oppor-
tunity to rise above their circumstances.
On September 17, 2019, the House passed
the FUTURE Act, an extension of the $255
million in essential mandatory funding for
HBCUs and MSIs. Despite receiving unani-
mous support in the House, the bill has yet
to be considered by the Senate, and it was
not included in the continuing resolution
that passed in November.
So as Congress considers spending bills for
next year, we must restore this vital re-
source of funding that expands opportunities
for underrepresented students. It is past
time to uphold our promise to support these
historic institutions and the students they
serve.
Madam Speaker, I want to at this
point close with these comments.
First of all, I thank all of my col-
leagues for their comments tonight,
those who have stood up tonight for
our Nation’s 102 HBCUs, and MSIs.
b 2030
We are at a critical crossroads to-
night. We are in the midst of negoti-
ating a government spending agree-
ment that can confer over $500 million
to all HBCUs.
For too long, the schools have dedi-
cated themselves to the futures of low-
income, first-generation students of
color, like me, who have been ne-
glected by their government. Over the
last 50 years, this body has made
strides to correct that lack of invest-
ment and engagement, but none of
those strides came easy. They were
achieved in moments when many still
questioned the purpose of having
schools dedicated to that mission.
I have heard the question asked over
and over: Why do we need HBCUs? I
will say that my response is: What in
the world—and I use another word—
would we do without our HBCUs?
When we think about it, as has been
stated by several of my colleagues, our
schools were achieved in moments
when many still questioned the pur-
pose, when Federal and State invest-
ments in higher education are still con-
sistently under attack.
Our HBCUs, in particular, still suffer
from impacts of historical discrimina-
tion and underinvestment, low endow-
ments, outdated infrastructure, a lack
of opportunities for growth compared
to their PWI counterparts.
The House of Representatives ap-
proved $375 million for title III, part B,
the Strengthening HBCUs program last
summer, the first time this program
was appropriated at the authorization
limit. It approved $40 million of loan
authority for the HBCU Capital Fi-
nancing Program. It also passed the
FUTURE Act, which authorizes $85
million of mandatory funding for
HBCUs.
We illustrated our support for
HBCUs, and now we need to guarantee
that it is in the negotiations with the
Senate. We want to make sure, as I
said before, that our schools not only
survive but that they thrive. When we
fight for these programs, we show our
belief in the futures of low-income,
first-generation students of color.
Madam Speaker, I am proud that I
had a mother who stood up for me, in
spite of the fact that we didn’t have
the funds. There was an HBCU in North
Carolina that allowed me to come and
made that investment in me. I was able
to complete my bachelor’s and mas-
ter’s degrees there at North Carolina
A&T, and then, I was able to go on to
receive my Ph.D. from The Ohio State
University only because of the North
Carolina A&T.
Madam Speaker, let’s not give up the
fight now. We are going to continue to
do it. I thank all of my colleagues,
again, for being here tonight.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
SUPPORTING HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES
AND UNIVERSITIES (HBCUS) AND SUPPORT OF
FOSTERING UNDERGRADUATE TALENT BY
UNLOCKING RESOURCES FOR EDUCATION (FU-
TURE) ACT
Mr. CARSON of Indiana. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to join my colleagues to underscore
the need for Congress to support continued
funding for Historically Black Colleges and
Universities (HBCUs) and Minority Serving In-
stitutions (MSIs). I was honored to support the
Fostering Undergraduate Talent by Unlocking
Resources for Education (FUTURE) Act when
the House passed this legislation unanimously
in September of this year. The FUTURE Act
would provide $255 million for Minority-Serving
Institutions, including Historically Black Col-
leges and Universities (HBCUs), Tribal Col-
leges and Universities (TCU), Hispanic-Serv-
ing Institutions (HSIs), Asian American and
Native American Pacific Islander-Serving Insti-
tutions (AANAPISIs), and Predominantly Black
Institutions (PBIs). Unfortunately, despite the
unanimous bipartisan support for this bill here
in the House, my colleagues in the Senate
have blocked this legislation from consider-
ation. This is unacceptable. HBCUs, and all
MSIs, deserve our continued support and
should not be treated as a political football.
Since 1837, HBCUs have trained genera-
tions of African American students and schol-
ars. The economic benefits of HBCUs extend
beyond the students they educate. They’re
equally important to the local and regional
economies served by these institutions.
Today, there are nearly 300,000 future sci-
entists, teachers, entrepreneurs and research-
ers preparing for their professional endeavors
at more than 100 HBCUs throughout the
country. HBCUs account for 17 percent of all
bachelor’s degrees earned by African Ameri-
cans and 24 percent of the degrees earned by
African Americans in the STEM fields. HBCUs
have an inspiring past and a dynamic present
in their unique role of raising up new aca-
demic leaders against the legacy of Jim Crow
and decades of persistent and systemic rac-
ism. Annually, HBCUs support 134,000 jobs
and provide $14.8 billion in economic output.
The amazing work done at these schools
has also been supported by investments
through the Department of Defense, which has
helped HBCUs contribute some of the most
cutting-edge defense and national security re-
search in the country. To advance these ef-
forts, I introduced an appropriations amend-
ment in the House that would increase the
funding level to HBCUs by $4 million above
current levels. My amendment, which passed
the House on June 19, 2019, the 154th anni-
versary of Juneteenth, will increase the De-
partment of Defense’s investments in the
physical sciences, mathematics and engineer-
ing programs at HBCUs and the national se-
curity benefits they provide.
As my House colleagues and I continue to
urge the Senate to pass the FUTURE Act and
my amendment to increase HBCU funding, I
will continue to champion our nation’s invest-
ments in HBCUs as a critical part of enriching
our culture and economy. When HBCUs suc-
ceed, America succeeds.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Madam Speaker,
historically Black Colleges and Universities
(HBCU’s) have played an important role in our
nation’s history. These places of higher edu-
cation have given opportunities to millions of
young people to get a quality postsecondary
education. Many of these students are the first
in their family to attend college. I am proud to
say that one of these institutions, Paul Quinn
College, is located within my district.
Currently, the top priority for HBCU’s is to
ensure they have the resources needed to
prepare students for a competitive, globalized
workforce. The FUTURE Act, which passed in
this chamber some time ago, does exactly
that. The bill reauthorizes critical funding for all
Minority Serving Institutions (MSI’s) for the
next two years. Sadly, like most of the legisla-
tion that has passed the House of Represent-
atives this Congress, the Senate refuses to do
their job and vote on this noncontroversial bi-
partisan bill.
The College Affordability Act, which was in-
troduced in October, would go beyond what
the FUTURE Act does and provides HBCU’s
more flexibility so that they can strengthen
their endowments, academic quality, and insti-
tutional management. The College Affordability
Act also provides states with incentives to
lower the cost for students to obtain a quality
college education by raising the maximum
amount for Pell Grants and simplifying the stu-
dent loan repayment program. These two bills
are great examples of what we should strive
for to guarantee the best outcome for students
attending HBCU’s and other MSI’s.
Madam Speaker, We need to make sure
our higher education system serves all the
students that hope to receive a degree. His-
torically Black Colleges and Universities along
with other Minority Serving institutions play a
vital role for African Americans and other mi-
nority students. We need to continue passing
legislation that provides true educational op-
portunities for those who desire to learn and
are unable to afford it.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, I join
my colleagues in the Congressional Black
Caucus to celebrate and recognize the impor-
tance of educational opportunities that HBCU
institutions create for thousands of young men
and women from all walks of life.
I am a member of the Bipartisan Congres-
sional HBCU Caucus because it promotes and
protects the interest of HBCUs by: creating a
national dialogue, educating Members of Con-
gress and their staffs about the issues impact-
ing HBCUs, drafting meaningful bipartisan leg-
islation to address the needs of HBCUs, and
supporting students and graduates of HBCUs
by increasing access and career opportunities.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:41 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K03DE7.059 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9218 December 3, 2019
One important solution must be access to
affordable 7 quality education for every person
in this nation.
I am proud to count Texas Southern Univer-
sity as a constituent, a great HBCU—located
in my home city of Houston.
I routinely partner with Texas Southern Uni-
versity to promote education opportunities and
collaborate on community projects routinely.
In the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey, I led
the initiative to get financial aid relief for the
students and campus of Texas Southern Uni-
versity in the amount of $13 plus million dol-
lars.
I continue to keep the university community
informed about major issues impacting citizens
of my city of Houston, Texas.
Issues like Health Care, Economic Develop-
ment, Education, and Social Security are of
great importance to TSU academic programs.
I initiated the digitization projects for former
U.S. Members of Congress Barbara Jordan
and Mickey Leland who both have permanent
archives at Texas Southern University.
I also assisted with the establishment of
several scholarship Endowments at Texas
Southern University.
I helped create a partnership with Comcast
at TSU’s School of Communication, which of-
fers scholarships, internships and in-kind mar-
keting.
I helped establish the Center for Transpor-
tation, Training and Research in TSU’s Col-
lege of Science, Engineering, and Technology.
On September 17, 2019, the House passed
House H.R. 2486, the Fostering Under-
graduate Talent Using Resources for Edu-
cation (FUTURE) Act, which I cosponsored
and supported.
Title III, Part F of the Higher Education Act
(HEA) provides funding to HBCUs, HSIs,
TCUs, and MSIs to improve their self-suffi-
ciency and strengthen their ability to serve
low-income students, particularly in the
Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathe-
matics (STEM) professions.
These funds advance these institutions’ aca-
demic quality and fiscal stability.
Unfortunately, funding for these institutions,
as authorized by the HEA expired on Sep-
tember 30, 2019.
It is crucial that these funds do not lapse.
H.R 2486, the FUTURE Act, ensures that
this will not happen.
Under the FUTURE Act, HBCUs, HSIs,
TCUs, and MSIs will continue to receive $255
million for the next two years.
Without this funding, these institutions will
suffer, particularly smaller institutions that will
have to lay off staff and faculty and possibly
face imminent danger of closure.
Additionally, H.R. 2486 is completely paid
for by eliminating Account Maintenance Fees,
a proposal supported by Democrats, Repub-
licans and the White House.
It is time that the Senate takes up this im-
portant bill and pass it so that HBCUs can
continue to do the important work of educating
the next generation.
HBCUs are more than just places of higher
learning that are part of the nation’s economy
by contributing 15 billion dollars to the national
economy annually.
HBCUs provide pathways of opportunity for
millions of Americans, many of whom are first
generation college students.
This underscores the need for the govern-
ment to engage with HBCUs and other MSIs,
and ensure these schools have the resources
they need—after a legacy of discrimination
and neglect.
The Fostering Undergraduate Talent by
Unlocking Resources for Education (FUTURE)
Act reauthorizes crucial mandatory funding for
HBCUs and all Minority-Serving Institutions
(MSIs) for the next two fiscal years; $255 mil-
lion a year, in total.
Sustaining these funds is critical to sup-
porting HBCUs and the students they serve.
The FUTURE Act is intended to prepare
HBCU students for careers in STEM profes-
sions—at a time when diverse representation
is low in the STEM economy.
Additionally, without this funding, small
schools with small endowments will have to
lay off staff and faculty in order to stay afloat;
other schools will face imminent danger of clo-
sure.
This bill represents the number one priority
of all HBCUs in the country.
This bill passed the House by a unanimous
vote on September 17, 2019 but is being held
up by the Senate due to the objections of
Senator LAMAR ALEXANDER of Tennessee, the
Chairman of the Senate Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee.
Senator ALEXANDER has claimed he has a
bill that will permanently reauthorize FUTURE
Act funds.
He did not offer his bill until FUTURE
passed the House of Representatives.
The Senate has failed to come to an agree-
ment on comprehensive reauthorization of the
Higher Education Act (HEA).
In contrast, the House Education and Labor
Committee has advanced the College Afford-
ability Act, which will incentivize states to
lower the cost of college tuition, strengthen
federal financial aid programs, and simplify in-
come-based repayment plans for student loan
holders.
The HEA contains all the federal programs
that provide a pathway for low-income, first
generation students into college.
Senator ALEXANDER’s bill in total is a micro-
version of HEA reauthorization that does very
little to reduce the cost of college or address
rising student loan debt.
For example, Senator ALEXANDER’s bill
would raise the maximum Pell Grant award by
$20—and not index the award to inflation.
Currently, the maximum Pell Grant award is
$6,195.
The average tuition at a public college is ap-
proximately $15,000.
The purchasing power of the Pell Grant has
decreased by 70 percent since 1979.
Senator ALEXANDER has packed his bill with
a lot of other priorities because he’s attempt-
ing to leverage the fate of 4 million students
of color to create a legacy for himself.
Senator ALEXANDER has also said he does
not like the way the FUTURE Act is paid for.
The bill is paid for with the elimination of Ac-
count Maintenance Fees paid to Guaranty
Agencies; an offset that is supported by
Democrats and Republicans in Congress, as
well as the White House.
Given the significantly pared back services
provided by guaranty agencies, and their abil-
ity to generate significant fee income through
debt collection activities, this funding is no
longer needed.
Guaranty Agencies generate around $4 bil-
lion in annual revenue.
They can fulfill their mission without these
funds.
Finally, Senator ALEXANDER and the Depart-
ment of Education has claimed they have
funds to continue awarding grants through the
end of Fiscal Year 2020.
But that’s only true because the Department
has failed to award all Fiscal Year 2019 fund-
ing.
In any case, institutions of higher learning
need to budget at least a year in advance—
without certainty, staff layoffs and a paring
back of services will accelerate.
On September 14, 1927, the Houston Public
School Board agreed to fund the development
of two junior colleges: one for whites and one
for African-Americans.
On September 14, 1927, the Houston Public
School Board provided $2,800 in seed capital
to form a Junior College for African American
students.
The initial enrollment for the first summer
was 300 students.
On June 1, 1951, the name of the school
was changed from Texas State University for
Negroes to Texas Southern University after
students petitioned the state legislature to re-
move the phrase ‘‘for Negroes.’’
When the university opened its doors in
September 1947, it had 2,300 students, two
schools, one division and one college—the
Law School, the Pharmacy School, the Voca-
tional Division, and the College of Arts and
Sciences.
In 1973, the 63rd Legislature designated
Texas Southern University as a ‘‘special pur-
pose’’ institution for urban programming, which
added four more academic units: the College
of Education, the School of Public Affairs, the
School of Communications and the Weekend
College.
Today, Texas Southern University offers
bachelor’s, master’s and doctoral degree pro-
grams in the following academic colleges and
schools: the College of Liberal Arts and Be-
havioral Sciences; the College of Pharmacy
and Health Sciences; the College of Science
and Technology; the College of Education; the
Barbara Jordan-Mickey Leland School of Pub-
lic Affairs; the School of Communication; the
Thurgood Marshall School of Law; the Jesse
H. Jones School of Business; the Thomas
Freeman Honors College; and the College of
Continuing Education and the Graduate
School.
Currently, Texas Southern University is
staffed by approximately 1,000 faculty mem-
bers and support personnel.
HBCU’s have come a long way to be where
they are today.
The most significant milestone for HBCU’s
was the 1954 Supreme Court decision in
Brown v. The Board of Education.
Howard University School of Law graduates
successfully argued against the constitu-
tionality of ‘‘separate but equal,’’ opening the
door for greater access to resources for insti-
tutions dedicated to education was a critical
step forward.
However, it was not until the passage of the
Civil Rights Act of 1964, that the federal gov-
ernment had the capacity and focus to enforce
desegregation.
On the 50th Anniversary of Rev. Martin Lu-
ther King’s ‘‘I have a Dream’’ speech given at
the steps of the Lincoln Memorial were we
able to understand the long road to freedom.
In that speech Dr. King spoke of a world
where race would mean much less than the
content of a person’s character.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:11 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A03DE7.038 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9219
December 3, 2019
Martin Luther King said, ‘‘The function of
education is to teach one to think intensively
and to think critically. Intelligence plus char-
acter—that is the goal of true education.’’
HBCUs do not just educate—they build
character.
The Bipartisan Congressional HBCU Cau-
cus will create and explore legislation that will
increase support for HBCUs, such as the
Higher Education Act, America COMPETES,
and Appropriations.
The Bipartisan Congressional HBCU Cau-
cus will also work to connect HBCUs to fund-
ing opportunities that ensure schools have the
resources needed to educate and prepare stu-
dents for the global workforce.
My focus in joining with my colleagues this
evening for this special order is to support and
continue my work with Texas Southern Univer-
sity and other HBCUs by: finding growth op-
portunities for HBCU students and graduates;
working with private industry to connect stu-
dents to jobs, internships, and scholarships;
and opening up doors to HBCU students inter-
ested in coming to Capitol Hill.
Each Congressional Black Caucus member
works to expose HBCU students to global ex-
periences to learn about other cultures.
My office worked to assist students in my
district in going on a trip to China—for many
it was their first travel outside of the state of
Texas.
That one experience transformed their
lives—by expanding their horizon from being
local to global.
f
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
By unanimous consent, leave of ab-
sence was granted to:
Mr. GRIFFITH (at the request of Mr.
MCCARTHY) for today on account of
family matters.
f
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
Cheryl L. Johnson, Clerk of the
House, reported and found truly en-
rolled bills of the House of the fol-
lowing titles, which were thereupon
signed by the Speaker pro tempore, Mr.
BEYER:
H.R. 887. An act to designate the facility of
the United Postal Service located at 877 East
1200 South in Orem, Utah, as the ‘‘Jerry C.
Washburn Post Office Building’’.
H.R. 1252. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 6531 Van Nuys Boulevard in Van Nuys,
California, as the ‘‘Marilyn Monroe Post Of-
fice’’.
H.R. 1253. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 13507 Van Nuys Boulevard in Pacoima,
California, as the ‘‘Ritchie Valens Post Of-
fice Building’’.
H.R. 1526. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 200 Israel Road Southeast in Tumwater,
Washington, as the ‘‘Eva G. Hewitt Post Of-
fice’’.
H.R. 1844. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 66 Grove Court in Elgin, Illinois, as the
‘‘Corporal Alex Martinez Memorial Post Of-
fice Building’’.
H.R. 1972. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 1100 West Kent Avenue in Missoula, Mon-
tana, as the ‘‘Jeannette Rankin Post Office
Building’’.
H.R. 2151. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 7722 South Main Street in Pine Plains,
New York, as the ‘‘Senior Chief Petty Officer
Shannon M. Kent Post Office’’.
H.R. 2325. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 100 Calle Alondra in San Juan, Puerto
Rico, as the ‘‘65th Infantry Regiment Post
Office Building’’.
H.R. 2334. An act to designate the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs community-based
outpatient clinic in Odessa, Texas, as the
‘‘Wilson and Young Medal of Honor VA Clin-
ic’’.
H.R. 2451. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 575 Dexter Street in Central Falls, Rhode
Island, as the ‘‘Elizabeth Buffum Chace Post
Office’’.
H.R. 3144. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 8520 Michigan Avenue in Whittier, Cali-
fornia, as the ‘‘Jose Ramos Post Office Build-
ing’’.
H.R. 3314. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 1750 McCulloch Boulevard North in Lake
Havasu City, Arizona, as the ‘‘Lake Havasu
City Combat Veterans Memorial Post Office
Building’’.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Ms. ADAMS. Madam Speaker, I move
that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 8 o’clock and 32 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow,
Wednesday, December 4, 2019, at 10 a.m.
for morning-hour debate.
h
BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF PAYGO LEGISLATION
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YARMUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote on
passage, for printing in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 565, the AMIGOS Act, as amended, would have no significant
effect on the deficit, and therefore, the budgetary effects of such bill are estimated as zero.
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YARMUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote on
passage, the attached estimate of the costs of H.R. 4018, to provide that the amount of time that an elderly offender must
serve before being eligible for placement in home detention is to be reduced by the amount of good time credits earned
by the prisoner, and for other purposes, as amended, for printing in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD.
ESTIMATE OF PAY-AS-YOU-GO EFFECTS FOR H.R. 4018
By fiscal year, in millions of dollars—
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029
2020–
2024
2020–
2029
Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Impact ............................................................................................................................................................................ 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 2 3 6 17
Components may not sum to totals because of rounding
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YARMUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote on
passage, for printing in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 4803, the Citizenship for Children of Military Members and
Civil Servants Act, as amended, would have no significant effect on the deficit, and therefore, the budgetary effects of
such bill are estimated as zero.
h
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
3127. A letter from the Congressional Re-
view Coordinator, Animal and Plant Health
Inspection Service, Department of Agri-
culture, transmitting the Department’s final
rule — Swine Health Protection Act; Amend-
ments to Garbage Feeding Regulations
[Docket No.: APHIS-2018-0067] (RIN: 0579-
AE50) received November 25, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Agriculture.
3128. A letter from the Program Specialist,
Chief Counsel’s Office, Office of the Comp-
troller of the Currency, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Other Real Estate Owned and
Technical Amendments [Docket ID: OCC-
2019-0004] (RIN: 1557-AE50) received Novem-
ber 22, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Financial Services.
3129. A letter from the Director, Office of
Legislative Affairs, Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Corporation, transmitting the Corpora-
tion’s final rule — Prohibitions and Restric-
tions on Proprietary Trading and Certain In-
terests in, and Relationships With, Hedge
Funds and Private Equity Funds (RIN: 3064-
AE67) received November 22, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:41 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03DE7.040 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9220 December 3, 2019
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Financial Services.
3130. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Education, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final priority — Final Priority for
Discretionary Grant Programs [Docket ID:
ED-2019-OPEPD-0019] (RIN: 1875-AA12) re-
ceived November 22, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
3131. A letter from the Division Director,
Division of Policy, Legislation, and Regula-
tion, Employment and Training Administra-
tion, Department of Labor, transmitting the
Department’s final rule — Procurement
Roles and Responsibilities for Job Corps Con-
tracts (RIN: 1205-AB96) received November
25, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Education and Labor.
3132. A letter from the Regulations Coordi-
nator, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Service, Department of Health and Human
Services, transmitting the Agency’s interim
final rule — Medicaid Program; Covered Out-
patient Drug; Further Delay of Inclusion of
Territories in Definitions of States and
United States [CMS-2345-IFC3] (RIN: 0938-
AT09) received November 22, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
3133. A letter from the Assistant Secretary
for Legislative Affairs, Department of Home-
land Security, transmitting a legislative
proposal, To provide for utility incentives
that the Department of Homeland Security
may receive, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
3134. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Increasing Recycling: Add-
ing Aerosol Cans to the Universal Waste
Regulations [EPA-HQ-OLEM-2017-0463; FRL-
10002-49-OLEM] (RIN: 2050-AG92) received No-
vember 22, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
3135. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Designation of Areas for Air
Quality Planning Purposes; Ohio; Redesigna-
tion of the Ohio Portion of the Steubenville
Sulfur Dioxide Nonattainment Area [EPA-
R05-OAR-2019-0394; FRL-10002-56-Region 5] re-
ceived November 22, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
3136. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — North Dakota: Codification
and Incorporation by Reference of Approved
State Underground Storage Tank Program
[EPA-R08-UST-2018-0728; FRL-10000-51-Region
8] received November 22, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
3137. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Air Plan Approval; Con-
necticut; Regional Haze Five Year Progress
Report [EPA-R01-OAR-2019-0348; FRL-10002-
42-Region 1] received November 22, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce.
3138. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Air Plan Approval;
Vermont; Reasonably Available Control
Technology for the 2008 and 2015 Ozone
Standards [EPA-R01-OAR-2019-0221; FRL-
10002-16-Region 1] received November 22, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
3139. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Clothianidin; Pesticide Tol-
erances [EPA-HQ-OPP-2008-0771; FRL-10000-
64] received November 22, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
3140. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Cyflumetofen; Pesticide
Tolerances [EPA-HQ-OPP-2018-0636; FRL-
9996-61] received November 22, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
3141. A letter from the Director, Regula-
tions Policy and Management Staff, Food
and Drug Administration, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting
the Department’s final rule — Food Label-
ing: Calorie Labeling of Articles of Food
Sold From Certain Vending Machines; Front
of Package Type Size [Docket No.: FDA-2011-
F-0171] (RIN: 0910-AH83) received November
22, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
3142. A letter from the Director, Office of
Congressional Affairs, Office of Nuclear Ma-
terial Safety and Safeguards, Nuclear Regu-
latory Commission, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Miscellaneous Correc-
tions [NRC-2019-0128] (RIN: 3150-AK34) re-
ceived November 22, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
3143. A letter from the Chair, Board of Gov-
ernors of the Federal Reserve System, trans-
mitting the Board’s Office of Inspector Gen-
eral Semiannual Report to Congress, cov-
ering the six-month period ending September
30, 2019; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
3144. A letter from the Chairman, Board of
Governors, United States Postal Service,
transmitting the Service’s Office of Inspec-
tor General Semiannual Report to Congress,
for the period April 1, 2019, through Sep-
tember 30, 2019, pursuant to Public Law 95-
452 and Public Law 100-504; to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
3145. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Education, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s Office of Inspector General Semi-
annual Report to Congress on Audit Follow-
up, covering the six-month period ending
September 30, 2019, pursuant to the Inspector
General Act, as amended, Sec. 5(b); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
3146. A letter from the Treasurer, National
Gallery of Art, transmitting the Gallery’s
Performance and Accountability Report for
the year ended September 30, 2109 which in-
cludes consolidated financial statements,
federal financial statements (as supple-
mentary schedules) and auditor’s report,
pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3515(a)(1); Public Law
101-576, Sec. 303(a)(1) (as amended by Public
Law 107-289, Sec. 2(a)); (116 Stat. 2049); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
3147. A letter from the Chairman, and the
General Counsel, National Labor Relations
Board, transmitting the Board’s Office of In-
spector General Semiannual Report to Con-
gress covering the period of April 1, 2019,
through September 30, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
3148. A letter from the Senior Procurement
Executive, Office of Acquisition Policy, Gen-
eral Services Administration, transmitting
the Administration’s Small Entity Compli-
ance Guide — Federal Acquisition Regula-
tion; Federal Acquisition Circular 2020-02
[Docket No.: FAR-2019-0001, Sequence No. 7]
received November 22, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
3149. A letter from the Senior Procurement
Executive, Office of Acquisition Policy, Gen-
eral Services Administration, transmitting
the Administration’s final rule — Federal
Acquisition Regulation; Reporting of Non-
conforming Items to the Government-Indus-
try Data Exchange Program [FAC: 2020-02,
FAR Case 2013-002; Docket No.: FAR-2013-
0002, Sequence No.: 1] (RIN: 9000-AM58) re-
ceived November 22, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
3150. A letter from the Chairman, Railroad
Retirement Board, transmitting the Board’s
Office of the Inspector General Semiannual
Report to the Congress, for the period April
1, 2019 — September 30, 2019, pursuant to
Public Law 95-425, as amended; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
3151. A letter from the Director, Office of
Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration, trans-
mitting the Administration’s notification of
quota transfer — Fisheries of the North-
eastern United States; Summer Flounder
Fishery; Quota Transfer From NC to RI and
VA [RTID: 0648-XX020] received November 22,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
3152. A letter from the Director, Office of
Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration, trans-
mitting the Administration’s modification of
fishing seasons — Fisheries Off West Coast
States; Modifications of the West Coast Rec-
reational and Commercial Salmon Fisheries;
Inseason Actions #6 Through #27 [Docket
No.: 180702602-9400-01] (RIN: 0648-XW007) re-
ceived November 22, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
3153. A letter from the Director, Office of
Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration, trans-
mitting the Administration’s final rule —
Magnuson-Stevens Act Provisions; Fisheries
Off West Coast States; Pacific Coast Ground-
fish Fishery; 2019-2020 Biennial Specifica-
tions and Management Measures; Inseason
Adjustments [Docket No.: 180625576-8999-02]
(RIN: 0648-BJ36) received November 22, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
3154. A letter from the Secretary, Federal
Maritime Commission, transmitting the
Commission’s final rule — Licensing, Reg-
istration, Financial Responsibility Require-
ments, and General Duties for Ocean Trans-
portation Intermediaries [Docket No.: 18-11]
(RIN: 3072-AC73) received November 25, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
3155. A letter from the Administrators,
Federal Transit Administration, Federal
Highway Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the 23rd edi-
tion of the biennial ‘‘Status of the Nation’s
Highways, Bridges and Transit: Conditions
and Performance’’ Report to Congress, pur-
suant to 23 U.S.C. 167(h); Public Law 112-141,
Sec. 1115(a) (as amended by Public Law 114-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:11 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L03DE7.000 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9221
December 3, 2019
94, Sec. 1116(a)); (129 Stat. 1353); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
3156. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting the Service’s final
regulations — Estate and Gift Taxes; Dif-
ference in the Basic Exclusion Amount [TC
9884] (RIN: 1545-BO72) received November 26,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
3157. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s IRB only
rule — Guidance to Qualified States Request-
ing Allocations of Unused Low-Income Hous-
ing Credit Carryovers (Rev. Proc.: 2019-45) re-
ceived November 26, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi: Committee
on Homeland Security. H.R. 4739. A bill to
amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to
protect U.S. Customs and Border Protection
officers, agents, other personnel, and canines
against potential synthetic opioid exposure,
and for other purposes (Rept. 116–318, Pt. 1).
Referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi: Committee
on Homeland Security. H.R. 4761. A bill to
ensure U.S. Customs and Border Protection
officers, agents, and other personnel have
adequate synthetic opioid detection equip-
ment, that the Department of Homeland Se-
curity has a process to update synthetic
opioid detection capability, and for other
purposes (Rept. 116–319, Pt. 1). Referred to
the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union.
Mr. PERLMUTTER: Committee on Rules.
House Resolution 739. A resolution providing
for consideration of the bill (H.R. 2534) to
amend the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to
prohibit certain securities trading and re-
lated communications by those who possess
material, nonpublic information, and relat-
ing to consideration of the concurrent reso-
lution (H. Con. Res. 77) directing the Presi-
dent pursuant to section 5(c) of the War Pow-
ers Resolution to remove United States
Armed Forces from hostilities in the Syrian
Arab Republic that have not been authorized
by Congress (Rept. 116–320). Referred to the
House Calendar.
Mr. GRIJALVA: Committee on Natural Re-
sources. H.R. 2185. A bill to amend the Coast-
al Zone Management Act of 1972 to allow the
District of Columbia to receive Federal fund-
ing under such Act, and for other purposes
(Rept. 116–321). Referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the Union.
DISCHARGE OF COMMITTEE
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committee on Ways and Means dis-
charged from further consideration.
H.R. 4739 referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the
Union.
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committee on Ways and Means dis-
charged from further consideration.
H.R. 4761 referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the
Union.
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Ms. LOFGREN (for herself and Mr.
RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois):
H.R. 5277. A bill to amend section 442 of
title 18, United States Code, to exempt cer-
tain interests in mutual funds, unit invest-
ment trusts, employee benefit plans, and re-
tirement plans from conflict of interest limi-
tations for the Government Publishing Of-
fice; to the Committee on the Judiciary. con-
sidered and passed.
By Mr. BERGMAN (for himself and
Miss RICE of New York):
H.R. 5278. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to extend the period under
which an election must be made for entitle-
ment to educational assistance under the
All-Volunteer Educational Assistance Pro-
gram of Department of Veterans Affairs, to
phase out the use of such program, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on the Budget, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. PALLONE:
H.R. 5279. A bill to amend the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to improve
cosmetic safety, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma
(for herself and Mr. COLE):
H.R. 5280. A bill to establish the Native
American Outreach Program of the Small
Business Administration, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Small Business.
By Mr. CARTER of Georgia (for him-
self and Mr. CÁRDENAS):
H.R. 5281. A bill to amend title XIX of the
Social Security Act to improve transparency
and prevent the use of abusive spread pricing
and related practices in the Medicaid pro-
gram; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce.
By Mr. CISNEROS (for himself, Ms.
ESCOBAR, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr.
GALLEGO, and Mr. CROW):
H.R. 5282. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to require the Secretary
of Homeland Security to parole into the
United States certain relatives of current
and former members of the Armed Forces,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Ms. FUDGE:
H.R. 5283. A bill to amend the Richard B.
Russell National School Lunch Act to im-
prove direct certification, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Education and
Labor.
By Mr. KHANNA (for himself, Mr. KIM,
Mr. WALTZ, and Mr. COOK):
H.R. 5284. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to authorize State approving
agencies to carry out outreach activities; to
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. KIND (for himself and Mr. ROD-
NEY DAVIS of Illinois):
H.R. 5285. A bill to provide competitive
grants for training court reporters and
closed captioners to meet requirements for
realtime writers under the Communications
Act of 1934, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI:
H.R. 5286. A bill to amend the Elementary
and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to es-
tablish a grant program that will support ef-
forts at the State level to establish anti-bul-
lying task forces to study, address, and re-
duce bullying in elementary and secondary
schools, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. LAWSON of Florida:
H.R. 5287. A bill to amend the Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act to prohibit debt col-
lectors from collecting on certain Federal
student loan debt when the borrower would
not be required to make payments under an
income-driven repayment plan, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Financial
Services, and in addition to the Committees
on the Judiciary, and Education and Labor,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. LUETKEMEYER:
H.R. 5288. A bill to amend the Water Re-
sources Development Act of 1999 to direct
the Secretary of the Army to develop a plan
to address water resource problems in the
Upper Mississippi River Basin, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. MARSHALL (for himself, Mr.
GAETZ, Mr. YOUNG, Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT
of Georgia, Mr. STEUBE, Mr. BUDD,
Mr. DUNCAN, Mr. NEWHOUSE, Mr.
WATKINS, Mr. BABIN, Mr. GOSAR, Mr.
MULLIN, Mr. YOHO, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr.
GRIFFITH, Mr. HICE of Georgia, and
Mr. ESTES):
H.R. 5289. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to remove short-barreled
rifles from the definition of firearms for pur-
poses of the National Firearms Act, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Ways
and Means, and in addition to the Committee
on the Judiciary, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 5290. A bill to provide that, for pur-
poses of certain Federal privacy laws, agen-
cies of the District of Columbia are treated
as Federal agencies, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Oversight and Reform,
and in addition to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. VAN DREW (for himself, Ms.
MATSUI, and Mr. HORSFORD):
H.R. 5291. A bill to amend the Patient Pro-
tection and Affordable Care Act to require
the Secretary of Health and Human Services
to set forth a method of determining annual
updates to premium tax credit eligibility
and maximum out-of-pocket limits; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mrs. WAGNER (for herself and Mr.
BROWN of Maryland):
H.R. 5292. A bill to require the Secretary of
Transportation to establish a policy with re-
spect to family seating on air transpor-
tation, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
By Mr. WALKER (for himself, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mr. POSEY, Mr. TIPTON, Mr.
MEADOWS, and Mr. MOONEY of West
Virginia):
H.R. 5293. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow above-the-line de-
ductions for charitable contributions for in-
dividuals not itemizing deductions; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana:
H. Res. 736. A resolution amending the
Rules of the House of Representatives to pro-
hibit Members from voting ‘‘present’’ on any
question on which a record vote is taken; to
the Committee on Rules.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:11 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L03DE7.000 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9222 December 3, 2019
By Mr. O’HALLERAN (for himself,
Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr.
GALLEGO, Mr. STANTON, Ms.
HAALAND, Ms. TORRES SMALL of New
Mexico, and Mr. LUJÁN):
H. Res. 737. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives regard-
ing the efforts of the Federal Government to
address the public health and environmental
crisis on the Navajo Nation caused by aban-
doned uranium mines; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce, and in addition to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Ms. TITUS (for herself, Mr. COSTA,
Ms. WILD, Mr. YOUNG, Ms. HAALAND,
Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Ms. NORTON,
and Mr. CICILLINE):
H. Res. 738. A resolution recognizing the
goals and ideals of International Day of Per-
sons with Disabilities; to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. FOSTER (for himself, Ms. STE-
VENS, Mr. TAKANO, Mr. RYAN, Mr.
LIPINSKI, and Mr. BROOKS of Ala-
bama):
H. Res. 740. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of December 3, 2019, as
the ‘‘National Day of 3D Printing’’; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Ms. LOFGREN:
H.R. 5277.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. BERGMAN:
H.R. 5278.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Mr. PALLONE:
H.R. 5279.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3: To regulate
commerce with foreign nations, and among
the several states, and with the Indian
tribes;
By Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa:
H.R. 5280.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S.C.A. Const. Art. I § 8, cl. 3
By Mr. CARTER of Georgia:
H.R. 5281.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. CISNEROS:
H.R. 5282.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Ms. FUDGE:
H.R. 5283.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
The Congress shall have Power *** To regu-
late Commerce with foreign Nations, and
among the several States, and with the In-
dian Tribes.
By Mr. KHANNA:
H.R. 5284.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution
gives Congress the power to make laws that
are necessary and proper to carry out its
enumerated powers.
By Mr. KIND:
H.R. 5285.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI:
H.R. 5286.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. LAWSON of Florida:
H.R. 5287.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8: To make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or in any Department or Officer thereof’’.
By Mr. LUETKEMEYER:
H.R. 5288.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution, specifically Clause 3 (related
to regulation of Commerce with foreign Na-
tions, and among the several States, and
with Indian tribes) and Clause 18 (relating to
the power to make all laws necessary and
proper for carrying out the powers vested in
Congress).
By Mr. MARSHALL:
H.R. 5289.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 , Section 8
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 5290.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
clause 17 of section 8 of article I of the
Constitution.
By Mr. VAN DREW:
H.R. 5291.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8
By Mrs. WAGNER:
H.R. 5292.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 3 of Section 8 of Article I
By Mr. WALKER:
H.R. 5293.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1 of the United
States Constitution
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 3: Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 20: Mr. KING of Iowa, Mr. BOST, and
Mr. BURGESS.
H.R. 141: Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr.
MORELLE, and Mr. VEASEY.
H.R. 218: Mr. WILLIAMS and Mr. STEWART.
H.R. 307: Mr. COOPER, Mr. TED LIEU of Cali-
fornia, Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma,
and Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 336: Mr. BURGESS.
H.R. 372: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 463: Mr. KIM.
H.R. 517: Mr. BOST.
H.R. 565: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 649: Mr. GARAMENDI and Mr. RUPPERS-
BERGER.
H.R. 662: Mr. BALDERSON and Mr. PANETTA.
H.R. 712: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi.
H.R. 716: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 727: Mrs. HAYES and Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 784: Mr. BOST.
H.R. 852: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 873: Mr. DEFAZIO.
H.R. 877: Mr. PETERSON and Mr.
FLEISCHMANN.
H.R. 884: Mr. LONG.
H.R. 912: Mr. DELGADO, Ms. SPANBERGER,
Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr. SCHIFF, Mrs. AXNE, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, Ms. ADAMS, Mrs. LEE of
Nevada, Mr. WELCH, Mr. LYNCH, Ms.
HOULAHAN, Ms. WEXTON, Ms. SCHRIER, Mr.
CROW, and Mr. RUPPERSBERGER.
H.R. 924: Ms. HAALAND, Mr. ROUDA, Mr.
CASE, Mr. TED LIEU of California, Mrs. LEE of
Nevada, and Mr. THOMPSON of California.
H.R. 934: Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas.
H.R. 935: Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas.
H.R. 1011: Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 1043: Mr. WILLIAMS and Mr. LUETKE-
MEYER.
H.R. 1049: Mr. CUELLAR, Mr. BEYER, Mr.
CRIST, Mr. CARBAJAL, and Mr. SMITH of
Washington.
H.R. 1073: Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 1109: Mr. LEVIN of California.
H.R. 1161: Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H.R. 1166: Mr. STEIL.
H.R. 1228: Ms. STEVENS.
H.R. 1254: Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
H.R. 1345: Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 1374: Mr. GUEST.
H.R. 1379: Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 1407: Mr. MCCLINTOCK, Mr. THOMPSON
of California, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. KEATING,
Ms. ADAMS, and Mrs. TRAHAN.
H.R. 1450: Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr. LEVIN of
California, Mr. SCHRADER, Mr. LOEBSACK, Mr.
CASTRO of Texas, and Mr. JEFFRIES.
H.R. 1572: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 1588: Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 1597: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr. BRIN-
DISI, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr. BROWN of
Maryland, and Ms. STEVENS.
H.R. 1601: Mr. MASSIE.
H.R. 1609: Mr. BISHOP of North Carolina.
H.R. 1646: Mr. CRIST, Mr. TRONE, Mr.
LUJÁN, and Mr. STANTON.
H.R. 1679: Mr. TURNER.
H.R. 1695: Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania.
H.R. 1700: Mr. BUCK and Mr. BABIN.
H.R. 1730: Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania and
Mr. CUNNINGHAM.
H.R. 1753: Mr. BARR.
H.R. 1754: Ms. JACKSON LEE and Mr.
GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 1766: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico and Mr. JOYCE of Ohio.
H.R. 1767: Mr. HARRIS.
H.R. 1814: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Ms. DAVIDS
of Kansas, and Mr. VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 1824: Mr. KIM.
H.R. 1869: Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms. SPEIER,
Mrs. FLETCHER, Mr. HUDSON, Mr. CROW, and
Mr. DEUTCH.
H.R. 1873: Mrs. LAWRENCE, Ms. TLAIB, Ms.
LEE of California, and Ms. SPEIER.
H.R. 1898: Mr. EMMER.
H.R. 1948: Mrs. TRAHAN and Mr. HARDER of
California.
H.R. 1975: Ms. SPANBERGER, Mr. WALKER,
Mr. KIM, Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico, and Mr. CASE.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:11 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L03DE7.100 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9223
December 3, 2019
H.R. 2000: Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H.R. 2015: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 2096: Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 2117: Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 2148: Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania and Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 2161: Mr. BISHOP of North Carolina.
H.R. 2168: Mr. MCADAMS, Ms. HAALAND, and
Mr. ARMSTRONG.
H.R. 2179: Mr. MEADOWS.
H.R. 2187: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 2199: Mr. KHANNA and Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 2201: Mr. MOULTON and Mrs.
WALORSKI.
H.R. 2207: Mr. BISHOP of North Carolina.
H.R. 2208: Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 2215: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 2222: Ms. STEVENS.
H.R. 2250: Mr. AGUILAR, Mr. KHANNA, and
Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 2256: Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 2258: Ms. BARRAGÁN.
H.R. 2293: Mr. MEUSER and Mr. LEVIN of
Michigan.
H.R. 2315: Mr. GALLEGO.
H.R. 2339: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois.
H.R. 2377: Mr. MOULTON.
H.R. 2382: Mr. COOPER, Mr. ARMSTRONG, Mr.
ROGERS of Kentucky, Mr. SAN NICOLAS, and
Mr. DIAZ-BALART.
H.R. 2404: Ms. JAYAPAL.
H.R. 2412: Mr. PALAZZO, Mr. NORMAN, Mr.
SENSENBRENNER, and Mr. BOST.
H.R. 2416: Mr. ROUDA, Mr. YOUNG, and Ms.
DAVIDS of Kansas.
H.R. 2441: Mr. LEVIN of Michigan.
H.R. 2457: Ms. DEAN and Mr. KIM.
H.R. 2466: Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 2498: Mr. THOMPSON of California and
Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 2577: Mr. MOULTON.
H.R. 2594: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington.
H.R. 2603: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico.
H.R. 2616: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 2633: Mr. CUELLAR.
H.R. 2645: Mr. GREEN of Tennessee.
H.R. 2651: Ms. HAALAND and Mr.
MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 2655: Mr. ROGERS of Alabama, Mr.
WRIGHT, Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER, Mr. BABIN,
Mr. BUCHANAN, Mr. MCHENRY, Mr. THOMPSON
of Pennsylvania, Mr. TAYLOR, Mr. WOMACK,
Mrs. ROBY, Mr. BACON, Mr. COURTNEY, and
Ms. ESCOBAR.
H.R. 2674: Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 2693: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Mrs.
BEATTY, Mr. CRIST, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, and Ms.
BONAMICI.
H.R. 2739: Mr. PASCRELL.
H.R. 2767: Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 2771: Mr. RIGGLEMAN.
H.R. 2862: Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
H.R. 2863: Mr. NADLER and Mrs. NAPOLI-
TANO.
H.R. 2878: Mr. WITTMAN.
H.R. 2895: Mr. BRINDISI.
H.R. 2912: Mr. LUJÁN.
H.R. 2986: Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Mr.
HARDER of California, and Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 2993: Mr. KELLER.
H.R. 3000: Mr. BOST.
H.R. 3036: Mr. GREEN of Tennessee.
H.R. 3073: Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 3077: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mr.
MCKINLEY, Mr. CASE, Ms. CLARK of Massa-
chusetts, Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr. WALKER, Mr.
GARAMENDI, and Mr. MURPHY of North Caro-
lina.
H.R. 3094: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Ms. SCANLON, Mr. COOPER, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. STANTON, and Mr. NADLER.
H.R. 3107: Mr. OLSON, Mr. CUELLAR, Mr.
BISHOP of North Carolina, and Mrs. BEATTY.
H.R. 3131: Mr. POCAN, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr.
RUSH, and Mr. KING of New York.
H.R. 3133: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 3165: Mr. O’HALLERAN.
H.R. 3166: Mr. RASKIN and Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 3180: Mr. HASTINGS and Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 3211: Mr. PAYNE.
H.R. 3266: Ms. ESHOO and Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 3268: Mr. LAMB.
H.R. 3274: Mr. MITCHELL.
H.R. 3316: Mr. DELGADO, Mrs. WALORSKI,
and Mr. LARSON of Connecticut.
H.R. 3350: Mr. LUJÁN and Mr. BERA.
H.R. 3414: Mr. RUTHERFORD and Mr. EVANS.
H.R. 3460: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 3467: Mr. RUIZ.
H.R. 3473: Mr. KILMER and Ms. DEGETTE.
H.R. 3495: Mr. FERGUSON, Mr. HICE of Geor-
gia, Mr. DESJARLAIS, Mr. CONAWAY, Mr.
CLOUD, Mr. MCCAUL, Mr. WEBER of Texas,
and Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico.
H.R. 3509: Mr. QUIGLEY and Mr. GOMEZ.
H.R. 3565: Mr. KINZINGER.
H.R. 3584: Mr. GOTTHEIMER, Mr. MURPHY of
North Carolina, and Mr. RUPPERSBERGER.
H.R. 3591: Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 3623: Ms. DEGETTE.
H.R. 3654: Mr. LONG.
H.R. 3657: Mr. COOK and Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 3693: Mr. CÁRDENAS.
H.R. 3789: Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 3794: Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. FOSTER,
Mr. KILMER, and Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 3798: Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 3880: Mr. RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 4056: Mr. WELCH, Mrs. LOWEY, and Mr.
SHERMAN.
H.R. 4069: Mr. MEADOWS.
H.R. 4078: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 4098: Mr. LONG.
H.R. 4107: Mr. PANETTA.
H.R. 4118: Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 4144: Mr. CORREA.
H.R. 4148: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. RUSH, Mr.
WELCH, and Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 4165: Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H.R. 4183: Mr. MASSIE.
H.R. 4189: Ms. SHERRILL and Mr. MEADOWS.
H.R. 4194: Mrs. LOWEY.
H.R. 4229: Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr.
BILIRAKIS, Mr. POCAN, Mr. LOWENTHAL, and
Mr. GOLDEN.
H.R. 4230: Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania and Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 4279: Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania, Ms. SCANLON, Ms. HOULAHAN, Ms.
WILD, and Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania.
H.R. 4307: Mr. STANTON.
H.R. 4348: Ms. STEVENS.
H.R. 4399: Mr. LAHOOD, Mr. BOST, and Mr.
BURGESS.
H.R. 4423: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois.
H.R. 4429: Mr. MALINOWSKI and Ms. PIN-
GREE.
H.R. 4468: Mr. COLE and Mr. THOMPSON of
Mississippi.
H.R. 4487: Ms. STEFANIK and Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 4492: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 4508: Ms. STEFANIK and Mr. CICILLINE.
H.R. 4526: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 4589: Mr. WITTMAN and Mr. SWALWELL
of California.
H.R. 4636: Mr. KEATING and Mr. FORTEN-
BERRY.
H.R. 4639: Mr. MOULTON.
H.R. 4640: Ms. KAPTUR.
H.R. 4674: Mr. KIM.
H.R. 4679: Mr. COOPER.
H.R. 4681: Mr. BOST.
H.R. 4694: Mr. RIGGLEMAN.
H.R. 4701: Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 4716: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 4764: Mr. WELCH and Mr. BROWN of
Maryland.
H.R. 4773: Mr. HAGEDORN.
H.R. 4794: Mr. ZELDIN.
H.R. 4803: Mr. STIVERS, Ms. SPANBERGER,
Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. COHEN,
and Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 4821: Mr. SMITH of Washington, Mr.
LARSEN of Washington, and Mr. SCHRADER.
H.R. 4828: Mr. MURPHY of North Carolina.
H.R. 4836: Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. HASTINGS, and
Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 4864: Mr. COSTA and Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 4881: Mr. THORNBERRY and Mr. ARM-
STRONG.
H.R. 4884: Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 4890: Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mr.
GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Ms.
ESCOBAR, and Ms. JUDY CHU of California.
H.R. 4901: Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. BILIRAKIS,
and Mrs. RODGERS of Washington.
H.R. 4934: Mr. POSEY.
H.R. 4965: Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 4980: Mr. STIVERS, Mr. SHERMAN, Ms.
LEE of California, Mr. THOMPSON of Cali-
fornia, and Mr. SCHIFF.
H.R. 4986: Mr. POCAN and Mr. CONNOLLY.
H.R. 5017: Ms. LEE of California and Ms.
JUDY CHU of California.
H.R. 5036: Mr. AGUILAR, Mr. PERLMUTTER,
and Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 5038: Mr. KING of New York and Mr.
SUOZZI.
H.R. 5042: Mrs. DEMINGS.
H.R. 5048: Mr. TONKO.
H.R. 5068: Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H.R. 5117: Mr. JOYCE of Ohio.
H.R. 5138: Ms. WILD.
H.R. 5175: Mr. MITCHELL.
H.R. 5176: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 5193: Mr. VISCLOSKY, Mr. MICHAEL F.
DOYLE of Pennsylvania, and Ms. FINKENAUER.
H.R. 5199: Mr. MCKINLEY.
H.R. 5221: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 5227: Mr. RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 5230: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mrs.
BEATTY, Ms. CLARKE of New York, and Mr.
HASTINGS.
H.R. 5251: Mr. PANETTA.
H.R. 5265: Mr. FITZPATRICK and Mr.
GARAMENDI.
H.R. 5267: Mr. CARSON of Indiana and Mr.
SIRES.
H.R. 5271: Mr. CARSON of Indiana.
H.J. Res. 36: Mr. MCCLINTOCK.
H.J. Res. 76: Mrs. LOWEY, Mr. RUSH, and
Ms. HAALAND.
H. Con. Res. 76: Mr. CORREA.
H. Res. 54: Ms. PLASKETT.
H. Res. 189: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama.
H. Res. 399: Mr. SWALWELL of California.
H. Res. 452: Mr. SENSENBRENNER.
H. Res. 517: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puer-
to Rico.
H. Res. 527: Mr. RUSH, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr.
KHANNA, Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Mr. CONNOLLY,
Ms. CLARKE of New York, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr.
MCNERNEY, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. TED LIEU
of California, Mrs. DEMINGS, Ms. SPEIER, Mr.
CARTWRIGHT, Mrs. BEATTY, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr.
VARGAS, Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mr. FOS-
TER, Mr. COX of California, Mr. CASTEN of Il-
linois, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr.
LARSEN of Washington, Ms. MATSUI, and Mrs.
WATSON COLEMAN.
H. Res. 531: Ms. NORTON.
H. Res. 538: Mr. POCAN.
H. Res. 585: Mr. COHEN.
H. Res. 618: Mrs. WALORSKI.
H. Res. 641: Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H. Res. 678: Mr. OLSON.
H. Res. 687: Mr. CASE.
H. Res. 701: Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. COHEN,
Ms. NORTON, and Mr. THOMPSON of California.
H. Res. 705: Mr. LYNCH.
H. Res. 718: Mr. CUELLAR.
H. Res. 722: Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. BRENDAN F.
BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr.
STANTON, and Mr. CISNEROS.
H. Res. 730: Ms. LEE of California and Mr.
SCHRADER.
f
CONGRESSIONAL EARMARKS, LIM-
ITED TAX BENEFITS, OR LIM-
ITED TARIFF BENEFITS
Under clause 9 of rule XXI, lists or
statements on congressional remarks,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:11 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03DE7.026 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9224 December 3, 2019
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff
benefits were submitted as follows:
The amendment to be offered by Rep-
resentative MCHENRY, or a designee, to H.R.
2534, the Insider Trading Prohibition Act
does not contain any congressional ear-
marks, limited tax benefits, or limited tariff
benefits as defined in clause 9 of rule XXI.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:11 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03DE7.032 H03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S6793
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2019 No. 192
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Our Father, be with us not only in
great moments of experience but also
during mundane and common tasks.
Through the power of Your Spirit, may
our Senators mount up with wings like
eagles, running without weariness and
walking without fainting. Give them
the wisdom to be patient with others,
ever lenient to their faults and ever
prompt to appreciate their virtues.
Lord, rule in the hearts of our law-
makers, keeping them from sin and
sustaining their loved ones in all of
their tomorrows. Surround us all with
the shield of Your mercy, as You pro-
vide us with a future, hope, and bless-
ings too numerous to be stored.
We pray in Your sovereign Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH). Under the previous order,
the leadership time is reserved.
The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. I would like to ad-
dress the Senate for 1 minute as in
morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
IRAN
Mr. GRASSLEY. I hope a lot of
Americans have been able to watch on
television what is going on over in Iran
right now. I hope Americans have an
opportunity to listen to some Ameri-
cans of Iranian descent who are com-
menting on what is going on over there
because, recently, thousands of Ira-
nians have taken to the streets pro-
testing their country’s corrupt regime.
Frustrated by a lack of opportunity
and frustrated by constant political op-
pression, these largely young and non-
violent protesters have stood up to say:
Enough is enough.
In response to these protesters, we
see the regime engaging in a brutal
crackdown, and that crackdown is on a
scale not seen since the 1979 revolution,
killing hundreds of civilians within the
last few days.
The United States is not an enemy of
the Iranian people. In fact, Americans
of all backgrounds can’t help but sym-
pathize with these brave protesters
seeking a more prosperous, more re-
sponsible Iran and having the Iran Gov-
ernment give that sort of an environ-
ment. We need to tell the Iranian lead-
ers the world is watching.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
f
APPROPRIATIONS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
this week, House Democrats are con-
tinuing their 3-year-long quest to im-
peach the President and are continuing
to obstruct urgent bipartisan legisla-
tion. This has been the Democrats’
strategy for months now—obsess over
impeachment and obstruct everything
else.
Take the USMCA, which would cre-
ate 176,000 new American jobs. Speaker
PELOSI has been stalling it for months,
constantly saying she is optimistic or
getting close or almost there. For
months, it has been this broken record.
I understand, this very week, while the
Speaker of the House has apparently
flown to Madrid to discuss climate
change, she keeps offering the same
empty rhetoric that is no different
than what she was saying 10 months
ago. American workers have waited
and waited and waited. House Demo-
crats keep stalling.
Consider the appropriations process.
Even after signing a bipartisan agree-
ment to forgo poison pills, Democrats
ignored it and thrust other policy dis-
agreements back into the appropria-
tions process. They voted twice to fili-
buster funding for our Armed Forces.
Well, last week, Chairman SHELBY and
Chairwoman LOWEY reached an impor-
tant agreement to address allocations
at the subcommittee level. This was an
essential step. It will take a lot of
work and cooperation to move the ap-
propriations process forward in the
short time ahead of us. Our Democratic
colleagues will finally need to redis-
cover that our men and women in uni-
form are more important than their
partisan fights.
Speaking of our Armed Forces, let’s
talk about the NDAA. Congress has
passed an annual defense authorization
bill every year since 1961. Every year,
after some jousting and jostling, the
Congress has put aside all of our extra-
neous disagreements to fulfill one of
our most basic responsibilities and re-
authorize our Armed Forces, but re-
member the Democrats’ new playbook:
Obsess over impeachment, obstruct ev-
erything else, including, apparently,
even our troops and national security.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:23 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03DE6.000 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6794 December 3, 2019
Imagine being so far left that even the
routine annual bill to reauthorize the
U.S. military is some controversial
thing you have to be goaded into sup-
porting. House Democrats abandoned
longstanding traditions of compromise
and larded up the NDAA with partisan
policy riders. For what appears to be
the first time ever in either Chamber,
they passed an NDAA on a pure party-
line vote—the first purely partisan
NDAA in 58 years. In the Senate, by
contrast, Chairman INHOFE and Rank-
ing Member REED collaborated on a bill
that passed the Senate 86 to 8. We cer-
tainly did our part to stick with an an-
nual tradition.
Now my colleague, the Democratic
leader, is moving the goalpost and ena-
bling Speaker PELOSI’s reckless strat-
egy. Longstanding bipartisan precedent
says that in order for any subject out-
side the Armed Services Committees’
jurisdiction to travel in the final
NDAA, the chairmen and ranking
members of the actual committee of
jurisdiction need to give bipartisan
signoff. This basic test protects the
Senate; it protects our committees;
and it protects the NDAA from being
held hostage for specific partisan ends.
Every year, dozens, if not hundreds, of
provisions meet that bar. Those that
don’t end up on the cutting room floor.
Thus far, in the Senate, Chairman
INHOFE and Ranking Member REED
have worked hard to respect those
norms, but this year, the Speaker of
the House and my colleague the Demo-
cratic leader want to scrap this prece-
dent, undermine the committees, and
demand special treatment for partisan
priorities that have no business being
crammed into this essential legislation
for our Armed Forces.
We are talking about a new taxpayer-
funded benefit for all Federal employ-
ees and sweeping changes to U.S. for-
eign policy. This is what they are try-
ing to shoehorn into the NDAA. It is
not good-faith policymaking, not when
these demands pour in at the eleventh
hour over must-pass legislation for our
servicemembers. It is just political the-
ater that is taking precedence over our
Armed Forces. So, right on cue, I am
sure we will hear made-for-TV
histrionics about all of the new provi-
sions the Speaker and the Democratic
leader want to shove into this bill—by-
passing hearings, markups, and nego-
tiations between chairmen and ranking
members.
We will probably keep hearing the
dishonest myth that the Republicans
are soft on Russia—never mind that a
few years ago, President Obama was
mocking the Republicans for being too
tough on Russia; never mind that this
administration has aggressively pur-
sued sanctions, expelled Russian
operatives, provided lethal defensive
weapons to Georgia and Ukraine, taken
major steps to protect our elections,
and more. It is just more bluster and
histrionics to distract from the core
fact that is crystal clear to the entire
country: There is no legislation, no
matter how crucial, that the Demo-
crats will not obstruct in order to pick
fights with this President.
The very bills the Democrats are re-
sisting are essential for our national
defense strategy—for our needed in-
vestments in cutting-edge weapons, in
the European Defense Initiative, in
modernizing our nuclear force. They
are all critical for competing with, de-
terring, and defending against Russia
and China. If the Democrats divide
Congress over nondefense issues and
kill these bills, they will have played
right into our adversaries’ hands. If we
jettison the longstanding bipartisan
process for negotiating the NDAA, they
will have made this basic national se-
curity requirement far more difficult
in the future.
Our Democratic colleagues must un-
derstand that national security comes
before ‘‘the resistance.’’ The country
cannot afford this new tactic of
obsessing over impeachment and ob-
structing everything else. I hope this
changes soon.
f
TRIBUTE TO JOHNNY ISAKSON
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
on a totally different matter, the Sen-
ate has set aside today to honor our
distinguished colleague, the senior
Senator from Georgia, JOHNNY ISAK-
SON.
It has been about 3 months since
JOHNNY announced he would retire at
the end of December. Since then, I
think we have all been taking stock of
everything our dear friend has accom-
plished and everything he means to so
many people. I have long said, if the
Senate were to hold a secret ballot pop-
ularity contest, JOHNNY ISAKSON would
win in a bipartisan landslide—quite
possibly in a unanimous vote.
He commands bipartisan respect and
affection to a degree that is truly re-
markable. Yet, if you think about it, it
makes sense for a man whose personal
mantra goes like this: ‘‘There are only
two kinds of people: friends and future
friends.’’ For most people, that might
be a noble aspiration but unrealistic.
For JOHNNY ISAKSON, it is a statement
of fact. Nobody is an enemy, and no-
body is a stranger—just a friend and fu-
ture friend. That is it. With a motto
like that, it is no wonder that JOHNNY’s
first career was a successful stint in
real estate—a field in which relation-
ships are everything.
It strikes me there could be two ways
you could thrive in a business in which
friendships and connections matter so
much. You could be either good at fak-
ing a smile, at feigning interest in oth-
ers, or you could genuinely love meet-
ing everybody and learning how you
might be able to help people. That sec-
ond kind of person is exactly who Ed
and Julie Isakson brought up in At-
lanta, GA—warm, honest, forthright,
incredibly kind. No wonder JOHNNY’s
neighbors jumped at the chance to hire
him to be their State representative,
then their State Senator, then their
Congressman, and then their U.S. Sen-
ator. So his retirement this month will
cap a 45-year career in public service,
packed with one significant accom-
plishment after another.
First and foremost in JOHNNY’s long
legacy is his work for our Nation’s vet-
erans. He spent 6 years in the Georgia
Air National Guard as a young man,
and he has spent the half century since
then as one of his fellow veterans’ best
friends at any level of government.
Under JOHNNY’s chairmanship, the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs has
passed literally scores of bills: more ac-
countability at the VA, more education
benefits, better community care pro-
grams, better procedures for when vet-
erans appeal determinations, an up-
dated GI bill with no more expiration
date, and, of course, JOHNNY’s land-
mark bill—the VA MISSION Act. It is
now law. It provides many of the most
significant reforms in the history of
the VA by taking power away from bu-
reaucrats and giving it back to the vet-
erans and their doctors.
Yet, somehow, in the midst of com-
piling this singular record for our Na-
tion’s veterans, JOHNNY racked up
countless more legislative successes
that impact literally every American—
from securing pension protections to
reforming education policy, from re-
gional infrastructure projects like the
Savannah Harbor Expansion to com-
bating hunger worldwide. One look at
the list of laws bearing JOHNNY’s fin-
gerprints and you would be forgiven for
thinking he never met a problem he
could not solve.
But alas, every Senator sometimes
encounters requests from back home
on which he cannot deliver. Sometimes
you have constituents on both sides of
an issue. Sometimes a request might
conflict with your principles. Whatever
the reason, everybody in office eventu-
ally disappoints somebody. Yet JOHN-
NY’s staff marvels at the fact that even
when Georgians come up here to meet
with him and, unfortunately, go away
disappointed, they still walk out of the
meetings, beaming with praise for their
Senator: ‘‘Can you believe JOHNNY? He
is the greatest guy ever. What a Sen-
ator’’—and these are the people he just
said no to.
The same traits explain why JOHNNY
is just as popular under this dome as he
is back home, and I don’t just mean
with his fellow Members. JOHNNY ISAK-
SON is practically an honorary member
of every other Member’s staff and an
honorary elevator operator and an hon-
orary Capitol Police Officer and an
honorary member of Chaplain Black’s
team and on and on. He knows and val-
ues absolutely everybody.
I can’t count how many times I
would hear a peal of laughter from out
in my staff bullpen and realize that
JOHNNY ISAKSON had dropped by, not to
see me but to chat with my team, to
ask after their families, and to maybe
check up on a couple of Georgia’s prior-
ities while he was there.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:23 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03DE6.001 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6795
December 3, 2019
There is one classic story that really
distills this man’s character. Most peo-
ple who have hung around JOHNNY and
his team long enough know the famous
tale of the ‘‘gin and tonic in the laun-
dry room.’’
Here is the deal: Back in 2006, JOHNNY
was still a new Senator. We were tack-
ling some thorny pension issues, and
thousands of Georgians stood to be af-
fected if things didn’t get hammered
out. So this freshman Senator dove in.
He went toe to toe with big players
like Ted Kennedy and Bill Young over
in the House. He didn’t get a seat on
the conference committee, but he basi-
cally appointed himself an honorary
member. JOHNNY worked it like crazy.
He sleuthed out where they would be
meeting, and he spoke to everyone. Be-
cause it is JOHNNY we are talking
about, we know how this ends: He de-
livered for Georgia.
Afterward, the Atlanta Journal-Con-
stitution wanted to hear how this
freshman Senator had pulled off this
victory. Among other things, the re-
porter asked how JOHNNY had cele-
brated. Did he clear out the champagne
at some beltway steakhouse?
Here is what he said:
Isakson said that after the vote, he went
straight back to his Capitol Hill area apart-
ment and celebrated—by doing his laundry.
He did not want to leave dirty clothes behind
for a month.
He said further: ‘‘So as I was putting
coins in the machine, I had a gin and
tonic in the laundry room.’’
This anecdote is almost the perfect
encapsulation of JOHNNY ISAKSON. It
starts with tenacity and a can-do spir-
it, propelled forward by charisma,
smarts, and stubborn patience. It ends
with a win for Georgians and one
celebratory cocktail while being wrist-
deep in laundry detergent.
Yet there is one other story, I think,
that reflects this remarkable leader
even more perfectly. It starts with one
name—Kate Puzey.
In 2009, JOHNNY was reading his local
paper and found an obituary for a
young lady from northern Georgia who
had been in Africa with the Peace
Corps. She was just 24. JOHNNY didn’t
know Kate and didn’t know her family,
but he felt called to attend her funeral.
He sat quietly in the very back and lis-
tened to her friends, her family, min-
isters, and Peace Corps colleagues.
Unassumingly, he invited the family
to stay in touch if there was anything
he could ever do. Only later, did they
relate what wasn’t in the obituary.
Kate had been murdered in the dark of
night after sounding the alarm on child
abuse in her village in the African
country of Benin.
JOHNNY ISAKSON was on the case from
that day forward. Not only was he a
fixture on the Foreign Relations Com-
mittee, but he was actually the rank-
ing member on the Africa Sub-
committee. So he put a framed photo
of Kate on his desk and leapt into ac-
tion. Senator ISAKSON flew to Benin to
personally lean on its President. He
met with Peace Corps officials. He
built a legislative coalition for reforms
to better protect volunteers.
As I said earlier, because this is
JOHNNY ISAKSON we are talking about,
we know how the story ends—with re-
sults. He helped Kate’s parents pursue
justice, and just a couple of years after
JOHNNY sat down in that pew, the Kate
Puzey Peace Corps Volunteer Protec-
tion Act was law.
Now, that is JOHNNY ISAKSON in one
story. He starts out trying to do good
for his neighbors and winds up literally
changing the world.
Of course, changing the world can be
grueling work. We all know JOHNNY’s
health has made his tireless service
more and more challenging in recent
months. As much as the other 99 of us
hate to hear it, he has decided it is
time to find new ways to serve that
don’t involve twice weekly air travel or
winding trips through the Capitol Com-
plex.
But we know our friend is not riding
off into the sunset or kicking up his
heels. I know he is bound and deter-
mined to keep putting his expertise
and institutional knowledge to work
on behalf of Georgians who need him. I
have no doubt that he will keep on ad-
vocating for Georgians with a pen and
a phone, more friends across the coun-
try than anyone can count up, and
maybe a few of his eight grandchildren
by his side. It sounds like a pretty en-
viable work arrangement, and no doubt
JOHNNY has earned it. He has earned
the right to a little less late night vot-
ing and a little more time with his
lovely wife Dianne.
So on behalf of all of his colleagues,
I will tell JOHNNY to go ahead and relax
just a little and maybe find something
to drink, but, this time around, he
should enjoy it on the front porch with
Dianne and leave the laundry until
later.
We are savoring our last few weeks
alongside our good friend here in the
Senate. We are so lucky to have called
him our colleague.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to resume
consideration of the following nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Eric Ross
Komitee, of New York, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern
District of New York.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MORAN. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
UNITED STATES-MEXICO-CANADA TRADE
AGREEMENT
Mr. MORAN. Madam President, I ap-
preciate the opportunity to be on the
floor today to speak about something
of significance, certainly to Kansas but
to the country.
We await House action on USMCA—
the trade agreement between Canada,
the United States and Mexico. It is a
trade agreement that is attempting to
replace NAFTA and an agreement that
is of significance, as I say, to the folks
back home in my State.
For the last 2 years, I have engaged
in a campaign to try to elevate the im-
portance and to make sure my col-
leagues, the administration, and people
here in Congress understand how im-
portant exports and trade are to the
United States’ economy.
In Kansas, we are an export State.
What we produce, what we manufac-
ture, and what we grow in the fields of
our State in many, many instances end
up someplace else outside the United
States.
I have spoken on the Senate floor be-
fore. I have met with the President. I
have talked to his Cabinet officials. I
wrote an open letter to U.S. agricul-
tural groups, encouraging them to
fully engage in support for USMCA ap-
proval. I have had speaking engage-
ments in places across the country,
trying to rally farmers and ranchers
and manufacturers and others to fight
to preserve our trading relationship
with Canada and Mexico.
On Saturday, at home in Kansas, I
was with the Kansas Farm Bureau at a
townhall. It kicked off their 101st an-
nual meeting to discuss issues facing
Kansas agriculture. The topic of trade
and its importance to the products
that we grow was the most important
and most discussed topic at that town-
hall meeting.
USMCA was signed over a year ago.
It is time for the House to pass this im-
portant agreement, and, in order for
the House to pass it, the Speaker needs
to bring it up for a vote.
Canada and Mexico are Kansas’s No.
1 and No. 2 export markets. They ac-
count for over one-third of exports
from our State. Since 2013, unfortu-
nately, farm income at home has fallen
by 50 percent. So net farm income in
Kansas is down half in the last 6 years.
Many producers are struggling. They
have struggled to hang on to their op-
erations, and when farmers aren’t
doing well, it means that the commu-
nities they live in and support aren’t
doing well. The question is often this:
What business will we lose when farm-
ers are not having financial success?
What young men and women who grew
up on a farm or grew up in that small
town will, perhaps, even reluctantly,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:23 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03DE6.003 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6796 December 3, 2019
find a job someplace else because the
economy is not helpful to them as they
start their careers?
USMCA will continue to provide
duty-free market access to farm com-
modities, while also expanding trade
opportunities for dairy producers and
leveling the playing field for the wheat
we export to Canada.
USMCA is important to manufactur-
ers as well. USMCA will protect the in-
tegrated North American supply chain
that is critical to manufacturers in our
State.
Wichita is known as the air capital of
the world due to aerospace and avia-
tion manufacturing. Kansas is also
home to automobile, farm equipment,
and other manufacturers.
Twenty-five percent of Kansas manu-
facturers—mostly, small to medium-
size businesses—export to Canada and
Mexico.
Nearly 25 years after its enactment,
NAFTA was due to be modernized and
to reflect changes in today’s economy.
USMCA will strengthen the rules on in-
tellectual property rights and address
digital trade issues. This modernized
agreement will serve as a template for
future trade negotiations, putting the
United States in the driver’s seat for
setting global trade rules and norms.
Kansas, as I said, is an export State.
If we are not exporting, the ability to
earn a living, to save a family farm,
and to keep our small manufacturers
across the communities that dot our
State disappears. The ability to earn a
living in Kansas depends upon selling
food and manufactured goods around
the world.
We must continue the fight for more
trade, not less. Again, I ask the House
of Representatives to quickly consider
and please do not let this calendar year
come to an end without the NAFTA re-
placement in place.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
IMPEACHMENT
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, as
the House of Representatives continues
to hold hearings as part of the im-
peachment inquiry into President
Trump, it is incumbent on all of us
here in the Senate to review the evi-
dence, keep an open mind, and avoid
prejudging the case. If impeachment
articles are served to the Senate, Sen-
ators must act as judges and jurors,
take an oath to do impartial justice,
and see to it that the Senate conducts
a fair trial.
So I have been hugely disappointed in
the partisan conduct of some of my col-
leagues on the Republican side, who, in
their rush to defend the President,
have attacked career public servants
and former members of the armed serv-
ices because they didn’t like their tes-
timony, and then they spread baseless
conspiracy theories and use their pow-
ers of a congressional office to play de-
fense for the President.
The Republican chairman of the Ju-
diciary Committee, for example, has
attempted to send the State Depart-
ment on a wild fishing expedition for
documents to support an already de-
bunked rightwing conspiracy theory.
Meanwhile, the State Department is
blocking or delaying the production of
documents related to several legiti-
mate and ongoing investigations, many
of which were requested months ago.
I would expect that Senator GRA-
HAM’s request, outlandish as it is,
would go at the back of the line. It
would be another total debasement to
the process if Secretary Pompeo were
to further politicize the production of
documents to Congress and say it is OK
to release the documents that Senator
GRAHAM wants but not the ones that
the House committee wanted. Privilege
is privilege. I don’t believe it applies in
each case, but it is privilege. You can’t
do it to one and not the other.
Also, it is appalling that, in recent
days, certain Members on the other
side of the aisle have repeated the lie
invented by Vladimir Putin’s intel-
ligence services that Ukraine was
somehow involved in 2016 election in-
terference.
I have a simple message for my Re-
publican colleagues: Stop spreading
Putin’s propaganda.
By spreading the false and unsup-
ported narrative that Ukraine, not just
Putin, was responsible for interfering
in the 2016 elections, Republicans are
endangering our democracy and em-
powering Vladimir Putin at the same
time. Even wondering aloud about the
debunked Ukrainian interference the-
ory helps Putin muddy the waters and
deflect the blame away from his coun-
try, which our intelligence services
have all agreed—I think it is 17 of
them—that he interfered in the elec-
tion. He is trying to create a diversion,
and our Republican colleagues are
going along.
Republicans need to stop putting the
wind into the sails of Putin’s propa-
ganda. More than that, Republicans
need to forcefully and unequivocally
refute the lie that Ukraine had any-
thing to do with election interference
in 2016.
ELECTION SECURITY AND DEFENSE
APPROPRIATIONS
Madam President, on election secu-
rity and the NDAA, earlier this year,
FBI Director Wray, Trump’s appointee
to run the FBI, said: ‘‘The Russians are
absolutely intent on trying to interfere
with our elections.’’ That is what Mr.
Wray said in response to a question
from the senior Senator from South
Carolina. Director Wray went on to
say: ‘‘My view is, until they stop, they
haven’t been deterred enough.’’ As a re-
minder to my colleagues on the other
side of the aisle, Director Wray is a Re-
publican and Trump appointee.
It is the testimony of Director Wray
and other national security leaders
over the past 3 years that has rein-
forced our commitment on the Demo-
cratic side to secure passage of legisla-
tion that includes tough, mandatory,
and deterrent sanctions against Putin
and against any foreign adversary who
would seek to interfere with our elec-
tions.
This wasn’t a figment of our imagi-
nation; this came from our own intel-
ligence and security agencies, that
Russia interfered and that they are
going to keep interfering until we stop
them. So it is not a radical idea; it is
a bipartisan idea. It is a part of bipar-
tisan legislation introduced by Sen-
ators VAN HOLLEN and MENENDEZ and
supported by Senators RUBIO and GRA-
HAM. This legislation needs to be in-
cluded in the Defense authorization
bill. Defending our democracy is at the
core of our Nation’s defense. But at the
moment, it is being blocked by Repub-
lican Leader MCCONNELL and several
Republican committee chairs.
I am sure Leader MCCONNELL and his
colleagues, rather than explain their
opposition, will do what they usually
do: point their fingers at Democrats
and say ‘‘They are holding up the De-
fense bill; we are not.’’ That is a time-
honored Republican tradition, to de-
flect blame, and it just doesn’t hold
water.
Just this morning, we heard the Re-
publican leader claim that Democrats
are not supporting the defense pro-
grams needed to counter Russia. This
is laughable coming from the other
side when it is Leader MCCONNELL who
has fought so often to prevent funding
to protect us from Russian inter-
ference. It is my Republican counter-
parts who green-lit the President’s
treating the Defense Department as a
personal piggy bank, including raiding
funds from the European Deterrence
Initiative—a program designed to
counter Russia—to build the Presi-
dent’s wall.
Democrats are ready to roll up their
sleeves and work with our Republican
colleagues to clear any substantive ob-
jections they might have to election
interference sanctions legislation, as
well as any other issue they might
have with the Defense authorization
bill, but we need to get serious soon
about including these provisions. The
annual Defense bill might be our last
chance to pass significant reforms to
secure our elections.
So, Leader MCCONNELL, are you for
securing our elections against Russia
or not? Because if you are for it, we
can move this Defense bill forward
much more quickly.
What is holding it up, in good part, is
Leader MCCONNELL’s opposition to
spending the funds necessary and the
legislation and sanctions necessary to
stop Russia from interfering.
TRIBUTE TO JOHNNY ISAKSON
Madam President, on a bittersweet
note, JOHNNY ISAKSON—what a fine
man. Today, Members of this Chamber
will hold a bipartisan lunch to say
goodbye to one of our most beloved col-
leagues, JOHNNY ISAKSON of Georgia,
who is retiring before the end of the
year.
Over the last few months, there have
been numerous tributes to JOHNNY on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:23 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03DE6.005 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6797
December 3, 2019
the Senate floor. He has been called ‘‘a
real friend,’’ ‘‘a mentor,’’ ‘‘more than a
colleague,’’ ‘‘humble and tenacious,’’
‘‘they don’t come any better’’—and
that is just by Democrats. That is one
of the reasons I suggested to Leader
MCCONNELL that we have a lunch for
JOHNNY ISAKSON, which we are having
this afternoon.
Just as there is good reason to praise
JOHNNY ISAKSON in the ways Democrats
did, there is good reason that during
his chairmanship, ISAKSON’s committee
passed so many bipartisan bills—57, to
be exact—to help veterans. It is be-
cause he treated everyone—Democrat,
Republican, Independent, newly elected
or committee chair—with respect.
JOHNNY never let the cynicism of our
political times dim his faith in our
ability to get something done.
JOHNNY ISAKSON didn’t have the loud-
est voice in the room, but it was often
the most influential. That is because
he built years’ worth of trust. You
never doubted his word. He was an hon-
est broker. So whenever a chasm
seemed to separate the parties on a
certain issue, ISAKSON was often the
one spanning the divide. I know that
from experience, over and over again.
As an example, when families in New
York struggled to recover from disas-
ters, like Sandy, only to find that flood
insurance rates were crushing them
with enormous debt, it was Senator
ISAKSON, whose State has suffered its
fair share of disasters, who worked
with my office to find a solution.
We made enormous progress working
together to strengthen media shield
laws, protecting fearless and inde-
pendent journalism at a time when we
needed to stand up for a free and open
press.
In this most recent important appro-
priations process, we worked together
to help the widows and children im-
pacted by 9/11 gain access to a special
terror victims’ funding. I want to
thank him personally for that, and
more broadly, I want to thank him for
the example he set for many other Sen-
ators.
There are many fine adjectives that
will be used to describe Senator ISAK-
SON, and all of them will be well-de-
served, but one word used to describe
Senator ISAKSON is not often found in
the Halls of Congress: ‘‘kind.’’ JOHNNY
ISAKSON is one of the kindest, most
thoughtful Senators I have known in
my time here. He is a true statesman.
That is why I know that independent of
any party or politics, everyone here
will miss JOHNNY.
I will have more to say about our
friend at the bipartisan lunch this
afternoon, but for now, I would like to
note for the record Senator ISAKSON’s
many years of faithful service to his
beloved State of Georgia and his coun-
try. We wish him and Dianne the very
best as he enters the next chapter of
his life.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SCOTT of Florida). Without objection,
it is so ordered.
The Senator from Arkansas.
CHINA
Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, the New
York Times has recently obtained a se-
cret trove of documents from the high-
est ranks of the Chinese Communist
Party. Those documents reveal some
chilling, terrifying details about Bei-
jing’s campaign to stamp out all dis-
sent and religious diversity in Xinjiang
Province in the north, where the party
has concentrated more than 1 million
Uighurs, Kazakhs, and other minorities
in reeducation camps.
These documents bring to mind
George Orwell’s famous novel ‘‘1984,’’
not as the cautionary tale as he meant
it, but as an instruction manual for the
totalitarian government in Beijing.
This reign of terror began in 2014, after
a string of terror attacks in Xinjiang
Province. But instead of bringing those
terrorists to justice, the Chinese Com-
munist Party used the attacks as an
opportunity to eradicate all dissent—
all wrong-think, if you will—from a
province with 25 million residents. It
would be as if you tried to turn the
State of Texas into a concentration
camp.
These secret documents reveal a
stunning order from General Secretary
Xi Jinping. He said, ‘‘We must be as
harsh as them and show them abso-
lutely no mercy.’’ So to beat these ter-
rorists, Beijing chose to adopt the tac-
tics of terror. Every Uighur and dis-
senter in the province is suffering as a
result.
Secretary Xi tapped one of the most
notorious enforcers to execute this
mission, a man named Chen, who
climbed the ranks of the Communist
Party first by crushing dissent and re-
ligious diversity in the southwestern
Chinese province of Tibet. The tech-
niques that they perfected in Tibet, the
Chinese Communist party took to
Xinjiang. They have turned the prov-
ince into a garrison state with ruthless
and pitiless competence. Chen’s order
to the police? ‘‘Round up everyone who
should be rounded up.’’
Uighurs, young and old, were loaded
on into buses and taken to concentra-
tion camps with thick concrete walls
and razor-sharp barbed wire. The police
informed anxious relatives that these
were schools and that their loved ones
were being ‘‘reeducated.’’ And, no, they
were not free to leave the school, nor
would there be any recess or field trips.
A secret manual obtained by Western
journalists reveals that these facilities
operate more like maximum security
prisons than like schools. The manual’s
very first section deals with preventing
escapes through the use of guard posts,
patrols, internal separation, video sur-
veillance, and double locks on dor-
mitory and hallway doors. The manual
even advocates the use of ‘‘secret
forces’’ to infiltrate the detainee popu-
lation to prevent them from joining
forces or planning an escape.
Beijing now holds—let me say it
again—more than 1 million people in
these reeducation camps, supposedly
for reasons of national security, but
the truth is a lot more chilling. The
Chinese Communists, like all totali-
tarians, are paranoid about their own
survival—and rightly so—as a con-
spiracy of greedy, power-mad
princelings with no democratic legit-
imacy whatsoever.
Like all totalitarian rulers, the Chi-
nese Communist Party is also a very
jealous master. Every attachment,
every conviction, every loyalty—
whether to one’s family, one’s culture,
even one’s creator—must be sacrificed
on the altar of the Party. According to
the Chinese Communist Party, every-
thing must bow before it, and every
tongue must profess the slogans of Xi
and Mao. That means the Uighurs and
also Hongkongers, Tibetans, Tai-
wanese, and others.
The paranoid Communist Party will
not limit itself to one province or one
people, nor will it ultimately limit
itself to its own land. It will extend its
tyrannical reach to every corner that
it views as its own, creeping ever out-
ward until it demands the deference of
all the world, until it ‘‘deals with’’ the
rebellious billions who have not yet
learned to love the Chinese Big Broth-
er.
The Chinese Communist Party is
running concentration camps today,
but make no mistake, its appetite for
expansion is far greater, its methods of
control applicable to anyone anywhere.
The Free World must confront this
threat in plain view and act now to
avert such a dark and chilling future.
Mr. President, I suggest the absence
of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Illinois.
FOR-PROFIT COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, a few
years ago, a woman who works in my
office in Chicago—who actually cleans
up the office in the evenings—was so
excited when she learned that her
daughter had been accepted to college.
It was a dream come true for a woman
who had immigrated to the United
States, taken some of the hardest,
most menial manual jobs in the hopes
that her daughter, one day, would have
a better life.
She sat down with my chief of staff
in Chicago to tell her about the details,
and immediately, we knew there was
much more to the story. Her daughter
had been accepted not just to another
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:23 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03DE6.006 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6798 December 3, 2019
college or university; she had been ac-
cepted to a for-profit college in the
Chicagoland area. The for-profit col-
leges and universities are notorious.
The numbers tell the story, two sepa-
rate numbers: 9 percent of all postsec-
ondary students go attend for-profit
colleges and universities—University
of Phoenix, DeVry, very well-known
names—9 percent of students go to
those schools, but 33 percent of all of
the federal student loan defaults are
students from for-profit colleges and
universities.
Why? Why is this one category of
higher education so notorious for stu-
dents starting and ending up deeply in
debt to the point where they cannot
pay it back? Well, the reasons are sim-
ple and very obvious. They overcharge
the students, and they undereducate
them. They make promises that are
wild and cannot be kept. They give
them courses of doubtful value and do
not tell them that any credits that
they have earned at these for-profit
schools cannot be transferred to city
colleges, community colleges, or uni-
versities.
So the students are stuck. At some
point, some will quit piling on the debt
and just basically walk away. All the
promises and all the jobs and careers
that were supposed to come from this
are never going to materialize. It is a
classic fraud, and sadly, our govern-
ment is part of that fraud. You see, we
recognize the accreditation of those
schools. We tell that cleaning lady and
her family that these are good schools
and universities. The Federal Govern-
ment does that and offers Federal loans
to these students to go to these
schools.
Is it any wonder that the students
and their families think they are doing
the right thing for their future? The
Federal Government gave a stamp of
approval. Well, what happens when
those schools reach the end of the line?
What happens when those same for-
profit colleges and universities go
bankrupt? The students are in a ter-
rible position, deeply in debt with
courses that are meaningless, with
their lives compromised, and nowhere
to turn.
We decided long ago to create an op-
portunity for these students to get out
of this dilemma—one that we share in
by accrediting these schools—some-
thing called the ‘‘borrower defense,’’
which allows these students, if they
were defrauded, to discharge their fed-
eral student loans and get on with
their lives.
Today, hundreds of thousands of stu-
dents—who were defrauded by their
for-profit colleges—are desperately
waiting for Secretary of Education
Betsy DeVos to discharge their Federal
student loans under a provision in Fed-
eral law known as borrower defense.
Congress created the borrower defense
provision to ensure students’ lives are
not ruined by their schools’ mis-
conduct and deception.
In 2014, for-profit Corinthian Colleges
collapsed. It left more than 70,000 stu-
dents nationwide with worthless cred-
its they could not transfer and mounds
of student debt. The students had been
lured into those Corinthian schools
with false promises, inflated placement
rates and income projections. We know
that for a fact. We have the data to
show they were lying to the students
about what graduation from Corin-
thian could mean in their lives.
Over the last 5 or 6 years, nearly
every other major for-profit college,
nearly every one of these have faced
Federal or State lawsuits and inves-
tigations for predatory practices simi-
lar to Corinthian Colleges. The result
has been hundreds of thousands of de-
frauded students across America who
are seeking discharges to which we say
they are entitled under Federal law.
Secretary Betsy DeVos has allowed
more than 200,000 borrower defense ap-
plications to pile up at the Depart-
ment, nearly 11,000 from my own State
of Illinois. But listen to this, Secretary
DeVos has not approved a single claim
for more than a year, 200,000 applica-
tions stacking up at the Department of
Education, not one approved.
So who are some of these borrowers
that are languishing? What is their
story? Let me tell you about two of
them.
One is Jessica from Tucson, AZ. Jes-
sica attended the Art Institute of Tuc-
son from 2009 to 2012. It was owned by
the failed for-profit Education Manage-
ment Corporation, EDMC.
Heartbreakingly, Jessica says: ‘‘I have
experienced unbelievable amounts of
stress and depression due to this situa-
tion. I have been placed on anti-depres-
sants and anti-anxiety medication over
the years and been through therapy
. . . I have self-harmed and con-
templated suicide, because I feel so
trapped and unable to recover or move
forward. I have a general feeling of
worthlessness, because I feel like my
potential has been squandered.’’
She went to the Art Institute of Tuc-
son, and her experience has led her to
this desperate situation. She tried to
harm herself. Instead of a bright fu-
ture, she is left with a mountain of
debt and nothing to show for it but
deep financial and psychological pain.
She says, ‘‘Every aspect of her life has
been affected.’’
And so, is Secretary Betsy DeVos
trying to help Jessica? No. Secretary
DeVos is making it worse. Jessica sub-
mitted her borrower defense applica-
tion almost 4 years ago in 2016. She has
waited for this period of time to hear
anything from the Department of Edu-
cation. What is their excuse? I mean, if
someone writes a letter to my office
and does not get a reply and they come
back to me and say, Are you going to
answer this, DURBIN, we send a reply.
We try to do it promptly with every-
body.
How can Secretary DeVos be holding
these things up for years, while the
students see the mountain of debt
growing? As she waits, Jessica’s loans
are in forbearance, where they con-
tinue to gather interest, meaning that
the total amount owed continues to
grow. She is just 1 of 4,518 borrowers
from Arizona who are stuck waiting for
Secretary DeVos to use the authority
that Congress gave her to discharge
fraudulent loans
I also want to tell you about Jona-
than from Colorado—3,600 defrauded
borrowers are waiting for relief. Jona-
than from Westminster, CO, attended
DeVry University—sadly a Chicago-
based for-profit school—studying to be
an electronics engineer.
He is a father and a husband who was
trying to provide more for his family,
so he took out student loans that
sounded like an investment. He cur-
rently owes almost $100,000 in out-
standing Federal student loans from
attending DeVry, twice what he was
told his education would cost.
Of his debt, Jonathan says, ‘‘My cred-
it has been destroyed. I couldn’t repay
these loans in two lifetimes, even if my
degree had any value to employers.’’
Sadly, it doesn’t. Employers don’t even
recognize his degree.
Jonathan says:
My student loans are the millstone around
my family. The debt I owe has made my kids
not want to attend college at all. They see
no value in it; their own father has an engi-
neering degree but he can’t get hired any-
where because his school was a scam.
Those are the words of Jonathan
from Colorado.
So not only has this fraudulent
school taken away his future by bur-
dening him with a worthless degree and
piles of debt; in many ways, it affects
his children’s future.
Jonathan applied for a borrower de-
fense discharge in 2017, nearly 3 years
ago. He has been waiting to hear from
Secretary Betsy DeVos. Secretary
DeVos’s failure to provide him with re-
lief, he says, ‘‘has caused [him] to lose
faith that the government will actually
protect students like [him].’’
Secretary DeVos has cruelly ignored
defrauded borrowers like Jessica and
Jonathan, but what is more is that she
is trying to make it almost impossible
for future borrowers like them to se-
cure the relief that Congress intended
by rewriting the rules.
In August, Secretary DeVos released
a new version of the borrower defense
rule that places unreasonable burdens
on borrowers to attain relief. The re-
sult is that the Department estimates
the DeVos rule will deny nearly $11 bil-
lion in relief to borrowers compared to
the current rule.
In September, I introduced a resolu-
tion in the Senate to overturn the
DeVos borrower defense rule. Forty-
two of my colleagues have joined me in
cosponsoring it. I plan to bring the res-
olution to a vote on the Senate floor
where it only needs a simple majority
to pass. At that time, my colleagues on
both sides of the aisle will have a
choice: Will they stand with Secretary
DeVos’s actions—or, I should say, lack
of actions for 3 or 4 years—will they
deny help to defrauded students, or will
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:23 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03DE6.008 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6799
December 3, 2019
they stand with young people like Jes-
sica and Jonathan, trying to get their
lives back together and trying to get
Congress to implement the one law it
passed that could help them? It is a
choice that seems pretty easy for most
American people when they hear this
scenario described to them.
A recent opinion piece in the Anchor-
age Daily News criticized Secretary
DeVos for siding with ‘‘for-profit col-
leges that have defrauded students’’
and ‘‘illegally [denying] student loan
debt relief to thousands of students.’’
Even in Alaska, hundreds of borrowers
are waiting for borrower defense dis-
charges.
Nationally, Americans agree that
these defrauded borrowers deserve re-
lief. In a 2016 New America poll, 78 per-
cent of Americans said that students
should have their Federal student loan
debt discharged if their school deceived
them. That is pretty basic, isn’t it? If
you were cheated, you ought to be
taken care of.
When you break the numbers down
by party, 87 percent of Democrats and
71 percent of Republicans—vast majori-
ties—supported relief for these stu-
dents. So when it comes time to vote
on my resolution to overturn the
DeVos borrower defense rule denying
relief to defrauded borrowers, I hope
my colleagues will stand with students
and the American people.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Tennessee.
ABORTION
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President,
my hope is that each of us in this
Chamber and their families enjoyed a
wonderful Thanksgiving time, being
grateful for all of the blessings that we
in this country have.
I know I certainly had a wonderful
week. I had the opportunity to spend
some time across the great State of
Tennessee and to talk with Ten-
nesseans about what was on their
minds.
I will tell you this. In my opinion and
experience, as diverse as Tennesseans
are, there is one thing in common that
I heard repeatedly, and that is that
they are through with trying to guess
where politicians in Washington, DC,
stand on issues. This is something I
think all of us need to hear and prob-
ably don’t want to hear, but our fellow
Americans, and certainly Tennesseans,
have no idea what their elected rep-
resentatives believe. Instead, all they
see up here is this endless cycle of po-
litical in-fighting and failed legisla-
tion. They consistently say: We want
you to focus on things that are impor-
tant to us. We want you to focus on
things that are important to the coun-
try. I will tell you that it is no wonder
that our country’s discourse is plagued
by what is a marked cynicism for even
our most earnest efforts.
As I thought about this during the
week and the visits that I had across
the State, I thought: You need look no
further for an example of where they
see this fighting as being unnecessary
than an issue that has become a mag-
net for derision, and that is the issue of
protecting life—more specifically, the
use of taxpayer dollars to fund the
abortion procedures.
In poll after poll, after poll, a major-
ity of Americans have indicated that
they oppose public funding of abortion.
The numbers on this are not even
close.
As early as this summer, self-identi-
fied Democrats’ support for taxpayer-
funded abortion struggled to even
break out of single digits. The data is
clear, and it is convincing. The Amer-
ican taxpayer does not want their tax
dollar being used to fund abortion pro-
cedures.
So how is it, then, that my friends in
the minority insist upon loopholes and
work-arounds that make taxpayers
complicit in the slaughter of the un-
born?
Their cause has been frustrated, of
course, by President Trump’s aggres-
sively pro-life agenda. Last year, he
proposed the ‘‘protect life rule,’’ which
cut taxpayer funding under the title X
program for any facility that performs
abortions or that refers their clients to
those facilities that perform abortions.
This rule closely mirrored my Title X
Abortion Provider Prohibition Act.
That was the first bill I filed when I
came to the Senate. It is something
that is very important to me.
But this year, this body’s liberal fac-
tion once again seized an opportunity
to undercut the pro-life agenda via a
legislative trick known around this
Chamber and Capitol Hill as a poison
pill. You see, they found a way to hold
hostage millions of dollars attached to
the fiscal year 2020 State and Foreign
Operations appropriations bill. That
was done via an amendment that fun-
nels family planning dollars to domes-
tic organizations that support abor-
tions overseas.
Do you see what they are doing?
It is an amendment that funnels fam-
ily planning dollars to domestic—
U.S.—organizations, but those organi-
zations are supporting abortions over-
seas. It also uses Obama-era gender
policies to define sex—a clear red her-
ring to get people arguing about gender
identity so they will ignore the Demo-
cratic Party’s leftward swing on the
issue of abortion.
You could chalk all this up to poli-
tics, were it not for the existence of the
bipartisan budget agreement that both
parties agreed to ahead of our work on
appropriations. That agreement in-
cluded a ban on poison pill riders like
the Shaheen amendment, as well as as-
surances that any poison pills would be
swiftly removed. We thought we had
taken care of that issue with the bipar-
tisan budget agreement, but oh, no,
here we go.
Yet in order to ‘‘empower women
overseas’’ Democrats have indicated
that they are willing to throw away
$847 million for maternal and child
health, $100 million for global health
security programs, $150 million for nu-
trition assistance, and $6.2 billion for
global HIV and AIDS assistance. They
are doing this, throwing all that money
away, so they can make a political
point.
This is an interesting development
coming from the party that once de-
ployed their support for abortion in
only the most extraordinary cir-
cumstances. The party of ‘‘safe, legal,
and rare’’—their terminology—has be-
come the party that hedges their bets
with infanticide and prioritizes conven-
ience over human life.
Just across the river in Virginia,
Ralph Northam and his cohorts were
allowed to set a new reprehensible
standard for what left-leaning America
is willing to condone in the name of
soulless politicking.
Tennesseans told me they want to
see their representatives speaking up.
They want to see women speaking up
on behalf of life, families, and the un-
born. They see clearly that if pro-
tecting life is the hallmark of the con-
servative movement, then, destroying
life is the hallmark of a more liberal
approach. They want us to draw a line
in the sand and declare once and for all
that loopholes and legislative tricks
will no longer be tolerated because, for
them, abortion is not up for casual dis-
cussion. They see how clearly and how
easily the left trifles with the lives of
children, and they are repulsed by it.
What they want us to do is to focus on
getting things done that are important
to them. And, yes, to Tennesseans,
being able to say the right to life, lib-
erty, and pursuit of happiness is some-
thing that has a deep meaning.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Komitee nomi-
nation?
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, I
ask for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
(Mr. CRUZ assumed the Chair.)
(Mr. CRAMER assumed the Chair.)
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from South Dakota (Mr. ROUNDS) and
the Senator from South Carolina (Mr.
SCOTT).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the Senator from
California (Ms. HARRIS), the Senator
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:23 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03DE6.009 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6800 December 3, 2019
from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the
Senator from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS),
the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms.
WARREN), and the Senator from Rhode
Island (Mr. WHITEHOUSE) are nec-
essarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRUZ). Are there any other Senators in
the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 86,
nays 4, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 369 Ex.]
YEAS—86
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rubio
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—4
Cantwell
Heinrich
Markey
Murray
NOT VOTING—10
Bennet
Booker
Gillibrand
Harris
Klobuchar
Rounds
Sanders
Scott (SC)
Warren
Whitehouse
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motion to re-
consider is considered made and laid
upon the table, and the President will
be immediately notified of the Senate’s
action.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of John L. Sinatra, Jr., of New York,
to be United States District Judge for the
Western District of New York.
Mitch McConnell, John Boozman, John
Cornyn, Mike Crapo, Pat Roberts, Mike
Rounds, Thom Tillis, Roger F. Wicker,
Cindy Hyde-Smith, Kevin Cramer,
John Hoeven, Rob Portman, Dan Sul-
livan, Chuck Grassley, Richard Burr,
John Thune, Roy Blunt.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of John L. Sinatra, Jr., of New York, to
be United States District Judge for the
Western District of New York, shall be
brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
South Dakota (Mr. ROUNDS).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from New York (Mrs.
GILLIBRAND), the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from
Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the Sen-
ator from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), the
Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. WAR-
REN), and the Senator from Rhode Is-
land (Mr. WHITEHOUSE) are necessarily
absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote or change their vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 76,
nays 16, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 370 Ex.]
YEAS—76
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rubio
Sasse
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Warner
Wicker
Young
NAYS—16
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Duckworth
Durbin
Heinrich
Hirono
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murray
Schatz
Smith
Udall
Van Hollen
Wyden
NOT VOTING—8
Booker
Gillibrand
Harris
Klobuchar
Rounds
Sanders
Warren
Whitehouse
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 76, the nays are 16.
The motion is agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of John L. Si-
natra, Jr., of New York, to be United
States District Judge for the Western
District of New York.
ORDER OF PROCEDURE
Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that following the
cloture vote on Executive Calendar No.
353, the time following the recess until
4:30 p.m. be reserved for tributes to re-
tiring Senator ISAKSON; further that
the time from 4:30 p.m. to 5 p.m. be
equally divided between the leaders or
their designees on the nomination, and
that at 5 p.m., the Senate vote on clo-
ture on the following nominations in
the order listed: Executive Calendar
Nos. 478, 381, 459, and 460; that if clo-
ture is invoked, the confirmation votes
on Executive Calendar Nos. 353, 478, 381,
459, and 460 occur at 2 p.m. on Wednes-
day, December 4.
I further ask unanimous consent that
the mandatory quorum call with re-
spect to the Duncan nomination be
waived and that the cloture votes on
Executive Calendar Nos. 479, 489, and
386 occur at 11:30 a.m. on Wednesday,
December 4, and that if cloture is in-
voked, the confirmation votes occur at
a time to be determined by the major-
ity leader in consultation with the
Democratic leader on Thursday, De-
cember 5.
I further ask unanimous consent
that, with respect to all the votes or-
dered in this agreement, if the nomina-
tion is confirmed, the motion to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table and the President be imme-
diately notified of the Senate’s action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that Senator FEIN-
STEIN be allowed to speak for up to 10
minutes prior to the scheduled recess.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from California.
NOMINATION OF SARAH E. PITLYK
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I
rise today in opposition to the nomina-
tion of Sarah Pitlyk to the United
States District Court for the Eastern
District of Missouri. Ms. Pitlyk’s
record is extremely troubling and
raises a number of questions about her
ability to be a fair and impartial judge.
Ms. Pitlyk was deemed by the Amer-
ican Bar Association to be Not Quali-
fied, one of only 3 percent of people re-
viewed by the Bar over the past 3
years. This is the first that I have had
occasion to review in total. A district
court judge, as you well know, must
hit the ground running. Ms. Pitlyk’s
lack of practical knowledge and experi-
ence would significantly disadvantage
the litigants appearing before her.
I also want to acknowledge the high-
ly unusual nature of a ‘‘Not Qualified’’
rating by the Bar; 97 percent of Presi-
dent Trump’s nominees have been
rated at least ‘‘Qualified’’ by the Amer-
ican Bar Association. This means that
Ms. Pitlyk falls in the small minor-
ity—just 3 percent—of candidates
deemed not qualified by the American
Bar Association. This shows how rare
that rating is. The ABA has been re-
viewing the qualifications, as you al-
ready know, of judicial nominees since
1989. They know what they are doing,
and those of us on the committee take
their evaluations very seriously.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:32 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03DE6.001 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6801
December 3, 2019
Next, I want to discuss Ms. Pitlyk’s
record opposing women’s reproductive
rights and limiting access to
healthcare. Ms. Pitlyk defended a
State law banning abortion at 6 weeks,
she opposed the Affordable Care Act’s
coverage for contraception, and she de-
fended President Trump’s Title X gag
rule.
The Trump administration’s Title X
gag rule prohibits referrals for abortion
care and imposes onerous requirements
on abortion clinics, among other
things. The rule effectively pushed
Planned Parenthood out of the Title X
program, curtailing access to
healthcare for millions of low-income
women and families.
Ms. Pitlyk has also filed multiple
legal briefs that contain misinforma-
tion. Last year, she argued without any
credible evidence that ‘‘racism plays a
profound role in the delivery of abor-
tion services.’’
In another case, Ms. Pitlyk claimed—
again without evidence—that in-vitro
fertilization leads to ‘‘higher rates of
birth defects, genetic disorders, and
other anomalies.’’
I think it is disqualifying for any ju-
dicial nominee to make unfounded and
unsupported claims, especially in a
court of law.
Ms. Pitlyk has also made statements
in her personal capacity opposing ac-
cess to healthcare. Just last year, she
called the Supreme Court’s decision
upholding the Affordable Care Act ‘‘un-
principled.’’ Earlier this year, she said
that the Supreme Court’s reproductive
healthcare cases have ‘‘gross defects.’’
These statements and Ms. Pitlyk’s
legal work raise serious concerns about
her ability to apply the Supreme
Court’s important precedents fairly
and impartially. I am deeply troubled
by her record, her lack of experience,
and I urge my colleagues to join me in
opposing her nomination.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that an article from Politico and a
letter from the American Bar Associa-
tion dated September 24, 2019, be print-
ed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[From the POLITICO, Nov. 19, 2019]
SUSAN COLLINS TO OPPOSE TRUMP JUDICIAL
NOMINEE
(By Marianne Levine)
Sen. Susan Collins will oppose Sarah
Pitlyk, President Donald Trump’s nominee
to become a federal judge for the Eastern
District of Missouri.
In a statement to POLITICO, the Maine
Republican voiced concern about Pitlyk’s
lack of trial experience, as well as her stance
on abortion given previous comments on ges-
tational surrogacy and past legal work.
‘‘Her lack of trial experience would make
it difficult for her to transition to a district
court judgeship,’’ Collins said.
She also cited Pitlyk’s comments in a brief
she co-wrote in 2017 as a lawyer for the
Thomas More Society, an anti-abortion law
firm. The brief stated surrogacy leads to the
‘‘diminished respect for motherhood and the
unique mother-child bond; exploitation of
women; commodification of gestation and of
children themselves; and weakening of ap-
propriate social mores against eugenic abor-
tion.’’
Collins said Pitlyk is entitled to her per-
sonal views on abortion, but she questioned
‘‘given her pattern of strident advocacy,
whether she could put aside her personal
views on these matters.’’
The Senate Judiciary Committee approved
Pitlyk’s nomination along party lines in Oc-
tober, and a floor vote is likely in the com-
ing weeks.
While Collins supported Brett Kavanaugh’s
confirmation to the Supreme Court, she has
voted against several Trump judicial nomi-
nees this year.
In addition to Pitlyk, Collins opposed Ste-
ven Menashi’s nomination to the 2nd U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals, Chad Readler’s
nomination to the 6th Circuit, Howard Niel-
son for the District of Utah, Matthew
Kacsmaryk for the Northern District of
Texas and Jeffrey Brown for the Southern
District of Texas.
All of those judges were confirmed by the
GOP-controlled Senate.
AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION, STAND-
ING COMMITTEE ON THE FEDERAL
JUDICIARY,
Columbia, SC, September 24, 2019.
Re Nomination of Sarah E. Pitlyk to the
United States District Court for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
Hon. LINDSEY GRAHAM,
Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
Hon. DIANNE FEINSTEIN,
Ranking Member, Committee on the Judiciary,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN GRAHAM AND RANKING
MEMBER FEINSTEIN: The ABA Standing Com-
mittee on the Federal Judiciary has received
a full report on Sarah E. Pitlyk and a supple-
mental report by a second reviewer. The
Committee has unanimously determined
that Ms. Pitlyk is ‘‘Not Qualified’’ for the
position of federal district judge. I write to
offer a brief explanation of this rating. Our
rating is based on the Standing Committee’s
criteria as set forth in the Backgrounder.
The Standing Committee believes that Ms.
Pitlyk does not have the requisite trial or
litigation experience or its equivalent. I
would like to point out that based on its peer
review, the Standing Committee’s rating
does not rest on questions about Ms. Pitlyk’s
temperament or integrity.
The Backgrounder that provides guidance
to our evaluation process explains that a
nominee to the federal bench ordinarily
should have a minimum of 12 years’ experi-
ence in the practice of law. This 12–year ex-
perience guideline is neither a hard-and-fast
rule nor an automatic disqualifier. The
Standing Committee’s criteria provide that
a nominee’s limited experience may be offset
by the breadth and depth of the nominee’s
experience over the course of his or her ca-
reer. Nominees with fewer than 12 years at
the bar (as is the case with Ms. Pitlyk, both
due to the calendar and periods of inactive
status), but with substantial trial or court-
room experience and/or compensating ac-
complishments in the field of law, can and
have been found qualified by our Committee.
However, Ms. Pitlyk’s experience to date has
a very substantial gap, namely the absence
of any trial or even real litigation experi-
ence. Ms. Pitlyk has never tried a case as
lead or co-counsel, whether civil or criminal.
She has never examined a witness. Though
Ms. Pitlyk has argued one case in a court of
appeals, she has not taken a deposition. She
has not argued any motion in a state or fed-
eral trial court. She has never picked a jury.
She has never participated at any stage of a
criminal matter.
The Standing Committee believes that a
nominee should be professionally competent
to manage and resolve the many diverse
matters facing a federal judge on a daily
basis. The accumulation of experience and
legal knowledge that is acquired by a prac-
ticing lawyer both inside and outside of the
courtroom prepares a lawyer over time to
handle a broad spectrum of legal issues in a
wide variety of subject matters and to man-
age a courtroom over which he or she will
preside as a judge. The judicial system, the
public, the trial bar, and the nominee are not
well served by appointing to the bench a law-
yer who, despite great intelligence, high
character, and experience researching and
writing briefs, lacks adequate trial court or
equivalent experience.
While we respect the clerkship for which
the nominee served after graduation from
law school, her legal practice to date does
not compensate for the short time the nomi-
nee has actually practiced law and her lack
of litigation, trial, and courtroom experi-
ence. It is the Standing Committee’s judg-
ment that Ms. Pitlyk does not meet the min-
imum professional competence standard nec-
essary to perform the responsibilities re-
quired by the high office of a federal district
court judge.
Thank you for the opportunity to explain
our rating to you.
Very truly yours,
WILLIAM C. HUBBARD.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I
yield the floor.
f
RECESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
in recess until 2:15 p.m.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 12:56 p.m.,
recessed until 2:15 p.m. and reassem-
bled when called to order by the Pre-
siding Officer (Mrs. CAPITO).
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR—Continued
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Georgia.
Mr. ISAKSON. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent to address the
Senate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
FAREWELL TO THE SENATE
Mr. ISAKSON. Madam President, it
is an honor to be here today on what is
not my last day, but everybody is act-
ing like it.
A few months ago, I had to announce
that after much consideration, to be
able to continue to serve the people of
Georgia as best I could in any way pos-
sible and also to keep true to the com-
mitments I made in every race I have
ever won, that when I knew I couldn’t
do the job, I was going to quit and let
somebody do it who wouldn’t be ham-
pered. I am not hampered yet—I am
pretty tough—but it is getting close.
So in August, I decided to tell my wife
about it, and we decided to go ahead
and retire at the end of December,
which I have announced and said I was
going to do. The Governor of Georgia is
making an appointment to take my
place.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:32 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03DE6.015 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6802 December 3, 2019
A few days from now, you might look
into the history books somewhere—
current history—and they might have
an Isakson in the glossary, but I doubt
it. You may never see this name again.
I have been here for 15 years and
loved every minute of it. This is the
most enjoyable thing I have ever done
in my life, to be a part of the U.S. Sen-
ate. It is not because I like being a
Senator but because I like to be with
the people who are in the Senate.
Politicians get a bad rap in this day
and time—a real bad rap. A lot of
things are said about them by people
they are aware don’t matter, like those
in some of the media and other places,
but others will take potshots at people
who are politicians and who serve the
people in their communities. I never do
that—not because I am one but because
I know, because I am one, what you
have to do. It is a tough job, and if it
is not done right, then it is not done
and it doesn’t get done the way it
should for the people there. So I am
making sure that when I leave, the last
thing I do is to leave the people of
Georgia in good hands, given that I am
the senior Senator from Georgia who is
retiring.
Unfortunately, at lunch today, the
Members gave me a luncheon and stole
all of my material. Don’t let this paper
fool you—I threw it all away coming in
here. They have stolen all of my good
jokes, took over all of the things I was
going to say, so I am going to make
this very brief, but in the end, very
brief is good.
My dad told me one time—he said:
‘‘Son, your words have more power by
how few you use than how many you
use.’’ I always remembered that. I
think speeches are really important. I
make short speeches. I get to the point,
and I get out. I am going to give you
some reasons that works.
(The Vice President assumed the
Chair.)
When I knew I was going to be
outshined by the other Members of the
Senate at this luncheon today, I de-
cided that I would do the best I could
to honor MITCH MCCONNELL, who is the
greatest leader I have ever worked for
in my 45 years of public life, and people
like the Vice President of the United
States, who I am so proud is in the
Chair. I can tell my grandkids—who
are all here, by the way—I hope you re-
member that time you were there with
MIKE PENCE, the Vice President of the
United States—you could be President
by then, Mr. Vice President—to hear a
speech I made.
Everybody, thank you for being here.
I am not going to call out names be-
cause I would miss somebody, except
TESTER. You can’t miss TESTER. But
everybody else, I would miss. I don’t
want to miss anybody because every
one of you is important to me—the
people who help us in the lunchroom,
the people who help us in stores, the
people who help us get in and out of
the cars, the people who help us on bad
days, snowy days, icy days, and every-
thing else—just everybody who helps
us. It takes a lot of people to run the
Senate, and only one person to mess it
up.
I want to talk about one subject
today and one subject alone, and it is
going to be short.
There is something missing in this
place. I am given credit sometimes for
being a bipartisan person. In fact,
sometimes newspaper people write that
I am known for being bipartisan or
being a softy. Some of them say worse
than that, but I am not going to ad-
dress that. I am a bipartisan person. I
never saw people get things done by
not agreeing with each other. You have
to come to an agreement. I made a liv-
ing selling houses. You can’t ever solve
a problem if you have two people and
they will not agree to a price and agree
to a time to move. You have to find
common ground. It is the same thing
with the law. You can’t pass a law—
you can’t solve a problem, period, end
of sentence. If you are one of those peo-
ple who say ‘‘It is my way or the high-
way,’’ then we are all in real trouble.
I want to talk about being bipartisan
and what bipartisanship really is. I
don’t think most of you really know
what bipartisanship is. I shouldn’t say
that to an educated group of people
like this who have been down a lot of
tough trails like I have. Being bipar-
tisan doesn’t mean a Democrat and Re-
publican talk to each other every once
in a while; it means this: Two people
come together who probably have dif-
ferences—probably have a lot of dif-
ferences—but they find a way to get to
the end of the trail, where there is the
possibility of a solution, and then they
do the things they have to do to get to
that solution. America today is built
on people who found a way to get to
that end of the solution, no question
about it.
I hate to ask this question, but I
came in the back door. Is JOHN LEWIS
here yet? Where is JOHN?
JOHN, you are getting shorter.
JOHN LEWIS is one of the finest people
I have ever known and a great friend of
mine. I was invited to speak to the
Senate a couple of days ago, and I rec-
ognized JOHN, who was there. He intro-
duced me and said some things that
meant more to people than anything
anybody has ever said to me, so I said:
I want you to come to my last speech
because I want to say a few things
about you. Because, in essence, really,
JOHN—to a much greater extent than
me—and I together represent how
things can really change if people want
them to change and are willing to do
the things that let them change.
JOHN was born in the 1940s. I was
born in the 1940s. JOHN lived in Ala-
bama. I lived in Georgia for a while.
JOHN got his good senses together, and
he came to—Shelby was there, so he
came to Alabama. He is a good guy.
JOHN came there, and JOHN lived in a
shotgun house. That is where there is a
hole in the back, a hole in the front,
and if you throw something, you don’t
hit anything. JOHN was a great civil
rights leader in his youth. He was the
president of SNCC, the Student Non-
violent Coordinating Committee. JOHN
walked the streets of Atlanta, GA,
where I lived. I was part of the people
whom Earl Warren—there were all
these signs around Georgia. I thought
he was running for office. They said
‘‘Impeach Earl Warren.’’ I never got
that figured out until I got a little
older. Anyway, Earl Warren had been a
part of the Brown v. Board of Edu-
cation decision. The schools’ separate
but equal doctrine had been thrown
out, and the schools were going to be
integrated. Across society, the only
way to prove that you were getting it
done was by the numbers. So they fig-
ured how much of a percentage of how
many Black people would constitute a
good number to say you were deseg-
regated and vice versa, solving the
problem with statistics.
I was on some of those first buses
that rode to Atlanta, GA, taking Black
students to White schools, and I had
some good friends who were Black.
That is another thing southerners are
blamed for—we always say: We have
some really good friends who were
Black. I have some really good friends
who are Black. I still have them, and
one of them is JOHN LEWIS.
JOHN LEWIS is one of my real heroes
in life because I watched what he went
through to help us see the light in the
South, in my part of the South, Geor-
gia. He was a hero. He was a hero to
me.
When I got to Congress, one of the
things I am most proud of is that JOHN
introduced me to be sworn in. The
Speaker of the House swore me in, and
I was down at the podium. Let me tell
you what happened that morning. The
clerk said: We will now have Mr. ISAK-
SON from Georgia, who won a special
election yesterday in Atlanta, GA, and
has been declared the winner by the
secretary of state. We would like to
ask Mr. LEWIS to escort him to the
front. We will give him 1 minute to
make his acceptance speech, and we
will go back to business.
I said, 1 minute? I have been prac-
ticing all these years, and I am only
going to get only 1 minute? I can’t do
anything in 1 minute.
But I wasn’t going to argue with the
guy on my first day at work. So I went
to the back of the room with JOHN.
JOHN walked down the aisle on the
House side. I was not paying a lot of at-
tention. I figured the best thing to do
was to follow JOHN, so I followed JOHN.
When JOHN got through introducing
me, I followed him to the well, and I
said thank you to everybody and
named three or four people who had
helped me get there and then said:
Well, I am going to work, and I am
honored to be here.
What they didn’t tell me was, if you
were in the House on that particular
day, the mike for people who were Re-
publicans was on the left, and the Re-
publicans spoke from the right. This
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:32 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03DE6.017 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6803
December 3, 2019
dummy followed JOHN, who was smart
and went to the right, where he was
supposed to go. I went to the left,
where I wasn’t supposed to go. I no-
ticed these eyeballs in the front row
just going around and around. And
some guy stepped behind me after I
gave my 1-minute speech and said: ‘‘So
you are going to start this fast dem-
onstrating what a liberal guy you
are?’’ It was one of those voices that
came over the back of my shoulder,
just kind of like something hanging
over my head. I turned around and
looked, and this other guy—his name
was Tom Latham—came up to me and
said ‘‘Don’t pay any attention to that,’’
and then he went on about his business.
I asked somebody later that day:
What did that guy mean by that?
He said: Well, the problem is, you got
labeled when you got elected.
I said: What do you mean?
He said: Well, you got elected in a
Republican district, but you said nice
things about Democrats.
I said: Is that wrong to do?
He said: Well, we were trying to get
some way to get Boehner not to ap-
point you to any committee. We heard
you helped write No Child Left Behind.
That was how I started out in the
House of Representatives. I was a Re-
publican in a majority Democratic
House who was unwanted because I was
not—in fact, Newt lost—some of you
know this; I see a few faces over
there—Newt lost that race by seven
votes in the House. Seven Members
said: We will not vote for Newt as
Speaker. Tom knows this. Newt
couldn’t get reelected as Speaker, so he
resigned.
I didn’t know he was going to do
that. I was going to speak at the na-
tional realtors’ conference in
Disneyland at a convention. I got to
the hotel that afternoon, and there
were 72 phone messages for me.
A guy came up and said: Boy, I hope
nobody died at your house.
That is a great way to arrive at a
hotel.
I said: Why is that?
He said: You have 72 messages.
I said: Well, let me see them.
The first 71 were from my wife. I
called her, and she said: Have you
heard?
I said: Heard what?
She said: Newt quit.
I said: Quit what?
He quit as Speaker, and he quit as
Member of the House, and everybody is
calling on you to run.
I said: What?
Nothing computed. Very quickly I
learned a lot about partisan politics. A
lot of people wanted to have somebody
take Newt’s place. Newt’s body wasn’t
even cold yet, and they were picking
over it. They wanted to have a person
who wasn’t squeamish in a war like
that.
Anyway, to make a long story short,
partisan politics was pretty rough in
those days. It is a lot rougher now, but
it was pretty rough back then. People
voted not with their heads but with a
hammer—not with their hearts, either.
So I learned in an era where if you
were a Republican, you were a Repub-
lican, and if you were a Democrat, you
were a Democrat, and they didn’t ever
cross. Don’t work with anybody. Don’t
make it easy. If you have the votes, use
them. And we kept getting beaten or
kept getting tricked all the time be-
cause the whole game plan over there
was to have enough Republicans beat
the Democrats or vice versa. That is
what everybody would try to do, and I
thought that was stupid, but I didn’t
say that. Four hundred and thirty-five
is a lot of people, so you don’t want to
get run over.
A few weeks down the line, I made a
speech on the floor of the House about
something very important to me and
my State. It was a problem we had in
the State where our State was divided,
rural and urban—not Republican and
Democrat but rural and urban. Because
Republicans were pretty much rural
back then and urban people were
Democrats in the suburbs, at that
time, it got divided politically anyway
even though it was an economic issue,
an ag issue, a shipping issue, and
things like that. They divided up over
parties, so by the time the issue got to
the floor on some kind of compromise
vote, we couldn’t pass anything. We
couldn’t pass a kidney stone, much less
anything else, because we couldn’t get
anybody to agree on anything. We had
the parties cross each other and every-
body else.
So I decided then, if I am going to be
in this thing, at that age—I was about
60, I guess—I am not going to spend the
rest of my life down here arguing about
silly and stupid things. And there were
some silly and stupid things said over
there. I am not going to say who was
saying them, but you know who they
were. They were from both parties. It
was bipartisan. That was the first bi-
partisan thing I saw—the stupid state-
ments.
To make a long story short, we had
some real battles, but finally I decided
that I was going to be an example of
what we really need to be like. I tried
to find every way I could to be bipar-
tisan, which to me meant that I did
what I thought was right. I think that
is the way to do it.
Mark Twain said:
When confronted with a difficult decision,
do what is right. You will surprise a few, but
you will amaze the rest.
I tried to start amazing everybody. I
voted for some things. They would send
somebody over to see me from the whip
side. They would say: What did you do?
Did you get confused?
No, I didn’t get confused.
Finally, they realized they had some-
body they could deal with, which is the
good part of bipartisanship. The first
time the partisan people figure they
have somebody they can deal with,
they come deal with you. The next
thing you know, you are sitting at a
table with the guys who were making
fun of you, and they are not.
That is the way you go with biparti-
sanship. That is the way I did it on my
own, going through 6 years in the
House of Representatives and 15 years
in the U.S. Senate, trying to find that
little thing that could bring two people
together, notwithstanding what party
they were in. I never look at the party
first. That is the last thing I look at.
CHUCK SCHUMER said some nice
things today. One of the nicest things
he said was that he liked the kindness
part of it. He said I was a kind person.
My wife might differ with that, and
some other people might differ with
that. I try to be a kind person. I try to
be someone who somebody would like
to sit down with because you can’t get
a problem solved if you can’t sit down
across the table from somebody you
have a problem with. You can then
build everything that way.
I hope this Senate and this Con-
gress—all of us—in the years ahead—
we have some big problems. Let’s start
having a main goal personally that we
are going to do everything we can to be
a part of the solutions and the deci-
sions that are going to have to be
made. If you don’t want to do it, don’t
do it, but you are going to find out, if
you figure it out, that if you try to do
it, others watch you do it, and you
start making decisions and solving
problems, you are going to be more
popular than the other people.
This is not a popularity contest. Gov-
erning is not a popularity contest. This
is a will of minds. Bipartisanship is a
state of being. It is a state of mind.
There are people in the U.S. Senate
whom I work with and I love working
with every day—I am looking at some
of them right here in the eye. They
have an attitude that I like. I know I
can go sit down and talk to them. If
they say no, I will take it, and I will
not stick my tongue out at them or
call them bad names or anything else,
but they know I will be there tomorrow
to ask them to do something for me.
The best way to get somebody to do
something for you, when you hadn’t
done something for them the day be-
fore, is, well, maybe if I help them out,
I will get some help on my side. It is a
quid pro quo—well, that is a bad term.
I am glad I remembered that joke. But
those are the types of things you have
to do, even in levelling the playing
field.
My words to you today are these:
When you are fortunate enough to see
a JOHN LEWIS from Georgia, or some-
one like him, step out of his comfort
zone and do what he thinks is right,
and somebody tells you ‘‘He is wrong;
don’t do that,’’ judge your conscience
and your heart, not some TV com-
mentators or somebody who is loyal to
hate.
We still have some people in the
United States of America who will play
the hate card. We have some politi-
cians who will dance around the issue
of hate. They will not use the buzz
words, but they will get awful close to
it. They did it in Charlottesville. I have
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:09 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03DE6.019 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6804 December 3, 2019
had people in the basement of my
house from law enforcement from time
to time because the issues get pretty
tough, whether it is college scholarship
admissions or whatever it may be. We
have to stand up to the evils of society
today. If we don’t do it, nobody will.
I decided I was going to tell you what
I really believe, and that is, America,
we have a problem, just like Apollo
had. Our problem is we are not going to
repeat ourselves. We are not going to
exist much longer.
We live in the greatest country on
the face of this Earth. There is not
anybody any better than the United
States of America. Everybody is trying
to break in. Nobody is trying to break
out.
We are always passing laws, not be-
cause they are breaking out; they are
all trying to break in. Why? Because it
is the safest, happiest, richest place in
the world. We have the best people to
protect that wealth and that happi-
ness. We have enough people go in the
military on a voluntary basis. Less
than 1 percent of our population serves
in the military. It makes us the strong-
est defender of freedom and oppor-
tunity in the world.
If we ever lose that—if we ever lose
the club or the two-by-four that the
mule gets used to, we are going to lose
our coverage of ethics, standby sup-
port, and all the other things we love
and things we do. We are that close.
I see things happening—which I am
asked about by people—that scare me.
I have heard some people I know say
some things that terrify me. We are
better than the hate and the vile state-
ments that some people make. We have
to do better than that. We have to talk
not over them or under them, but we
have to talk to them. We have to sit
down and say: Why did you say that?
What is your problem? If we have a
problem, let’s get it out in the open
and talk about it.
This is the best country in the world.
The strongest country in the world
cannot succumb to crushing itself in-
wardly if we look the other way in the
challenges of life. The challenges of life
today are America’s changing. It is
changing for lots of reasons.
There are a lot of people who are big
internet people and all that, and they
have all the solutions. I think the solu-
tion is right here. It is in their heart.
I am telling you from my heart that
after 45 years in elected office, raising
three children and eight grand-
children—and my kids have done a
great job of raising them, living in a
great community and working, attend-
ing a great church, and doing the
things I have done—I see some of it
slipping away. Churches don’t have the
memberships they used to have, and it
is significant. School curriculum is
getting a whole lot tougher than it
used to be. I was chairman of the board
of education for the State for a few
years. A lot of the traditional things
we all love and believe in, like God and
country, like school curriculum, reli-
gion, Sunday school, and things like
that—they have their challenges.
I am going to roll up my sleeves and
do whatever I can with the life I have
left. I said I am going to leave on De-
cember 31, but it is not because I am
leaving you. I am not leaving you. I am
going to be with you a lot longer than
I thought I would because of what I am
doing. I want to be here for you, and I
want to be here when that bell rings to
say: America, we don’t have a problem
anymore. We solved it. You helped us
do it through our tax policies, through
our Federal policies, through our edu-
cation policies, and how we treat peo-
ple. We helped you do it. Let’s not get
back in that shape again.
We have the people and the spirit of
JOHN LEWIS and other people I know in
this room who are willing to do it.
Some think this is all just a bunch of
Sunday school folly that somebody
who is leaving believes in. Don’t be-
lieve that. I will be back to make a
speech again sometime and give you a
progress report. We need some
progress.
Now, the last thing I want to talk
about—the best thing—the example to
me of what bipartisanship means is a
picture taken of JOHN LEWIS and me
last week. Bipartisanship doesn’t mean
one is Black and one is White—could be
one Black and one White, could be. But
JOHN is Black and I am White, and we
are different about other things.
When JOHN and I were addressing the
House at a tribute to me, unfortu-
nately for everybody else, I liked it. We
had a great time. When JOHN’s time to
speak came, he made a beautiful
speech too. It was very meaningful to
me because we know what the buzz
words were. We know what we said to
make it sound like we were really lib-
eral or positive. We knew we really
weren’t.
JOHN knew. JOHN knew who deserved
cover and who didn’t, which takes as
much guts as somebody who knows
what is right and what is wrong. So
JOHN made this beautiful speech, and I
said: You know, this is my time to pay
JOHN back. All these years he has
helped me out with so many things I
have done.
I went to his 75th birthday because I
am 75, and I wanted to see what I was
going to look like. I looked in the mir-
ror, and I didn’t look like me.
JOHN and I turned out to be really
good friends. I went to JOHN and said:
JOHN, I thank you for that speech. That
was the best I ever heard.
I opened my arms and hugged him,
not for show and not for display and
not for any purpose except to hug him
because I love him. I know what he has
done for me and this country, as well
as so many other things.
But JOHN hugged me, and it got pret-
ty long there for a minute, and that
didn’t bother me. But the TV people
went crazy, so the best picture you
could have seen last week among the
popular pictures in magazines and the
like was JOHN hugging me on the floor
of the House.
TOM GRAVES and all the others from
the Georgia delegation are here. I am
sorry I haven’t called out everybody’s
name; I haven’t been able to see every-
body. But they all came up and said:
Thank you for doing that. I hope every-
body back in Georgia sees that.
I said: That is what you are going to
tell them. Here in the Senate at a
luncheon next Tuesday, we all need to
be seen doing the things they don’t ex-
pect us to do. We are doing what is
right for a change, and I just want
them to feel good.
Politics doesn’t need to be a feel-
good business anymore. It needs to be a
do-the-right-thing business. I tell you,
I am big on bipartisanship. Whether
you are Black or White, Republican or
Democrat, whatever it might be, find a
way to find common ground. Give it a
chance to work, and if it doesn’t, be a
future friend. That is my slogan. When
I started my business and people
wouldn’t buy a house from me, I would
shake their hand and say: Thank you
for looking for me, and when you buy
your next one, call me, and I will do a
better job because all I have are cus-
tomers and future customers. I ad-
dressed everybody as a future cus-
tomer, and I got some.
When I got into politics and I started
asking people to vote for me, I said: All
I have out there in Georgia are friends
and future friends. So when we walked
away from a Republican meeting some-
where and somebody had given me
their right hand in the face and said,
‘‘We are not going to vote for you,’’ I
said, ‘‘I tell you what. I will give you
another chance in 2 years so we can be
a future friend, not less of a friend.’’
Friends and future friends are what
it is all about. If you find anybody in
business who helps you make it
through life, you will make it through
life and be treated that way. Life is a
win-win proposition if you do it good.
It is not a win-lose proposition. It is
win-win. But you have to demand it,
whichever side of the transition you
are on.
So on a day in which I have had more
nice things said about me than I de-
serve, it has brought clarity to me. I
am going to tell you how much this
place really means.
I am the happiest guy who could ever
be. I am happy because I haven’t cried
yet. I am more happy because of all of
you. I think you know what I am talk-
ing about. We can do it. We can do any-
thing. We may be called liberal and
may be called a RINO and may be
called whatever it is. Let’s solve the
problem, and then see what happens.
Most people who call people names
and point fingers are people who don’t
have a solution themselves but just
want to make damn sure you don’t
solve it. We have to start doing that,
and then bipartisanship will become a
way you accomplish things, a way you
live, a state of being. It will be the end
of a bad time and the beginning of a
new one, and I want to live long
enough to see both.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:32 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03DE6.020 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6805
December 3, 2019
God bless all of you, and thank you
for your support and your friendship. It
means more to me than I can ever tell
you. I will always be there for you,
whether it is buying dinner, going to
church, or just listening to one of your
speeches when I don’t have anything
else to do. God bless all of you.
(Applause, Senators rising.)
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
CAPITO). The Senator from Georgia.
TRIBUTE TO JOHNNY ISAKSON
Mr. PERDUE. Madam President, it is
always a privilege to come before the
U.S. Senate. I always feel humbled by
that because I think of the people who
have spoken on this floor since 1859. I
am always measured in what I try to
bring in terms of thought or whatever,
but today there is a special sense of re-
sponsibility.
Senator COONS and I have been cho-
sen to lead our colleagues in honoring
JOHNNY ISAKSON today. What we just
heard was historic, I believe. It is not
the first time we have had a speech on
this floor that addressed that topic,
nor will it be the last, I will predict.
We just heard JOHNNY admonish us to
judge with our conscience and our
heart. With that, I feel somewhat un-
worthy to try to address what I feel,
and what he also talked about is his
heart.
Today is truly a bittersweet occa-
sion. It is bitter because my friend, my
mentor, and partner in the U.S. Sen-
ate, JOHNNY ISAKSON, is stepping down
at the end of this month. For those of
us who know this man, it is tough to
come to grips with that. I will dearly
miss him on many levels. I will miss
having him come here in the U.S. Sen-
ate alongside me. I will miss his words
of wisdom. I will miss his patience.
Most of all, I think I will miss his ex-
ample.
However, we can still find joy in this
occasion, I believe. As JOHNNY and
Dianne head into the next chapter of
their lives with their family, all of us
can take time to reflect on who JOHNNY
is and what his public service has truly
meant not only to us individually and
not just to the constituents in our
State but to America.
JOHNNY has actually meant the world
to me and for longer than I have been
in the U.S. Senate. When I got involved
in the political process, I had never
been personally elected to anything—
maybe in the 8th grade. You know how
that goes. But this was a radically dif-
ferent experience than I personally had
ever had. JOHNNY helped me personally
with that transition. He gave me ad-
vice. He befriended me. He introduced
me to our colleagues here in the Sen-
ate. He has been the best partner any-
one could ever ask for. I remember the
best advice he ever gave me. I just
shared this with our colleagues at
lunch: DAVE, I only have one piece of
advice for you. Keep your head down,
your mouth shut, and don’t ever vote
against the farm bill.
That was his advice, and it was sage,
and I listened to that.
Over the last 5 years—and, JOHNNY, it
is hard to believe it has been 5 years.
To Dianne, I am sure it feels like five
lifetimes. In the last 5 years, JOHNNY’s
advice has stuck with me on many lev-
els. A lot of people in this town know
how to talk, stick around. JOHNNY has
shown us how important it is to listen
and learn from each other. He has
shown us how to work together on be-
half of, not just ourselves or our next
reelection, but truly for the people who
put us here. JOHNNY is a true public
servant.
I say that next to the word ‘‘servant’’
in the Webster dictionary is a picture
of JOHNNY ISAKSON. He is devoted to
getting results, not just for the people
of Georgia, but for everybody in the
United States. Most importantly, he
does it in a way that really is worthy
of this august body.
I know this body has had controversy
throughout the last 230 years. Part of
what makes us great is that we have
differing opinions, but somehow, in the
last 230 years, we found a way to put
those aside to find compromise. I made
a living in business for 40 years finding
ways to compromise with people who
had different views than I did.
One example of JOHNNY’s statesman-
ship was with his longtime friendship
with another great Georgian, Zell Mil-
ler, who happened to be a Democrat.
Zell was a former Governor of Georgia
and a U.S. Senator. Last year, he,
sadly, passed away. What most people
forget is that early in his career, JOHN-
NY actually ran for Governor against
the same Zell Miller who ended up
being, as JOHNNY calls him, the best
friend he has ever had.
When Zell Miller passed away, JOHN-
NY was asked to speak, and he spoke on
this floor. In that speech, he said that
Zell Miller was ‘‘an individual I met
through politics, became one of my
best friends through politics, and prob-
ably had more influence on my life
than anybody else I know in public
service.’’ That is a Democrat JOHNNY
ISAKSON is talking about. Saxby Cham-
bliss and I get a little upset about that
occasionally, but, JOHNNY, that is a big
deal. Thank you.
It is almost hard to believe JOHNNY
and Zell used to be political opponents.
Despite their political differences,
JOHNNY and Zell remained close friends
up until Zell’s death. In fact, Zell even
appointed JOHNNY as chairman of the
Georgia Board of Education 7 years
after Zell had beaten him in that same
Governor’s race. We can have strong
differences in rigorous debates, but we
should always be civil and respectful to
one another, JOHNNY says. And JOHNNY
lives that out every day.
I have said before that JOHNNY ISAK-
SON is the Howard Baker of our time.
Why do I say that; what do I mean?
JOHNNY doesn’t talk a lot, but when
JOHNNY talks, people listen. What we
just witnessed was, I think, historic.
The paper that was on the podium in
front of Senator ISAKSON just now was
not a speech. I want everybody to un-
derstand this. It was a list of the 50
Senators who have asked to come to
this floor over the next few hours to
honor this man as he goes into retire-
ment.
What we just saw was straight from
the heart—better than anybody I have
ever witnessed and in a way that I will
always remember. Truly, when JOHNNY
talks, people listen. It doesn’t matter if
you are a young child, a member of his
staff, a colleague, or the President of
the United States, not only do people
listen to JOHNNY, but I will add one
thing to what I have been saying for
the last 5 years, when other people
talk, JOHNNY ISAKSON listens. That is a
rare commodity in this town; trust me.
If you need help, JOHNNY ISAKSON is
always there. We all know now that
JOHNNY will no longer be with us in
this body every day, but we know he
will still be around to help us in any
way he can. I am hoping he will still
call me and give those pieces of advice
that have been so valuable over the
last 5 years. I know he will answer my
call when I call him and ask for that
same advice.
But I want to leave the body with
this thought today—and I think it
echoes what he just said, and I pre-
pared these remarks some time ago in
thinking about today—in the new tes-
tament in the Bible, in Matthew 23, it
says that the greatest among you will
be the servant. And today, I want to re-
mind everybody in this body that the
greatest among us is JOHNNY ISAKSON.
JOHNNY, it has been a true blessing.
God bless you and Dianne and your
family. America will always be in your
debt. Thank you for everything. God
bless you, and God bless the United
States of America. Thank you, JOHNNY.
God bless you.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). The Senator from Dela-
ware.
Mr. COONS. Madam President, it is
an honor to rise and speak in tribute to
my dear friend and trusted colleague,
JOHNNY ISAKSON of Georgia.
To follow the junior Senator from
the State of Georgia, something re-
markable happened just before this ses-
sion on the floor of the Senate. There
was a bipartisan lunch in which vir-
tually every currently serving Sen-
ator—nearly 100—gathered, not just be-
cause there was tasty barbecue, but be-
cause we were there to thank our
friend and colleague JOHNNY ISAKSON
for his decade of public service, for his
dedication to this body, and for the
ways in which he has been the glue
that has helped hold so many of us to-
gether. You just heard it again here on
the floor, his passion and his commit-
ment to working across the aisle.
JOHNNY ISAKSON has been an effec-
tive, capable, and powerful Senator be-
cause he is never worried about who
gets the credit for the work he does. He
has kept his word. He has a great sense
of humor. He is easy to be with. He is
persuasive. He is persistent, and he is
principled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:32 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03DE6.021 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6806 December 3, 2019
Let me just start by saying to
Dianne, to John and Julie and Kevin
and the grandkids: Thank you. Thank
you for sharing JOHNNY with the State
of Georgia and with our Nation for dec-
ades.
When I first got elected to the Senate
back in 2010—which was a somewhat
unexpected election, I got seated right
after a special election—a respected
senior realtor from my hometown,
Dick Christopher, came and told me I
should look up a guy named JOHNNY
ISAKSON from Georgia. He was someone
he knew from the real estate business.
He said: He is a good husband and fa-
ther, a principled man. You will enjoy
working with him.
I never heard of him, so I looked him
up online. If all you had to judge some-
one by was their right-left position—he
succeeded Newt Gingrich—he and I, on
the surface on a few positions, would
have nothing in common. But as luck
or providence would have it, when I got
here, he was the trainer with Barbara
Boxer for ethics for the new Senators.
And to his misfortune, he got assigned
to be my mentor. I began what has
been an adventure that hasn’t yet
ended—and I hope never will—of a
friendship and a companionship that
has taken us to some pretty wild
places.
Early in 2011, I was made the chair-
man of the Subcommittee on Africa
and JOHNNY was the ranking member. I
could not have asked for a better com-
panion or partner. We did dozens of
hearings on foreign aid policy, on secu-
rity and trade interests, and on the
growing role of China in Africa. But
then we also went and visited places—
widely—places both easy and hard. We
went to Mali and Congo, to Senegal
and Benin, to South Africa and to
Ghana.
Over several trips, we visited AIDS
orphanages and hospitals, water purifi-
cation plants, and Millennium Chal-
lenge Corporation trips. On these trips,
we saw the terrible impact of terrorism
and grinding poverty in countries like
Nigeria and Mali, but we enjoyed some
pretty darn good times, too, like seeing
the fruits of the best pineapple planta-
tion I have ever been on and enjoying a
beautiful vineyard in Cape Town,
South Africa.
But JOHNNY didn’t just go because it
was an assignment. He went because it
was his passion, even his calling. The
first trip we took together was to
Benin, a tiny little impoverished coun-
try in West Africa that hadn’t had two
Senators visit in 50 years. We went be-
cause Kate Puzey, a young woman who
was a Peace Corps volunteer from
Georgia, had been murdered. She was
tragically and senselessly murdered be-
cause she tried to report child abuse
back to the capital.
We had a remarkable and memorable
series of meetings there that I won’t go
into. I will just say the thing about
JOHNNY is not just that he persuaded
me and others to join him in the quest
for justice for Kate Puzey, but he
worked and worked until. Ultimately,
the Kate Puzey Peace Corps Volunteer
Protection Act was law in 2011. That
was followed by so many others. JOHN-
NY is the consummate legislator. On
this one small subcommittee of one of
the many committees of this Senate,
he and many others of us worked and
passed the Electrify Africa Act, the
Global Food Security Act, the BUILD
Act, the Nick Castle Peace Corps Re-
form Act, and, of course, AGOA reau-
thorization—something we worked
very hard on.
The secret to JOHNNY’s success is he
doesn’t focus on the two-dimensional
ways that you are different. He focuses
on what you have in common. In my
home State, we have a county that
raises more chickens than any county
in America. The whole State of Georgia
raises more chickens than any other
State. So JOHNNY suggested, and I
agreed, that we would form a Chicken
Caucus. You may not know there is a
Chicken Caucus. You may not know
about the great ways in which it has
made the world safe and free for Amer-
ica’s chickens—a tasty, low-calorie, in-
credibly environmentally sustainable
and affordable source of protein for a
hungry world. That was brought to you
by the National Chicken Council.
At one point, the chairman of the
Foreign Relations Committee mock-
ingly called me the ‘‘Senator from
Chicken,’’ but our work together on
AGOA reauthorization and our travels
together resulted in opening new mar-
kets to American exports. On this
floor, in this august body, with all the
things we deal with, that might seem
like a small accomplishment, but I will
tell you, the chicken farmers of Dela-
ware and Georgia are grateful.
Each of us comes here to represent
our State. In the travels I have under-
taken with JOHNNY, I saw a remarkable
passion and commitment to his home
State, which has made him such a
great legislator. There are so many
other things we legislated on, but I
know we have literally half the Senate
waiting to speak. Let me move.
The other joy I have had with JOHN-
NY, which has been at the other end of
our decade together—he is the chair-
man and I am the advocacy chairman
of the Ethics Committee. It is a very
tough committee. We handle difficult
subjects. JOHNNY runs it well and will
be deeply missed. We are joined here by
many of the staff of the Ethics Com-
mittee, the folks who have seen his
common sense, his humor, his decency,
but also his focus on getting to a re-
sult. For me, it has been just another
opportunity to see how JOHNNY ISAK-
SON lives his values.
We have joined together almost every
Wednesday morning at a bipartisan
prayer breakfast, and JOHNNY has
taught Sunday school for three decades
at Mount Zion United Methodist.
Those of us who have gotten to know
the blessing of his humor, decency, and
his common sense and his attitude—ev-
eryone who is a friend or future friend
knows that it is rooted in his connec-
tion with the Eternal.
JOHNNY said something important
here just a few minutes ago: America,
we have a problem. It is my hope that
after today’s good, brave, important
speeches, that some of us will step for-
ward and take up the best way to honor
JOHNNY, which is to model and mimic
his style, listening to each other, re-
specting each other, committing to
practice a brand of politics that is a
little less combative and a little more
focused on results, and finding ways to
trust each other and to work together.
In some ways, JOHNNY’s best work
has been his tireless, relentless work
on behalf of our veterans. As I heard
said: The best way to honor our vet-
erans is to be the sort of Americans for
whom they fought and served. This
Senate, this body needs to step forward
and be worthy of the service and sac-
rifice of JOHNNY ISAKSON.
JOHNNY, I can’t thank you enough for
all the ways you have been an amazing
partner and colleague on issues large
and small. Your kindness and friend-
ship has meant the world to Annie and
me. As you and Dianne go home to
enjoy the blessings of family, know
that I will always look forward to an-
other visit to Georgia or Delaware, and
I am always up for another trip to an
obscure country that hasn’t seen two
American Senators in 50 years.
Thank you for your service, and God
bless.
Mr. SHELBY. Madam President,
today I am honored to congratulate my
friend and colleague, Senator JOHNNY
ISAKSON on his retirement from the
U.S. Senate after 15 years of dedicated
service. Senator ISAKSON served the
State of Georgia and the entire Nation
with integrity, inspiring future genera-
tions through his public service. He has
led a remarkable career, and he will be
truly missed in the Senate. I am proud
to know JOHNNY, and I wish him and
his wife, Dianne, all the best in his
retirement.
Mr. WARNER. Madam President, I
want to thank the gentleman from
Georgia for allowing me to participate
in this colloquy and pay tribute to his
remarkable career of public service.
I think you could ask anyone in this
Chamber, Republican or Democrat,
what they think of JOHNNY ISAKSON,
and you probably get the same answer
every time: He is a gentleman and a
statesman, somebody who knows how
to find common ground and under-
stands why that is still important.
Sometimes, it was the little things—a
bipartisan barbeque to just get Sen-
ators in the same room for a few min-
utes. As a chairman he brought folks
together on one of the few remaining
pieces of bipartisan territory: caring
for our veterans.
Even on issues that often divide us,
JOHNNY has spent his career looking for
ways to get to yes, and he has a track
record to prove it, particularly on the
issue of healthcare. This is an issue
that JOHNNY approaches from a place of
deep knowledge but also deep empathy.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:32 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03DE6.023 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6807
December 3, 2019
One of my proudest moments in the
Senate was working with Senator ISAK-
SON, along with Senator Hatch, Sen-
ator WYDEN, and others, on improving
care for the millions of Americans with
multiple chronic illnesses. As many of
you know, this is pretty personal for
me. My mom had Alzheimer’s for 10
years before she passed away; 9 of those
she couldn’t speak.
Working with JOHNNY on that Chron-
ic Care Working Group—you knew he
wasn’t just transacting business or
playing politics; he was personally in-
vested in making life better for folks
with these conditions.
I can’t think of a better testament to
the JOHNNY ISAKSON way than the fact
that just a couple months after one of
the toughest fights to ever take place
over healthcare, we passed the Chronic
Care Act on an overwhelmingly bipar-
tisan basis.
A lot of people in politics can tell
you what they are against, but not
many people can show you what they
have accomplished. And as JOHNNY
ISAKSON heads home to Georgia, he
leaves behind a legacy of bipartisan ac-
complishment that will live on for
many years to come.
JOHNNY, I want to wish you, Dianne,
and your family health and happiness.
In closing, I just want to say thank
you for your years of service to our
country and for your years of friend-
ship.
Mr. COTTON. Madam President, I
join my colleagues in recognizing Sen-
ator JOHNNY ISAKSON for a lifetime of
service and achievement, from the
Georgia Air National Guard, to the
Georgia Legislature, and finally to
Congress.
Georgians know JOHNNY as a trail-
blazer, a proud Republican in a State
that was once solidly Democratic.
Americans know him as a friend to vet-
erans and taxpayers, a strong conserv-
ative who loves and fights for his coun-
try. Those of us in this body know
JOHNNY as a leader, a man of great in-
tegrity, and a statesman whose legacy
will last a very long time.
We are sad to see you go, but proud of
what you built while you were here.
Thanks, JOHNNY, for your work on be-
half of our country and the State of
Georgia.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President,
one thing I am always going to remem-
ber about JOHNNY ISAKSON is that with
every conversation with him, he al-
ways included some words of encour-
agement for the work that I am in-
volved in or how we are working to-
gether. I think you saw that in his re-
marks today, that he wants to encour-
age all of us. In this town of Wash-
ington, DC, where a lot of people think
that they are the most important per-
son in the room, JOHNNY ISAKSON is
known instead for his unassuming
manner. He is unfailingly kind and
considerate to Senators and staff alike,
and I think I expressed that in my first
statement about his giving encour-
aging words in almost every conversa-
tion one has with him.
In fact, my staff told me a story
wherein Senator ISAKSON came to the
Senate Committee on Finance when I
was previously the chairman, and he
asked to speak to a member of my tax
staff. The staff assistant didn’t recog-
nize Senator ISAKSON. When asked who
he was, he simply said, ‘‘Senator ISAK-
SON.’’ It was not until after my tax
staff came out that he realized that it
was Senator ISAKSON himself.
Throughout my Senate career, it is
safe to say that when it comes to me,
all roads lead to Iowa. For JOHNNY, it
is no exception. JOHNNY has close
friendships with the famous Knapp
family of Des Moines, IA. In fact, the
Knapp family is known all throughout
Iowa. Now, you are probably thinking:
How in the world does a southern boy
from Georgia get acquainted with
Iowans? Well, for JOHNNY, a common
answer is the golf course. That is where
he first became friends with the Knapp
brothers, Paul and Bill. In fact, JOHNNY
delivered the eulogy at Paul’s funeral
in 2008. Paul and Carol, his wife, were
friends of the ISAKSONS for more than
two decades. Bill, Paul’s brother, is a
senior statesman of the Democratic
Party of Iowa. Partisan glasses will not
fool commonsense Iowans, particularly
when it comes to JOHNNY’s charm and
heart. JOHNNY reminds me that he was
the first Republican who Bill Knapp
ever supported.
I guess, JOHNNY, you beat me to the
punch on that one.
JOHNNY said today that Iowa pro-
duces some of the finest people he
knows, but I say today that Georgia
produces very fine people as well. At
the top of my list is JOHNNY ISAKSON.
JOHNNY brings a smile to each person
he encounters when he walks the halls
of the Senate. As a result, he will be
greatly missed by everyone. That in-
cludes me and our fellow colleagues. It
also includes a lot of people who don’t
get much attention around the Senate,
the young staffers who answer the
phones and the support staff who do
things like cleaning the bathrooms.
JOHNNY is always interested in how you
are doing and has a word of encourage-
ment to share, the same sort of encour-
agement he gives me in every con-
versation.
We have heard it before, but I haven’t
said it; he is a workhorse, not a show
horse. No one can doubt JOHNNY ISAK-
SON’s dedication to the people of Geor-
gia and the United States, not to men-
tion our country’s veterans, where he
has worked very hard as a member of
that committee and as the chairman of
that committee to bring justice to our
veterans and to keep our promises to
those veterans.
JOHNNY ISAKSON is a true public serv-
ant. I am proud to have served with
him, and I am proud of the work he has
done on the Committee on Finance,
which I chair.
Now, JOHNNY, I am sorry to see you
go, but I wish you and Dianne, your
wife, the best as you step back from
public life.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Washington.
Mrs. MURRAY. Madam President, I
am so glad to have the chance to be
here today to recognize Senator JOHN-
NY ISAKSON. He is a dedicated public
servant to the people of Georgia and is
a dear friend of mine here in the Sen-
ate. I am pretty sure every single per-
son here in the U.S. Senate building
would say the same.
I have had the good fortune to have
been office neighbors with Senator
ISAKSON for several years now, and like
any good neighbor, Senator ISAKSON
has made it very clear that his door is
always open whenever I need someone
to help work out a problem, to swap
stories, or to just share a laugh. Over
the years, in working together and in
walking together to the Senate floor,
we have managed to take a lot of steps
to help the families and the veterans
back in our States and across the coun-
try.
I remember back when Senator
ALEXANDER and I were working to re-
place No Child Left Behind, and I kept
telling him that early childhood edu-
cation just had to be a part of this.
After I pushed and pushed and pushed,
Senator ALEXANDER finally said to me:
OK. Go talk with JOHNNY. If you two
can work something out, I will accept
it in the committee.
I knew right then and there that we
were in business because I knew Sen-
ator ISAKSON was someone who really
cared about early childhood education
and who also knew how to work with
people across the aisle. He understands
not everyone is going to have the same
ideas, but he listens to other people. He
respects their views, and he works so
hard to find common ground so as to
pass something that can actually help
our families, and that is exactly what
happened there. When the Every Stu-
dent Succeeds Act was signed into law,
it included a strong focus on early
childhood education, thanks to the ef-
forts of JOHNNY ISAKSON, and I so ap-
preciate that.
It is also exactly what happened
when I worked with Senator ISAKSON to
pass support for military caregivers.
Throughout that process, every time
there was something that tried to de-
rail it, Senator ISAKSON was right
there, working with me to get things
back on track, because he understood
it was not about politics; it was about
people. It was about the spouses and
the family members who stepped up to
make sure our servicemembers had the
support they needed no matter what.
That is something that has been
clear on every issue Senator ISAKSON
has worked on. He has always known
the people behind the words of legisla-
tion. He has always understood how
personal the work is that we do here
for our families back home.
That has possibly never been clearer
than it was last year when we worked
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:32 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03DE6.006 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6808 December 3, 2019
on legislation in the HELP Committee
to respond to the opioid epidemic. Sen-
ator ISAKSON spoke up throughout that
process about the loss of his own
grandson, a victim of the opioid crisis.
He shared his family’s story in the
hope it would help other families who
struggle with the disease of addiction
so that they would seek and find help.
I have no doubt that, because of your
work, they did.
As usual, the bill that we passed was
stronger thanks to Senator ISAKSON’s
efforts and thanks to the perspective
he brought that always kept families
top of mind.
Now, of course, Senator ISAKSON
hasn’t just brought an important per-
spective to the Senate but a distinctive
voice. A few years ago, we worked to-
gether to update our country’s work-
force training programs. The bill that
we passed represented years—and I
mean years—of bipartisan effort and
was an important step forward for
workers in our country.
I remember heading back to our of-
fices after the bill passed. I said how
excited I was to finally get this done,
and Senator ISAKSON said:
Me, too. I was grinning like a mule eating
Breyers.
Well, we don’t have charming phrases
like that in the State of Washington,
so I am certainly going to miss those.
Yet colorful sayings aren’t the only
reason Senator ISAKSON’s words have
always been so notable.
The real reason is, when JOHNNY
ISAKSON gives you his word, you know
he is going to keep it. Some people will
say something to you just to get you
out of the way or it is said without
their really meaning it. Senator ISAK-
SON never did that. When he said, ‘‘I am
going to get this done,’’ you knew it
would get done. Just as he kept his
word to me so many times, I think it is
safe to say, as he leaves the Senate,
that he kept his word to the people of
Georgia.
His No. 1 priority has never been to
get the most coverage on Sunday talk
shows or to start political fights. In-
stead, his legacy will be that when he
came into these halls every day, he
came in with the people of Georgia in
his head and in his heart and that he
did the absolute best he could do, each
day, to make their lives better.
I am so grateful I have been able to
work with him throughout our time to-
gether here in the Senate, and I know
so many families are grateful, as well,
for the tremendous work he has accom-
plished. I am going to miss having a
friend like JOHNNY ISAKSON across the
aisle and down the hall from me.
JOHNNY, as you head home to Dianne
and your family and the State that you
love so much and the State that you
have done so much for, I hope, when
you think back on all of the work you
have done, you will still grin like a
mule eating Breyers. Thank you so
much.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Kansas.
Mr. ROBERTS. Madam President, I
am honored to pay tribute to JOHNNY
ISAKSON. I don’t know how I could top
anything that has been mentioned by
Senator PERDUE and, especially, Sen-
ator COONS—Senator CHRIS COONS has
given us a charge to follow JOHNNY’s
example—and Senator GRASSLEY and
now Senator MURRAY and everybody
who will follow me.
I have a problem. I did all of this on
Veterans Day. I tried to point out that
his committee has passed 57 bills. I
don’t know of any other committee
that has done that on behalf of the peo-
ple who wear the uniform of the United
States—who do so much on our be-
half—and, more especially, for the VA
and what that is all about. There has
never been a better chairman than
JOHNNY ISAKSON. I said all of that. I
also said, in this body, there are those
who choose ideology and partisan
issues while JOHNNY is someone who
works with his colleagues to pass legis-
lation that benefits not only our Na-
tion’s veterans but every American’s
pocketbook and daily life.
The reason I just sort of read through
that is that we have just had lunch
wherein nearly every Senator was in
attendance with the exception of those
who are running for President, and
they would have liked to have been
there. By my count, there were seven
standing ovations—seven. Each Mem-
ber, both of the leaders, and the people
who have served with JOHNNY either as
a minority member or as a chairman
gave their amazing tributes to this
wonderful man.
Isn’t it amazing that in this very dif-
ficult time in the Senate, when the bar
of civility is about forehead high—you
don’t want to run into it here—that
here is a man who has given us a way
out? I have never seen that before.
JOHNNY has had, I think, 50 years of
public service. I have him beat if you
add in staff time and 40 years of public
service—by the way, of being elected 24
to 0. I have never seen such an out-
pouring of affection and genuine admi-
ration for an individual, be he a Mem-
ber of the House or the Senate, as was
experienced at this lunch.
It was CHRIS COONS who, during his
tribute, said: Why don’t we use this as
a wonderful way to see if we can get
past all of the trials and tribulations
that we have gone through in the Sen-
ate and work together for a change?
People talked about, when they had
come to the Senate, that it wasn’t this
way. Actually, it was. Yet we look very
fondly upon the past. So I hope that
people can take CHRIS’s challenge to
heart.
It is a pretty easy deal. JOHNNY
knows it by heart, for that is who he is;
yet, if a person or a group of people or
Senators in this body love to come
down here and make speech after
speech—in many cases, they are very
partisan, and many of the younger
Members do this—I give them that. I
mean, that is their right. I remember,
in the early days when I was in the
House, that I did that a couple of times
and then was talked to by some of the
senior Members who said: We don’t do
that here in order to get along, espe-
cially in the all-powerful House Agri-
culture Committee and now the Senate
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry
Committee. We always work together
because we are nonpartisan on that
committee.
So you ignore that. Then, if you real-
ly do take the time to know that indi-
vidual, as opposed to the individual
you have seen on the floor, you will
find out this is a person who is very in-
teresting. You will find out this is a
person worth knowing. You will find
out that you have common ground.
You will find out that you can get a
vote for them in order for them to vote
for the farm bill or for a veterans’ pro-
gram or for any other thing.
So I think that is the example that
JOHNNY has set. I don’t know if there is
anything more I can add after seven
standing ovations and obviously many,
many people actually telling the truth
about you. I know, JOHNNY, it must be
a little much for you. Frankly, I am
getting a little tired of it.
I would just like to say what I said
back then when I was speaking of your
tremendous success as chairman of the
Veterans’ Affairs Committee when I
said: ‘‘JOHNNY, thank you for your
service; now thank you for your mes-
sage; now thank you for being simply
who you are.’’ And I said: ‘‘Senators
eventually come and Senators go.’’
I do not think we will see the likes of
Senator JOHNNY ISAKSON for years to
come. We love you. I love you. I will
miss you greatly. Thank you for your
fortitude and courage in fighting Par-
kinson’s as an example to so many.
Semper fi, my dear friend.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Vermont.
Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, it
really is a privilege to join with so
many of my Senate friends in honoring
the service of Senator JOHNNY ISAKSON.
I would also say to Senator ISAKSON:
Isn’t it nice to hear all of these won-
derful things while you are alive and
can be enjoying it?
I have had the privilege of serving
with 391 U.S. Senators. I respect the of-
fice they hold, but some of those 391 I
respect not just for the office but for
who they are.
JOHNNY ISAKSON stands out among
the 391 because of who he is: a lifelong
Georgian through and through, born
and raised in Atlanta. As we have
heard from others, he went on to serve
in the Georgia Air National Guard and
had a wildly successful career in real
estate in his home State.
It was a call to service that led him
to seek opportunities to represent his
fellow Georgians in the State legisla-
ture, in the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, and, to the benefit of every sin-
gle Senator in both parties, ultimately,
here in the U.S. Senate.
I have seen him, as chairman of the
Veterans’ Affairs Committee, fight for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:09 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03DE6.027 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6809
December 3, 2019
our Nation’s servicemembers. He tried
to make our system of care for our vet-
erans more efficient, higher quality,
and most importantly widely acces-
sible.
The VA MISSION Act was a wonder-
ful signature accomplishment of Sen-
ator ISAKSON’s tenure on the Veterans’
Affairs Committee. But his commit-
ment to our nation’s veterans extends
far beyond healthcare. He was a key
leader of the Forever GI Bill, which
made GI bill benefits available to vet-
erans at any time in their career, with-
out expiration.
As I said, I hold in my mind a very
special group of the 391 Senators I have
served with. JOHNNY, you know you are
in that very, very special group. I re-
member when I first came to the Sen-
ate in the wake of Watergate, I spent
time cultivating bipartisan relation-
ships that might help my advocacy for
Vermonters and for the Nation.
I forged relationships with Senators
with whom I had strong differences of
opinion, but with whom I could find
common ground. I valued the partner-
ship of Members who, when they gave
their word, they kept it. That is why I
value Senator ISAKSON. He is a Senator
in that mold whom I looked up to the
most when I first came here. He re-
flects the best of those Senators of
both parties, who, over the decades,
have shaped my knowledge of this
body.
He is a public servant devoted to his
constituents, devoted to his country,
devoted to this Chamber. The Senate
needs more people like JOHNNY ISAK-
SON.
I know that he and Dianne will wel-
come the calmer days that lie ahead of
them, but the Senate is going to miss
him and his efforts to promote biparti-
sanship. I have even learned to like
Georgian barbecue, which I never had
before I met JOHNNY ISAKSON. I also
like the good spirit he brought with
him and the fact that he had Repub-
licans and Democrats across the polit-
ical spectrum sitting and enjoying each
other’s company, enjoying the example
of JOHNNY ISAKSON.
JOHNNY, as I have told you privately,
I am sad to see you leave, but I so
value our friendship.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maine.
Ms. COLLINS. Madam President, the
State motto of Georgia is ‘‘Wisdom,
Justice, and Moderation.’’ Those three
words aptly describe Senator JOHNNY
ISAKSON’s more than four decades of
service to the people of Georgia and to
our Nation.
He has indeed served with wisdom,
justice, and moderation, setting an ex-
ample for all of us.
I would add to that description that
JOHNNY is extraordinarily effective and
beloved on both sides of the aisle. His
life of public service is characterized
not only by his extraordinary integ-
rity, intelligence, and statesmanship
but also by his kindness to everyone.
As was mentioned several times at
our luncheon honoring JOHNNY today,
if ever there were a poll held in the
Senate to determine the most popular
Senator, he would win, hands down.
It has been such a pleasure and honor
to serve with this remarkable leader on
issues ranging from supporting re-
search and cures for rare pediatric dis-
eases to improving education. JOHNNY
is always thoughtful, informed, and de-
termined to achieve a result to make a
difference.
As a veteran himself, and as chair-
man of the Veterans’ Affairs Com-
mittee, JOHNNY has led the way in re-
forming veterans’ healthcare to make
the VA more responsive to those who
have served. What a wonderful legacy
to leave, to know that you have been
responsible for improving healthcare
for those who have worn the uniform of
our country.
JOHNNY, as we have heard today, has
always sought common ground rather
than partisan advantage. I thought it
was so telling, as I listened to his fare-
well remarks today, that JOHNNY did
not take the time to list his own legis-
lative accomplishments, even though
they are so impressive and so numer-
ous.
Instead, he posed a challenge to us.
He called on us to put aside the petty
bickering that has prevented progress
in America. He called upon us to work
together. He reminded us that we
achieve the best legislation when we
sit down and negotiate with one an-
other, when we listen with respect to
each other. Those were his final words
to us as a U.S. Senator.
I have had so many wonderful experi-
ences with JOHNNY, whether it was
working on legislation or having an in-
formal dinner, but perhaps the most
memorable experience occurred this
past June on a bipartisan codel that
JOHNNY led to France to commemorate
the 75th anniversary of D-day.
It was a privilege to join him in hon-
oring the American heroes who began
the liberation of Europe from Nazi tyr-
anny.
JOHNNY, I thank you for your service
but, most of all, for your friendship.
You have indeed set an example of ci-
vility and bipartisanship that everyone
who serves in this great institution
should emulate.
I wish you and your wonderful wife
Dianne, whom I enjoy so much, all the
best, and I want to tell you that I will
always miss your friendly greeting,
your big smile, and your even bigger
heart.
Thank you for all you have done.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Illinois.
Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I am
honored to stand and join tributes to
JOHNNY ISAKSON. A lawyer from
Springfield once gave a pretty famous
speech, and it was only 275 words long.
This speech may be a little longer, but
I don’t believe a speech has to be eter-
nal to be immortal. So I will try, in
just a few words, to say what I feel in
my heart this moment as you are pre-
paring to leave the U.S. Senate.
Your heart is good, and I know that
because I saw something on the floor of
the Senate today. Your relationship
and your comments about your friend
JOHN LEWIS were so genuine and so
heartfelt, and the fact that you would
point to a photograph taken of the two
of you embracing one another as one of
the signature photographs of your ca-
reer in public service tells me a lot
about you, JOHNNY ISAKSON.
Our lives have been led along the
same path. We know how many
changes there have been in America
during the course of our lives and how
many more we need to be even better
in the future. JOHN LEWIS was one of
the real leaders in our Nation who led
us all to look very closely at the issue
of race and the issue of civil rights. It
was painful, many times unpopular.
For his heroic work, he was given the
Presidential Medal of Freedom, and he
deserved it more than anyone I can
think of. The fact that he counts you
as a friend and comes over here for
your farewell address and that you
would embrace him and announce that
to the United States and the world,
tells me your heart is good, JOHNNY
ISAKSON. That simple experience tells
me that.
The other thing I know is that your
word is good. It was 2 years ago when
we had a debate on the floor of the Sen-
ate about a measure that means quite
a bit to me, the Dream Act—the idea
that young immigrants brought to this
country would have a chance to be-
come part of America’s future. I
worked on that legislation for 19 years,
so I remember when people voted with
me on the Dream Act, and you voted
with me. It wasn’t easy 2 years ago.
Immigration was not a popular thing,
but you stood up, and when I went to
you afterward and thanked you, you
said it was the right thing to do. I will
never forget that. It told me that your
word is good, and your heart is good.
And, finally, let me tell you, you
have struggled with affliction, illness,
and you have done most of it very
openly so that people with similar
challenges in life can watch as you live
through this challenging experience.
All of us can remember moments
here when you were willing yourself to
come to this floor, to that chair, to
cast your vote. I have never seen cour-
age like that. Your determination will
stick with me forever.
Now you are going to have some time
for yourself with your family, Dianne,
and others and have some relaxing
time together, but I am going to miss
you. I am going to miss you as a spe-
cial colleague whose heart was right,
whose word is good, and his courage
was there for all of us to see.
Thanks, JOHNNY. I wish you the best.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Wyoming.
Mr. ENZI. Madam President, I have
had the pleasure of serving in the Sen-
ate alongside JOHNNY ISAKSON for close
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:09 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03DE6.029 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6810 December 3, 2019
to 15 years, and it has been a privilege
to work and join with him on a number
of legislative efforts, but, more impor-
tantly, JOHNNY is the big brother I
never had, whom I aspired to be like. I
will never have the speaking ability he
does, but he is a brother because al-
though we grew up across the country
from each other, we shared many expe-
riences that shaped our formative
years and continue to influence our
work in the Senate. We both served in
the Air National Guard; we both were
in business before entering politics;
and we both were Sunday school teach-
ers. Even our spouses, Dianne and
Diana, have similar names. We both
served in the State legislature before
we came here.
Besides his speaking ability, there
are many things I will never match.
JOHNNY served in the Georgia legisla-
ture for 17 years, beginning in 1974.
After serving as the chairman of the
Georgia Board of Education for 2 years,
he was elected to the House of Rep-
resentatives in 1999 and then to the
U.S. Senate in 2004.
Throughout his time in both the
State and Federal legislatures, JOHNNY
was nothing short of a pioneer in the
State of Georgia. He was the first Geor-
gian ever to be elected to both Houses
of the Georgia State legislature and
both Houses of Congress. He is the first
Republican in Georgia to be elected to
a third term in the U.S. Senate, and he
is the only Republican Senator cur-
rently serving as the chair of two com-
mittees at the same time.
Now, despite these tremendous
achievements, JOHNNY never lost sight
of what was important and remains
committed to legislation that is impor-
tant to the folks in Georgia and across
the country.
I remember when I was chairman of
the Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions Committee, there was a mine ac-
cident in West Virginia. Senator KEN-
NEDY, who was the ranking member,
and I decided to go down there to take
a look, and Senator ISAKSON asked if he
could come along. We went down, and
we talked to the safety inspectors; we
talked to the mine owners; and, most
importantly, we talked to the families
of the men who had been trapped in
this mine. We learned the story of how
coal mining had been decreasing over
the years, so the people who sell the
safety equipment quit inventing the
safety equipment because they never
had the market for it. Consequently,
when coal mining started coming back
up again, the equipment wasn’t in
place for it. We found out what was
needed, but JOHNNY was the real sales-
man for it. He has a picture of one of
the family members. He carried that
picture with him everywhere, and any-
time the subject of mine safety came
up, he brought that picture out so ev-
erybody could see a real person—there
it is—a real person whom we were try-
ing to provide for the future and see
that accidents didn’t happen.
I also had the pleasure of working
with JOHNNY on the Senate Finance
Committee. We passed the Tax Cuts
and Jobs Act, which reformed Amer-
ica’s Tax Code for the first time in 30
years, and gave hard-working families
more choices about how their hard-
earned money should be used. We were
both businessowners in the private sec-
tor before entering politics and under-
stand the burden that heavy taxes and
Federal regulations can place on fami-
lies and businesses. His expertise and
insight was invaluable when the Com-
mittee was considering this historic
piece of legislation, and instrumental
in helping it become law.
Throughout his time in the Senate,
JOHNNY remained committed to ending
reckless Federal spending and reining
in out-of-control national debt. This is
an issue we cannot ignore anymore. It
is a focus of mine as chairman of the
Budget Committee. Senator ISAKSON
has repeatedly introduced the biennial
Budgeting Appropriations Act, which
would take concrete, serious steps to-
ward fixing our appropriations process.
It has been a pleasure to work with a
friend who understands how dire our
situation is and has a commitment to
finding lasting solutions that will not
only secure a better future for today
but also for generations to come.
JOHNNY understood that the United
States owes all its servicemembers,
veterans, and families a great debt of
gratitude for their service and sacrifice
they have made. He knew our country
would not be the Nation it is today
without those who are willing to give
so much of themselves. JOHNNY took
those values to heart as chairman of
the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs and enacted policies that signifi-
cantly improved the lives of our most
vulnerable veterans.
He was instrumental in the passage
of the MISSION Act, which took sig-
nificant steps toward reforming vet-
erans’ healthcare through the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs. Senator
ISAKSON truly understood that military
service requires sacrifices not only for
the servicemember but of the entire
family. He ensured that those who gave
so much for their country received not
only the benefits they deserve but
knowledge that those efforts in pro-
tecting their homeland did not go
unappreciated.
Probably most important, though, is
that JOHNNY is a man of faith. Despite
the tremendous achievements, he never
lost sight of what truly matters and
never wavered in his commitment to
God and to do what is right. My mother
used to tell me: Do what is right, do
what is best, and treat others as they
wish to be treated. JOHNNY lives by
these words and never forgets why he is
here, which is to represent and serve
the people of Georgia and the United
States to the best of his ability.
I am deeply saddened that JOHNNY
will be leaving us soon. His experience,
knowledge, and friendship will surely
be missed as you can tell from the
speeches here so far today.
Diana and I send our best wishes and
appreciation to JOHNNY and Dianne. We
wish them all the best as they take
time to spend with their children,
grandchildren, and great-grand-
children. Together they have been
great examples of the importance of
public service. We wish them the best
in whatever adventure they choose to
pursue next. God bless you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island.
Mr. REED. Madam President, I join
my colleagues honoring Senator JOHN-
NY ISAKSON of Georgia who is retiring
from this body. He is a dear friend and
a great example of a great Senator.
JOHNNY and I have worked together
on a number of public health priorities.
I had the privilege of serving with
JOHNNY on the Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions Committee. We
forged a shared commitment to im-
proving public health, from cancer pre-
vention to better surveillance of neuro-
logical diseases, from strengthening
regulations of indoor tanning devices
to improving trauma care. JOHNNY has
the privilege of representing the Cen-
ters for Disease Control and Preven-
tion, CDC headquarters in Atlanta, GA,
made up of some of the greatest profes-
sionals in the healthcare field across
the globe. He has always been a fear-
less advocate for the CDC and its staff,
and the critical work being done by the
CDC. He has always been a fierce advo-
cate for all of his constituents in Geor-
gia.
During our time on the HELP Com-
mittee, we developed a partnership
while working on skin cancer preven-
tion. We spent many years advancing
legislation to require improved label-
ing on indoor tanning beds to better re-
flect their dangers. We also worked
hard to make sure there was disclosure
of the ingredients in sunscreens, and
we were proud to see signed into law in
2014 the Sunscreen Innovation Act. It
was a work JOHNNY led with such dis-
tinction.
Building on that skin cancer preven-
tion and other preventive health meas-
ures, JOHNNY is, again, a fierce advo-
cate for improving the health of chil-
dren, particularly children with cancer.
I was so proud to work with JOHNNY on
the Conquer Childhood Cancer Act and
later the Childhood Cancer Survivor-
ship, Treatment, Access, and Research
Act, the STAR Act, tremendously ben-
efiting children who have cancer. That
goes, I think, to JOHNNY keeping his
commitment to doing the right thing,
doing it well, and helping the most vul-
nerable in this country.
As mentioned, JOHNNY has been on
the veterans’ committee and has
chaired that committee since 2015. He
is a veteran himself, a veteran of the
Georgia Air National Guard from 1966
to 1972. He has done significant work
for veterans and, as a veteran, I thank
Senator ISAKSON.
He was instrumental in passing the
VA MISSION Act, critical legislation
that enhances the ability of com-
prehensive caregivers to assist vet-
erans. Further, after the VA MISSION
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:09 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03DE6.031 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6811
December 3, 2019
Act, he has been working so hard, and
he was also able to pass—and I was
proud to work with him—the Harry W.
Colmery Veterans Educational Assist-
ance Act. This is known as the Forever
GI Bill because it made critical im-
provements to the GI bill, but most im-
portant is the law ends the 15-year
limit on the use of GI bill benefits, al-
lowing the use of those benefits
throughout the lifetime of the recipi-
ent. He has been an extraordinary lead-
er, doing so much.
I wish Senator ISAKSON, his wife
Dianne, and his entire family well. Fi-
nally, what I want to say is, the true
measure of an individual is not the sum
of their legislative achievements,
JOHNNY has had many of those; not po-
litical victories, JOHNNY has had many
of those; not success in any one realm
of any endeavor, public or private; the
true test of an individual is the sum of
their kindnesses, of what they have
done for and with other people. By that
measure, no one surpasses the gen-
tleman from Georgia, and I thank him.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Tennessee.
Mr. ALEXANDER. Madam President,
I will bet Senator ISAKSON is a little bit
surprised that his farewell address
would produce such an eruption of bi-
partisan speeches, both in the luncheon
we just had for nearly 100 Senators—al-
most everybody was there, Democrats
and Republicans—and then the 50 or so
Senators who are going to speak on the
floor.
As I listened carefully to Senator
ISAKSON’s own remarks about biparti-
sanship, it kind of reminded me of the
preacher on Sunday talking to the con-
gregation saying: I am not so worried
about what you do during this 1 hour
during church. It is what you do be-
tween now and the next Sunday during
the 1 hour in church.
I think what JOHNNY Isakson is say-
ing is that the speeches about biparti-
sanship are honorable and good, but
what he would like to suggest to us is
that what we need to do is have a little
bit better behavior, follow those
speeches a little bit better between
now and the next time we have a group
of speeches.
JOHNNY learned a long time ago that
if all you want to do is take a position
or make a speech, you don’t need to go
to all the trouble to come to the U.S.
Senate. You can get a radio program or
get a street corner. If you want to
come to the U.S. Senate, you are sup-
posed to get something done.
I like to say to our constituents in
Tennessee that I encourage them to
look at Washington, DC, as if it were a
split-screen television set. On the one
side, you see where most people are
watching. You see impeachment,
tweets, and Supreme Court controver-
sies. On the other side, where very few
probably watch, you see Senators like
JOHNNY ISAKSON working to pass an
opioids bill or Senators working to pay
songwriters a fair amount for what
they do or Appropriations members
working to set a record, as Senator
BLUNT and Senator MURRAY have, for
example, in terms of funding for bio-
medical research. All of that is on the
side of the television screen where
JOHNNY ISAKSON has spent most of his
15 years.
Senator MURRAY of Washington, dur-
ing her remarks, talked very accu-
rately about what happened in 2015
when we were working on fixing No
Child Left Behind. That was not easy
to do. Working on legislation to try to
set rules for elementary and secondary
education is like being at a University
of Tennessee football game, where you
have 100,000 people in the stands, all of
whom know what the next play ought
to be, and when the coach doesn’t call
it, they have an opinion about that.
Well, everybody has had a little edu-
cation, and so they had a lot to say
about how we would fix No Child Left
Behind. Finally, we just ground to a
halt over preschool education and what
the Federal role ought to be. Senator
MURRAY felt very strongly about it. As
she said, she is a former kindergarten
teacher. So I stepped back and said:
Why don’t you and Senator ISAKSON sit
down and see if you can come up with
a solution, and if you do, we will take
that.
They did. They presented it to us. We
took it. It went in the bill, and Presi-
dent Obama signed the law called No
Child Left Behind and called it a
Christmas miracle.
The same thing happened on the
Workforce Investment Act. Again, Sen-
ator MURRAY and Senator ISAKSON sat
down and worked together to solve a
problem that the rest of us couldn’t
solve.
Senator REED, who just spoke,
worked with JOHNNY on sunscreen;
Senator TESTER worked with JOHNNY
to make it easier for veterans to get
care nearer their home; Senator CASEY
from Pennsylvania—all these Demo-
crats—working with Senator ISAKSON
on the most important piece of legisla-
tion to govern the sale of over-the-
counter drugs, which I hope the Senate
will adopt either this week or next
week.
All of that was done not because
these Senators gave up their principles
or not because they were not good ne-
gotiators. I think JOHNNY would say
Senator MURRAY is as tough a nego-
tiator you will find in the U.S. Senate.
But the difference is they also under-
stood that we are here to get results—
not just to take a position, not just to
make a speech, but to see if we can get
a result.
That is why Senator ISAKSON has had
so many Senators praise him today, be-
cause he understands that it is hard to
get here, it is hard to stay here, and
while you are here, you might as well
try to accomplish something for the
country. JOHNNY ISAKSON knows it is
hard to get here. He started in 1974. He
lost his first race. Then he was on the
ballot 20 times. He won 18 of those
times. He knows it is hard to stay here.
A year before he ran for reelection this
last time, he announced that he has
Parkinson’s disease.
JOHNNY ISAKSON has legislated, as
has been mentioned, with his heart.
When we worked on skin cancer, he
talked about his skin cancer. When we
worked on the Opioids Response Act,
he talked about his family’s loss be-
cause of an opioid overdose. And he has
not been afraid to stick his neck out.
There was a time during the Atlanta
Olympics when one of the county com-
missions passed a bill saying: Gays are
not welcome at the Olympics. Senator
ISAKSON said—he was not a Senator
then—‘‘The Bill of Rights does not
have an asterisk in it. The Bill of
Rights is for everyone.’’
And as his comments about JOHN
LEWIS would reflect, JOHNNY ISAKSON
was willing to speak out for civil rights
in the South when not everybody was.
I often think that members of the
U.S. Senate are generally men and
women who once sat in the front row of
their first grade class with their hand
up, hoping that the teacher would call
on them. These are not a reticent
bunch of men and women, and I am
sure JOHNNY ISAKSON sat on the front
row of his first grade class. But I am
also sure that he raised his hand and he
conducted himself and caused all of his
classmates to like him and admire him
and elect him as their leader, because
that has happened all throughout his
life.
The luncheon we had today was an
extraordinary event, a bipartisan occa-
sion. I do not remember anything like
it in my time here, just to honor a re-
tiring member of the Senate. And as
someone said, listening to the speeches
by the handful of Democrats and Re-
publicans who spoke, you would not
have known which party JOHNNY ISAK-
SON came from.
Our love for JOHNNY is great, but his
greater legacy is something else. What
is more important is that he, by his ex-
ample, has reminded us why we are
here, reminded us that if you are a U.S.
Senator, it is hard to get here, it is
hard to stay here, and while you are
here, you might as well try to accom-
plish something good for the country.
That is JOHNNY ISAKSON’s legacy, and
that is something we should be grateful
for and remember.
Madam President, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, I
join my colleagues in expressing our
genuine affection for JOHNNY ISAKSON.
This is surely a sad day as Senator
ISAKSON is leaving us as a member of
the U.S. Senate.
But frankly, his retirement from the
Senate has given us an opportunity to
recognize how fortunate each one of us
is to be a Member of the U.S. Senate
and that we can get things done if we
follow Senator ISAKSON’s recommenda-
tions and model to work together to
find common ground.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:32 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03DE6.032 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6812 December 3, 2019
One other thing that I will always re-
member about Senator ISAKSON is that
he has taught us that the Senate fam-
ily really is family and you can form
genuine friendships in the U.S. Senate
and it makes no difference your party
affiliation in forming those friendships.
I first got to know Senator ISAKSON
when he was Congressman ISAKSON. We
were both serving in the House of Rep-
resentatives. The House is a much larg-
er body, and we did not have the oppor-
tunity during those years we served to-
gether in the House to get to know
each another in a personal manner. But
when I was elected to the U.S. Senate
in January of 2007, it was Senator ISAK-
SON and Dianne that reached out to
Myrna and me to welcome us to the
Senate family.
It was not a one-time, let’s get to
know each other and try to understand
each other. We come from different
backgrounds and different States. We
have different religions. But he and
Dianne, Myrna and I, really wanted to
try to understand each other.
You heard Senator ISAKSON talk
about finding common ground. Well,
you cannot find common ground if you
do not know the other person you are
talking with. And Senator ISAKSON has
lived by example to develop that type
of genuine friendship with his col-
leagues, so that we can really under-
stand what our priorities are and how
we can find that common ground to get
things done.
So we have enjoyed a professional re-
lationship, but it has been a true
friendship. And as Senator ISAKSON has
said, the way to get things done is
through understanding what biparti-
sanship is about. Bipartisanship works,
as Senator ISAKSON has said many
times, to find common ground. And
Senator ISAKSON has lived by that ex-
ample throughout his whole life.
You have heard he is the only Geor-
gian to have served in the State House,
the State Senate, the U.S. House of
Representatives from Georgia, and the
U.S. Senate from Georgia, so he has
been the whole legislative route in the
State of Georgia.
But by using that approach of get-
ting to know each of us and spending
the time to become friends and finding
out what our priorities are all about
and be able to find common ground, he
has been able to accomplish an incred-
ible record of success for the people of
Georgia and our Nation.
Let me give some examples. You
have heard many of them, but I am
going to talk a little bit from a per-
sonal point of view. Yes, I had the dis-
tinction of serving on the Ethics Com-
mittee for a short period of time on one
case, and I got to see Senator ISAKSON
at work and how he defended the integ-
rity of this institution.
As I was listening to his leadership
during that deliberation, I had no idea
what party he belonged to in the way
that he conducted that investigation.
It was done with one thing in mind: to
protect the integrity of the institution
and to find common ground in order to
serve the institution right. He has a
deep respect for the U.S. Senate, he has
a deep respect for the legislative
branch of government, and he has dem-
onstrated that, over and over again, by
his leadership.
You have heard about his experiences
as chairman of the Veterans’ Affairs
Committee. Well, I had the opportunity
to travel with Senator ISAKSON to Nor-
mandy to celebrate the 75th anniver-
sary of D-Day, and I must tell you the
emotion of that moment as I saw Sen-
ator ISAKSON interact with our vet-
erans and saw that genuine way that
he connected to those who have served
our Nation.
You see, his presence was important,
his words were important, but he has
also shown his appreciation through
the deeds of what he has been able to
get accomplished. It has been pointed
out that the Veterans’ Affairs Com-
mittee under Senator ISAKSON’s leader-
ship has produced numerous bipartisan
bills to help our servicepeople.
We can mention maybe the one that
I am most proud that we were able to
get done is dealing with the healthcare
issues because the healthcare issues
were not fair to our veterans. Senator
ISAKSON was able to find common
ground in a very difficult environment
so that we could pass the appropriate
legislation, so that the members of the
armed services could get the
healthcare and our veterans could get
the healthcare that they so richly de-
serve.
I have had the chance to work with
Senator ISAKSON on the Senate Finance
Committee. We have worked together
to protect pensions for workers, an
area that is very important to all of us.
And we helped first-time home buyers.
I must tell you, Senator ISAKSON’s ex-
perience as a realtor helped us get
through that issue as to how we could
help a recovery at the time that the
economy was not doing well.
You see, Senator ISAKSON had taken
his experiences as a successful inde-
pendent real estate leader, president of
the largest company in the southeast,
to his responsibilities here in the U.S.
Senate, taking that business common
sense of what works in the community
to what can work here in the U.S. Sen-
ate.
We have worked together on the Sen-
ate Foreign Relations Committee. You
have heard the examples of what we
have been able to do in boosting trade
and development in Africa—the Global
Food Security Act, which helps starv-
ing people around the world. Very few,
if any, will ever know Senator ISAK-
SON’s name. Millions have been helped,
thanks to the leadership of this incred-
ible U.S. Senator. And you heard the
personal example of the Peace Corps,
how he went not only the extra mile,
but the extra tens of thousands of
miles to bring safety to those who vol-
unteer in the Peace Corps.
You have heard Senator ALEXANDER
and Senator MURRAY talk about the
Health Committee and work he has
done on education and health. I par-
ticularly appreciate the work on the
Workforce Innovation and Opportunity
Act, a critically important bill that,
again, has Senator ISAKSON’s motto
throughout.
He has been a champion for the peo-
ple of Georgia and the United States. I
particularly appreciated Senator ISAK-
SON’s reference to Congressman JOHN
LEWIS who was on the floor during Sen-
ator ISAKSON’s speech. Congressman
LEWIS and I came to the U.S. Congress
the same year; we were both elected to
Congress in 1987. We have been friends
ever since.
Senator ISAKSON is correct that Con-
gressman LEWIS is an icon of civil
rights. He says what he believes, and
he calls it the way it is. He is not going
to change. That is who Senator ISAK-
SON is as a person. And as JOHN LEWIS
said about Senator ISAKSON, ‘‘He did
not just talk the talk, he literally
walked the walk.’’
Over and over again, Senator ISAKSON
has been in the forefront in the civil
rights for all Americans.
So to my friend—and I mean a true
friend—we will miss you in the U.S.
Senate. It is a sad day because we
know we will not have the benefit of
your wisdom as a Member of the U.S.
Senate, but all of us are better off be-
cause of being given the opportunity to
serve with you in the U.S. Senate.
You said in your comments that you
want to come back to ring the bell
when we work together to promote the
values that made the U.S. Senate the
greatest deliberative body in the world.
Well, I am going to tell you, I believe
we will reach that day sooner because
of what Senator ISAKSON has done and
the example he has set for all of us. I
look forward to ringing that bell with
my friend.
With that, I yield floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
rise to join my colleagues today in
celebrating the distinguished career of
our friend, JOHNNY ISAKSON. It is a
great moment for all of us to talk
about our shared aspirations as rep-
resentatives of the American people, to
recognize the role that we play—that
all Americans play—in supporting our
country, and to celebrate some of our
successes. We have heard a lot about
Senator ISAKSON’s successes as a legis-
lator and maybe to shrug off a few of
our failures, but reaffirm our deter-
mination to make self-government
work.
The senior Senator from Georgia did
not set out to build a long, storied ca-
reer in politics, I am told, or even to
enter public service at all, for that
matter. After graduating from the Uni-
versity of Georgia, he began a 40-year
career in real estate. He opened a
branch of Northside Realty and would
later spend more than 20 years as that
company’s president.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:32 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03DE6.033 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6813
December 3, 2019
JOHNNY’s career in public service
began in a unique way. It was by win-
ning an election that he never entered.
He made the mistake of not showing up
at a meeting where he was selected as
a member of a new commission, as new
commission president, with the host of
zoning issues that riddled the commu-
nity, so that was JOHNNY’s first elec-
tion, as the new commission president
of the zoning commission.
Of course, in that position, you could
imagine he listened to his neighbors’
concerns, and he would work with the
commission to make improvements,
but the truth is, from that point on-
ward, JOHNNY was hooked. He went on
to serve in the State house, the State
senate, the U.S. House, and finally in
the U.S. Senate, as the first and only
Georgian to hold all four titles.
As we have heard—but it bears re-
peating—at each step, he never lost
sight of his most important responsi-
bility: to listen to his constituents and
to work every day to make their lives
just a little better.
Here in the Senate, I have had the
privilege, as we all have had, of work-
ing with JOHNNY on a number of bills
to empower our military, strengthen
American agriculture, and improve our
Nation’s healthcare, but I believe his
lasting legacy, the thing that perhaps
is the most important to my mind that
he should be very proud of—and I know
he is—is our collective work together
to support our Nation’s veterans.
JOHNNY is a veteran himself, and he
didn’t take the position as chairman of
the Veterans’ Affairs Committee light-
ly. He never stopped listening to Amer-
ica’s veterans or fighting to ensure
they have the services and the support
they have earned.
One of the seminal pieces of legisla-
tion that we passed thanks to JOHNNY’s
leadership was the VA MISSION Act,
which made significant reforms to the
Department of Veterans Affairs and
strengthened healthcare options for all
veterans. This was not an easy piece of
legislation to move through the legis-
lative process, which, as we all know,
under the Constitution and under the
way Congress works, essentially, the
system is dead set to defeat you, and
you have to find a way to navigate it in
a way to get things done, which is hard
work. But at every step, JOHNNY helped
guide this legislation from a bill that
looked good on paper to a law that has
made a real difference in the lives of
our veterans. He did what he does best;
that is, listened, learned, negotiated,
and built consensus between people
who had very different views of what
that law should look like. In the end, it
was because of his hard work and dedi-
cation that it passed and was signed
into law.
As great as his legislative impact has
been, his personal impact on all of us
has been immeasurable. During the
time I served as the Republican whip, I
had a chance to work with him most
often and saw how this soft-spoken
master operated.
Two years ago, we were working on
tax reform, and I remember one crucial
meeting at a luncheon conference we
had. We wanted to make sure every-
body was on the same page because we
knew that failure was not an option.
Our Members heard from colleagues
who were subject-matter experts, who
had been working on tax reform, but I
think the most encouraging words we
heard came from JOHNNY ISAKSON.
It reminds me of that old movie that
Ronald Reagan was in where the coach,
Knute Rockne, talked about an ailing
player, George Gipp. He talked about
winning one for the Gipper. Well, JOHN-
NY told us to win one for the Gipper
that day, and we all left excited, in-
spired, and eager to accomplish our
goals.
That meeting showed a lot about who
JOHNNY ISAKSON is. He is rarely the
loudest voice in the room, but when he
speaks, people listen. He isn’t the type
to pat himself on the back. He isn’t
afraid to work behind the scenes or let
his work go unnoticed in the press, and
he cares about getting results and re-
sults alone. He doesn’t care who gets
the credit.
I believe the reason JOHNNY ISAKSON
has been able to accomplish so much
here in the Senate—and he has—is be-
cause of his focus on building relation-
ships. In fact, as we have heard, you
would be hard-pressed to find somebody
more well-liked or well-respected by
folks on both sides of the aisle.
I think JOHNNY summed it up himself
pretty well recently when he said:
It’s about relationships. It’s about respect.
It’s about motivation, and it’s about getting
things done. So make friends. Be a friend,
and know how to be a friend. It makes all
the difference in the world. I am sure that is
true in life in general, but it is certainly true
in the U.S. Senate.
That is how our friend JOHNNY ISAK-
SON has gained the respect of every
Senator in this Chamber. He is a
straight shooter, a man of great integ-
rity, and an honest broker. He is not
just a nice guy by Washington, DC,
standards; he is a nice guy by any
standard.
I know our friend from Georgia is
sad, perhaps, to leave this Chamber,
and we are equally sad to bid him fare-
well. The Halls of Congress will not be
the same without JOHNNY ISAKSON.
I will personally miss those Wednes-
day mornings together at the Senate
Prayer Breakfast and catching up with
my friend here on the Senate floor. I
know we will all miss his great exam-
ple—this humble man of great integ-
rity, who has taught us all how to work
together.
When another Georgia colleague,
Saxby Chambliss, retired 5 years ago,
Senator ISAKSON said Saxby would join
Richard Russell, Zell Miller, and Sam
Nunn and become the fourth face on
the Mount Rushmore of Georgia Sen-
ators. Well, JOHNNY, I think they are
going to have to make room for a fifth.
I thank our good friend JOHNNY ISAK-
SON for his dedicated service to his
State, to our country, and to this insti-
tution. I join all of our colleagues in
wishing him well, along with his wife,
Dianne, their three children, and their
eight grandchildren. We wish him all
the best as he retires to his beloved
Georgia.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Missouri.
Mr. BLUNT. Madam President, a lot
of things have been said today, and
some things will be repeated, but as I
sit here, it occurs to me that the mark
of a truly great legislator and a great
friend is how many people have an indi-
vidual story about JOHNNY ISAKSON.
That helpful word at a right time,
the ability to come in and solve a prob-
lem and get a piece of legislation
passed or to get over a particular bump
in a piece of legislation—those are the
kinds of things that define a great leg-
islator.
All of us have our own personal sto-
ries about JOHNNY ISAKSON. My first
memory of JOHNNY ISAKSON is long be-
fore I met him personally. In 1992, I
was hiring a new pollster who also hap-
pened to be JOHNNY ISAKSON’s pollster.
After I hired that pollster, Linda
Duvall, she brought in somebody she
likes to work with in campaigns. I was
looking at some campaign commercials
they put together, and there was JOHN-
NY ISAKSON playing basketball with a
bunch of seventh grade boys.
If you can play basketball with sev-
enth grade boys, you can do almost
anything. I am going to come back to
the seventh grade boys in a minute.
Linda called me a few days later and
said: We have been trying to figure out
which of our clients you remind us of.
She said: We have decided you remind
us of JOHNNY ISAKSON. So in 1999, 2
years after I got to the House, when
JOHNNY ISAKSON ran for the House, I
was eager to meet this guy whom
Linda said I reminded her of. It didn’t
take me very long to find out that
Linda had misjudged either me or
JOHNNY and that JOHNNY set a different
standard than the standard most of us
are able to set, but it also encouraged
me to want to spend more time with
him.
When he got there, I had been there 2
years. I was the chief deputy whip, and
our 20 years of close friendship began
then. Then I became the whip, and I
asked JOHNNY to become one of the
deputy whips.
JOHNNY had the worst whip card in
the House. All the people he whipped
were not the worse people to whip, but
he definitely had more than his share
of the hardest people to whip. Whoever
was the most impatient with every-
body else somehow couldn’t resist be-
coming patient with JOHNNY.
Beyond that, JOHNNY somehow was
always able to take the time needed. I
said that JOHNNY was one of the three
whips we had in the House who could
take however much time it took to ex-
plain an issue to whomever he was ex-
plaining it to, in whatever level of in-
formation they needed to hear it in. He
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:32 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03DE6.034 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6814 December 3, 2019
could be very simple and basic in his
explanation if that is all that was nec-
essary, and he could be incredibly de-
tailed if he had that unique Member
who wanted to know everything before
they made up their mind. But he was
always ready to do what had to be
done.
Back to the seventh grade boys. If
you could teach a Sunday school class
for 30 years that has one group of sev-
enth grade boys after another going
through that Sunday school class, you
are truly ready to have the patience to
be in the U.S. Congress, to be a Mem-
ber of the House, and then to be a
Member of the Senate and to let that
become part of your extended family.
JOHNNY has such a great family who
is his own family. He and Dianne have
a great partnership. Dianne leads in
community projects. When there is a
First Lady’s lunch, Dianne always does
the artwork for the First Lady’s lunch.
One of things you benefit from on oc-
casion in the Congress is the ability to
travel together. That has been men-
tioned here, some of the travels that
JOHNNY has headed—the D-Day oper-
ations and other things. Not long after
JOHNNY came to Congress, he, Dianne,
and I had a chance to travel together.
You could just tell their enjoyment in
each other and their enjoyment in the
people they were getting to know bet-
ter.
JOHNNY’s work at the VA is incred-
ible—the VA MISSION Act, the deter-
mination that veterans would have
more choices in where they get their
healthcare, realizing that young vet-
erans didn’t always look at healthcare
decisions the same way older veterans
did, realizing that people wanted more
choices than they had before, realizing
that we could make that happen, and
also realizing there was a standard of
care that we could insist on. JOHNNY
passed the legislation that allowed us
to do that.
His advocacy for the Centers for Dis-
ease Control in Atlanta—we have our
annual discussion. I chair that com-
mittee now, and we have our annual,
very subtle but, for me, almost irresist-
ible discussion—somehow the Centers
for Disease Control doesn’t quite yet
have everything they need, and we can
do better.
Then there is the Ethics Committee.
When JOHNNY announced he was going
to retire, I happened to be speaking to
our conference at lunch that day, to
the Republicans in the Senate, and I
said: The bad news is that JOHNNY is
leaving. The really bad news is that
someone else has to be the chairman of
the Ethics Committee.
If there is a job in the Senate that
you don’t want, it is the Ethics Com-
mittee job. If there is a job in the Sen-
ate that you need to have exactly the
right person in, it is the Ethics Com-
mittee job. Somebody has to be chair-
man.
In one of my favorite books, ‘‘To Kill
A Mockingbird,’’ the neighbor across
the street, Miss Maude, is explaining to
Scout why her father is having to do
what her father is doing. I think the
best I can remember that quote is that
she says someone has to do the jobs
that have to be done and that nobody
wants to do. JOHNNY ISAKSON has al-
ways been willing to do the jobs that
have to be done, and he does them in a
way that you wonder why everybody
doesn’t want to do them because he
makes them look like they are a lot
easier than they are.
We will miss you here, JOHNNY, but
we are not going to miss your contin-
ued friendship. We all are already plan-
ning on how we can come up with a
reason to go to Atlanta. For me, it is
to check in on the CDC. Thank you for
your service. Thank you for your
friendship.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. CAS-
SIDY). The Senator from Washington.
Ms. CANTWELL. Mr. President, I
rise to join my colleagues on the floor
and pay tribute to my colleague from
Georgia, Senator ISAKSON, and to con-
gratulate him on his retirement after
20 years in Congress, including the past
15 years in the U.S. Senate.
We worked together on key provi-
sions of the SECURE Act to improve
retirement planning for millions of
Americans.
I would be remiss if I did not mention
all the work he has done on behalf of
our veterans. His work on the VA MIS-
SION Act is important to so many peo-
ple who have served our country.
We also worked together on the Fi-
nance Committee for the last 6 years
on important issues like affordable
housing. There has been no better ad-
vocate for the affordable housing tax
credit—helping to secure billions of
dollars in funding for affordable hous-
ing nationwide—than Senator ISAKSON.
It is true that my colleague Senator
Hatch and I had a bill that helped to
increase the affordable housing tax
credit, but I guarantee you, there is no-
body who understood it better, could
explain it better, and could bring more
colleagues to join us in support of it
than JOHNNY ISAKSON.
I was amazed at a debate in the Fi-
nance Committee. Some of our col-
leagues weren’t quite sure of their sup-
port, but by the time JOHNNY ISAKSON
was done speaking, I think they had to
backtrack their opposition and wonder
if they would ever take him on in a de-
bate again. I thank him for that be-
cause that is an issue that has com-
plexity to it, but at its heart and soul,
it is really about providing affordable
housing to our fellow human beings,
and JOHNNY knew that. I so appreciated
his joining us this year again as we
fight to get more affordable housing.
We also have worked together on
very small things with our colleague
Senator FISCHER to make sure that
military servicemembers didn’t get
charged cancellation fees for TV and
internet services when they were de-
ployed and to work on diverse issues
like mass timber innovation and fund-
ing for community health centers.
One thing is clear, though, when you
work on all of these issues with JOHNNY
ISAKSON, you realize that not only is
there great integrity behind the pur-
pose of what he focuses on and great
intelligence that he brings to the de-
bate, but there also is just a general
kindness to his personality.
You know, sometimes, I think today
we have lost that kindness and ability
to work across the aisle. When you
read stories about our past prede-
cessors, whether it was in the time of
Scoop Jackson and Warren Magnuson,
I keep thinking: Did they get along be-
cause they had to stay here? They
couldn’t travel all the way back to the
Pacific Northwest. So they bonded to-
gether. Many of them lived in rooming
houses together and did all sorts of ac-
tivities and got to know each other.
Our colleagues lament many times:
Where has this Senate gone?
Well, I think today we saw at lunch
and have seen many times over the
hospitality of barbecue with JOHNNY
ISAKSON that you don’t have to be with
each other on weekends and you don’t
have to stay here to get to know peo-
ple. The ability to communicate just a
little bit of niceness, a little bit of ci-
vility, a little bit of ‘‘I will work with
you on this important issue’’ is what it
takes to make the Senate work.
JOHNNY, I just want to congratulate
you for 20 years of service in the U.S.
Senate, but, more importantly, for re-
minding us what the Senate should be
about and that just a few words and a
few examples and a common attitude
can really bring us together, and we
mount an effort to surpass the biggest
obstacles that we face because of our
regions and our ideologies. That is
what we have to get back to.
So, as you go home to Georgia, I hope
that you will take our great gratitude
for reminding us of all of that, and I
know that you will always have a
smile, a quick wit about you, some-
thing nice to say, and we will always
remember you as the Senator who not
only got things done but who made us
feel like the Senate again. Thank you.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from South Dakota.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, when I
learned that JOHNNY ISAKSON would be
retiring at the end of the year, I was
saddened. I served with JOHNNY for a
long time, not just here in the Senate,
where we were both freshmen Members
in 2005, but in the House of Representa-
tives as well, and I have been honored
to call him my friend.
It is really hard for me to imagine
Congress without JOHNNY. He is, hands
down, as I have said, the nicest person
ever to serve in the U.S. Senate. He is
a model of decency and graciousness
and the kind of person who can fight
hard every day for the principles that
he believes in without ever developing
any rancor toward his political oppo-
nents.
He is not just kind and decent. He is
also a tremendously effective legis-
lator. He is deeply knowledgeable on a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:09 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03DE6.036 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6815
December 3, 2019
whole range of issues, and he possesses
the gift of being able to explain com-
plicated subjects in a very clear way.
He gets things done. He doesn’t stand
around talking about things or playing
to the cameras. He just rolls up his
sleeves and gets to work, and he makes
things happen.
If there was a decency index and we
were all rated on that decency index on
a scale of 1 to 10, JOHNNY would be the
perfect 10. Anybody who knows JOHNNY
knows that he has a real passion for
people and he has a real passion for
veterans.
I had the opportunity to work with
JOHNNY on a couple of important
issues. We served together on the Sen-
ate Finance Committee. Tax reform
was something to which he brought
tremendous knowledge and experience
and know-how. He talked with great
understanding about the complicated
issues that we had to deal with when it
came to reforming our Tax Code. His
experience was invaluable as we did
something that hadn’t been done in
over 30 years and reformed an out-
dated, archaic Tax Code that was keep-
ing us noncompetitive in the global
marketplace.
In 2015, he became the chairman of
the Veterans’ Affairs Committee, and
he spent the past 5 years working tire-
lessly to increase accountability at the
VA, to improve healthcare for vet-
erans, and to strengthen veterans’ ben-
efits. Over the course of 2017 and 2018,
the Veterans’ Affairs Committee, under
JOHNNY, passed 25 pieces of legislation,
all of which were signed into law. One
of those pieces of legislation was the
VA MISSION Act, which was a bill that
made significant reforms to the
healthcare delivery system for vet-
erans to ensure that veterans have ac-
cess to the care that they need when
they need it.
My wife Kimberley and I have trav-
eled with JOHNNY and Dianne a number
of times over the years. One trip that
will forever stand out for me is a trip
we took led by Senator BURR to a num-
ber of World War I and World War II
cemeteries in Europe—the Normandy
American Cemetery, the Meuse-Ar-
gonne American Cemetery, and the
Sicily-Rome American Cemetery, as
well as several others. We walked in
battlefields where American soldiers
fought and bled, and we visited the
graves of young Americans who died on
those fields.
It was a profoundly moving trip, es-
pecially because we were able to visit
the graves of soldiers from our home
States of South Dakota and Georgia.
While the trip would have been mean-
ingful enough on its own, it was doubly
so because JOHNNY cares so much about
those issues. It meant so much to him
to visit the places where American sol-
diers had served and died, to remember
their sacrifices, and to honor their
memory.
I am going to miss working with
JOHNNY. His retirement is a real loss
for the institution, and I am not the
only Senator who will miss his exper-
tise and dedication, as well as his un-
failing graciousness and good humor.
The Senate is going to be a poorer
place without him.
There have been a lot of tributes to
JOHNNY since he announced his deci-
sion to retire, and one that I came
across that I thought really captured
JOHNNY was published in a Georgia
magazine. The author of the piece is a
political science professor at Kennesaw
State University, and this is what he
said:
As a political science professor and an ad-
ministrator, I’m often asked by students if
good people can serve in government and
keep their integrity. Johnny Isakson is al-
ways the first example I come to. It’s very
often a shocking revelation to most people—
that good people can, and often do, serve in
government for long periods, fight hard for
what they believe in, and remain true to
themselves and their principles. And they
don’t have to sell their souls to do it. It’s a
great lesson, really.
I remember being down in Georgia
with JOHNNY a few years ago on the
weekend of the Florida-Georgia foot-
ball game, and we were at one of the
celebrations. I remember being struck
by how well known and how well liked
JOHNNY was among the college stu-
dents who were there. Nowadays, we
often hear about young people being
disillusioned with politics, but I have
to tell you that these students weren’t
disillusioned with JOHNNY ISAKSON. I
think that is because they recognized
JOHNNY’s character. They knew that
JOHNNY was somebody who was truly,
genuinely committed to making life
better for the people of the State and
for the people of this country. Here was
somebody who had gotten into public
service because he genuinely wanted to
serve.
Interestingly enough, on that trip we
were near the coast of Florida or Geor-
gia, and I had to get back to Macon,
GA. My daughter was competing in a
cross-country meet there. JOHNNY was
kind enough—he was flying back to At-
lanta—to take me on that plane and to
drop me at Macon, GA, so I could
watch my daughter compete.
Interestingly enough, when he got on
the plane to go back from Macon to At-
lanta, they had engine trouble. They
had to make an emergency landing.
JOHNNY ended up, I think, having to
drive or have somebody—a taxi or
somebody—drive him 100 miles from
Macon up to Atlanta and his home, but
that is the kind of person that he is. He
thought it was important for me to be
there and to see my daughter compete,
and he was always willing to go out of
his way to make it possible for some-
body to be able to participate in an
event like that—a family event.
That is what I think about when I
think about his retirement. I am sad
about his retirement, but I am happy
that he is going to have a chance to
spend more time with Dianne, with his
family, his children, and his grand-
children. I have been lucky enough to
get to know Dianne, as well as JOHNNY,
over the years, and they are just the
same—the warmest, kindest, most gra-
cious, most genuine people you will
ever meet.
I know that after years of sharing
him with the people of Georgia and the
American people, Dianne and the rest
of the family will enjoy having JOHNNY
to themselves for awhile. After all,
somebody has to babysit those eight
beautiful grandchildren.
The Senate is losing one of its finest
Members, but he has more than earned
his retirement. I wish him and Dianne
the very best in retirement. I pray for
God’s blessing upon him, and let him
know how much we are going to miss
him.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Delaware.
Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, I am
pleased to join Democrat, Republican,
and Independent colleagues alike on
the floor today. I understand there is
an overflow that is going to be back on
the floor tomorrow to say the truth
and tell the truth about JOHNNY ISAK-
SON.
One of my friends likes to say: ‘‘Flat-
tery won’t hurt you if you don’t in-
hale.’’ JOHNNY, I know a lot of nice
things have been said about you today,
and more tomorrow, and probably for
the rest of the year. So I would just
say: Don’t inhale too deeply, and you
will be just fine.
I just want to follow up on what sev-
eral of our colleagues have said. A
number of them talked about how kind
JOHNNY is. He is one of those people
who will say hello to the folks who are
custodians, the people who may run
the elevators, the folks who are the se-
curity police here, and he even says
nice things to the pages. Can you imag-
ine that? That is true. He is about as
kind as anybody you would ever want
to meet, and it is not just occasionally.
It is like that all the time.
He is also smart. I haven’t heard any-
body say he is smart. They may have.
I may have missed it. I want to say, for
the record, that he is one smart fel-
low—as my mother used to say, smart
as a whip. He grasps complex issues,
understands them, and is really good at
explaining them so that even people
like me can usually understand them.
I first met JOHNNY when he was
newly elected to the Senate, and we
had just established something called
orientation. We didn’t have orientation
for a number of years here. George
Voinovich from Ohio, LAMAR ALEX-
ANDER from Tennessee, and Mark Pryor
from Arkansas, and I put together a 3-
day deal. We called it orientation for
new Senators and spouses, and I re-
member that JOHNNY, I think, was in
the first class that came through.
I had been Governor of Delaware for
8 years. I got here in the beginning of
2001. One of the Governors I served with
was a Governor from Georgia named
Zell Miller. Zell Miller was elected and
served two 4-year terms. I think he
served two 4-year terms. One of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:09 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03DE6.038 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6816 December 3, 2019
people who ran against him was JOHN-
NY ISAKSON. When Senator-elect JOHN-
NY ISAKSON came through orientation
right after he had been elected, I asked
him if he knew Governor Zell Miller. I
thought that they had a connection,
and, sure enough, they did because
they had run against each other in an
earlier year.
There is a saying that some of you
have heard. That saying is something
like this: Just because somebody is
your opponent, doesn’t mean they have
to be your enemy.
I don’t think I have ever heard any-
body say such nice things, kind things,
and generous things about their oppo-
nent in an earlier election where he
lost and Zell Miller won. That is proof
that your opponent does not have to be
your enemy. For us around here, this
day and age, that is a lesson that we
would do well to take to heart.
One of the other things I want to say
is that I want to share a story I was re-
minded of today by one of my staff
members.
My office is in the Hart Building, and
I have been in the same office for, gosh,
19 years now. My staff doesn’t want to
leave. They want to stay there. They
like it. As to what makes them happy,
you know the old saying: Happy wife,
happy life. Well, happy staff, happy
life, too—they want to stay in the of-
fice, and that is where we have stayed.
Once, a number of years ago, when
JOHNNY was relatively new in the Sen-
ate, he came to a meeting on the same
floor, and he came to the wrong Senate
office. He came to my office by mis-
take. He meant to go to the office next
door where David Vitter was, a Senator
from Louisiana. His office was next
door to ours. He came into the en-
trance—the foyer, if you will—of our
office and met a couple of young people
at the front desk there. He came in and
said that he was there to see the Sen-
ator. They were looking at their sched-
ules, trying to figure out what was
going on. They didn’t know quite what
to tell him. He was there to see the
Senator, and we had a wonderful gal at
the front desk who was a little bit shy.
He very kindly engaged her in a con-
versation and asked her: Well, tell me
about you.
She offered some things, and when
she stopped, he would just very gently
pull out her story and make her feel
special. There was another fellow at a
desk a short distance away in that
foyer, that entrance to our office. He
was a young man named David, and he
would say to Senator ISAKSON, ‘‘Sen-
ator’’—and JOHNNY would interrupt
him and keep talking to this young gal
on our staff. JOHNNY would say: I am
not in a rush. Take your time.
David just couldn’t get in a word
edgewise. This went on for several min-
utes, and, finally, the young man inter-
rupted, and he said to Senator ISAKSON:
Senator, I think you are in the wrong
office. Who do you think you are here
to see?
He said: Well, David Vitter.
His office was next door to ours at
the time.
He said: You are in Senator TOM CAR-
PER’s office.
JOHNNY, without missing a beat, said:
Well, I will just meet with TOM.
And he picked up his stuff, and he
walked into my office. I am sure those
young people hadn’t seen anything
quite like that.
We welcomed him warmly. He could
walk into any office, and he would be
welcomed warmly, whether he had an
appointment or not.
Recently, I served with JOHNNY on
the Finance Committee. The fellow
standing behind him is Senator
PORTMAN. We served there together.
Senator BOOZMAN, who is sitting down
next to JOHNNY right now—he and I
serve on the Committee on Environ-
ment Public Works. In Environment
and Public Works, we had a witness not
long ago who was here for a confirma-
tion hearing, a fellow named Rob Wal-
lace. I know Senator BOOZMAN would
remember him. He had been nominated
to be a very senior guy in the Depart-
ment of Commerce. The job he was
nominated for was to be in charge of
National Parks and in charge of Fish
and Wildlife. It was a big deal. In his
testimony, he talked to us. He used to
work for Senator Malcolm Wallop from
Wyoming. He had a distinguished ca-
reer. During his testimony, he said
words I will never forget. He said: Bi-
partisan solutions are lasting solu-
tions.
Think about that.
He said: Bipartisan solutions are
lasting solutions.
JOHNNY ISAKSON is as good at
crafting bipartisan solutions as any-
body I have had the privilege of work-
ing with here. Again, he is a great role
model for us.
I want to close with just a few words
on leadership. In my experience, having
been privileged to be in the Navy for
many years—I served in some wars and
in peace and had the chance to be Gov-
ernor and Senator, Congressman, and
treasurer of my State—I have seen a
lot of leaders. I have seen great leaders.
I have seen some lousy leaders. I expect
that is true of all of us. I have probably
learned more from the not-so-good
leaders as I have learned from the su-
perb leaders. In my experience, leaders
are humble, not haughty. Leaders have
the heart of a servant. They realize
that our job is to serve, not be served.
Leaders have the courage to stay out of
step when everybody else is marching
to the wrong tune. Leaders build
bridges, not walls. They unite, not di-
vide. Leaders surround themselves with
the best team they can find, and when
the team does well, the leader gives the
credit to the team. When the team falls
short, the leader takes the blame.
Leaders don’t build themselves up by
tearing others down. In fact, it is just
the opposite. Leaders are aspirational.
There is a French philosopher named
Camus, I think—Albert Camus. He
would say: Leaders are purveyors of
hope. They appeal to our better angels.
Leaders are interested in doing what is
right, not what is easy—not what is ex-
pedient, but what is right. Leaders em-
brace the golden rule: Treat other peo-
ple the way they want to be treated.
Leaders focus on excellence in every-
thing they do. They essentially say: If
it isn’t perfect, let’s just make it bet-
ter.
Finally, when the really great lead-
ers know they are right, when they are
sure they are right, they don’t give up.
They just don’t give up. We need lead-
ership here in this building as much as
at any time I can remember. We need
leadership in this Capital City of ours,
and we need leadership in all kinds of
roles across our country. I just want to
say about the leadership qualities I
just described that you can find some
of them in all of us, but in JOHNNY
ISAKSON, you find all of those qualities.
There is a saying: ‘‘I would rather see
a sermon than hear one.’’ In JOHNNY
ISAKSON, we see the sermon.
JOHNNY, again, my friend, God bless
you, Dianne, your family, and we will
hold you close to our hearts. We will
always be thankful for you, Thanks-
giving, year-round, forever. God bless
you. Thank you.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Ohio.
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, we
have too many people on the floor here
to pay tribute to JOHNNY ISAKSON, and
we all have to go quick. I will be back
again, talking about my buddy from
Georgia.
Let me make a couple of points. One
is—and this is a little straight talk be-
cause I heard so many great things
about him—we ought to know some-
thing else about him, which is, yes, he
is a gentleman; yes, he is a nice guy;
but he has the velvet hammer, as I
have said. That velvet hammer has
driven a lot of nails in around here and
ended up with a lot of great bipartisan
legislation. It is not just because he is
a nice guy. It is because he is intense,
and he is committed and determined
for the people of Georgia as an inde-
pendent voice for his constituents and
for the great country that he loves so
much.
Let me give you one example. We are
working on energy efficiency legisla-
tion right now. I work with JOHNNY on
a number of different legislative
projects. In this particular case, he is
the author of something called the
SAVE Act. The SAVE Act makes good
sense policywise. It helps people reduce
their energy costs and saves them
money on mortgages, but it is not sup-
ported by everybody around here.
There are some powerful groups
against it.
Once again, you will see in the
Portman-Shaheen energy efficiency
package, the SAVE Act is in there, and
it is in there for one reason and one
reason only, and that is because of the
persistence of JOHNNY ISAKSON, a real
estate guy who gets it.
To my friend, I have heard so many
great things about you over the last
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:32 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03DE6.039 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6817
December 3, 2019
several hours. I agree with just about
all of them—almost.
To Dianne, who is by far the better
half here and such a dear friend of
Jane’s and mine, we love you. We are
going to miss you. We will stay in
touch, but we are going to watch you
in your retirement as that velvet ham-
mer continues to nail things that are
good for your beloved Georgia and for
the United States of America.
Thank you, JOHNNY.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Pennsylvania.
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, keeping
with the brevity that we have to exer-
cise now because I know the guest of
honor may have to leave the floor and
others are going to speak before he
leaves, I will write a longer statement
for the RECORD with detail.
JOHNNY, it goes without saying—we
keep saying it over and over again—
how much we are going to miss you,
not only because of the bipartisan
work you did and the legislative
achievements but because of who you
are—your decency, your integrity,
your warmth even in the heat of a bat-
tle. We are grateful for all of that.
I will just make brief mention of a
few issues. I will start with the Global
Food Security Act, which was started
here in the Senate by Senator Dick
Lugar way back in the period even be-
fore 2009 when I began to work with
him. JOHNNY made it possible for us to
finally get that passed. What that act
does is put into law to authorize into
the future the Feed the Future pro-
gram, one of the most successful pro-
grams the U.S. Government ever un-
dertook. Millions of children have been
saved from chronic hunger or stunting,
where they literally cannot grow be-
cause they haven’t been able to get
enough to eat. That program will now
be perpetuated over time because of
the work of JOHNNY ISAKSON. I will add
more numbers to that in my written
version.
Here is how Feed the Future is de-
scribed in their website: It is a program
that works with ‘‘partner countries to
develop their agricultural sectors and
break the vicious cycle of poverty and
hunger’’ the world over for the coun-
tries that are participating. I will start
with that.
Second—I will be very brief on the
next three—is the Children’s Hospitals
Graduate Medical Education, the so-
called CHGME Program that funds
residency programs at children’s hos-
pitals. JOHNNY knows about this well in
the State of Georgia, and three of those
hospitals are in my home State of
Pennsylvania. It would not be possible
for that program to continue without
the good work of JOHNNY ISAKSON.
Third, disabilities. We don’t have
time for all of it today, but I know that
JOHNNY and his wife Dianne have
worked with students with disabilities
for years, and JOHNNY has been a part-
ner dedicated to improving the lives of
people with disabilities. I will go into
that in more detail in my written
version.
Finally, the last one I will mention
for purposes of today, JOHNNY, is the
work that you did on the pediatric pri-
ority review vouchers program, which
makes it possible for drug companies
to develop new drugs for rare pediatric
diseases.
JOHNNY, you and I are working these
days, in these hours, to get the Over-
the-Counter Monograph Reform done.
Thank you for the work you have done
on that.
For these and for so many other rea-
sons, I will conclude with this, JOHNNY.
There is an inscription on one of the
State government buildings I worked
in at Harrisburg, PA, for 10 years. It is
a beautiful inscription of public service
that applies to you personally and your
integrity and to the work you have
done: ‘‘All public service is a trust,
given in faith and accepted in honor.’’
You have always accepted that trust
the people of Georgia gave you. You
have returned that with honor.
We are grateful to be your friend.
Congratulations on your work. God
bless you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Arkansas.
Mr. BOOZMAN. In the interest of
time, I am going to put my remarks in
the RECORD, but I do want to take just
a moment to thank JOHNNY for his
friendship. I won a special election to
the House of Representatives and was
assigned to the Transportation Com-
mittee. Literally, JOHNNY was one of
the first people I met there. He was an
important person on Transportation.
I was the 435th Member of the House,
and he was so very, very kind. He
helped me get acclimated.
His wife Dianne was just wonderful
to my wife Cathy when I came to the
Senate. Nobody was any nicer, again,
helping her to get acclimated to the
ways of the Senate, and, certainly, this
is a family affair. We appreciate that
so very much.
I had the honor of serving on the Vet-
erans Affairs Committee. The reality
is, we got a bunch done under your
leadership. We appreciate that so very
much.
Proverbs tells us that a good man is
worth more than silver and gold, and
that is really what this has all been
about this afternoon, just hearing
Member after Member express the good
name of JOHNNY ISAKSON. We appre-
ciate you, JOHNNY. We truly will miss
you more than you know.
I yield back.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from North Dakota.
Mr. HOEVEN. Mr. President, I will
submit my full comments for the
RECORD as others have done. But you
can tell, as we continue to go here—
and we know that we have a hard stop
on the vote at 5 p.m.—Senators just
want to be here to express their admi-
ration and their appreciation and their
gratitude to Senator ISAKSON. We wish
JOHNNY and Dianne the very best in
their next endeavors.
It is hard to see Senator ISAKSON
leave this body. He has added so much
in an amazing and wonderful way for
the time that he has been here. It is
not just that, hands down, if we were
going to vote as to the Senator who ev-
erybody appreciates the most, hands
down, he would win that in a bipartisan
vote. There is not a question about it.
At the same time, each of the Sen-
ators has remarked on something sub-
stantive and important that JOHNNY
has done and they have had a chance to
be part of—legislation that affects this
Nation and the great people of this
country in a real and meaningful way.
I want to talk about that for just a
minute, and that is the VA MISSION
Act.
As the chairman of the Veterans Af-
fairs Committee, there is no question
that Senator ISAKSON led the effort on
behalf of our veterans in so many in-
stances. He passed legislation and did
many things to help our veterans—
things that will help our veterans, not
only today and tomorrow but for years
and years to come. Included among
those accomplishments is the VA MIS-
SION Act. I had the opportunity to
work with him on making sure we
could include language in that legisla-
tion that would not only make sure
that veterans have access to
healthcare, medical care—both institu-
tional VA care and from private pro-
viders—but also that they could access
those VA benefits for long-term care
and for home- and community-based
care. It is legislation that, thanks to
JOHNNY, we were able to include in the
VA MISSION Act.
So it is not just about medical care
for those veterans. It is about making
sure that they can use VA reimburse-
ment to go into nursing homes in their
communities if they need nursing home
care or if they need home- or commu-
nity-based care. Again, it is not only
the medical care but the long-term
care for our veterans that will make
the difference for them today, tomor-
row, and in the years and years to
come. This is the kind of legacy that
Senator ISAKSON leaves.
To JOHNNY and Dianne, we say thank
you, and God bless you. We wish you
the very best.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from North Dakota.
Mr. HOEVEN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that Senators GRA-
HAM, TESTER, and MURRAY be allowed
to complete their brief remarks before
the vote previously scheduled for 5 p.m.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Montana.
Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, I will be
brief.
Every one of us can stand here and
talk on the floor about JOHNNY ISAKSON
ad nauseam.
By the way, I have been watching
this on TV, and I appreciate your
stick-to-itiveness in your being on the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:32 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03DE6.043 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6818 December 3, 2019
floor, listening to this. You are a great
man.
The fact doesn’t escape me that we
are standing in the U.S. Senate, a body
that has seen so many great Senators
over the years. We can go back and
have a history lesson on Clay, Calhoun,
La Follette, MURRAY, Wheeler, Mans-
field, Metcalf, and all of these folks.
The truth, though, is the reason we are
all here, talking today, is that JOHNNY
ISAKSON is a very special guy, and he is
special for a number of reasons.
He treats everybody with respect,
and because of that, everybody treats
him with respect. His word is his bond,
and his handshake is worth something
in this body, which is not something
you see all the time. JOHNNY is some-
body who can get things done. I speak
from experience in being the ranking
member on the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs. He has shepherded
through many, many very difficult
pieces of legislation, and he has done it
because he has developed trust.
If we ever get in a foxhole together,
JOHNNY, I will have your back. Do you
know what? I know you will have mine
because you have exhibited it before. It
has been such an incredible pleasure to
be in this body, serving with you. You
are one of those guys who doesn’t have
to be disagreeable, but if you disagree,
you can disagree. Thank you very
much. It has been a pleasure to serve
with you.
Godspeed to my friend JOHNNY ISAK-
SON.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from South Carolina.
Mr. GRAHAM. JOHNNY, at some
point, this has to be painful for you.
Very few people get together at their
own funerals.
What we are trying to say is that we
like you. You are a breath of fresh air
in a body that has a hard time agreeing
on much. I have known you since I got
into politics. I served in the House with
you, and I have served in the Senate
with you. I have traveled the world
with you. I have played golf with you.
I have had dinner with you. I have got-
ten to know your family.
To sum it up, when it comes to being
a U.S. Senator, JOHNNY ISAKSON has be-
come the gold standard.
God bless you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Washington.
NOMINATION OF SARAH E. PITLYK
Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I want
to turn to the nomination that is pend-
ing before the Senate and that we will
be voting on as soon as I finish my re-
marks.
I have come to the floor many times
to speak in opposition to President
Trump’s ideologically driven, deeply
partisan judicial nominees and to ex-
press my frustration that under Repub-
lican leadership, the Senate is
rubberstamping one lifetime judicial
nomination after another. The Repub-
lican leaders have been willing to
rubberstamp these nominees whose
qualifications are in doubt. A record
number have been deemed unqualified
by the American Bar Association,
whose impartiality is virtually non-
existent and who are, without a doubt,
chosen for their commitment to up-
holding President Trump’s agenda
rather than to upholding our Nation’s
laws.
These nominees have sided with
shady for-profit colleges rather than
with student loan borrowers—just like
the President’s Department of Edu-
cation. President Trump’s nominees
have followed his footsteps on
healthcare, ruling and speaking
against expanding affordable
healthcare to more families. They have
allowed major corporations to skirt
rules that are intended to help address
the urgent threat of the climate crisis.
Perhaps most consistently, President
Trump’s judicial nominees have ad-
hered to rigid, backward, deeply harm-
ful ideology when it comes to reproduc-
tive healthcare. One called Roe v. Wade
‘‘radical abortion rights.’’ Another
pushed pseudoscience and claimed that
birth control can lead to suicide.
The vast majority of women and men
in our country would agree that these
are not positions you would want a
supposedly impartial judge to espouse.
Unfortunately, what I have just laid
out pales in comparison to what we
know of the judicial nominee we are
considering today, Sarah Pitlyk.
Ms. Pitlyk, whom the American Bar
Association rated as ‘‘unqualified,’’ has
actively worked to erode women’s ac-
cess to birth control and abortion. She
even defended legislation that would
have allowed landlords to have evicted
their tenants and employers to have
fired their employees simply because
they had used birth control or had got-
ten pregnant before they had gotten
married.
These views are already wildly
invasive and disqualifying. Unfortu-
nately, there is more.
Ms. Pitlyk has also not only ex-
pressed her personal bias against as-
sisted reproductive technology, or
ART, but she has actually authored
briefs that have argued that surrogacy
and ART have ‘‘grave effects on soci-
ety.’’
I am very proud to have personally
worked to expand access to in vitro fer-
tilization, or IVF, especially for our
military families who struggle with in-
fertility, and I firmly believe all fami-
lies who face this painful challenge
should have our strong support.
My good friend the junior Senator
from Illinois, who has spoken power-
fully about her struggles with fertility
and how IVF gave her the opportunity
to realize her dream of motherhood,
wrote in a letter to our colleagues: ‘‘As
a mother who struggled with infertility
for years and required IVF to start my
family, I would be one of the many
Americans who could never enter Ms.
Pitlyk’s courtroom with any reason-
able expectation that my case would be
adjudicated in a fair and impartial
manner.’’
Given Ms. Pitlyk’s record of sup-
porting cruel policies that would pun-
ish women for accessing basic
healthcare like birth control, her sup-
port for banning women from exer-
cising their right to abortion, as well
as her personal bias and professional
actions against starting a family via
assisted reproductive technology, I be-
lieve a vote in favor of Ms. Pitlyk’s
nomination would be indefensible.
That is why I ask my colleagues on
the Republican side to stop and really
consider this vote. If confirmed, Ms.
Pitlyk’s tenure on the courts will last
for decades—well beyond President
Trump’s last day in the White House.
That would mean, for years and years,
decisions would be made that we can
only expect would harm women and
families, restrict women’s access to re-
productive healthcare, and even poten-
tially jeopardize their ability to be-
come parents. In other words, a vote
for Ms. Pitlyk now will keep hurting
people long after the President’s name-
calling on Twitter doesn’t drive head-
lines anymore.
I urge all of my colleagues to do the
right thing for women and families
today and for years to come and join
me in opposing this nomination on the
floor.
I yield the floor.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Sarah E. Pitlyk, of Missouri, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Missouri.
Mitch McConnell, John Boozman, Rich-
ard Burr, Shelley Moore Capito, John
Cornyn, Mike Crapo, John Barrasso,
Roy Blunt, John Thune, Steve Daines,
Thom Tillis, Kevin Cramer, Chuck
Grassley, Tom Cotton, Rick Scott,
Cindy Hyde-Smith, David Perdue.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Sarah E. Pitlyk, of Missouri, to be
United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Missouri, shall be
brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Alaska (Ms. MURKOWSKI) and the
Senator from South Dakota (Mr.
ROUNDS).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Alaska (Ms. MURKOWSKI)
would have voted ‘‘nay.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:32 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03DE6.045 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6819
December 3, 2019
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
KLOBUCHAR), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. (Ms.
MCSALLY). Are there any other Sen-
ators in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 50,
nays 43, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 371 Ex.]
YEAS—50
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—43
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—7
Booker
Harris
Klobuchar
Murkowski
Rounds
Sanders
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 50, the nays are 43.
The motion is agreed to.
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the remaining
votes in this series be 10 minutes each
in length.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will read.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Douglas Russell Cole, of Ohio, to be
United States District Judge for the South-
ern District of Ohio.
Mitch McConnell, John Hoeven, Steve
Daines, James E. Risch, Roger F.
Wicker, Pat Roberts, John Thune,
Mike Rounds, Roy Blunt, Mike Crapo,
John Boozman, John Cornyn, Lindsey
Graham, Thom Tillis, David Perdue,
Chuck Grassley, Rick Scott.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Douglas Russell Cole, of Ohio, to be
United States District Judge for the
Southern District of Ohio, shall be
brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON), the Sen-
ator from Wisconsin (Mr. JOHNSON), the
Senator from Alaska (Ms. MURKOWSKI),
and the Senator from South Dakota
(Mr. ROUNDS).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Wisconsin (Mr. JOHNSON)
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
KLOBUCHAR), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote or change their vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 62,
nays 29.
[Rollcall Vote No. 372 Ex.]
YEAS—62
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Capito
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Jones
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murphy
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Whitehouse
Wicker
Young
NAYS—29
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Cantwell
Cardin
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murray
Peters
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Wyden
NOT VOTING—9
Booker
Harris
Isakson
Johnson
Klobuchar
Murkowski
Rounds
Sanders
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The yeas
are 62, the nays are 29.
The motion is agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Pennsylvania.
CHANGE OF VOTE
Mr. CASEY. Madam President, on
rollcall vote 372, I voted no. It was my
intention to vote aye. Therefore, I ask
unanimous consent that I be permitted
to change my vote since it will not af-
fect the outcome.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
(The foregoing tally has been
changed to reflect the above order.)
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of R. Austin Huffaker, Jr., of Ala-
bama, to be United States District Judge for
the Middle District of Alabama.
Steve Daines, Roy Blunt, John Thune,
Richard Burr, John Cornyn, Chuck
Grassley, Tom Cotton, Rick Scott,
Mike Crapo, Shelley Moore Capito,
John Boozman, Roger F. Wicker, Cindy
Hyde-Smith, David Perdue, Mike
Rounds, John Hoeven, Mitch McCon-
nell.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of R. Austin Huffaker, Jr., of Alabama,
to be United States District Judge for
the Middle District of Alabama, shall
be brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk called
the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON), the Sen-
ator from Alaska (Ms. MURKOWSKI), and
the Senator from South Dakota (Mr.
ROUNDS).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
KLOBUCHAR), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
YOUNG). Are there any other Senators
in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 88,
nays 4, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 373 Ex.]
YEAS—88
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:08 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03DE6.008 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6820 December 3, 2019
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Moran
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rubio
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—4
Gillibrand
Hirono
Markey
Merkley
NOT VOTING—8
Booker
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Murkowski
Rounds
Sanders
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 88, the nays are 4.
The motion is agreed to.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of David B. Barlow, of Utah, to be
United States District Judge for the District
of Utah.
Mitch McConnell, John Boozman, Rich-
ard Burr, Shelley Moore Capito, John
Cornyn, Mike Crapo, John Barrasso,
Roy Blunt, John Thune, Steve Daines,
Thom Tillis, Kevin Cramer, Chuck
Grassley, Tom Cotton, Rand Paul,
Roger F. Wicker, Cindy Hyde-Smith.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of David B. Barlow, of Utah, to be
United States District Judge for the
District of Utah, shall be brought to a
close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON), the Sen-
ator from Alaska (Ms. MURKOWSKI), and
the Senator from South Dakota (Mr.
ROUNDS).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
KLOBUCHAR), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms.
MCSALLY). Are there any other Sen-
ators in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 88,
nays 4, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 374 Ex.]
YEAS—88
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Moran
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rubio
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—4
Gillibrand
Hirono
Markey
Merkley
NOT VOTING—8
Booker
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Murkowski
Rounds
Sanders
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 88, the nays are 4.
The motion is agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of David B. Bar-
low, of Utah, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the District of Utah.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Georgia.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. PERDUE. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session and
be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
TRIBUTE TO MIKE CARRIGAN
Mr. DURBIN. Madam President,
nearly one-quarter of Illinois’ work-
force will see the benefit of a $15 an our
minimum wage by 2025. Also, the State
of Illinois is about to embark on a mas-
sive $45 billion infrastructure mod-
ernization and construction plan. Sim-
ply put, these are life-changing
achievements. And behind both is Mi-
chael Carrigan.
Since 2010, Mike Carrigan has served
as the president of the Illinois AFL–
CIO, fighting for working families
across the State. At the end of the
year, Mike is retiring from his decades’
long service to Illinois’ labor unions
and its nearly 900,000 members.
In the fall of 2011, Mike was my guest
for then-President Obama’s joint ses-
sion of Congress focusing on the econ-
omy. Mike had been an authority on
creating jobs and putting people back
to work for years so the invitation
made perfect sense. And Mike was
there to applaud a President he had
worked hard to elect.
Michael Carrigan was born in Kan-
kakee, IL, and grew up in Kankakee
County. After graduating from
MacMurray College in Jacksonville
and completing a 4-year apprenticeship
in Decatur, he became a journeyman
electrician. Mike installed wiring at
construction sites for everything from
nuclear powerplants to fast-food res-
taurants. Later, he became the busi-
ness manager and financial secretary
for the International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers Local 146 in Deca-
tur.
In 1995, Mike ran for the city council
in Decatur and won. Four years later,
Margaret Blackshere chose Mike to be
her running mate in an historic bid for
the leadership of the Illinois AFL–CIO.
Margaret was the first woman to serve
as president of the labor organization,
and they were the right people for the
jobs at the right time. Under the lead-
ership of Margaret and Mike, the AFL–
CIO led the fight to raise the State’s
minimum wage multiple times, devel-
oped infrastructure plans, and
strengthened labor union membership
in Illinois. They brought together di-
verse groups and built coalitions to im-
prove the lives of working families in
Illinois, from infrastructure to
healthcare.
When Margaret stepped away from
her post in 2007, Mike seamlessly con-
tinued the hard work of leading Illinois
AFL–CIO. In 2008, the mayor of Decatur
resigned abruptly, and the city council
picked Mike to finish the term. Like
his work in labor, Mike took to his
temporary role with enthusiasm. He
served for 10 months, providing steady
leadership, before returning full time
to the AFL–CIO.
In 2015, a newly elected Republican
Governor purposely chose Mike’s
hometown of Decatur to launch a cam-
paign to break Illinois unions with
right to work laws. Mike Carrigan did
not back away. Mike fought then-Gov-
ernor Rauner’s efforts to weaken work-
ers’ rights in every corner of our State.
From courtrooms to the picket line,
Mike took the fight to Rauner. In 2018,
the voters of Illinois retired Bruce
Rauner. Within 6 months, Mike had
worked behind the scenes to ensure
that State workers had a new contract
under our new Governor, J.B. Pritzker.
After 20 years of service to the Illi-
nois AFL–CIO, Mike is retiring.
Thanks to his hard work and dedica-
tion, the outlook for Illinois labor is
bright.
Even in retirement, I know Mike will
keep busy and will only be a phone call
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:08 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03DE6.010 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6821
December 3, 2019
away. I look forward to catching an-
other Illini/Mizzou Braggin’ Rights bas-
ketball game with Mike. And his holi-
day dinner is a favorite of the season
for my wife, Loretta, and me.
I am excited to see what Mike does
next and I am proud to call him a
friend.
(At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
following statement was ordered to be
printed in the RECORD).
f
VOTE EXPLANATION
∑ Ms. HARRIS. Madam President, I
was absent but had I been present I
would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 368 the motion to invoke cloture on
Executive Calendar No. 47, Eric Ross
Komitee to be U.S. District Judge for
the Eastern District of New York.∑
f
SECURE ACT
Mr. LEE. Madam President, as more
Americans enjoy longer lives than ever
before, it is more crucial than ever
that retirement plans and the policies
that govern them keep pace with
healthcare innovation and demo-
graphic change. That is the reason why
a bipartisan coalition in both houses of
Congress has proposed the SECURE
Act, to modernize retirement savings
policies.
For the first time, it would give busi-
nesses the option to band together to
create pooled retirement plans for
their employees, helping them save
time and money and expanding access
to millions of workers to an indispen-
sable job benefit. This would especially
help small businesses who would love
to offer their employees retirement
plans but simply cannot afford it on
their own. It would allow graduate and
postdoctoral students to save for their
retirements by contributing income
from their stipends and fellowships to
Individual Retirement Accounts. And
it would allow parents to withdraw re-
tirement funds, without penalty, for
the birth or adoption of a child, pro-
viding special help to younger families
when they need it most.
I support all of the above provisions,
and to see them enacted, I am willing
to accept multiple provisions in this
bill that I oppose. Unfortunately, one
provision goes over the line, would
hurt the very workers it purports to
help, and would set a dangerous prece-
dent for Federal policy. This measure
would allow a handful of select busi-
nesses to cut their required contribu-
tions to their workers’ pension plans,
while still promising those workers full
benefits.
Under current law, if a pension plan
fails to meet its funding target, the
plan sponsor must eliminate the fund-
ing shortfall through additional plan
contributions, plus interest, over 7
years. The bailout in the SECURE Act,
however, would extend that period to
30 years for only a handful of strug-
gling newspapers. Additionally, it
would entitle them to legally assume a
higher return on investment than
other businesses must use.
This would reduce the amount that
certain community newspapers are re-
quired to contribute to their employ-
ees’ plans each month and, given the
longer payback window, would also
make it less likely that these bailed
out companies would ever make up the
shortfall. In other words, this bill
grants a special bailout to a handful of
community newspapers by allowing
them to shortchange their workers’
pensions.
This is bad policy and bad precedent.
This short-sighted strategy might pro-
long the life of these community news-
papers for a while; that is what short-
sighted strategies do. But it would only
do so at the expense of their employees
because, when these newspaper pen-
sions inevitably become insolvent,
which is the trajectory they are al-
ready on, they will most likely end up
in the Pension Benefit Guaranty Cor-
poration. The PBGC is a federally-char-
tered business that provides pension in-
surance through premiums paid by pri-
vate companies. In other words, all the
companies required to pay into the
PBGC, but that do not receive a special
bailout, will be forced to pay the price.
This is the opposite of ‘‘secure.’’ We
ought not provide special treatment to
a select group of community news-
papers in the first place. And we cer-
tainly shouldn’t set the precedent that
those bailouts entitle recipients to raid
their workers’ pensions and then force
more prudently run businesses to pick
up the tab.
This is why I have an amendment
that strikes this pension bailout provi-
sion out of the bill. A few weeks ago,
Senator TOOMEY offered a reasonable
path forward for the SECURE Act. He
suggested allowing the Senate to con-
sider the SECURE Act with five Repub-
lican amendments and five Democratic
amendments of their choosing. Unfor-
tunately, Senator MURRAY refused to
accept that proposal, claiming that the
amendments are ‘‘not in the interest of
hardworking Americans.’’
I respectfully disagree. In addition to
my amendment, which would stop cor-
porate bailouts and protect workers
from corporate raids on their pension
funds, Senator CRUZ and Senator
BRAUN have amendments to expand 529
savings accounts. Under their pro-
posals, parents and grandparents could
save money for the educational ex-
penses of children with disabilities, for
homeschooling, and for apprenticeships
and training programs.
All of these amendments are ‘‘in the
interests of American workers.’’ The
Senate should consider each of them. I
hope my Democratic colleagues will
recognize the need to put this bill on
the Senate floor so we can vote on the
underlying text, as well as the reason-
able amendments that have been pro-
posed.
REMEMBERING KAY HAGAN
Mr. WARNER. Madam President,
Senator Kay Hagan was a great friend
and a devoted public servant. Her loss
has been deeply felt by her many
friends in this Chamber.
Kay and I first got to know each
other when we were running for the
Senate in 2008. Throughout that cam-
paign, we would talk periodically, and
her courage in the face of the attacks
she dealt with said so much about her
character and her strong faith. We
were sworn in together as freshmen
Senators in 2009, and I had the pleasure
of serving alongside her for 6 years.
Throughout her time in the Senate,
Kay served the people of North Caro-
lina with integrity. I knew her to be
someone who approached every chal-
lenge not as a member of a particular
political party but as someone who
wanted to do right by the people of
North Carolina, who were always her
top priority.
She brought a valuable perspective
on financial matters and significant
experience in that arena to the Senate,
having worked in the banking sector in
North Carolina. During her time on
Capitol Hill, she was known as a legis-
lator who was always willing to listen
to good ideas—no matter which side of
the aisle they came from. I saw this
firsthand whenever we collaborated on
legislation.
Through her work Senator Hagan
sought to leave behind a better nation
for our future generations. In our first
year in the Senate, we worked closely
together on the value and innovation
amendment package—an ambitious set
of amendments to encourage innova-
tion and drive down costs in
healthcare. I was also proud to have
worked with her on legislation to do
things like strengthen America’s hous-
ing finance system and bring jobs back
to the United States.
Born in Shelby, NC, Kay got involved
in public service early on, working as a
Senate intern in the 1970s and eventu-
ally going on to work on Governor Jim
Hunt’s campaigns in her home of Guil-
ford County. Before being elected to
the Senate, she served in the North
Carolina State Senate for 10 years,
where she cochaired the budget com-
mittee.
Senator Hagan blazed the trail as
North Carolina’s first female demo-
cratic Senator and as the second
woman to ever serve as Senator of her
State. Championing a number of bills
to fund expanded screening for
newborns, provide medical assistance
to families exposed to toxic drinking
water, and safeguard tuition funding
for servicemembers, Senator Hagan
spent her career fighting for the well-
being of North Carolina families.
Senator Hagan will be remembered as
a leader within her community and as
someone who was not afraid to stand
for what was right. My heart goes out
to her husband, Chip; her three chil-
dren, Jeannette, Tilden and Carrie; her
beloved grandchildren; and her whole
family.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:08 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03DE6.013 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6822 December 3, 2019
TRIBUTE TO MARK COVALL
Mr. TOOMEY. Madam President, I
rise to recognize Mr. Mark Covall, who,
after 34 years with the National Asso-
ciation for Behavioral Healthcare,
NABH, is retiring.
For the past 24 years, Mark ably
served as the president and CEO of the
NABH, which was founded in 1933 to ad-
vocate for the interests of behavioral
healthcare systems and providers that
treat children, adolescents, adults, and
senior citizens with mental health and
substance use disorders. Under Mark’s
steadfast leadership, NABH helped to
secure parity in mental and general
healthcare services, paving the way for
the Paul Wellstone and Pete Domenici
Mental Health Parity and Addiction
Equity Act of 2008. More recently,
Mark and NABH helped to ensure that
Congress enacted the Comprehensive
Addiction and Recovery Act and 21st
Century Cures Act in 2016 and the SUP-
PORT for Patients and Communities
Act in 2018.
Mark’s leadership in coalition-build-
ing, as well as his work to develop
strong relationships with behavioral
healthcare providers, government offi-
cials, and associations such as the
American Hospital Association, the
National Alliance on Mental Illness,
Mental Health America, and the Ken-
nedy Forum, explain why he has been
as effective in influencing regulation
as he has been in advancing legislation.
I am told others in the behavioral
health field would go to Mark for his
insight, knowing he is one of the be-
havioral healthcare community’s most
well-informed and strongest advocates.
Today, I join others in the mental
health community in thanking Mark
Covall for his decades of leadership,
dedication, and passion for ensuring
that millions of Americans have access
to quality mental health and addiction
treatment services.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
RECOGNIZING TOMATO EXPRESS
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Madam President, as the
chairman of the Senate Committee on
Small Business and Entrepreneurship,
each week I recognize a small business
that exemplifies the unique American
entrepreneurial spirit. Small busi-
nesses are the backbone of our econ-
omy: creating jobs, fostering economic
growth, and providing services to their
local communities. This week, it is my
pleasure to honor a small business that
exemplifies these qualities, Tomato
Express of Kissimmee, FL.
More than 28 years ago, the Siracuza
family decided to immigrate to the
United States, leaving behind their
home in Argentina and bringing with
them the hope of achieving the Amer-
ican dream. When Pedro, Stella, and
Luis Siracuza arrived in Florida, they
discovered that quality Hispanic foods
were difficult to find in their Kis-
simmee community. This observation
marked the beginning of their entre-
preneurial journey. In November 1991,
the Siracuzas opened the first Tomato
Express, a small produce stand selling
local fruits and vegetables. As
Kissimmee’s Hispanic population grew,
Tomato Express’s business expanded
until their produce stand became too
small to support their customer base
and sales numbers. After securing pri-
vate funding and a Small Business Ad-
ministration loan, the Siracuza family
was able to grow from a small produce
stand into a larger grocery store.
Today, Tomato Express still focuses
on their original vision, supplying
quality Hispanic foods for their com-
munity. The Tomato Express grocery
store now offers locally sourced fruit,
vegetables, meat, and imported beers
and wines. In its deli and bakery, To-
mato Express offers various homemade
Hispanic dishes from both Central and
South America, but its main focus re-
mains authentic Argentinian cuisine.
The Siracuza family has been recog-
nized for their part in making Kis-
simmee the dynamic and innovative
community that it is today. In 2016, the
Osceola Chamber of Commerce pre-
sented Stella Siracuza with the
Compadre Award commemorating her
numerous contributions to the His-
panic community. As a family-owned
business, Tomato Express is dedicated
to giving back to the community that
is their home. For example, Tomato
Express is a devoted sponsor to
Orlando’s Community Vision, Inc.,
which aims to allocate resources to
solve the community’s complex issues
with innovative solutions. The
Siracuzas’ expansion and success of To-
mato Express has also inspired entre-
preneurs in their community to open
Hispanic food businesses.
Today, the Siracuza family’s initia-
tive and passion has made them a vital
part of the Kissimmee community and
economy. The Siracuzas’ entrepre-
neurial journey is a key example of the
success that can be achieved through
dignified work. I offer my sincere con-
gratulations to the Siracuza family
and the entire team at Tomato Ex-
press, and I look forward to watching
your continued growth and success.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE
At 3:07 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that pursuant to 20 U.S.C.
2103(b), and the order of the House of
January 3, 2019, the Speaker appoints
the following individual to the Board of
Trustees of the American Folklife Cen-
ter in the Library of Congress on the
part of the House of Representatives
for a term of 6 years: Mr. Robert
Anacletus Underwood of Hagatna,
Guam.
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
At 6:09 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the Speaker pro tempore
(Mr. BEYER) has signed the following
enrolled bills:
H.R. 887. An act to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
877 East 1200 South in Orem, Utah, as the
‘‘Jerry C. Washburn Post Office Building’’.
H.R. 1252. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 6531 Van Nuys Boulevard in Van Nuys,
California, as the ‘‘Marilyn Monroe Post Of-
fice’’.
H.R. 1253. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 13507 Van Nuys Boulevard in Pacoima,
California, as the ‘‘Ritchie Valens Post Of-
fice Building’’.
H.R. 1526. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 200 Israel Road Southeast in Tumwater,
Washington, as the ‘‘Eva G. Hewitt Post Of-
fice’’.
H.R. 1844. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 66 Grove Court in Elgin, Illinois, as the
‘‘Corporal Alex Martinez Memorial Post Of-
fice Building’’.
H.R. 1972. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 1100 West Kent Avenue in Missoula, Mon-
tana, as the ‘‘Jeannette Rankin Post Office
Building’’.
H.R. 2151. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 7722 South Main Street in Pine Plains,
New York, as the ‘‘Senior Chief Petty Officer
Shannon M. Kent Post Office’’.
H.R. 2325. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 100 Calle Alondra in San Juan, Puerto
Rico, as the ‘‘65th Infantry Regiment Post
Office Building’’.
H.R. 2334. An act to designate the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs community-based
outpatient clinic in Odessa, Texas, as the
‘‘Wilson and Young Medal of Honor VA Clin-
ic’’.
H.R. 2451. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 575 Dexter Street in Central Falls, Rhode
Island, as the ‘‘Elizabeth Buffum Chace Post
Office’’.
H.R. 3144. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 8520 Michigan Avenue in Whittier, Cali-
fornia, as the ‘‘Jose Ramos Post Office Build-
ing’’.
H.R. 3314. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 1750 McCulloch Boulevard North in Lake
Havasu City, Arizona, as the ‘‘Lake Havasu
City Combat Veterans Memorial Post Office
Building’’.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–3315. A communication from the Ad-
ministrator, Agricultural Marketing Serv-
ice, Department of Agriculture, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Almonds Grown in California; Revi-
sions to the Accepted User Program Require-
ments and New Information Collection’’ ((7
CFR Part 981) (Docket No. AMS–SC–18–0099))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on November 26, 2019; to the Committee on
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–3316. A communication from the Ad-
ministrator, Agricultural Marketing Serv-
ice, Department of Agriculture, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Dried Prunes Produced in California;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:08 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03DE6.015 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6823
December 3, 2019
Decreased Assessment Rate’’ ((7 CFR Part
993) (Docket No. AMS–SC–19–0056)) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on No-
vember 26, 2019; to the Committee on Agri-
culture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–3317. A communication from the Con-
gressional Review Coordinator, Animal and
Plant Health Inspection Service, Department
of Agriculture, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Swine
Health Protection Act; Amendments to Gar-
bage Feeding Regulations’’ ((RIN0579–AE50)
(Docket No. APHIS–2018–0067)) received dur-
ing adjournment of the Senate in the Office
of the President of the Senate on November
27, 2019; to the Committee on Agriculture,
Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–3318. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Issuances Staff, Food Safety and
Inspection Service, Department of Agri-
culture, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Publication Meth-
od for Lists of Foreign Countries Eligible to
Export Meat, Poultry, or Egg Products to
the United States’’ (RIN0583–AD72) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on December 2, 2019; to the Committee on
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–3319. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Defense, transmitting a report on
the approved retirement of Vice Admiral
Bruce H. Lindsey, United States Navy, and
his advancement to the grade of vice admiral
on the retired list; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
EC–3320. A communication from the Sec-
retary, Department of the Treasury, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, the six-month peri-
odic report on the national emergency with
respect to serious human rights abuse and
corruption that was declared in Executive
Order 13818 of December 20, 2017; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
EC–3321. A communication from the Dep-
uty General Counsel for Operations, Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Development,
transmitting, pursuant to law, two (2) re-
ports relative to vacancies in the Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Development, re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on November 18, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
EC–3322. A communication from the Direc-
tor, Bureau of Consumer Financial Protec-
tion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Truth in Lending
(Regulation Z); Screening and Training Re-
quirements for Mortgage Loan Originators
With Temporary Authority’’ (12 CFR Part
1026) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on November 19, 2019; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
EC–3323. A communication from the Assist-
ant Director for Regulatory Affairs, Office of
Foreign Assets Control, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Venezuela Sanc-
tions Regulations’’ (31 CFR Part 591) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on November 20, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
EC–3324. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Legislative Affairs, Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Pro-
hibitions and Restrictions on Proprietary
Trading and Certain Interests in, and Rela-
tionships With, Hedge Funds and Private Eq-
uity Funds’’ (RIN3064–AE67) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on No-
vember 20, 2019; to the Committee on Bank-
ing , Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–3325. A communication from the Regu-
latory Specialist, Office of the Comptroller
of the Currency, Department of the Treas-
ury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Other Real Estate
Owner and Technical Amendments’’
(RIN1557–AE50) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on November 22, 2019; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
EC–3326. A communication from the Regu-
latory Specialist, Office of the Comptroller
of the Currency, Department of the Treas-
ury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Appraisals for High-
er-Priced Mortgage Loans Exemption
Threshold’’ (RIN1557–AE68) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on November 22,
2019; to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs.
EC–3327. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary for Export Administration,
Bureau of Industry and Security, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Addi-
tion of Entities to the Entity List, Revision
of an Entry on the Entity List, and Removal
of Entities from the Entity List’’ (RIN0694–
AH85) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on November 25, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
EC–3328. A communication from the Senior
Legal Advisor for Regulatory Affairs, De-
partmental Offices, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘IMARA Calculation
Under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Pro-
gram’’ ((RIN1505–AC62) (31 CFR Part 50)) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on December 2, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
EC–3329. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Secretary for Export Adminis-
tration, Bureau of Industry and Security,
Department of Commerce, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Temporary General License: Extension of
Validity’’ (RIN0694–AH97) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Decem-
ber 2, 2019; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–3330. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Secretary for Export Adminis-
tration, Bureau of Industry and Security,
Department of Commerce, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Temporary General License: Extension of
Validity’’ (RIN0694–AH97) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Decem-
ber 2, 2019; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–3331. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary for Legislative Affairs, De-
partment of Homeland Security, transmit-
ting proposed legislation to provide for util-
ity incentives that the Department of Home-
land Security may receive, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
EC–3332. A joint communication from the
Administrator, Federal Highway Adminis-
tration, Department of Transportation, and
the Administrator, Federal Transit Adminis-
tration, Department of Transportation,
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report enti-
tled ‘‘2018 Status of the Nation’s Highways,
Bridges, and Transit: Conditions and Per-
formance’’; to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works.
EC–3333. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Congressional Affairs, Office of Nu-
clear Material Safety and Safeguards, Nu-
clear Regulatory Commission, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Miscellaneous Corrections’’ (RIN3150–AK34)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on November 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–3334. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Connecticut; Re-
gional Haze Five Year Progress Report’’
(FRL No. 10002–42–Region 1) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on November 22,
2019; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–3335. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Vermont; Reason-
ably Available Control Technology for the
2008 and 2015 Ozone Standards’’ (FRL No.
10002–16–Region 1) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on November 22, 2019; to
the Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–3336. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Designation of Areas for Air Quality
Planning Purposes; Ohio; Redesignation of
the Ohio Portion of the Steubenville Sulfur
Dioxide Nonattainment Area’’ (FRL No.
10002–56–Region 5) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on November 22, 2019; to
the Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–3337. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Increasing Recycling: Adding Aerosol
Cans to the Universal Waste Regulations’’
((RIN2050–AG92) (FRL No. 10002–49–OLEM))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on November 22, 2019; to the Committee on
Environment and Public Works.
EC–3338. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘North Dakota: Codification and In-
corporation by Reference of Approved State
Underground Storage Tank Program’’ (FRL
No. 10000–51–Region 8) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on November 22,
2019; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–3339. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Accidental Release Prevention Re-
quirements: Risk Management Programs
under the Clean Air Act’’ ((RIN2050–AG95)
(FRL No. 10002–69–OLEM)) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on November 27,
2019; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–3340. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Iowa; Revisions to
Regional Haze Plan and Visibility Require-
ments in Infrastructure State Implementa-
tion Plans for the 2006 PM2.5, 2012 PM2.5, 2010
NO2, 2010 SO2, 2008 Ozone, and 2015 Ozone
NAAQS’’ (FRL No. 10001–89–Region 7) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
November 27, 2019; to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:08 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03DE6.017 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6824 December 3, 2019
EC–3341. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Revisions to California State Imple-
mentation Plan; Antelope Valley Air Quality
Management District and Ventura County
Air Pollution Control District; Nonattain-
ment New Source Review Requirements for
the 2008 8-Hour Ozone Standard’’ (FRL No.
10001–66–Region 9) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on November 27, 2019; to
the Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–3342. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
sections 36(c) and (d) of the Arms Export
Control Act, the certification of a proposed
license for the manufacture of significant
military equipment abroad and the export of
defense articles, including technical data
and defense services to the Philippines for
the manufacture of 22 Magnum pistols in the
amount of $1,000,000 or more (Transmittal
No. DDTC 17–085); to the Committee on For-
eign Relations.
EC–3343. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act,
the certification of a proposed license
amendment for the export of firearms, parts,
and components abroad controlled under
Category I of the U.S. Munitions List of .300
caliber automatic rifles and spare parts to
the Netherlands in the amount of $1,000,000
or more (Transmittal No. DDTC 19–066); to
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
EC–3344. A communication from the Chief
of the Publications and Regulations Branch,
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Estate and Gift
Taxes, Difference in the Basic Exclusion
Amount’’ (RIN1545–BO72) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on November 26,
2019; to the Committee on Finance.
EC–3345. A communication from the Chief
of the Publications and Regulations Branch,
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Guidance to Quali-
fied States Requesting Allocations of Unused
Low-Income Housing Credit Carryovers’’
(Rev. Proc. 2019–45) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on November 26,
2019; to the Committee on Finance.
EC–3346. A communication from the Regu-
lations Coordinator, Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Medicaid Program; Covered Outpatient
Drug; Further Delay of Inclusions of Terri-
tories in Definitions of States and United
States’’ (RIN0938–AT09) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on November 22,
2019; to the Committee on Finance.
EC–3347. A communication from the Chief
of the Publications and Regulations Branch,
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Per Diem Allow-
ances’’ (Rev. Proc. 2019–48) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on November 27,
2019; to the Committee on Finance.
EC–3348. A communication from the Direc-
tor, Office of Workers’ Compensation Pro-
grams, Department of Labor, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the Department of Labor’s
fiscal year 2016, fiscal year 2017, and fiscal
year 2018 Office of Workers’ Compensation
Programs annual report; to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–3349. A communication from the Acting
Assistant Secretary for Legislation, Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, a report entitled
‘‘Fiscal Year 2017 Performance Report to
Congress for the Office of Combination Prod-
ucts’’; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–3350. A communication from the Senior
Advisor, Office of the Secretary, Department
of Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report relative to a va-
cancy in the position of Commissioner of
Food and Drugs, Food and Drug Administra-
tion, Department of Health and Human Serv-
ices, received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on December 2, 2019; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
EC–3351. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Regulations and Policy Management
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, De-
partment of Health and Human Services,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Food Labeling: Calorie La-
beling of Articles of Food Sold From Certain
Vending Machines; Front of Package Type
Size’’ (RIN0910–AH83) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on November 22,
2019; to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
EC–3352. A communication from the Divi-
sion Director for Policy, Legislation, and
Regulation, Employment and Training Ad-
ministration, Department of Labor, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule
entitled ‘‘Procurement Roles and Respon-
sibilities for Job Corps Contracts’’ (RIN1205–
AB96) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on November 25, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
EC–3353. A communication from the Acting
Assistant General Counsel for Regulatory
Services, Office of General Counsel, Depart-
ment of Education, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Final
Priority for Discretionary Grant Programs’’
(RIN1875–AA12) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on November 27, 2019; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
EC–3354. A communication from the Acting
Assistant General Counsel for Regulatory
Services, Office of General Counsel, Depart-
ment of Education, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Total
and Permanent Disability Discharge of
Loans under Title IV of the Higher Edu-
cation Act’’ (RIN1840–AD48) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on November 27,
2019; to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
EC–3355. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Education, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Title I,
Part C—Improving the Academic Achieve-
ment of the Disadvantaged; Education of Mi-
gratory Children’’ (RIN1810–AB49) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on No-
vember 27, 2019; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–3356. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant General Counsel for Regu-
latory Affairs, Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corporation, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Benefits Pay-
able in Terminated Single-Employer Plans;
Interest Assumptions for Paying Benefits’’
(29 CFR Part 4022) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on December 2,
2019; to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. CRAPO, from the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, with-
out amendment:
S. 2877. A bill to reauthorize the Terrorism
Risk Insurance Act of 2002, and for other pur-
poses.
f
EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF
COMMITTEE
The following executive reports of
nominations were submitted:
By Mr. ALEXANDER for the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
*Richard Giacolone, of Virginia, to be Fed-
eral Mediation and Conciliation Director.
*Cynthia L. Attwood, of Virginia, to be a
Member of the Occupational Safety and
Health Review Commission for a term expir-
ing April 27, 2025.
*Amanda Wood Laihow, of Maine, to be a
Member of Occupational Safety and Health
Review Commission for the remainder of a
term expiring April 27, 2023.
*Stephen Hahn, of Texas, to be Commis-
sioner of Food and Drugs, Department of
Health and Human Services.
*Nomination was reported with rec-
ommendation that it be confirmed sub-
ject to the nominee’s commitment to
respond to requests to appear and tes-
tify before any duly constituted com-
mittee of the Senate.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. UDALL, and Mrs.
BLACKBURN):
S. 2963. A bill to amend the
Servicemembers Civil Relief Act to allow
certain individuals to terminate contracts
for telephone, multichannel video program-
ming, or internet access service, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mr. WICKER (for himself and Ms.
CANTWELL):
S. 2964. A bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, to extend the authority of the
Secretary of Transportation to issue non-
premium aviation insurance; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
By Mr. DAINES (for himself and Mr.
SCHATZ):
S. 2965. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to repeal the requirement that
the United States Postal Service prepay fu-
ture retirement benefits, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mr.
CRAMER, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. HOEVEN,
Mr. MANCHIN, and Ms. COLLINS):
S. 2966. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to make permanent the author-
ity of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to
transport individuals to and from facilities
of the Department of Veterans Affairs in
connection with rehabilitation, counseling,
examination, treatment, and care, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mr. ALEXANDER (for himself and
Ms. SINEMA):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:08 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03DE6.019 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6825
December 3, 2019
S. 2967. A bill to establish the Commission
on Intergovernmental Relations of the
United States to facilitate the fullest co-
operation, coordination, and mutual ac-
countability among all levels of government,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
By Ms. CANTWELL (for herself, Mr.
SCHATZ, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, and Mr.
MARKEY):
S. 2968. A bill to provide consumers with
foundational data privacy rights, create
strong oversight mechanisms, and establish
meaningful enforcement; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. JONES (for himself and Mr.
ISAKSON):
S. 2969. A bill to expand adoption opportu-
nities; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Ms. ERNST (for herself, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Ms. MCSALLY, and Mr.
BLUMENTHAL):
S. 2970. A bill to improve the fielding of
newest generations of personal protective
equipment to the Armed Forces, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
By Mr. ISAKSON (for himself and Mr.
JONES):
S. 2971. A bill to amend and reauthorize the
Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr. COONS,
Mr. JONES, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Ms.
CANTWELL, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr.
BROWN, and Mr. DURBIN):
S. Res. 445. A resolution recognizing the
goals and ideals of International Day of Per-
sons with Disabilities; to the Committee on
Foreign Relations.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 225
At the request of Mr. ISAKSON, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 225, a bill to provide for
partnerships among State and local
governments, regional entities, and the
private sector to preserve, conserve,
and enhance the visitor experience at
nationally significant battlefields of
the American Revolution, War of 1812,
and Civil War, and for other purposes.
S. 279
At the request of Mr. THUNE, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 279, a bill to allow tribal
grant schools to participate in the Fed-
eral Employee Health Benefits Pro-
gram.
S. 460
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
name of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. UDALL) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 460, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to extend the ex-
clusion for employer-provided edu-
cation assistance to employer pay-
ments of student loans.
S. 479
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. HEINRICH) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 479, a bill to revise section 48
of title 18, United States Code, and for
other purposes.
S. 511
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 511, a bill to promote and protect
from discrimination living organ do-
nors.
S. 851
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 851, a bill to direct the Secretary
of Labor to issue an occupational safe-
ty and health standard that requires
covered employers within the health
care and social service industries to de-
velop and implement a comprehensive
workplace violence prevention plan,
and for other purposes.
S. 901
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from California
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 901, a bill to amend the
Older Americans Act of 1965 to support
individuals with younger onset Alz-
heimer’s disease.
S. 1130
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1130, a bill to amend the Pub-
lic Health Service Act to improve the
health of children and help better un-
derstand and enhance awareness about
unexpected sudden death in early life.
S. 1190
At the request of Mrs. CAPITO, the
name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
PORTMAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1190, a bill to amend title XVIII of
the Social Security Act to provide for
payments for certain rural health clin-
ic and Federally qualified health cen-
ter services furnished to hospice pa-
tients under the Medicare program.
S. 1354
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1354, a bill to require certain pro-
tections for student loan borrowers,
and for other purposes.
S. 1376
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1376, a bill to amend parts B and E
of title IV of the Social Security Act to
eliminate barriers to providing child
welfare services for children and youth
in need, to provide additional resources
to implement programmatic changes
necessary to meet the requirements of
the Family First Prevention Services
Act, and for other purposes.
S. 1381
At the request of Mr. BOOZMAN, the
name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1381, a bill to modify the presumption
of service connection for veterans who
were exposed to herbicide agents while
serving in the Armed Forces in Thai-
land during the Vietnam era, and for
other purposes.
S. 1392
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
names of the Senator from Rhode Is-
land (Mr. REED) and the Senator from
New Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1392, a bill to
direct the Comptroller General of the
United States to conduct an assess-
ment of the responsibilities, workload,
and vacancy rates of suicide prevention
coordinators of the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs, and for other purposes.
S. 1399
At the request of Mr. BURR, the name
of the Senator from Iowa (Mr. GRASS-
LEY) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1399, a bill to amend title VIII of the
Public Health Services Act to revise
and extend nursing workforce develop-
ment programs.
S. 1657
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. HAWLEY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1657, a bill to provide assistance
to combat the escalating burden of
Lyme disease and other tick and vec-
tor-borne diseases and disorders.
S. 1677
At the request of Mr. PERDUE, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1677, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide authority
to postpone certain deadlines by reason
of State declared disasters or emer-
gencies.
S. 1757
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
names of the Senator from Nebraska
(Mrs. FISCHER), the Senator from Ari-
zona (Ms. MCSALLY) and the Senator
from Alaska (Mr. SULLIVAN) were added
as cosponsors of S. 1757, a bill to award
a Congressional Gold Medal, collec-
tively, to the United States Army
Rangers Veterans of World War II in
recognition of their extraordinary serv-
ice during World War II.
S. 1781
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
names of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) and the Senator from Ne-
vada (Ms. CORTEZ MASTO) were added
as cosponsors of S. 1781, a bill to au-
thorize appropriations for the Depart-
ment of State for fiscal years 2020
through 2022 to provide assistance to El
Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras
through bilateral compacts to increase
protection of women and children in
their homes and communities and re-
duce female homicides, domestic vio-
lence, and sexual assault.
S. 1791
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Nevada
(Ms. CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1791, a bill to prohibit dis-
crimination on the basis of religion,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:08 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03DE6.023 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6826 December 3, 2019
sex (including sexual orientation and
gender identity), and marital status in
the administration and provision of
child welfare services, to improve safe-
ty, well-being, and permanency for les-
bian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and
queer or questioning foster youth, and
for other purposes.
S. 1891
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1891, a bill to provide for the
inclusion on the Vietnam Veterans Me-
morial Wall of the names of the sol-
diers who died on Flying Tiger Flight
739 on March 16, 1962.
S. 1979
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1979, a bill to amend title 49,
United States Code, to provide for the
minimum size of crews of freight
trains, and for other purposes.
S. 2054
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
WARNER) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2054, a bill to posthumously award the
Congressional Gold Medal, collectively,
to Glen Doherty, Tyrone Woods, J.
Christopher Stevens, and Sean Smith,
in recognition of their contributions to
the Nation.
S. 2085
At the request of Ms. ROSEN, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2085, a bill to authorize
the Secretary of Education to award
grants to eligible entities to carry out
educational programs about the Holo-
caust, and for other purposes.
S. 2108
At the request of Mr. DAINES, the
names of the Senator from Utah (Mr.
LEE), the Senator from Idaho (Mr.
CRAPO) and the Senator from Idaho
(Mr. RISCH) were added as cosponsors of
S. 2108, a bill to amend section 6903 of
title 31, United States Code, to provide
for additional population tiers, and for
other purposes.
S. 2216
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2216, a bill to require the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs to formally
recognize caregivers of veterans, notify
veterans and caregivers of clinical de-
terminations relating to eligibility for
caregiver programs, and temporarily
extend benefits for veterans who are
determined ineligible for the family
caregiver program, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2246
At the request of Mr. MORAN, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2246, a bill to amend titles XVIII
and XIX of the Social Security Act to
provide equal coverage of in vitro spe-
cific IgE tests and percutaneous tests
for allergies under the Medicare and
Medicaid programs, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2414
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2414, a bill to amend the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 to extend the
Health Coverage Tax Credit.
S. 2427
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from New
Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as
a cosponsor of S. 2427, a bill to amend
title 31, United States Code, to require
the Secretary of the Treasury to mint
and issue quarter dollars in commemo-
ration of the 19th Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States, and
for other purposes.
S. 2481
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2481, a bill to facilitate effective
research on and treatment of neglected
tropical diseases through coordinated
domestic and international efforts.
S. 2529
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2529, a bill to amend the Commodity
Exchange Act and the Securities Ex-
change Act of 1934 to modify provisions
relating to whistleblower incentives
and protection, and for other purposes.
S. 2590
At the request of Mr. BRAUN, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. HOEVEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2590, a bill to protect the
dignity of fetal remains, and for other
purposes.
S. 2619
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mrs. CAPITO) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2619, a bill to amend the
Public Health Service Act to reauthor-
ize the Healthy Start program.
S. 2680
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the name of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2680, a bill to impose sanctions
with respect to foreign support for Pal-
estinian terrorism, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2772
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. HEINRICH) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2772, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to
provide for treatment of clinical psy-
chologists as physicians for purposes of
furnishing clinical psychologist serv-
ices under the Medicare program.
S. 2794
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2794, a bill to provide for the creation
of the Missing Armed Forces Personnel
Records Collection at the National Ar-
chives, to require the expeditious pub-
lic transmission to the Archivist and
public disclosure of Missing Armed
Forces Personnel records, and for other
purposes.
S. 2819
At the request of Ms. ROSEN, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2819, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to in-
crease the income-based limitations for
the Lifetime Learning Credit, and for
other purposes.
S. 2826
At the request of Mr. YOUNG, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2826, a bill to require a
global economic security strategy, and
for other purposes.
S. 2842
At the request of Mrs. CAPITO, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2842, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act and
the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 to ex-
pand and expedite access to cardiac re-
habilitation programs and pulmonary
rehabilitation programs under the
Medicare program, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2857
At the request of Mr. CARPER, the
names of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) and the Senator
from Ohio (Mr. PORTMAN) were added
as cosponsors of S. 2857, a bill to amend
the Higher Education Act of 1965 to
count military and veterans education
benefits as Federal educational assist-
ance, and for other purposes.
S. 2898
At the request of Mr. INHOFE, the
names of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY), the Senator from Iowa (Mr.
GRASSLEY) and the Senator from Ohio
(Mr. BROWN) were added as cosponsors
of S. 2898, a bill to amend title 5,
United States Code, to provide for a
full annuity supplement for certain air
traffic controllers.
S. 2961
At the request of Mr. SCHATZ, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2961, a bill to establish duties for on-
line service providers with respect to
end user data that such providers col-
lect and use.
S. CON. RES. 23
At the request of Mr. CRAMER, the
name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. BLUNT) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Con. Res. 23, a concurrent resolu-
tion honoring the 75th Anniversary of
the Battle of the Bulge fought during
World War II, recognizing the valiant
efforts of the Allied Forces in Decem-
ber 1944, and remembering those who
made the ultimate sacrifice, all of
which contributed to the Allied victory
in the European Theater.
S. RES. 98
At the request of Mrs. BLACKBURN,
the name of the Senator from Nevada
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:08 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03DE6.025 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6827
December 3, 2019
(Ms. CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 98, a resolution es-
tablishing the Congressional Gold Star
Family Fellowship Program for the
placement in offices of Senators of
children, spouses, and siblings of mem-
bers of the Armed Forces who are hos-
tile casualties or who have died from a
training-related injury.
S. RES. 404
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. Res. 404, a resolution express-
ing the sense of the Senate that the
United States should work in coopera-
tion with the international community
and continue to exercise global leader-
ship to address the causes and effects
of climate change, and for other pur-
poses.
S. RES. 410
At the request of Mr. JONES, the
names of the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. SINEMA) and the Senator from
Michigan (Mr. PETERS) were added as
cosponsors of S. Res. 410, a resolution
establishing a McCain-Mansfield Fel-
lowship Program in the Senate.
S. RES. 411
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr.
PERDUE) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 411, a resolution affirming that
States maintain primacy for the regu-
lation of hydraulic fracturing for oil
and natural gas production on State
and private lands, that the President
has no authority to declare a morato-
rium on the use of hydraulic fracturing
on State and private lands, and that
the President should not attempt to
declare a moratorium on the use of hy-
draulic fracturing on Federal lands (in-
cluding the Outer Continental Shelf) or
lands held in trust for an Indian Tribe,
unless the moratorium is authorized by
an Act of Congress.
S. RES. 418
At the request of Mrs. BLACKBURN,
the name of the Senator from Florida
(Mr. SCOTT) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 418, a resolution expressing
the sense of the Senate regarding the
Government of Turkey’s crackdown on
dissent related to its incursion into
northeast Syria, and broader human
rights violations.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 445—RECOG-
NIZING THE GOALS AND IDEALS
OF INTERNATIONAL DAY OF
PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr. COONS,
Mr. JONES, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Ms. CANT-
WELL, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. BROWN, and
Mr. DURBIN) submitted the following
resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 445
Whereas December 3 of each year is recog-
nized internationally as International Day of
Persons with Disabilities;
Whereas the United Nations (UN) states
that the observance of International Day of
Persons with Disabilities aims to promote an
understanding of disability issues and mobi-
lize support for the dignity, rights, and well-
being of persons with disabilities and seeks
to increase awareness of gains to be derived
from the integration of persons with disabil-
ities in every aspect of political, social, eco-
nomic, and cultural life;
Whereas over 1,000,000,000 people, or 15 per-
cent of the world’s population, live with
some form of disability;
Whereas 80 percent of individuals with dis-
abilities live in developing countries;
Whereas there are more than 93,000,000
children with disabilities worldwide accord-
ing to the United Nations Children’s Fund
(UNICEF);
Whereas the prevalence of disabilities is
approximately 50 percent higher for women
than for men, and women make up 75 percent
of all individuals with disabilities in low-
and middle-income countries, according to
UN Women;
Whereas persons with disabilities are often
excluded from the labor market, political
participation and meaningful involvement in
public life and are more likely to experience
poverty, discrimination, social stigmatiza-
tion, and lack of access to vital and inclusive
resources;
Whereas children with disabilities are
more likely to be malnourished, subject to
violence, isolation, and abuse, and less likely
to attend school than children without dis-
abilities;
Whereas issues related to disability rights
cut across all sectors of foreign assistance,
including democracy, voting and elections,
human rights, civil rights, labor, global
health, education, economic growth and
trade, gender equality and women’s em-
powerment, agriculture and food security,
water and sanitation, conflict trans-
formation, disaster risk reduction, and hu-
manitarian recovery and relief;
Whereas there are 59,500,000 people forcibly
displaced worldwide and displaced people are
more likely to have a disability, according
to the UN High Commission for Refugees;
Whereas forced displacement amplifies the
risk experienced by refugees with disabilities
with respect to violence, including sexual
and domestic abuse, trafficking, exploitation
by family members, discrimination, and ex-
clusion from access to justice, education,
livelihoods, a nationality, and other public
services;
Whereas people with disabilities are often
members of marginalized groups, including
women, young people, older adults, the
LGBTI community, ethnic and religious mi-
norities, indigenous people, internally dis-
placed people, and refugees;
Whereas the United States has shown lead-
ership domestically on disability rights with
the enactment and implementation of the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42
U.S.C. 12101 et seq.), the ADA Amendments
Act of 2008 (Public Law 110–325), and the Indi-
viduals with Disabilities Education Act (20
U.S.C. 1400 et seq.), as well as section 504 of
the Rehabilitation Act (29 U.S.C. 794), and
this leadership should be leveraged to sup-
port international disability rights;
Whereas United States support for the
rights of individuals with disabilities—
(1) is in the diplomatic, economic, and hu-
manitarian interests of the United States;
(2) generates goodwill toward the United
States; and
(3) highlights the values of the people of
the United States through the work of gov-
ernmental, nongovernmental, and faith-
based organizations of the United States;
Whereas the United States Government,
through the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development (USAID), promotes
disability-inclusive development by—
(1) improving the quality and accessibility
of education for students with disabilities
through the promotion of sign language,
Braille, access to assistive technology, and
other inclusive education practices;
(2) increasing the participation of people
with disabilities in political processes
through national awareness campaigns, use
of accessible polling stations and voter ma-
terials, and open exchange between dis-
ability communities and politicians to up-
date election laws to be more inclusive and
compliant with the United Nations Conven-
tion on the Rights of Persons with Disabil-
ities;
(3) strengthening organizations run by and
for people with disabilities to advocate on
their own behalf, design, and implement
international development programs and ac-
cess direct funding;
(4) supporting the economic independence
of women with disabilities through micro-
credit programs that provide seed grants to
women to invest in their families and start
new businesses;
(5) integrating youth and adults with dis-
abilities into the competitive workforce by
facilitating job training, internship opportu-
nities, and educating employers on best prac-
tices for hiring people with disabilities; and
(6) ensuring community health care pro-
viders and disaster response experts include
people with disabilities in their programs by
employing the principles of universal design;
and
Whereas the inclusion of people with dis-
abilities is a fundamental part of democracy,
and essential to the full realization of human
rights: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) recognizes December 3, 2019, as Inter-
national Day of Persons with Disabilities;
(2) supports the goals and ideals of Inter-
national Day of Persons with Disabilities;
(3) recognizes the importance of supporting
the rights of individuals with disabilities
both domestically and abroad;
(4) supports efforts by the Department of
State and the United States Agency for
International Development to promote dis-
ability-inclusive development;
(5) supports continued leadership by the
United States in bilateral, multilateral, and
private sector efforts to promote and protect
the rights of individuals with disabilities;
and
(6) encourages other members of the inter-
national community to protect the rights
and civil liberties of individuals with disabil-
ities.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, I have 6
requests for committees to meet during
today’s session of the Senate. They
have the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES
The Committee on Armed Services is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Tuesday, December 3,
2019, at 9:30 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:08 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03DE6.028 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6828 December 3, 2019
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
The Committee on Foreign Relations
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Tuesday, Decem-
ber 3, 2019, at 10:15 a.m., to conduct a
hearing.
COMMITTEE ON HEALTH, EDUCATION, LABOR,
AND PENSIONS
The Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Tuesday, December 3, 2019,
at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing on the
following nominations: Stephen Hahn,
of Texas, to be Commissioner of Food
and Drugs, Department of Health and
Human Services, Richard Giacolone, of
Virginia, to be Federal Mediation and
Conciliation Director, and Cynthia L.
Attwood, of Virginia, and Amanda
Wood Laihow, of Maine, both to be a
Member of Occupational Safety and
Health Review Commission.
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
The Select Committee on Intel-
ligence is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Tuesday,
December 3, 2019, at 2:30 p.m., to con-
duct a hearing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON CLEAN AIR AND NUCLEAR
SAFETY
The Subcommittee on Clean Air and
Nuclear Safety of the Committee on
Environment and Public Works is au-
thorized to meet during the session of
the Senate on Tuesday, December 3,
2019, at 3 p.m., to conduct a hearing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
The Subcommittee on Intellectual
Property of the Committee on the Ju-
diciary is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Tuesday,
December 3, 2019, at 3 p.m., to conduct
a hearing.
f
ORDERS FOR WEDNESDAY,
DECEMBER 4, 2019
Mr. PERDUE. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 10 a.m., Wednesday, De-
cember 4; further, that following the
prayer and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, morning business
be closed, and the Senate proceed to
executive session and resume consider-
ation of Executive Calendar No. 47
under the previous order.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. PERDUE. Mr. President, if there
is no further business to come before
the Senate, I ask unanimous consent
that it stand adjourned under the pre-
vious order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 6:36 p.m., adjourned until Wednes-
day, December 4, 2019, at 10 a.m.
f
CONFIRMATION
Executive nomination confirmed by
the Senate December 3, 2019:
THE JUDICIARY
ERIC ROSS KOMITEE, OF NEW YORK, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT
OF NEW YORK.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:08 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A03DE6.030 S03DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1521
December 3, 2019
HONORING FORMER VILLAGE OF
LA GRANGE PRESIDENT ELIZA-
BETH ASPERGER ON HER YEARS
OF SERVICE
HON. DANIEL LIPINSKI
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Mr. LIPINSKI. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Elizabeth Asperger for her accom-
plishments as the first woman elected Presi-
dent of the Village of La Grange, and her
years of dedicated service to local residents.
In order to recognize Ms. Asperger’s positive
impact on our community, the Village of La
Grange is dedicating a garden at the historic
Stone Avenue train station in her name on No-
vember 27th. I am pleased to be attending this
celebration so that I can personally thank Ms.
Asperger for her contributions and her tireless
work to improve the lives of so many people.
Liz Asperger was elected President of the
Village of La Grange after serving nine years
as a trustee on the Village Board from 1996
to 2005. Prior to that she served on the vil-
lage’s Economic Development Commission
beginning in 1993. Her two terms as Presi-
dent, from 2005 to 2013, were marked by tre-
mendous accomplishments, and she was es-
pecially active on transportation and infrastruc-
ture issues. I was fortunate enough to work
with Ms. Asperger and help La Grange ac-
complish vital projects including the parking
deck behind Village Hall, modernization of La
Grange’s 9–1–1 call center, and the restora-
tion of the Stone Avenue train station.
Prior to her time serving the Village of La
Grange, Liz Asperger practiced law for sixteen
years. As partner in her law firm, she special-
ized in real estate development. However, Ms.
Asperger had a strong desire to serve our
community, and in 1996 she resigned from her
law firm in order to pursue opportunities in
public service. After her retirement as Presi-
dent of the Village of La Grange, Ms.
Asperger has remained committed to serving
local residents and seniors. Liz and her hus-
band, Jonathan, have resided in La Grange
since 1983 and have one son, Kyle.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in recognizing and thanking Elizabeth
Asperger for her long history of public and
community service. I am proud to have
worked with such a dedicated public servant
and leader, and I know that Ms. Asperger’s
example continues to inspire others to follow
in her footsteps to work on behalf of La
Grange and the region.
WISHING BUSTER AUSTIN A
HAPPY 107TH BIRTHDAY
HON. BRUCE WESTERMAN
OF ARKANSAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Mr. WESTERMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the 107th birthday of
Fourth District cattle producer, Buster Austin.
Mr. Austin was born in Madison County, Ar-
kansas on October 20, 1912, and has lived
most of his young life in the Fourth District. He
has seen over one hundred years of American
change and progress. Born before the start of
World War I, he has now lived to see the end
of polio and the start of the computer age.
Today, he and his wife, Gayle, raise cattle in
Madison County.
I find deep encouragement in hearing the
story of Mr. Austin’s life and history. I take this
time to wish him a happy birthday and to
thank him for his years of work and service in
the Fourth Congressional District.
f
HONORING MELVINDALE-DEAR-
BORN FIREFIGHTER MICHAEL
BRANNON
HON. RASHIDA TLAIB
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, I rise today in
tribute to Melvindale-Dearborn Firefighter Mi-
chael Brannon as he retires after eighteen
years of service.
During his eighteen years of public service,
Firefighter Michael Brannon has garnered ac-
colades for his bravery and dedication to safe-
ty along the way. In 2001, Brannon joined the
City of Melvindale’s Fire Department. From
there, he was quickly promoted to Firefighter
II, and ultimately, Firefighter III. A hardworking
public servant, Michael Brannon has been ac-
knowledged for his military service, excep-
tional driving record, and has spent countless
hours advancing his certification, including
rope rescue operations. Beyond this, Michael
Brannon has been recognized for his courage
in the line of duty both in military service and
as a firefighter receiving awards like the Meri-
torious Company Commendation and the Fire
Chief Unit Commendation.
Firefighter Michael Brannon has spent near-
ly two decades tirelessly working to ensure
safety for the community. Please join me in
saluting him for his years of public service as
we wish him well on his retirement.
COMMEMORATING WORLD AIDS
DAY 2019
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker,
World AIDS Day affords us an opportunity to
reflect on our progress in the fight against the
global AIDS pandemic and to rededicate our-
selves to ending the disease once and for all.
We have come a long way since the first
World AIDS Day in 1988 by dramatically ex-
panding investments in HIV/AIDS prevention,
care, treatment, and research.
Strong advocacy has paved the way for the
Ryan White Act, the Housing Opportunities for
People with AIDS Initiative, growing invest-
ments in NIH research, and an end to the ban
on federal funds for syringe exchange.
Beyond our borders, our efforts have ex-
tended care to millions in the developing
world, through increased resources for
PEPFAR and the Global Fund.
Our investments have saved lives—pre-
venting millions of new HIV cases, expanding
access to improved treatments, and enabling
medical advances that help HIV/AIDS patients
live longer and healthier.
Here and across the globe, AIDS deaths are
on the decline, and studies are pointing the
way to new approaches to limit the spread of
the disease, with treatment as prevention.
While our efforts have grown, we still only
reach half of all people eligible for HIV treat-
ment; and more must be done.
Working together, we must continue to
strengthen—not weaken—our national and
international efforts to combat AIDS and other
infectious diseases.
We must work to achieve the goal of an
AIDS-free generation.
We must honor the memory of those we
have lost and act on our hope, optimism, and
determination to end the HIV/AIDS pandemic.
We must continue to work with programs
and clinics, like the Harris County Hospital
District (HCHD), who are treating and caring
for patients with HIV/AIDS.
In 1989, HCHD opened Thomas Street
Health Center, the first free-standing facility
dedicated to outpatient HIV/AIDS care in the
nation.
The center has become the cornerstone of
all HIV/AIDS care available to Harris County
residents.
The Thomas Street Health Center has dedi-
cated their services to about 25 percent of
Harris County’s HIV/AIDS.
Annually, the health center, along with
HCHD, serves 4,463 unique patients for about
37,000 patients’ visits.
We will continue to fight a tough fight
against HIV and AIDS.
We will continue to strengthen and support
centers like Thomas Street Health Center who
work diligently with HIV/AIDS patients.
Our focus on HIV/AIDS prevention and
awareness will be to ensure all of our friends,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:54 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K03DE8.001 E03DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1522 December 3, 2019
relatives and children live healthy and full
lives.
There is a pressing need to raise aware-
ness and engage in education within the Afri-
can American community where HIV infections
have been and continue to rise.
The incidents of HIV have decreased for the
majority population, while it has grown nearly
unchecked among African Americans.
This must change—decisions regarding
funding for agencies charged with infectious
disease education and minority health must be
supported.
f
TRIBUTE TO MADELINE
ROANHORSE
HON. TOM O’HALLERAN
OF ARIZONA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Mr. O’HALLERAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to pay my respects to Madeline
Roanhorse, former director of the Navajo Na-
tion Abandoned Mine Lands Program.
Sadly, Madeline passed away earlier this
fall.
Madeline worked diligently for over thirty
years on uranium mine reclamation projects all
across the Navajo Nation.
She played an invaluable role in many crit-
ical uranium mine clean up efforts.
This fall, the House voted to pass the Grand
Canyon Centennial Protection Act, legislation
to permanently ban uranium mining in and
near the Grand Canyon.
This vote was a direct result of the culmina-
tion of years of work by Madeline and other
tribal leaders who refused to give up.
I wish Madeline had been here with us to
witness this historic vote and see her hard
work come to fruition.
I am honored to have worked with Madeline
on these efforts, but I am more honored to
have known her as a friend.
Pat and I are keeping Madeline’s loved
ones and the entire Navajo Nation community
in our prayers as they mourn her passing.
f
RECOGNIZING COMMAND MASTER
CHIEF PETTY OFFICER ALVIN J.
VEENSTRA FOR HIS RETIRE-
MENT FROM THE NAVY RE-
SERVES SEABEES
HON. JACK BERGMAN
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Mr. BERGMAN. Madam Speaker, it’s my
honor to recognize Command Master Chief
Petty Officer Alvin J. Veenstra for his retire-
ment from the Navy Reserves Seabees.
Through his more than thirty years of excel-
lence and commitment to service, CMDCM
Veenstra has become an indispensable part of
Michigan’s First District.
The United States Naval Construction Bat-
talions, more commonly known as the Navy
Seabees, have a storied history in the United
States Armed Forces—stretching from Nor-
mandy and Okinawa to Iraq and Afghanistan.
Alvin decided to follow in this tradition of serv-
ice early in his life, enlisting in the United
States Navy, Sea, and Air Mariner program
during his sophomore year of college. He car-
ried out a variety of roles throughout his 32
years with the Seabees—including deployment
with the 7th Naval Construction Regiment in
support of Operation Iraqi Freedom, where he
served as the Senior Watch Chief for the II
Marine Expeditionary Force. On September 6,
2019, Veenstra turned over his final command
position as the Reserve Affairs Command
Master Chief at Navy Facilities Engineering
Command in Washington, D.C. Outside of his
service in the military, Alvin is a graduate of
Ferris State University and serves as Project
Manager/Executive Assistant for W.B. Builders
in East Jordan. Alvin’s more than three dec-
ades of decorated service is commendable,
and the impact of his work on his fellow
servicemembers and the people of the United
States cannot be overstated.
Madam Speaker, it’s my honor to congratu-
late Command Master Chief Petty Officer Alvin
Veenstra for his decades of service to the
people of the United States. Michiganders can
take great pride in knowing the First District is
home to such a selfless individual. On behalf
of my constituents, I wish Alvin all the best in
his future endeavors.
f
RECOGNIZING MICHAEL TILSON
THOMAS
HON. DONNA E. SHALALA
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker, I rise in
honor of Michael Tilson Thomas, the Co-
Founder and Artistic Director of the New
World Symphony, America’s Orchestral Acad-
emy in Miami Beach.
Michael Tilson Thomas is also Music Direc-
tor of the San Francisco Symphony and Con-
ductor Laureate of the London Symphony Or-
chestra. In addition to these posts, he main-
tains an active presence guest-conducting with
the major orchestras of Europe and the United
States. The New World Symphony has helped
launch the careers of more than 1,000 alumni
worldwide.
Born in Los Angeles, Mr. Tilson Thomas is
the third generation of his family to follow an
artistic career. His grandparents, Boris and
Bessie Thomashefsky, were founding mem-
bers of the Yiddish Theater in America. His fa-
ther, Ted Thomas, was a producer in the Mer-
cury Theater Company in New York before
moving to Los Angeles where he worked in
films and television. His mother, Roberta
Thomas, was the head of research for Colum-
bia Pictures.
Mr. Tilson Thomas is a Chevalier dans
l’ordre des Arts et des Lettres of France, was
Musical America’s Musician of the Year and
Conductor of the Year, Gramophone Maga-
zine’s Artist of the Year, and has been profiled
on CBS’s 60 Minutes and ABC’s Nightline. He
has won 11 Grammy Awards for his record-
ings. In 2008 he received the Peabody Award
for his radio series for SFS Media, The MTT
Files. In 2010, President Obama awarded him
the National Medal of Arts, the highest award
given to artists in the United States.
IN RECOGNITION OF THE THIR-
TIETH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
VELVET REVOLUTION
HON. EMANUEL CLEAVER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Mr. CLEAVER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to commemorate the thirtieth anniver-
sary of the Velvet Revolution, a significant an-
niversary for two of America’s closest allies—
the Czech and Slovak Republics.
Only eight days after the fall of the Berlin
Wall, the same spirit of freedom that over-
came Berlin made its way to Prague. On No-
vember 17, 1989, the country formerly known
as Czechoslovakia freed itself from four dec-
ades of a communist totalitarian regime, trans-
forming authoritarian rule of the nation into de-
mocracy. Initiated by student protesters in the
streets, the protest of the regime and the de-
mand for democracy quickly gained momen-
tum with over a half-million Czechs and Slo-
vaks filling Prague’s streets and taking over
Wenceslas Square.
Soldiers beat protesters, used water can-
nons on the crowd, and made numerous ar-
rests during this time. However, the dem-
onstrators remained peaceful. By the end of
1989, Czechoslovakia was on its way to hold-
ing its first presidential election since 1948.
The successful movement is now referred to
as the ‘‘Velvet Revolution’’ or the ‘‘Gentle Rev-
olution,’’ which signifies the idea that the revo-
lution was brought about without violence.
The years following the Velvet Revolution
brought the ‘‘Velvet Divorce,’’ the unofficial
name given to the separation of the Czecho-
slovakia into two nations: the Czech Republic
and the Slovak Republic. Through peaceful
mutual consent, Czechoslovakia separated on
January 1, 1993. To solidify their places on
the world stage and showcase their commit-
ment to democracy, the Czech and Slovak
Republics formally became members of the
European Union, the North Atlantic Treaty Or-
ganization (NATO), and the United Nations.
It is also worth mentioning that the Czech
Republic has a local tie to Missouri’s Fifth
Congressional District. When applying for ad-
mission into NATO, the Czech Republic had
the official documents signed at the Truman
Presidential Library in Independence, Missouri
in 1999. The induction ceremony that took
place included Poland and Hungary, and
marked the first eastward expansion by NATO
since the end of the Cold War.
Madam Speaker, please join me and all of
Missouri’s Fifth Congressional District in con-
gratulating the Czech Republic and Slovak
Republic for their achievements in independ-
ence and their efforts in promoting democracy.
f
HONORING THE SERVICE OF
FLORENCE WEISS
HON. MARK DeSAULNIER
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Mr. DESAULNIER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Florence Weiss for her
honorable service to the City of Concord, Cali-
fornia as she begins retirement.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:54 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A03DE8.001 E03DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1523
December 3, 2019
Florence Weiss has been a resident of Con-
cord since 1982. She was first hired by the
City of Concord as Downtown Coordinator on
June 24, 2002 and eventually became the
Downtown Program Manager. Throughout
Florence’s 17-year career with the City, she
has promoted and fostered an increased
sense of community in the downtown area, in-
cluding Todos Santos Plaza.
Florence focused much of her leadership on
expanding community events. She has over-
seen countless events including the popular
Music and Market series, which has grown in
attendance from an average of 500 attendees
to an average of 4,500 attendees. In an effort
to keep the music series running in downtown
Concord, Florence established the Save our
Series program to help fund the event and she
has consistently exceeded fundraising goals.
She has also overseen the creation of new
events such as viewing parties for the Golden
State Warriors championship games and
Concordstock, an event held in 2008 that cele-
brated 20 years of concerts in Todos Santos
Plaza.
In conjunction with Florence’s commitment
to increasing attendance at downtown and
community events, she has advocated for a
healthier and cleaner Concord, most notably
by helping to successfully implement a smok-
ing ban in the Downtown District. Even in
times of tight budgets, Florence has used her
creative problem solving and fostered commu-
nity engagement and enthusiasm.
Florence Weiss has a been a champion for
the City of Concord and its residents. We wish
her great luck and joy in retirement.
f
HONORING MELVINDALE–DEAR-
BORN FIREFIGHTER MICHAEL
PERRY
HON. RASHIDA TLAIB
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, I rise today in
tribute to Firefighter Michael Perry for his
twenty-three years of service to the
Melvindale-Dearborn Consolidated Fire De-
partment, on the occasion of his retirement.
For more than two decades, Firefighter Mi-
chael Perry has persevered in his dedication
to public safety and the well-being of his
neighbors. In 1996, Perry joined the City of
Melvindale’s Fire Department as a fire fighter.
Shortly after, he was promoted to Firefighter II,
and was ultimately promoted to Firefighter III.
With an unimpeachable record of service, Mi-
chael Perry has been acknowledged for his
flawless attendance record, exceptional driving
record, and has earned countless honors by
his peers, including a Certificate of Special
Recognition. His commitment and outstanding
service have been recognized by Department
Commendation, Meritorious Company Com-
mendation, Fire Chief Company Citation, and
Unit Commendation awards.
Please join me in recognizing Firefighter Mi-
chael Perry for his years of public service as
we wish him well on his retirement.
RECOGNIZING MICHAEL CARRIGAN
FOR YEARS OF DEDICATION AND
SERVICE TO THE PEOPLE OF IL-
LINOIS
HON. RAJA KRISHNAMOORTHI
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI. Madam Speaker,
today I rise to honor Michael Carrigan for a
lifetime of vigorous and effective advocacy
protecting the rights of workers in my home
state of Illinois and working men and women
across the United States.
Michael Carrigan’s life is a quintessentially
American story of talent, determination and
deeply felt ambition to build a better world. He
began his career as a journeyman wireman
and a member of the International Brother-
hood of Electrical Workers. Displaying an early
talent for organizing, Michael quickly rose
through the ranks to become business man-
ager and financial secretary for IBEW Local
146, and then assumed greater positions of
responsibility in the Illinois AFL–CIO as Sec-
retary-Treasurer and President. Michael also
held a variety of positions of national leader-
ship in organized labor, somehow found time
to serve nearly four terms on the Decatur City
Council, and briefly as the Mayor of Decatur.
During his tenure as president of the Illinois
AFL–CIO, Michael played a key role orga-
nizing support to increase the Illinois minimum
wage to $15 an hour, and to enact a $45 bil-
lion dollar capital improvements bill that will
fund the repair of aging infrastructure in our
state. He continues to work tirelessly to build
support for a progressive state income tax that
asks our wealthiest citizens to shoulder their
fair share of the cost of government, while
providing revenue streams sufficient to bal-
ance our budget and fund education, impor-
tant social services, and our state’s pension
obligations to its workers.
In 2018, Michael was the first Illinois resi-
dent to receive the World Peace Prize ‘‘Roving
Ambassador for Peace’’ award. In accepting
this honor, Michael observed that all peaceful
societies are built upon foundations of eco-
nomic justice: ‘‘The Labor Movement and its
allies build peace through economic and social
justice causes . . . Our fight for justice knows
no borders, and the enemies of peace are the
enemies of [social and economic] justice.’’
Madam Speaker, on behalf of the 900,000
members of the Illinois AFL–CIO and the mil-
lions of hard-working men and women in our
country who owe so much to Michael
Carrigan, I offer my gratitude for his years of
dedicated and selfless service to our country.
Although Michael may be retiring from the Illi-
nois AFL–CIO, I know he will not retire from
his commitment to public service, and I wish
him great success in all his future endeavors.
f
RECOGNIZING THE CAREITY FOUN-
DATION OF NORTH CENTRAL
TEXAS
HON. KAY GRANGER
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the Careity Foundation of
North Central Texas. They have been pro-
viding direct patient services through the
‘‘Careity Celebrity Cutting’’ for 25 years in
Tarrant, Parker, Palo Pinto, Hood, and John-
son Counties in Texas.
Careity provides early detection services to
people who may otherwise go without and
clinical services for those who have been di-
agnosed with cancer. Last year, Careity pro-
vided over 7600 patient services and has a
strong record of responding quickly to patient’s
needs and caring about the people in the
community who have been diagnosed with
cancer.
Careity prides itself in a high-profile low-cost
event, the ‘‘Careity Celebrity Cutting″. The
uniqueness of the event stands out above
other charity events in that the entire venue is
donated by the National Cutting Horse Asso-
ciation. All celebrities are volunteers, and
Careity has no development or fundraising
staff.
Given the competition for supporters that
the non-profit industry has faced in the last
several years, we can all appreciate this enor-
mous accomplishment which speaks to the
strong leadership that has steered the Foun-
dation over the course of its impressive his-
tory. Careity exists to provide direct care that
saves lives, gives hope, eases pain, and al-
lows cancer patients and families to focus on
healing.
I congratulate Careity on this significant
milestone.
f
HONORING THE INNOVATIVE WORK
OF MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENTS
IN ILLINOIS’S 10TH DISTRICT
HON. BRADLEY SCOTT SCHNEIDER
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to celebrate the creative accomplish-
ments of our local municipalities who have
gone above and beyond to serve our commu-
nities. Innovation is alive and well in the cities,
towns and villages of Illinois’s Tenth Congres-
sional District.
Some of these local achievements were re-
cently recognized by the Lake County Munic-
ipal League highlighting the commitment, vi-
sion and ingenuity of our civic leaders.
The Village of Mundelein, Illinois won top
honors for the ‘‘Mayor’s Cup STEM Chal-
lenge’’, established by Mayor Steve Lentz.
The program encourages Mundelein students’
interest in fields such as mathematics and en-
gineering, while promoting access to higher
education. More than 1,000 students have
participated, and 31 businesses have donated
more than $80,000 to the program. Since the
Mayor’s Cup STEM Challenge was estab-
lished in 2014, the program has grown signifi-
cantly and serves as a model for how munic-
ipal governments can partner with local
schools, students, and businesses for the
greater good.
The Village of Bannockburn was also hon-
ored for the creation of the Last Mile shuttle
pilot program, which sought to solve the Vil-
lage’s transportation problem. The program’s
goal was to connect Bannockburn Lakes Of-
fice Complex with four Metra stations nearby
and allow commuters a subsidized Lyft ride to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:54 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A03DE8.006 E03DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1524 December 3, 2019
and from the Office complex and station.
Since the creation of the project, more than
900 rides have been provided, and the pro-
gram continues to see growth. The improve-
ment earned an Honorable Mention at the
awards dinner.
Other Lake County municipalities made sig-
nificant strides in the past year to bolster their
local small businesses, improve public safety
and beautify their communities. The Village of
Beach Park earned an Honorable Mention at
the awards dinner for their work with neigh-
boring communities to create the Northern
Lakeshore Trail Connectivity Plan, which
would improve walking and bicycling connec-
tions between five northern lakeshore commu-
nities.
We all strive to live in vibrant, healthy and
dynamic communities. The work of these, and
other, municipalities are helping to realize that
dream.
I proudly applaud these municipalities and
the dedicated civil servants for their commend-
able efforts to serve our communities. I look
forward to learning more about these innova-
tive efforts, and to continuing to work closely
together in the months ahead.
f
HONORABLE ELBRA M.
WEDGEWORTH
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the Honorable Elbra M.
Wedgeworth, who after decades in public
service, is retiring.
The Honorable Wedgeworth began her ca-
reer in public service in 1989 as a Senior Ana-
lyst for the Denver City Council. From 1994 to
1996, she served as the Clerk and Recorder
for the City and County of Denver, and also
served as a member of the Denver Election
Commission and as a Denver County Com-
missioner. In 1999, she was elected as Den-
ver City Council’s District 8 Councilwoman.
After just four years on the City Council, her
fellow Councilmembers unanimously elected
her Council President from 2003 to 2005. In
2007, she resigned from the City Council to
join Denver Health as Chief Government and
Community Relations Officer where she has
been active in advancing healthcare policy at
the state and federal level. In August 2014,
the Elbra M. Wedgeworth Municipal Building
was dedicated in her honor in the historic Five
Points neighborhood in honor of her service to
the City of Denver and State of Colorado.
In addition to her esteemed career, Elbra
served on many boards and commissions. In
September 2008, she was unanimously elect-
ed as President of the Denver Union Station
Project Authority Board of Directors and
served nine terms as Board President. Under
her leadership, the $500 million Denver Union
Station Project opened in May of 2014 on time
and under budget. Also, in 2008, she was ap-
pointed as the President of the Democratic
National Convention Host Committee where
she oversaw a widely-viewed successful con-
vention. From 2013 to 2014, Elbra served as
the past Chairwoman for the Downtown Den-
ver Partnership Inc., the first person of color
male or female to serve as the organization’s
chair in its 60-year history, earning her the title
of Downtown Denver Partnership Honorary
Partner. Throughout all of this, she has served
on the Board of Trustees for the University of
Redlands in Redlands, California, her college
alma mater as well as a Board of Trustee for
FirstBank in Colorado from 2017 to present.
These positions reflect her leadership abilities,
passion for the city and state she loves, and
talent for bringing people together to get
things done for the betterment of our commu-
nity.
I want to congratulate The Honorable Elbra
Wedgeworth on a long and distinguished ca-
reer and I wish her all the best in retirement.
f
RECOGNIZING THE LIFE OF CHIP
MABUS
HON. TRENT KELLY
OF MISSISSIPPI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Mr. KELLY of Mississippi. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to celebrate the life of Chip
Mabus, who passed away on Saturday, No-
vember 16th, at the age of 43.
Chip, a resident of Fulton, Mississippi, was
a dedicated employee of FL Crane & Sons for
21 years. Chip also served on the American
Subcontractors Association National Board
and was a member of the Floor Covering In-
stallation Contractors Association, Associated
Builders and Contractors, and Associated
General Contractors. Chip attended the Uni-
versity of Mississippi and was an avid football
fan.
Left to cherish his memory are his three
children, Madeline Mabus of Starkville, Mis-
sissippi, Mallory Mabus, of Fulton, Mississippi
and Samuel Mabus of Fulton, Mississippi; his
father, Larry Mabus of Fulton, Mississippi; his
sister, Teresa Estes, of Mooreville, Mississippi;
his niece, Ashlyn Estes; his nephew, Brody
Estes of Mooreville, Mississippi, as well as
many more extended family members and
friends.
Chip’s life was one of grace, love for his
family, and community. He will be greatly
missed by all whom he encountered.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF GARTH C. REEVES, SR.
HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today with a heavy heart to honor the life and
legacy of Mr. Garth C. Reeves, Sr. who sadly
passed away in November at the age of 100.
Garth was the publisher emeritus of The
Miami Times and a voice for the aspirations of
African Americans in Miami for most of the
past century. He was a man of principle, who
after serving in the United States Army during
World War II, worked to improve his commu-
nity through civil rights activism, journalism,
and publishing.
Garth was born in Nassau, Bahamas in
1919. He attended Florida A&M University,
where he earned his Bachelor of Arts degree
in printing in 1940. He served in both the Eu-
ropean and Pacific theaters during World War
II, from 1942 to 1946, and later returned to
Miami to work under his father, Henry Reeves,
who founded The Miami Times newspaper.
Garth dedicated his life to resisting and
fighting racism. Taking the helm as publisher
and chief executive officer of The Miami Times
following his father’s passing, he advanced the
cause of civil rights and challenged segrega-
tion laws with acts of civil disobedience. In
1949, when African Americans were only al-
lowed to play golf on Mondays, he showed up
to play on a Wednesday. Garth and others
sued for equal access to the golf course and
won after a seven-year court battle. And in the
1950s, he was among the first to swim at
Crandon Park in defiance of laws that des-
ignated it a whites only beach. Today, these
may appear to be small acts, but they raised
up the black community and highlighted the
systemic inequalities facing African Americans
each and every day.
Garth’s good works didn’t stop there. He
provided scholarships for students to attend
his alma maters, Booker T. Washington High
School and Florida A&M University, and he
donated to The Black Archives/Lyric Theater.
It is no surprise that in 2011, he was recog-
nized by the National Newspaper Publishers
Association with the Legacy of Excellence
Award, and The Miami Times named as the
top black newspaper in the country. More re-
cently, he was inducted into the National As-
sociation of Black Journalists’ Hall of Fame in
2017.
Madam Speaker, Garth C. Reeves, Sr. was
a champion for our community and positively
impacted the lives of countless people in
Miami and around our nation. I extend my
deepest condolences to his family during this
extremely difficult time. Garth was a true
blessing to so many. His legacy will always
endure. I am proud to have called him a
friend. He will be dearly missed.
f
IN HONOR OF CHIEF WARRANT OF-
FICER 2 DAVID CHARLES
KNADLE
HON. MARC A. VEASEY
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Mr. VEASEY. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to commemorate the life of Chief Warrant Offi-
cer 2 David Charles Knadle, a father, son,
husband and soldier from Fort Worth, Texas.
Born on May 2, 1986, David Knadle fought
bravely for our country. David grew up attend-
ing North Texas schools and graduated from
Richland High School in 2003. He later went
on to earn a Bachelor of Business Administra-
tion from Texas Wesleyan University in Fort
Worth.
In November of 2012, David left his career
in accounting to serve his country by joining
the U.S. Army. Following his dreams of being
an aviator, Knadle attended Basic Training at
Fort Jackson, South Carolina and later grad-
uated from the Warrant Officer Career College
at Fort Rucker, Alabama. CW2 Knadle was
deployed to Afghanistan in October 2019 as
part of Task Force Knight Hawk. On Novem-
ber 20, 2019, CW2 Knadle passed away in an
aircraft accident along with his forward pilot
and friend, CW2 Takeshi Fuchigami of Hawaii.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:54 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K03DE8.007 E03DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1525
December 3, 2019
Throughout his Army career, CW2 Knadle
was awarded the Bronze Star Medal, Air
Medal, Army Achievement Medal, National
Defense Service Medal, Afghanistan Cam-
paign Medal with Campaign Star, Global War
on Terrorist Service Medal, Army Service Rib-
bon, Combat Action Badge, and Army Aviator
Badge.
I want to take this opportunity to extend my
thoughts and prayers to David Knadle’s family
and friends. David was a man who fought
bravely for his country and I am grateful for
his service and sacrifice.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. DAN BISHOP
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Mr. BISHOP of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I missed the vote on H.R. 5084. Had
I been present, I would have voted NAY on
Roll Call No. 630.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF ROMANIA’S
GREAT UNION DAY
HON. MICHAEL R. TURNER
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Mr. TURNER. Madam Speaker, I would like
to recognize Romania on her 101st celebra-
tion of unification. This year is especially sig-
nificant as we also celebrate 30 years since
the fall of Communism in Romania.
December 1st is representative of the sov-
ereignty of Romania because on this date in
1918 the Alba Iulia National Assembly met to
unify the peoples and territories of Romania.
The Resolution passed by the Assembly
united Moldova and Wallachia with Transyl-
vania, Crisana, Banat, and Maramures. While
the authorities of Romania have changed sev-
eral times since then, the proud and inde-
pendent spirit of the Romanian people has
not.
December holds an increased meaning as
the Romanian Revolution occurred in 1989 in
which the people wrested an opportunity for
self-direction from the dark times of the Com-
munism towards the bright future of a demo-
cratic country which nowadays shares com-
mon values with the United States. Over the
past 30 years, Romania has become a bastion
of democracy in Eastern Europe and a solid
and strong U.S. ally in the region. Romania is
setting an example of steady commitment to
transatlantic security and democratic leader-
ship, while the Romanian public opinion has
an overwhelmingly favorable view of American
leadership and role in the world.
Romania, as a member of North Atlantic
Treaty Organization since 2004, has sent
troops to support NATO missions in the West-
ern Balkans, Afghanistan and Iraq and is con-
tributing 2 percent of its gross domestic prod-
uct on defense spending. Romania has been
a leading nation in providing cybersecurity
support to NATO and its partners and is work-
ing with the U.S. Government on the secure
implementation of fifth generation wireless
communication networks (5G) technology. Ro-
mania also joined the European Union in 2007
and recently successfully finished a term hold-
ing the EU’s presidency.
The United States and Romania have en-
joyed almost 140 years of diplomatic relations
and share a deep and longstanding friendship,
a strategic partnership built on historical ties,
and a joint commitment to advancing the se-
curity and prosperity of their citizens and com-
munities.
Madam Speaker, it is for these reasons that
I urge all of my colleagues to join me in con-
gratulating Romania on the 101st anniversary
of its Great Union Day.
f
HONORING DR. CINDY L. MILES
HON. SUSAN A. DAVIS
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Mrs. DAVIS of California. Madam Speaker,
I rise with admiration and respect to honor the
career of one of San Diego’s most dedicated
public servants and leaders, Dr. Cindy L.
Miles.
Dr. Miles is retiring after ten years as Chan-
cellor of the Grossmont-Cuyamaca Community
College District, where she transformed public
higher education in eastern San Diego County
and opened the doors to college for thousands
of students.
In the decade since Dr. Miles joined the col-
lege district as chancellor, the number of grad-
uates from Grossmont and Cuyamaca col-
leges increased by 78 percent, and the num-
ber of degrees and certificates awarded at the
colleges rose by 178 percent. Under her direc-
tion, the district has been recognized nation-
ally for removing barriers to student success
and eliminating longstanding equity gaps that
have impeded students of color in their edu-
cational pursuits.
One of Dr. Miles’s most successful innova-
tions was the creation of the East County Edu-
cation Alliance in 2014, which initially began
as a partnership between the district and the
Grossmont Union High School District to en-
sure a smooth path for students between high
school, college, and eventually, into a career.
In 2019, the Mountain Empire School District
joined the Alliance, ensuring that every public
high school student in eastern San Diego
County could benefit. As evidence of this fact,
the Alliance was selected by the League for
Innovation in the Community College for a na-
tional Innovation of the Year award.
The prestige of the two campuses was sig-
nificantly advanced during Dr. Miles’s service
as chancellor. In 2018, the California Commu-
nity College Chancellor’s Office awarded
Cuyamaca College the John W. Rice Diversity
and Equity Award and Grossmont College was
recognized as a Champion of Higher Edu-
cation.
Dr. Miles has played an influential role in
state and national community college organi-
zations. She served on committees and task
forces for the American Association of Com-
munity Colleges, the American Council on
Education, the California Community Colleges
Chancellor’ s Office, the Community College
League of California, and the Accrediting
Commission for Community and Junior Col-
leges.
While her presence in the Grossmont-
Cuyamaca Community College District will be
missed, Dr. Miles has created a culture of
progress that will endure for years to come. I
extend my congratulations and best wishes to
her for a well-deserved retirement.
f
RECOGNIZING PEGGY WHITE WELL
KNOWN BUFFALO AND SUSAN
KELLY OF GARRYOWEN
HON. GREG GIANFORTE
OF MONTANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Peggy White Well Known Buf-
falo and Susan Kelly of Garryowen for their
work to fight hunger in their community.
In 1999, Peggy and Susan launched the
Center Pole Foundation, a Native grassroots
organization that promotes knowledge, justice,
and sovereignty in Native communities. The
foundation seeks to serve the needs of the
community, including hunger within the Crow
Indian Reservation.
As part of the foundation, Peggy and Susan
created a community food bank which serves
not only the reservation but also the sur-
rounding community.
Their mission to fulfill a fundamental need,
such as nourishment, is personal for Peggy
and Susan.
For Peggy, confronting hunger began when
she attended a boarding school. There, she
experienced hunger and made it a life mission
to feed people in a loving and kind environ-
ment.
For Susan, she has seen firsthand how hun-
ger impedes a child’s progress. Wanting every
kid to do well in school, Susan says a kid
can’t be creative if his or her stomach isn’t full.
Each week, the food bank’s staff goes to
Billings to collect food from grocery stores.
Their efforts provide food to the reservation
and surrounding communities, feeding more
than 300 people a week.
To Peggy and Susan, their work is about
more than providing people with food. It’s
about providing their community nourishment,
boosting its health, helping combat illness, and
reinforcing the benefits of a healthy, positive
lifestyle. Their commitment to the future of
their communities is front and center of all
they do through Center Pole Foundation.
Madam Speaker, for their dedicated work to
fight hunger in their community, I recognize
Peggy White Well Known Buffalo and Susan
Kelly of Garryowen for their Spirit of Montana.
f
PRINCIPLES GOVERNING CONSID-
ERATION OF ARTICLES OF IM-
PEACHMENT OF A PRESIDENT
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, as a
senior member of the House Judiciary Com-
mittee and one who served on the Committee
during the last impeachment proceeding, I rise
to share some of the fundamental principles
that will guide my deliberations on the momen-
tous task before the Committee.
In 1776, the Framers founded this country
and created this government on the basis of a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:54 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A03DE8.008 E03DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1526 December 3, 2019
bedrock belief in a revolutionary assumption:
that all men are created equal and have the
inalienable right to life, liberty, and property;
are entitled to live free of arbitrary rule; and
most important, are endowed with the right to
govern themselves.
Thomas Jefferson wrote in the Declaration
of Independence that ‘‘all Experience has
sh[o]wn that Mankind are more disposed to
suffer, while Evils are sufferable, than to right
themselves by taking’’ immediate action
against their oppressors.
But, Jefferson continued, ‘‘when a long
Train of Abuses and Usurpations, pursuing in-
variably the same Object, evinces a Design to
reduce them under absolute despotism, it is
their right, it is their duty’’ to take immediate
action to repel the danger.
The Framers had first-hand experience with
the types of abuses and usurpations com-
mitted by political leaders who ruled them but
were not accountable to them and detailed
many of those wrongs in the Declaration of
Independence.
The Framers understood and declared that
democratic governors derived their powers
from the knowing and voluntary consent of the
governed as expressed in free, fair, and unfet-
tered elections unmarred by the influence or
sabotage of any entity not a member of the
political community.
If elections are influenced by foreign actors,
then voters are reduced from citizens to sub-
jects, and government for and by the people
is a sham.
The most important feature of a democracy
is that it is the voters who alone can confer
the legitimate consent and authorization nec-
essary to govern upon the governors who are
then duty-bound to represent the voters’ inter-
ests, and only their interests.
The fundamental democratic compact be-
tween the governed and the governors is that
the latter’s authority and continuance in office
comes exclusively from the governed and alle-
giance is owed exclusively to the governed.
This agreement can only be reached
through free and fair elections, a breach of
which threatens the vitality and viability of the
social contract upon which democratic self-rule
depends.
Based on their personal experiences, the
Framers understood the importance of a presi-
dent’s allegiance being always and only to the
nation.
That is why they included the Emoluments
Clause in the Constitution as Article I, section
9, clause 8, which bans Presidents from ac-
cepting titles of nobility and strictly prohibits
the acceptance of any emolument of any kind
from any king, prince, or foreign state.
President Lincoln called the United States
the ‘‘last best hope of man on earth’’ and stat-
ed at Gettysburg the importance of finishing
the work we are in to ensure that ‘‘government
of the people, for the people, by the people
does not perish from the earth.’’
The serious allegation before us is that the
President extorted or bribed the head of a for-
eign nation to conspire with him to sabotage
an American election by manufacturing false
charges against his political rival so that he
could retain his office and continue to abuse
his power.
This is undoubtedly the most serious trans-
gression that could be committed by a presi-
dent who, as Lincoln said, has taken an oath
‘‘registered in Heaven’’ to preserve, protect,
and defend the Constitution of the United
States.
If American elections are not free, fair, and
uninfluenced by foreign actors, then the de-
mocracy is extinguished, and the people do
not rule.
Instead, citizens are reduced to subjects,
ruled by an authority dependent not on the
consent of the governed, but on the assist-
ance and beneficence of unaccountable for-
eign actors.
Such a state of affairs inevitably would lead
to actions taken by the ruler that are not in the
interests of the nation, like dishonoring treaty
agreements, abandoning allies, impugning the
independent judiciary and the free press, dis-
regarding fundamental rights and liberties of
the people, abrogating civic norms and virtues,
pursuing acts of personal enrichment, and cur-
rying favor with foreign despots and authoritar-
ians.
Although President Lincoln said in his First
Inaugural Address that ‘‘while the people re-
tain their virtue and vigilance no Administration
by any extreme of wickedness or folly can
very seriously injure the Government in the
short space of four years,’’ the Framers antici-
pated that the day may come when the ac-
tions of a Chief Magistrate would constitute a
clear and present danger to the security and
survival of the republic.
To protect the republic, the Framers
equipped the representatives chosen directly
by the people with the necessary means of
protecting their liberty by wisely including in
the Constitution of the United States, Article I,
section 2, clause 5, which vests the sole
power of impeachment in the House of Rep-
resentatives.
As a Member of Congress who has taken
an oath to preserve, protect, and defend the
Constitution of the United States against all
enemies, foreign and domestic, these are the
principles to which I am in fidelity and against
which I will evaluate the actions of the Presi-
dent of the United States.
f
IN HONOR OF IRENE O’CONNELL,
DEPARTING MEMBER OF THE
SAN BRUNO CITY COUNCIL
HON. JACKIE SPEIER
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Ms. SPEIER. Madam Speaker, Irene
O’Connell is leaving the San Bruno City Coun-
cil after a remarkable 24 years of service to
the community. Her departure marks the end
of an era but the beginning of a new path in
the life of this amazing woman and civic lead-
er. During all these years I have deeply appre-
ciated Irene’s friendship and enjoyed working
with her to promote San Bruno’s bright future.
In 1995, Irene O’Connell was elected to the
San Bruno City Council, serving her commu-
nity with enthusiasm, vigor and effectiveness.
She helped initiate a Youth Committee and
helped create an after-school program at Allen
Elementary that has since expanded to five
other schools. She identified $600,000 in flood
control district funds that became available to
help residents of the Belle Air community. She
initiated the creation of the City’s Culture and
Arts Commission with funding through a sur-
charge on building permits. The Commission
has installed a number of pieces of public art
including the Centennial Mosaic at the San
Bruno Caltrain station and the mural painting
at Centennial Park in San Bruno’s downtown.
A park on Florida Avenue is authorized in
large measure because Irene’s love of civic
beauty is matched with a love of open space
in San Bruno’s urban environment.
For 22+ years, 200 volunteers have joined
Councilwoman O’Connell annually to sweep
up, recycle, plant flowers and trees, paint gar-
bage bins, and to otherwise beautify the city.
As a representative on transportation and
water agencies, she’s helped the city to obtain
transportation grants and ensured that the
water supply remained reliable and affordable.
If your heart stops in San Bruno, a paramedic
on a fire truck is present in large part because
Irene O’Connell insisted that the service be
standard on fire trucks throughout the county.
She evaluated and advocated for ambitious
plans for full rehabilitation and replacement of
the City’s utility systems over a 20-year period
and the necessary funding to complete the im-
provements.
During some of the most difficult years in
the history of her hometown, Irene O’Connell
and her colleagues first consoled and then
fought for the citizens of San Bruno after a
natural gas pipeline exploded and killed 8 resi-
dents and destroyed 38 homes. She and her
colleagues were warriors for justice holding
PG&E accountable for its gross negligence.
No mention of Irene’s love of her community
would be complete without mention of her
founding of the San Bruno Library Foundation.
Irene’s commitment to the library is heartfelt
and enduring.
Irene is a first-generation Italian American
and as such reflects the industriousness and
civic involvement characteristic of those whose
parents struggle to come to this country. She
was born in San Bruno and has lived there
ever since.
She and her family were continually in-
volved in community service and other activi-
ties. They volunteered for the Boy Scouts and
Girl Scouts and when that wasn’t exhausting
enough, Irene and her father collected paper-
back books for the veterans hospital. Also as
volunteers, the family managed the San Bruno
Girl Scout House, sewing curtains, painting
and helping it to operate. During her time on
the City Council, she helped develop and
manage a Rebuilding Together project to re-
furbish the house to enhance community pro-
grams held there.
When St. Bruno’s needed baptismal robes
for less fortunate parishioners, Irene and her
mother sewed them. This family exuded com-
munity pride with every undertaking.
As she grew into adulthood, Irene realized
that her first love was teaching. She obtained
a B.A. in Liberal Studies and a Master’s in El-
ementary Education with a Lifelong Teaching
Credential. She taught sixth grade at St.
Veronica’s in South San Francisco and then
left to raise her three children. However, she
didn’t leave community service. As a board
member of Art-Rise, a local non-profit, she
promoted local artists by finding space for
them to display their works. The Boy Scouts
and 4–H benefitted greatly because Irene was
ever-present.
Irene is the proud mother of son Joe and
daughters Katie and Jennifer. Her husband,
Bill, keeps her young, her mother Marina Kai-
ser keeps her hopping, and her community
keeps her strong.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:54 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A03DE8.013 E03DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1527
December 3, 2019
Madam Speaker, for decades Irene’s pres-
ence in San Bruno has been as exciting to
watch as a home run at a Little League game
at San Bruno City Park. Now, San Bruno’s
Mighty Casey is laying down her bat. It’s time
to give her an enormous cheer for her con-
tributions to the team. San Bruno will long
cherish the swing-for-the-fence public service
of Irene O’Connell.
f
HONORING JOSEPH HOGENKAMP’S
CAREER IN PUBLIC SERVICE
HON. BRIAN HIGGINS
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Mr. HIGGINS of New York. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to honor the accomplishments
of the City Treasurer of the City of Tona-
wanda, Joseph Hogenkamp, who is retiring
from public service as City Treasurer later this
month.
Joe has many accomplishments as City
Treasurer, including a commitment to modern-
izing his office. As I mentioned, first elected in
1987 and serving through mid-December of
2019, Joe has seen a lot of changes, both in
government administration as well as in mu-
nicipal finance. Working with several mayors
and dozens of former aldermen and city coun-
cil members, Joe’s reputation was one of
steady reliability and dedicated leadership to
the taxpayers he served.
First elected in November of 1987, Joe has
served the taxpayers and residents of Tona-
wanda for more than 30 years. A native of the
city, Joe is a 1981 graduate of Tonawanda
High School, after which he earned an ac-
counting degree at Miami University of Ohio.
In addition to his elected duties, Joe has
served as a board member and office for
PERMA, an organization that provides workers
compensation insurance coverage for munic-
ipal governments across New York State.
Here at home, Joe serves on the Finance
Committee for St. Francis of Assisi Church
and on the Erie County Land Bank. He also
serves as Treasurer of the Familial Cancer
Foundation of Western New York.
Above all else, Joe is a proud husband and
father. Joe married his beloved wife Nikki in
1990 and they are the proud parents of
daughters Eugenia and Costantina.
Madam Speaker, please join me and all
members of the House in congratulating the
Honorable Joseph Hogenkamp upon the occa-
sion of his retirement from elective public of-
fice and join me in extending to Joe and his
entire family our best wishes for health and
happiness in the years to come.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA RETURNING CITI-
ZENS COORDINATION ACT OF 2019
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, today, I in-
troduce the District of Columbia Returning Citi-
zens Coordination Act of 2019. This bill would
allow the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP)
and the Court Services and Offender Super-
vision Agency for the District of Columbia
(CSOSA) to share information with the District
of Columbia government to help ensure the
District has services ready, in coordination
with BOP and CSOSA, for returning citizens.
D.C. inmates face significant hurdles in pre-
paring to return to society because most are
spread across the country in BOP facilities
hundreds or even thousands of miles from the
District, their families and their loved ones. Be-
cause they are frequently housed so far away
from the District, coordinating returning citi-
zens’ reentry into society is difficult. This bill
would make the coordination efforts between
the BOP, CSOSA and District agencies less
burdensome and more efficient.
Under this bill, District agencies would be
better able to determine what physical and
mental health and other needs returning citi-
zens may have before they are even released
from prison. Because D.C. Code felons are
the only local inmates housed by the BOP,
this bill is especially important for District resi-
dents.
Currently, BOP is allowed to share informa-
tion regarding returning citizens with CSOSA,
since it is also a federal agency, but not with
D.C. agencies. This bill would allow BOP and
CSOSA to treat agencies of the D.C. govern-
ment as they do other federal agencies for the
purposes of—but only for the purposes of—
federal privacy laws, such as the Privacy Act,
so that the District agencies that assist individ-
uals during their return can more easily obtain
the necessary information to provide appro-
priate services.
I strongly urge my colleagues to support this
legislation.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF UNT TAMS
STUDENT ENTRIES IN THE CON-
GRESSIONAL APP CHALLENGE
HON. MICHAEL C. BURGESS
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and congratulate Vishok
Jonnalagadda, Kate Liang, Ernest Lu, Mayur
Pabba, Shubh Sharma, Tarush Verma and
Connie Xu, participants in the first 26th District
of Texas Congressional App Challenge and all
students attending the University of North
Texas as Texas Academy of Math and
Science (TAMS) students. The Congressional
App Challenge encourages students to learn
how to code through an annual competition
hosted by Members of Congress.
Structured as a competition, the Congres-
sional App Challenge is a great way for Con-
gress to engage students in computer pro-
gramming and technology-related careers and
encourage them to develop the skills that are
becoming increasingly important for jobs con-
tributing to our growing economy. By partici-
pating in the App Challenge, the students
have the opportunity to create their own apps
for mobile, tablet or computer device and com-
pete with other students, receiving feedback
from leading experts in the field. I thank each
of the students competing in this year’s en-
deavor as well as the judges who contributed
their time and expertise to the process.
The Congressional App judging panel as-
sembled was comprised of Dr. Jennifer Moore,
Associate Professor and School Librarian Cer-
tification Faculty Lead at Texas Woman’s Uni-
versity School of Library & Information
Sciences; Dr. Stephani Ludi, Professor, Un-
dergraduate Coordinator and Co-Director of
Research in the Software Engineering Lab at
the University of North Texas’ (UNT) Depart-
ment of Science & Engineering; and Mr. Mark
Payne, Executive Director, Denco Area 911.
After reviewing each of the Apps submitted,
the board scored the entries, resulting in a
tabulated outcome recognizing ‘‘Mindful Min-
utes’’ by Ms. Connie Xu and Kate Liang as the
winner. ‘‘Mindful Minutes’’ is an app designed
to combat the societal challenge of forgetful-
ness by allowing users to count anything, in-
cluding hours worked or hours exercised, or
even creating custom counters for any repet-
itive activity or subject they choose. Their app
will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol and
shown on the U.S. House of Representatives
web site. The students will also be invited to
the House of Representatives’ Code Demo
Day reception in Washington, D.C.
I am proud to participate in the Congres-
sional App contest as a way of encouraging
the development of the math and science edu-
cation our country requires to remain competi-
tive. Ms. Xu and Ms. Liang have displayed
their creativity and skill through their submis-
sion, providing an example of the bright future
they, and our country, have ahead. I am hon-
ored to represent these two bright young
women and wish them and all the representa-
tive UNT TAMS program students involved,
much continued success in their education
and careers.
f
IN MEMORY OF MEL OLSSON
HON. JOE COURTNEY
OF CONNECTICUT
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Speaker, I rise to
observe and mourn the passing one of South-
eastern Connecticut’s most accomplished and
revered citizens, Mr. Melvin E. Olsson. Mel, as
he was known to all, grew up in that region’s
historic city, New London, attended public
school there, and upon graduation, imme-
diately enlisted in the Connecticut National
Guard where he served from 1959 until 1967.
He also became part of the workforce at our
nation’s premiere submarine shipyard Electric
Boat, where he was hired as a pipefitter em-
barking on a 47-year career, building and de-
signing the world’s most capable submarines.
After his start as a metal tradesman, he mi-
grated to the design workforce, which was re-
sponsible for the flawless conception, execu-
tion, and production of the Los Angeles,
Seawolf, Ohio, and Virginia class submarines
that have made America’s ‘‘silent service’’
such an effective deterrent in keeping the
peace for the last 75 years.
Mel was a strong advocate for Electric
Boat’s unionized workers, and over time he
emerged as the president of the Marine
Draftsman’s/UAW Local 571 which represents
all the drafting professionals and designers.
For thirteen years Mel held that position and
successfully negotiated contracts in tandem
with his brothers and sisters in the Metal
Trades Council to ensure their skilled work
was adequately compensated with good sala-
ries and benefits. In the early 2000s, Mel was
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:54 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A03DE8.014 E03DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1528 December 3, 2019
presiding at a time of great change at the
shipyard which went from a workforce of
around 30,000 down to just 8,500 in the wake
of the fall of the Soviet Union. Mel worked tire-
lessly to assist the people he represented,
making sure they were given transitional help
as downsizing occurred. All the while, he con-
tinued to advocate for the Navy’s investment
in a new class of Seawolf and Virginia sub-
marines, which in hindsight we now know kept
that shipyard alive.
Madam Speaker, as the Congressman from
Eastern Connecticut I had the honor to work
with Mel in the shipyard’s efforts to keep the
unique, irreplaceable skills that made South-
eastern Connecticut ‘‘The Submarine Capitol
of the World.’’ When I was elected to Con-
gress in 2006, and was selected to serve on
the Seapower Subcommittee on the House
Armed Services Committee, we immediately
began a push to boost submarine production,
building a coalition of the UAW, the Metal
Trades Department of the AFL–CIO, and in-
dustry to ‘‘plus up’’ the 2008 shipbuilding
budget. By the Fall of 2007 we defied conven-
tional wisdom that a freshman member would
never pull that off, when $588 million was
added to the defense budget, igniting a new
era of hiring in Groton. Mel’s support and ad-
vice did not end there. He always made him-
self available, with good advice and a ready
smile, if I had a question or challenge to face.
I will always treasure his friendship.
Madam Speaker, when Mel stepped down
from his union office in the 2000s, after 47
years of work at the yard, I think most would
agree he had earned a quiet, easy retirement.
However, as many noted, Mel’s ‘‘retirement’’
marked the beginning of a second career
when he threw himself into the region’s East-
ern Connecticut Workforce Investment Board
(EWIB), the job training platform designated
by the federal Workforce Investment Act, to
shape education and apprenticeship programs
to meet the region’s local economy. Mel was
perfect for this role. While at Electric Boat, he
was always pushing for the shipyard to con-
nect young people to the specialized work that
went on there, and he fostered a mentorship
program for high schoolers that still operates
today. At EWIB, he saw that the need to re-
capitalize the submarine force was going to
cause a new hiring spree that the tech
schools, community colleges and apprentice-
ship programs needed to adjust to—fast. With
his help, EWIB’s innovative Manufacturing
Pipeline Program received $6 million from the
U.S. Department of Labor in 2014, estab-
lishing an accelerated ‘‘pre-apprenticeship’’
program. The program far outperformed La-
bor’s targets and has become a national
model used all over Connecticut and the U.S.
to generate new job-ready workers. Back
home the pipeline has enabled Electric Boat to
regrow to a workforce that reached 17,000 this
year. Electric Boat also restarted its own ap-
prenticeship program that Mel had been
pressing for years. It is showing impressive re-
sults, with a new generation of diverse tal-
ent—more women and minorities in par-
ticular—who are embarking on not just jobs,
but careers. For Mel, this type of work, which
was done in collaboration with Electric Boat’s
unions and management, was the essence of
the value of collective bargaining. Seeing a
person’s life transformed because of the pipe-
line or an apprenticeship was, in my experi-
ence knowing Mel, what truly animated him
and made him happy. It also demonstrated to
me what a caring person he was, particularly
when it came to helping young people.
What also made Mel very happy was his
beautiful family. He shared 54 years of marital
bliss with his wife Dorothy DeGroot Olsson.
Together, they have a daughter, Alyssa A.
Olsson Gaus, and two grandsons, Kyle Chase
Olsson, and Gavin Olsson Gaus. Mel was also
close with his brother Karl and his wife Glenda
of Niantic. Despite all of his time-consuming
work in the region, his family always came
first. Madam Speaker, Mel is truly an example
of ‘‘a life well lived.’’ His funeral service in
New London where he was born was packed
with family, co-workers, and friends who
shared a deep awareness of what a special
person he was. Please join me in expressing
our deepest condolences to Mel’s family for
their loss and our highest respect and regards
for his inspiring legacy.
f
HONORING CAROLYN EDWARDS
HON. PETER A. DeFAZIO
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Mr. DEFAZIO. Madam Speaker, on behalf of
myself and Mr. GRAVES of Missouri, today I
would like to recognize the outstanding career,
significant accomplishments, and invaluable
contributions of Carolyn Edwards, a dedicated
civil servant who in January will retire after a
distinguished 46-year career with the U.S. De-
partment of Transportation—44 of these with
the Federal Highway Administration.
Among her many exemplary accomplish-
ments, Ms. Edwards has been involved in
every Federal surface transportation bill since
TEA–21 in 1998. This has included support—
through the technical assistance process—for
Congressional Committees, countless Mem-
bers of Congress, and their staff on legislative
and highway policy issues.
This is the fourth time that a Congressional
Committee Chair (or Ranking Member) has
publicly thanked Ms. Edwards, by name, for
her contributions. Prior instances include—
On July 29, 2005, the Chairman of the Sen-
ate Committee on Environment and Public
Works (Senator JIM INHOFE) thanked her on
the Senate floor during floor consideration of
the conference report for SAFETEA–LU;
On June 29, 2012, in the CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD the Chairman of the House Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastructure
(the Honorable John Mica) thanked Ms.
Edwards, among others, for her work on
MAP–21; and
On December 3, 2015, I thanked Ms.
Edwards on the House floor for her work on
the FAST Act.
Ms. Edwards joined the Federal Highway
Administration in 1973 as an economist within
the Agency’s Office of Highway Planning.
There, she helped to establish FHWA’s High-
way Performance Monitoring System—a sys-
tem that 40 years later continues to provide
national-level data on the extent, condition,
performance, use, and operating characteris-
tics of the nation’s highways. Over the ensuing
four-and-a-half decades, Ms. Edwards has
gone on to serve in a range of high-level ana-
lytical positions at FHWA, including stints in
FHWA’s Office of Highway Policy Information
and in FHWA’s Office of Legislative Affairs
and Policy Communications.
As one example, during the mid-1990s, Ms.
Edwards served in FHWA’s Office of Highway
Information Management. While there, she
identified—then helped to resolve—a $1.6 bil-
lion error in the Treasury Department’s cal-
culation of Highway Trust Fund revenues,
which impacted the State-by-State distribution
of Federal highway funding. Later, she also
worked in the Office of the Assistant Secretary
for Budget and Programs, with a portfolio that
covered Federal-aid highway programs and
the Highway Trust Fund.
Ms. Edwards is ending her career as a
member—and former leader—of FHWA’s leg-
islative analysis team. In this capacity, she
serves as an unparalleled national expert on a
wide range of highway-related topics, including
Federal highway legislation, the Highway Trust
Fund, and the operations of the Federal-aid
highway program. For years, she has been a
go-to reference on these topics for both agen-
cy and departmental leaders. Furthermore, as
testament to the quality of her work, over the
course of her career, Ms. Edwards has been
recognized with multiple FHWA Superior
Achievement Awards, a Secretary’s Team
Award, and two Secretarial Awards for
Partnering for Excellence.
In closing, on behalf of myself, the Com-
mittee, my colleagues on both sides of the
aisle, and our staff, I would like to thank Ms.
Edwards for her steadfast public service, her
support for the Congress, and her immeas-
urable contributions to the Federal-aid high-
way program.
f
HONORING CHIEF JAMES ANTHONY
SECRETO
HON. NYDIA M. VELÁZQUEZ
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor James Anthony Secreto, a native
Brooklyn son and longtime public servant.
James, or Jimmy as his friends call him, has
dedicated his life to helping the people of New
York City, most recently as the Chief of Hous-
ing at the New York Police Department
(NYPD). As he retires this week, I wanted to
pay homage to the work he has accomplished
on behalf of so many New Yorkers.
Jimmy was born and raised in Brooklyn’s Al-
bany Houses, a New York City Housing Au-
thority (NYCHA) development, in Crown
Heights. He received his early education at St.
Matthew’s Roman Catholic Elementary School
in Crown Heights for grades one through five.
He joined the Robert F. Kennedy Incentive
Program and later received an academic
scholarship from the Brooklyn Catholic Inter-
racial Council to attend Power Memorial Acad-
emy.
In 1979, he began his career with the NYPD
on patrol in the 25th Precinct. He was pro-
moted to Sergeant in December 1984 and
steadily rose through the ranks. In 2014,
Jimmy was promoted to Chief of Housing, his
current position. In that capacity, he oversees
the security of NYCHA, the largest public
housing organization in North America, hous-
ing over 400,000 tenants.
During his 35-year career tenure with the
NYPD, James has spearheaded a multitude of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:54 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A03DE8.018 E03DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1529
December 3, 2019
food and clothing drives; an annual holiday toy
drive he started in 1999, that continues today;
a Thanksgiving community outreach initiative
in which turkeys are distributed to families;
and an annual Queens Breast Cancer Aware-
ness Walk, which has successfully raised over
$100,000 since its inception nine years ago.
For these and other achievements, Chief
Secreto has been honored by countless com-
munity groups, as well as several NYPD fra-
ternal organizations. In 2009, the New York
State Shields honored him as Man of the
Year, and in 2014, the Tri-State Law Enforce-
ment Foundation honored James as Person of
the Year.
A devoted family man, Chief Secreto has
been married to his wife, Yvonne, for 35
years. They are the proud parents of three
children. Kiesha, Shamieka and Chanel. The
couple also have eight grandchildren.
Madam Speaker, the people of New York
owe a debt of gratitude to Chief Secreto for
his years of service. I ask my colleagues to
join me in saluting him as he moves on to his
next phase of life. I wish him and his family all
the best and thank him for all he has done for
Brooklyn, for NYCHA and all New York resi-
dents.
f
HONORING OUACHITA NATIONAL
FOREST SUPERVISOR NORMAN
WAGONER
HON. BRUCE WESTERMAN
OF ARKANSAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Mr. WESTERMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Mr. Norman Wagoner for
his decades of service with the United States
Forest Service.
Mr. Wagoner began his career with the For-
est Service in 1986, right in the Fourth Dis-
trict’s own Ouachita National Forest. He
worked his way up from a co-op student to a
Forester Trainee to a Forester, later serving
as a District Ranger in Colorado and Wyo-
ming. Mr. Wagoner returned to the Ouachita
National Forest in 2006 to become the Forest
Supervisor, where he served until his retire-
ment in 2019.
I was privileged to work alongside Mr. Wag-
oner on numerous occasions, and always ad-
mired his commitment to forestry and environ-
mental stewardship. He has been a fantastic
leader and advocate for Arkansas forestry,
and will be greatly missed. I wish him all the
best in retirement.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:54 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A03DE8.020 E03DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D1313
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S6793–S6828
Measures Introduced: Nine bills and one resolu-
tion were introduced, as follows: S. 2963–2971, and
S. Res. 445. Pages S6824–25
Measures Reported:
S. 2877, to reauthorize the Terrorism Risk Insur-
ance Act of 2002. Page S6824
Sinatra, Jr. Nomination—Cloture: Senate resumed
consideration of the nomination of John L. Sinatra,
Jr., to be United States District Judge for the West-
ern District of New York. Pages S6800–18
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 76 yeas to 16 nays (Vote No. EX. 370), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S6800
Nomination Votes—Agreement: A unanimous-
consent agreement was reached providing that at 2
p.m., on Wednesday, December 4, 2019, Senate vote
on confirmation of the nominations of John L. Si-
natra, Jr., to be United States District Judge for the
Western District of New York, Sarah E. Pitlyk, to
be United States District Judge for the Eastern Dis-
trict of Missouri, Douglas Russell Cole, to be United
States District Judge for the Southern District of
Ohio, R. Austin Huffaker, Jr., to be United States
District Judge for the Middle District of Alabama,
and David B. Barlow, to be United States District
Judge for the District of Utah; that at 11:30 a.m.,
on Wednesday, December 4, 2019, Senate vote on
the motions to invoke cloture on the nominations of
Richard Ernest Myers II, to be United States District
Judge for the Eastern District of North Carolina,
Sherri A. Lydon, to be United States District Judge
for the District of South Carolina, and Robert M.
Duncan, of Kentucky, to be a Governor of the
United States Postal Service; and that if cloture is
invoked on the nominations, the confirmation votes
occur at a time to be determined by the Majority
Leader, in consultation with the Democratic Leader,
on Thursday, December 5, 2019. Page S6800
Pitlyk Nomination—Cloture: By 50 yeas to 43
nays (Vote No. EX. 371), Senate agreed to the mo-
tion to close further debate on the nomination of
Sarah E. Pitlyk, to be United States District Judge
for the Eastern District of Missouri. Pages S6818–19
Cole Nomination—Cloture: By 62 yeas to 29 nays
(Vote No. EX. 372), Senate agreed to the motion to
close further debate on the nomination of Douglas
Russell Cole, to be United States District Judge for
the Southern District of Ohio. Page S6819
Huffaker Nomination—Cloture: By 88 yeas to 4
nays (Vote No. EX. 373), Senate agreed to the mo-
tion to close further debate on the nomination of R.
Austin Huffaker, Jr., to be United States District
Judge for the Middle District of Alabama.
Pages S6819–20
Barlow Nomination—Cloture: Senate resumed
consideration of the nomination of David B. Barlow,
to be United States District Judge for the District
of Utah. Page S6820
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 88 yeas to 4 nays (Vote No. EX. 374), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S6820
Myers Nomination—Agreement: A unanimous-
consent agreement was reached providing that at ap-
proximately 10 a.m., on Wednesday, December 4,
2019, Senate resume consideration of the nomination
of Richard Ernest Myers II, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Eastern District of North Caro-
lina. Page S6828
Nomination Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nomination:
By 86 yeas to 4 nays (Vote No. EX. 369), Eric
Ross Komitee, of New York, to be United States
District Judge for the Eastern District of New York.
Pages S6795–S6800
Messages from the House: Page S6822
Executive Communications: Pages S6822–24
Executive Reports of Committees: Page S6824
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S6825–27
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D03DE9.REC D03DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1314 December 3, 2019
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Page S6827
Additional Statements: Page S6822
Authorities for Committees to Meet:
Pages S6827–28
Record Votes: Six record votes were taken today.
(Total—374) Pages S6800, S6819–20
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 6:36 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Wednesday,
December 4, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s
Record on page S6828.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
SUBSTANDARD MILITARY HOUSING
CONDITIONS
Committee on Armed Services: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine testimony from the Government
Accountability Office on privatized housing findings
to include responses from the military services on
ongoing reports of substandard housing conditions
and services, including preliminary observations on
the Department of Defense’s oversight of the condi-
tion of privatized military housing, after receiving
testimony from Elizabeth A. Field, Director, Defense
Capabilities and Management, Government Account-
ability Office; and Ryan D. McCarthy, Secretary of
the Army, Thomas B. Modly, Acting Secretary of
the Navy, Barbara M. Barrett, Secretary of the Air
Force, General James C. McConville, USA, Chief of
Staff of the Army, Admiral Michael M. Gilday,
USN, Chief of Naval Operations, General David H.
Berger, USMC, Commandant of the Marine Corps,
and General David L. Goldfein, USAF, Chief of Staff
of the Air Force, all of the Department of Defense.
NOMINATION
Committee on Environment and Public Works: Sub-
committee on Clean Air and Nuclear Safety con-
cluded a hearing to examine the nomination of Rob-
ert J. Feitel, of Maryland, to be Inspector General,
Nuclear Regulatory Commission, after the nominee,
who was introduced by Senator Cardin, testified and
answered questions in his own behalf.
U.S. POLICY TOWARDS RUSSIA
Committee on Foreign Relations: Committee concluded
a hearing to examine the future of United States pol-
icy towards Russia, after receiving testimony from
David Hale, Under Secretary for Political Affairs,
and Christopher A. Ford, Assistant Secretary for
International Security and Nonproliferation, both of
the Department of State.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions:
Committee ordered favorably reported the nomina-
tions of Stephen Hahn, of Texas, to be Commis-
sioner of Food and Drugs, Department of Health and
Human Services, Richard Giacolone, of Virginia, to
be Federal Mediation and Conciliation Director, and
Cynthia L. Attwood, of Virginia, and Amanda Wood
Laihow, of Maine, both to be a Member of Occupa-
tional Safety and Health Review Commission.
FRAUDULENT TRADEMARKS
Committee on the Judiciary: Subcommittee on Intellec-
tual Property concluded a hearing to examine fraud-
ulent trademarks, focusing on how they undermine
the trademark system and harm American consumers
and businesses, after receiving testimony from Barton
Beebe, New York University School of Law, and
Megan K. Bannigan, Debevoise and Plimpton LLP,
both of New York, New York; Douglas A. Rettew,
Finnegan, Henderson, Farabow, Garrett and Dunner,
LLP, Washington, D.C.; Thomas Williams, Duke
University School of Law, Durham, North Carolina;
and Stephen Lee, Target, Minneapolis, Minnesota.
INTELLIGENCE
Select Committee on Intelligence: Committee met in
closed session to receive a briefing on certain intel-
ligence matters from officials of the intelligence
community.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 17 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 5277–5293; and 5 resolutions, H.
Res. 736–740 were introduced. Pages H9221–22
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H9222–23
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
H.R. 4739, to amend the Homeland Security Act
of 2002 to protect U.S. Customs and Border Protec-
tion officers, agents, other personnel, and canines
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D03DE9.REC D03DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1315
December 3, 2019
against potential synthetic opioid exposure, and for
other purposes (H. Rept. 116–318, Part 1);
H.R. 4761, to ensure U.S. Customs and Border
Protection officers, agents, and other personnel have
adequate synthetic opioid detection equipment, that
the Department of Homeland Security has a process
to update synthetic opioid detection capability, and
for other purposes (H. Rept. 116–319, Part 1);
H. Res. 739, providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 2534) to amend the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 to prohibit certain securities trading
and related communications by those who possess
material, nonpublic information, and relating to con-
sideration of the concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res
77) directing the President pursuant to section 5(c)
of the War Powers Resolution to remove United
States Armed Forces from hostilities in the Syrian
Arab Republic that have not been authorized by
Congress (H. Rept. 116–320); and
H.R. 2185, to amend the Coastal Zone Manage-
ment Act of 1972 to allow the District of Columbia
to receive Federal funding under such Act, and for
other purposes (H. Rept. 116–321). Page H9221
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Rose (NY) to act as Speak-
er pro tempore for today. Page H9187
American Folklife Center in the Library of Con-
gress—Appointment: The Chair announced the
Speaker’s appointment of the following individual to
the Board of Trustees of the American Folklife Cen-
ter in the Library of Congress on the part of the
House for a term of six years: Mr. Robert Anacletus
Underwood of Hagatna, Guam. Page H9188
Recess: The House recessed at 2:06 p.m. and recon-
vened at 3:45 p.m. Page H9188
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Citizenship for Children of Military Members
and Civil Servants Act: H.R. 4803, amended, to fa-
cilitate the automatic acquisition of citizenship for
lawful permanent resident children of military and
Federal Government personnel residing abroad;
Pages H9188–89
Advancing Mutual Interests and Growing Our
Success Act: H.R. 565, amended, to include Portugal
in the list of foreign states whose nationals are eligi-
ble for admission into the United States as E1 and
E2 nonimmigrants if United States nationals are
treated similarly by the Government of Portugal;
Pages H9189–91
Providing that the amount of time that an el-
derly offender must serve before being eligible for
placement in home detention is to be reduced by
the amount of good time credits earned by the pris-
oner: H.R. 4018, amended, to provide that the
amount of time that an elderly offender must serve
before being eligible for placement in home deten-
tion is to be reduced by the amount of good time
credits earned by the prisoner; Pages H9191–92
Supporting the Global Fund to fight AIDS, tu-
berculosis (TB), malaria, and its Sixth Replenish-
ment: H. Res. 517, amended, supporting the Global
Fund to fight AIDS, tuberculosis (TB), malaria, and
its Sixth Replenishment; Pages H9192–94
End Neglected Tropical Diseases Act: H.R.
3460, to facilitate effective research on and treatment
of neglected tropical diseases through coordinated
international efforts; Pages H9194–97
Disapproving the Russian Federation’s inclusion
in future Group of Seven summits until it respects
the territorial integrity of its neighbors and ad-
heres to the standards of democratic societies: H.
Res. 546, disapproving the Russian Federation’s in-
clusion in future Group of Seven summits until it
respects the territorial integrity of its neighbors and
adheres to the standards of democratic societies, by
a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of 339 yeas to 71 nays, Roll
No. 643; Pages H9197–98, H9208–09
Reaffirming support for the Good Friday Agree-
ment and other agreements to ensure a lasting
peace in Northern Ireland: H. Res. 585, reaffirm-
ing support for the Good Friday Agreement and
other agreements to ensure a lasting peace in North-
ern Ireland; and Pages H9198–H9201
Uyghur Human Rights Policy Act of 2019: S.
178, amended, to condemn gross human rights vio-
lations of ethnic Turkic Muslims in Xinjiang, and
calling for an end to arbitrary detention, torture, and
harassment of these communities inside and outside
China, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of 407 yeas to 1
nay, Roll No. 644. Pages H9201–08, H9209
Recess: The House recessed at 5:56 p.m. and recon-
vened at 6:29 p.m. Page H9208
Amending section 442 of title 18, United States
Code, to exempt certain interests in mutual
funds, unit investment trusts, employee benefit
plans, and retirement plans from conflict of in-
terest limitations for the Government Publishing
Office: The House agreed to discharge from com-
mittee and pass H.R. 5277, to amend section 442
of title 18, United States Code, to exempt certain
interests in mutual funds, unit investment trusts,
employee benefit plans, and retirement plans from
conflict of interest limitations for the Government
Publishing Office. Pages H9209–10
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D03DE9.REC D03DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1316 December 3, 2019
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appears on page H9187.
Quorum Calls—Votes: Two yea-and-nay votes de-
veloped during the proceedings of today and appear
on pages H9208–09. There were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 2 p.m. and ad-
journed at 8:32 p.m.
Committee Meetings
INSIDER TRADING PROHIBITION ACT;
EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES REGARDING UNITED
STATES EFFORTS TO RESOLVE THE
ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICT
THROUGH A NEGOTIATED TWO-STATE
SOLUTION
Committee on Rules: Full Committee held a hearing on
H.R. 2534, the ‘‘Insider Trading Prohibition Act’’;
and began a hearing on H. Res. 326, expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives regarding
United States efforts to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict through a negotiated two-state solution. The
Committee granted, by record vote of 7–4, a struc-
tured rule providing for consideration of H.R. 2534,
the ‘‘Insider Trading Prohibition Act’’. The rule pro-
vides one hour of general debate on the bill equally
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking mi-
nority member of the Committee on Financial Serv-
ices. The rule waives all points of order against con-
sideration of the bill. The rule provides that an
amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting
of the text of Rules Committee Print 116–39 shall
be considered as adopted and the bill, as amended,
shall be considered as read. The rule waives all
points of order against provisions in the bill, as
amended. The rule makes in order only those
amendments printed in the Rules Committee report
accompanying the resolution. Each such amendment
may be offered only in the order printed in the re-
port, may be offered only by a Member designated
in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be
debatable for the time specified in the report equally
divided and controlled by the proponent and an op-
ponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall
not be subject to a demand for division of the ques-
tion. The rule waives all points of order against the
amendments printed in the report. The rule provides
one motion to recommit with or without instruc-
tions. The rule provides that a motion to discharge
House Concurrent Resolution 77 shall be in order on
December 11, 2019, if offered by Representative
Gabbard, with 20 minutes of debate equally divided
and controlled by Representative Gabbard and an
opponent. The rule provides that the provisions of
section 7 of the War Powers Resolution shall not
apply during the remainder of the One Hundred
Sixteenth Congress to House Concurrent Resolution
77. Testimony was heard from Representatives
Himes, Huizenga, Levin, Zeldin, and Lowenthal.
BUSINESS MEETING
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence: Full Com-
mittee held a business meeting on the Report Issued
by the Chair, Pursuant to Section 2, Paragraph 6 of
H. Res. 660, as Part of the House of Representa-
tives’ Impeachment Inquiry. The Report Issued by
the Chair, Pursuant to Section 2, Paragraph 6 of H.
Res. 660, as Part of the House of Representatives’
Impeachment Inquiry passed, without amendment.
Joint Meetings
BALKAN RECOVERY
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: Com-
mission received a briefing on Balkan recovery, fo-
cusing on corruption, after receiving testimony from
Martina Hrvolova, Center for International Private
Enterprise, Washington, D.C.; Igor Novakovic,
International and Security Affairs Centre, Belgrade,
Serbia; Misha Popovikj, Institute for Democracy
Societas Civilis, Skopje, North Macedonia; and Igor
Stojanovic, Center for Civic Initiatives, Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
f
NEW PUBLIC LAWS
(For last listing of Public Laws, see DAILY DIGEST, p. D1307)
H.R. 3889, to amend the Office of National Drug
Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 1998 to make
technical corrections. Signed on November 27, 2019.
(Public Law 116–74)
H.R. 4258, to authorize the Marshal of the Su-
preme Court and the Supreme Court Police to pro-
tect the Justices, employees, and official guests of
the Supreme Court outside of the Supreme Court
grounds. Signed on November 27, 2019. (Public
Law 116–75)
S. 1838, to amend the Hong Kong Policy Act of
1992. Signed on November 27, 2019. (Public Law
116–76)
S. 2710, to prohibit the commercial export of cov-
ered munitions items to the Hong Kong Police
Force. Signed on November 27, 2019. (Public Law
116–77)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 21:08 Mar 02, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\RECORD19\DECEMBER\D03DE9.REC D03DE9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1317
December 3, 2019
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR WEDNESDAY,
DECEMBER 4, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on SeaPower,
with the Subcommittee on Readiness and Management
Support, to hold a joint hearing to examine United States
Navy ship and submarine maintenance, 10 a.m., SD–106.
Subcommittee on Personnel, to hold hearings to exam-
ine testimony about servicemember, family, and veteran
suicides and prevention strategies, 3 p.m., SR–222.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: to
hold hearings to examine legislative proposals to protect
consumer data privacy, 10 a.m., SH–216.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: to hold hear-
ings to examine an original bill to create a U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service Chronic Wasting Disease Task Force, 10
a.m., SD–406.
Committee on Foreign Relations: to hold an oversight
hearing to examine the Millennium Challenge Corpora-
tion, 10 a.m., SD–419.
Subcommittee on Near East, South Asia, Central Asia,
and Counterterrorism, to hold hearings to examine Leb-
anon and Iraq protests, focusing on insights, implications,
and objectives for United States policy, 2:30 p.m.,
SD–419.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
to hold hearings to examine the nomination of Paul J.
Ray, of Tennessee, to be Administrator of the Office of
Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, 2:30 p.m., SD–342.
Committee on the Judiciary: to hold hearings to examine
the nominations of Andrew Lynn Brasher, of Alabama, to
be United States Circuit Judge for the Eleventh Circuit,
Fernando L. Aenlle-Rocha, to be United States District
Judge for the Central District of California, John Charles
Hinderaker, to be United States District Judge for the
District of Arizona, Joshua M. Kindred, to be United
States District Judge for the District of Alaska, Scott H.
Rash, to be United States District Judge for the District
of Arizona, and Matthew Thomas Schelp, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern District of Missouri,
10 a.m., SD–226.
House
Committee on Education and Labor, Full Committee, hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Growing Up in Fear: How the Trump Ad-
ministration’s Immigration Policies Are Harming Chil-
dren’’, 10:15 a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on
Health, hearing entitled ‘‘Building Consumer Confidence
by Empowering FDA to Improve Cosmetic Safety’’, 10
a.m., 2322 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, hearing
entitled ‘‘Flu Season: U.S. Public Health Preparedness
and Response’’, 10:30 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Oversight of Prudential Regulators: Ensuring
the Safety, Soundness, Diversity, and Accountability of
Depository Institutions?’’, 10 a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘The Importance of the New START Treaty’’, 2
p.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Committee on the Judiciary, Full Committee, hearing en-
titled ‘‘The Impeachment Inquiry into President Donald
J. Trump: Constitutional Grounds for Presidential Im-
peachment’’, 10 a.m., 1100 Longworth.
Committee on Natural Resources, Subcommittee on Na-
tional Parks, Forests, and Public Lands, hearing on H.R.
722, the ‘‘Miracle Mountain Designation Act’’; H.R.
1702, the ‘‘Free Veterans from Fees Act’’; H.R. 2317, the
‘‘Peter J. McGuire Labor Day Landmark Act’’; H.R.
3094, to designate the National Pulse Memorial located
at 1912 South Orange Avenue, Orlando, Florida, 32806,
and for other purposes; H.R. 3349, the ‘‘Republic of
Texas Legation Memorial Act’’; H.R. 3465, the ‘‘Fallen
Journalists Memorial Act of 2019’’; and H.R. 5068, the
‘‘Women Who Worked on the Home Front Commemora-
tive Work Act’’, 10 a.m., 1324 Longworth.
Subcommittee for Indigenous Peoples of the United
States, hearing on H.R. 1964, the ‘‘Lumbee Recognition
Act’’, 2 p.m., 1324 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, Subcommittee on
Economic and Consumer Policy, hearing entitled ‘‘Broken
Promises: Examining the Administration’s Retreat on
Banning Vaping Flavors’’, 2 p.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Rules, Full Committee, hearing on H.R. 4,
the ‘‘Voting Rights Advancement Act of 2019’’, 5 p.m.,
H–313 Capitol.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Subcommittee
on Research and Technology; and Subcommittee on Envi-
ronment, joint hearing entitled ‘‘Calm Before the Storm:
Reauthorizing the National Windstorm Impact Reduc-
tion Program’’, 2 p.m., 2318 Rayburn.
Committee on Small Business, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Embracing Corporate Social Responsibility:
Small Business Best Practices’’, 11:30 a.m., 2360 Ray-
burn.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D03DE9.REC D03DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D1318 December 3, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Wednesday, December 4
Senate Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Senate will resume consider-
ation of the nomination of Richard Ernest Myers II, to
be United States District Judge for the Eastern District
of North Carolina.
At 11:30 a.m., Senate will vote on the motions to in-
voke cloture on the nominations of Richard Ernest Myers
II, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern Dis-
trict of North Carolina, Sherri A. Lydon, to be United
States District Judge for the District of South Carolina,
and Robert M. Duncan, of Kentucky, to be a Governor
of the United States Postal Service.
At 2 p.m., Senate will vote on confirmation of the
nominations of John L. Sinatra, Jr., to be United States
District Judge for the Western District of New York,
Sarah E. Pitlyk, to be United States District Judge for
the Eastern District of Missouri, Douglas Russell Cole, to
be United States District Judge for the Southern District
of Ohio, R. Austin Huffaker, Jr., to be United States
District Judge for the Middle District of Alabama, and
David B. Barlow, to be United States District Judge for
the District of Utah.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Wednesday, December 4
House Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Consideration of H.R.
2534—Insider Trading Prohibition Act (Subject to a
Rule).
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Bergman, Jack, Mich., E1522
Bishop, Dan, N.C., E1525
Burgess, Michael C., Tex., E1527
Cleaver, Emanuel, Mo., E1522
Courtney, Joe, Conn., E1527
Davis, Susan A., Calif., E1525
DeFazio, Peter A., Ore., E1528
DeSaulnier, Mark, Calif., E1522
Gianforte, Greg, Mont., E1525
Granger, Kay, Tex., E1523
Hastings, Alcee L., Fla., E1524
Higgins, Brian, N.Y., E1527
Jackson Lee, Sheila, Tex., E1521, E1525
Kelly, Trent, Miss., E1524
Lipinski, Daniel, Ill., E1521
Norton, Eleanor Holmes, The District of Columbia,
E1527
O’Halleran, Tom, Ariz., E1522
Perlmutter, Ed, Colo., E1524
Raja, Krishnamoorthi, Ill., E1523
Schneider, Bradley Scott, Ill., E1523
Shalala, Donna E., Fla., E1522
Speier, Jackie, Calif., E1526
Tlaib, Rashida, Mich., E1521, E1523
Turner, Michael R., Ohio, E1525
Veasey, Marc A., Tex., E1524
Velázquez, Nydia M., N.Y., E1528
Westerman, Bruce, Ark., E1521, E1529
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Dec 04, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D03DE9.REC D03DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
