Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H2275
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2019 No. 37
House of Representatives
The House met at 9 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Ms. JUDY CHU of California).
f
DESIGNATION OF THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
February 28, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable JUDY CHU
to act as Speaker pro tempore on this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Eternal God, through whom we see
what we could be and what we can be-
come, I thank You for giving us an-
other day.
With so many dramatic and conten-
tious hearings in these days, grant wis-
dom, knowledge, and understanding to
all Members of the people’s House, as
well as an extra measure of charity.
Give them peace and an abundance of
prudence in the work they do.
May all that is done this day be for
Your greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House her approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
Mrs. TRAHAN. Madam Speaker, pur-
suant to clause 1, rule I, I demand a
vote on agreeing to the Speaker’s ap-
proval of the Journal.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mrs. TRAHAN. Madam Speaker, I ob-
ject to the vote on the ground that a
quorum is not present and make the
point of order that a quorum is not
present.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8, rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
The point of no quorum is considered
withdrawn.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
THOMPSON) come forward and lead the
House in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania led
the Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will entertain up to five requests
for 1-minute speeches on each side of
the aisle.
f
STATE-BASED INSURANCE
EXCHANGES
(Mr. KIM asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. KIM. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to deliver a message from my
district. It is a message I have heard in
my townhalls and from my neighbors
throughout Burlington and Ocean
Counties: Healthcare costs are too
high, and we need to act now.
That is why I am proud to introduce
the SAVE Act. This is bipartisan legis-
lation that would help States establish
State-based exchanges that would in-
crease access and drive down costs.
These are solutions that we know
work. States with State-based ex-
changes have higher enrollment rates
and more affordable coverage.
Right now, there are a number of
States that haven’t set up their own
exchanges. That is tens of millions of
people, including millions of people
throughout New Jersey, who stand to
benefit.
It is time to listen to our constitu-
ents and help them save. I hope Mem-
bers will join me in acting and moving
this legislation forward.
f
NATIONAL AFRICAN AMERICAN
HISTORY MONTH
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, as we close out the
month of February, I want to recognize
this month as National African Amer-
ican History Month. It is a way for our
country to remember and honor Afri-
can American citizens and events that
shaped our Nation’s history.
It is also a chance to reflect on the
countless contributions made by Afri-
can Americans while many were faced
with racial prejudice, segregation, and
slavery. These individuals serve as ex-
amples of patriotism and determina-
tion. They have given people of all
backgrounds courage in themselves,
faith in their dreams, and hope in oth-
ers.
The American story is filled with Af-
rican Americans who forever changed
their communities and our country. We
take this month to celebrate the cul-
tural, scientific, political, and eco-
nomic contributions they have made
for the betterment of our Nation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:29 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE7.000 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2276 February 28, 2019
We learn from the past so together
we can build a better future for all citi-
zens. As we proclaim February as Na-
tional African American History
Month, let us celebrate their lives, un-
derstand their adversity, and lead by
their examples.
f
COMBATING GUN VIOLENCE
(Mrs. TRAHAN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Mrs. TRAHAN. Madam Speaker, I
rise today with a great sense of ur-
gency.
Every day it seems as if there is an-
other news story about a shooting in a
school, a movie theater, a synagogue,
or on a city block. We have lost far too
many lives due to gun violence.
From my own community, I cele-
brate the life of Olivia Marchand from
Westford, whose mother, Jody, endured
years of domestic abuse. In 2010, she
survived her husband’s brutal attack
but lost her beautiful Olivia when her
husband shot and killed her and then
killed himself.
This tragedy devastated our whole
community. As a mother, this loss still
fills me with grief and anger.
Today, Jody keeps her daughter’s
memory alive, educates women on do-
mestic violence, and fights for tougher
gun laws. We must answer America’s
call for action on gun violence, not the
gun lobby’s call to maintain the status
quo.
Yesterday, we passed universal back-
ground check legislation, a necessary
first step to tackle gun violence in
America. I urge my colleagues to con-
tinue voting for these critical reforms.
f
OPPOSING EXTREME PRIORITIES
(Mr. ALLEN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. ALLEN. Madam Speaker, I rise
here this morning to speak out against
the extreme priorities of our colleagues
on the other side of the aisle. With so
many pressing issues facing the 116th
Congress, I find it appalling that H.R. 1
has been reserved for legislation that
completely undermines the democratic
framework of our country.
Simply put, this bill is nothing more
than a thinly veiled power grab
through more government, more regu-
lation, and political speech repression.
To call this legislation the For the
People Act is borderline ludicrous.
H.R. 1 would eliminate States’ au-
thority to set voting qualifications, re-
store voting rights of convicted felons
even if it contradicts State or local
policy, outlaw voter verification, and
force taxpayers to subsidize anony-
mous donations even if it is for a can-
didate they do not support.
This is just the tip of the iceberg.
H.R. 1 is not for the people but, rather,
an attempt to expand power to Federal
bureaucrats and unelected Federal
judges, undercutting the will of every-
day citizens and the Constitution.
This is not reform. This is a shame-
less attempt to keep one party in
power, and the American people de-
serve better.
f
GUN VIOLENCE
(Ms. UNDERWOOD asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. UNDERWOOD. Madam Speaker,
everyone deserves to feel safe in their
community, whether they are at work,
at home, at school, or at church.
Less than 2 weeks ago, five people,
four of whom were my constituents,
left their homes for work at the Henry
Pratt Company in Aurora, Illinois, and
never returned. Their lives were taken
by a horrific act of gun violence. I am
committed to honoring the lives of vic-
tims of gun violence through action.
H.R. 1112 is a commonsense and bi-
partisan bill that will help address a
deficiency in background check laws
by allowing law enforcement to con-
duct a thorough background check. I
am proud to cosponsor an amendment
that will help ensure this legislation
improves the safety of victims of do-
mestic violence, domestic abuse, dat-
ing partner violence, sexual assault,
and stalking.
Yesterday was the first time in more
than two decades that the U.S. House
of Representatives passed a major gun
safety bill, and today we have an op-
portunity to take a further step. H.R.
1112 will help save innocent lives, and I
look forward to working on common-
sense legislation that balances pro-
tecting our gun rights and ensuring the
safety of our community.
f
RECOGNIZING MIKE LONG
(Ms. STEFANIK asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. STEFANIK. Madam Speaker, I
rise today in recognition of the chair-
man of the Conservative Party of New
York and my good friend, Mike Long,
who has stepped down from this posi-
tion after decades of service.
Mike Long was born in Brooklyn,
New York, and raised in southern
Queens. In 1959, Mike Long dropped out
of the 12th grade to enlist in the United
States Marine Corps. He felt strongly
that his duty was to our country.
That commitment to sacrifice and
service above self is a common thread
throughout Chairman Long’s life. He
served on the New York City Council
for a term representing Brooklyn, and
he stepped up to become chairman of
the Conservative Party, a position he
held for 30 years, which is a testament
to his character, commitment, work
ethic, and determination to stand up
for his principles.
He is a lifelong advocate for limited
government, economic freedom and op-
portunity, constitutional liberties, and
improving the lives of everyday, hard-
working New Yorkers. He is one of the
rare political leaders in New York who
has earned deep respect from both his
political allies and his political oppo-
nents.
I am proud to count him as a true
friend, and I want to thank him, his
wife, Eileen, and his family for his life-
time of service to New York State and
the United States of America.
f
CONGRATULATING POLICE CHIEF
LYN WOOLFORD, AMERICA’S FA-
VORITE CROSSING GUARD
(Mrs. HARTZLER asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mrs. HARTZLER. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to congratulate Police Chief
Lyn Woolford of the Ashland, Missouri,
Police Department for being voted
America’s Favorite Crossing Guard.
Chief Woolford was recently selected
the winner of a contest sponsored by
Safe Kids Worldwide, a nonprofit orga-
nization that works on behalf of fami-
lies and communities to keep children
safe from injuries. As a result of this
competition, the Ashland School Dis-
trict will receive $10,000 to improve pe-
destrian safety.
Chief Woolford can be seen every
schoolday guarding intersections near
Ashland’s schools to make sure that
children get across the road safely, and
the children—many of whom, along
with their parents, voted for him on-
line—love him.
It is not unusual to see Chief
Woolford wearing colorful hats and
outfits as he guides the children safely
across the road. It might be a bright
chicken hat or a multicolored parrot
hat. No matter the hat, the mission is
the same: to brighten the children’s
day and to see that they get to school
safely.
Through his actions, the children
have a community role model and a be-
loved friend in their local police de-
partment. Ashland Police Chief Lyn
Woolford epitomizes the service of our
law enforcement officials and deserves
our thanks and appreciation.
Congratulations, Chief Woolford. You
truly are making a difference.
f
CELEBRATING THE LIFE OF RITA
SMITH-WADE-EL
(Mr. SMUCKER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. SMUCKER. Madam Speaker,
today, during Black History Month, I
rise to celebrate Rita Smith-Wade-El, a
leader in my community of Lancaster.
Rita passed away last month, but her
impact will be felt in our community
forever.
She was a fierce leader on social jus-
tice issues and racial equality in our
community. Her life can best be de-
scribed as a life of service and a life of
compassion. She served as a lector, eu-
charistic minister, and social justice
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:29 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28FE7.003 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2277
February 28, 2019
committee member. She was always
trying to lighten the load for others
and lend a helping hand.
Rita saw those in need and recog-
nized that if she had the power to give,
she would, and even if it wasn’t in her
power, she would try anyway.
Rita was a longtime Millersville Uni-
versity professor of psychology and Af-
rican American studies and founded
the school’s African American studies
minor.
I am very happy to celebrate her life
today. We will miss her in our commu-
nity, and we will miss her contribu-
tions to our community.
f
ENHANCED BACKGROUND CHECKS
ACT OF 2019
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
sert extraneous material on H.R. 1112,
the Enhanced Background Checks Act
of 2019.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 145 and rule
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union for the consider-
ation of the bill, H.R. 1112.
The Chair appoints the gentlewoman
from Illinois (Ms. UNDERWOOD) to pre-
side over the Committee of the Whole.
b 0915
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
consideration of the bill (H.R. 1112) to
amend chapter 44 of title 18, United
States Code, to strengthen the back-
ground check procedures to be followed
before a Federal firearms licensee may
transfer a firearm to a person who is
not such a licensee, with Ms. UNDER-
WOOD in the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to the rule, the
bill is considered read the first time.
The gentleman from New York (Mr.
NADLER) and the gentleman from Geor-
gia (Mr. COLLINS) each will control 30
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Chair, I am pleased that
today we are considering H.R. 1112, the
Enhanced Background Checks Act.
Yesterday, the House passed H.R. 8,
the Bipartisan Background Checks Act,
an important bill to expand our na-
tional firearms background check sys-
tem to include virtually all gun trans-
fers.
However, there are also steps we can
take to make the current background
check system more effective at block-
ing the sale of guns to individuals who
are ineligible to purchase and possess
them.
That is why I support H.R. 1112, a bill
that addresses a dangerous short-
coming in the current firearms back-
ground check law.
In most cases, a licensed gun dealer
receives notification within a few min-
utes, often 90 seconds, from the Na-
tional Instant Criminal Background
Check System, sometimes called the
NICS, that a prospective buyer has
passed or failed the background check.
In a small percentage of cases, NICS
examiners may require additional time
to complete the background check if
information is missing or unclear in a
prospective buyer’s record. For exam-
ple, there may be on the record a nota-
tion that the prospective buyer was ar-
rested but no notation as to whether
the buyer was acquitted or convicted.
That would have to be looked into fur-
ther.
However, under current law, a li-
censed gun dealer conducting a back-
ground check on a prospective pur-
chaser is permitted to sell the firearm
to the purchaser if there has been no
determination from NICS after 3 busi-
ness days, even though NICS has not
indicated that the person has actually
passed the background check.
Often, we refer to this as a default
proceed transaction.
These are the very cases that ought
to be investigated. In 2017 alone, the
ATF determined that over 4,000 default
proceed firearms transfers went to pur-
chasers who should not lawfully have
gotten them because they could not
lawfully own a firearm.
If NICS is unable to return an instant
determination, and especially if there
is no report after 3 days, there is real
cause for concern.
One notable example of the tragic
consequences of this loophole is the
hate crime murder of nine people at
the Emanuel African Methodist Epis-
copal Church in Charleston, South
Carolina, in 2015.
In that tragedy, the shooter was not
legally allowed to possess a firearm as
a result of drug charges, but he still
was able to purchase his gun from a li-
censed dealer, who made the decision
to transfer after 3 business days had
elapsed, despite not having received a
definitive response from the back-
ground check system.
The bill before us today, H.R. 1112,
would strengthen the background
check procedures Federal firearms li-
censees or dealers must follow before
selling or transferring a firearm.
Under this bill, the initial period a
gun dealer must wait for an answer
from the NICS is extended from 3 days
to 10 days. If, after 10 days, the NICS
system has not returned an answer to
the dealer, the prospective purchaser
may file a petition with the attorney
general, which should help resolve
most applications in short order.
If an additional 10 days elapses with-
out a response from NICS, the licensed
firearms dealer then may sell or trans-
fer the firearm to the prospective pur-
chaser without the background check
completion, if the dealer has no reason
to believe that the purchaser is prohib-
ited from obtaining a firearm under
Federal, State, or local law.
The additional time for checks to be
completed will help prevent the trans-
fer of guns to individuals who are ineli-
gible to possess them and will make us
safer.
I want to remind everyone that, in 90
percent of the cases, the NICS system
gives the answer within 90 seconds. So
we are talking about a small number of
cases, but a number of cases where we
know there have been tragic results.
We want to stop that.
I commend our colleague Congress-
man JIM CLYBURN, the distinguished
Democratic whip, for introducing this
bipartisan bill, which is a sensible and
necessary approach to addressing this
dangerous shortcoming in current law.
Madam Chair, I ask my colleagues to
join me in supporting this bill today,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Madam Chair, here we go again. Just
like yesterday, our colleagues on the
other side of the aisle voted to crim-
inalize the transfer of a firearm be-
tween two law-abiding citizens.
Today, they further reveal this inter-
est by bringing up a bill that would
prohibit law-abiding citizens from ever
being able to acquire firearms. And
that is not hyperbole, Madam Chair; it
is fact.
Let me briefly explain how that
would happen. Allow me to walk
through the mechanics of this legisla-
tion.
Let’s start at the beginning of the
month. Assume I went to a Federal
firearms licensee, an FFL, to purchase
a firearm on Friday, February 1, of this
month. Under H.R. 1112, the FBI’s NICS
system has 10 business days to respond
to the FFL.
The tenth business day is a Friday,
February the 15th. If, after those 10
business days, NICS does not okay the
transfer, I must file a petition with the
Department of Justice certifying that I
have no reason to believe that I am
prohibited by Federal, State, or local
law from purchasing or possessing a
firearm.
Once that petition is filed, the NICS
system has an additional 10 days to
make a determination. That would be
Monday, March 5, in our example be-
cause February 18 was a Federal holi-
day and not a business day.
If, at the conclusion of the 20 busi-
ness days waiting period, NICS does
not deny the transfer, I could then ac-
quire the firearm.
But wait, Madam Chair. Under exist-
ing law, the NICS background check is
only valid for 30 calendar days from the
date it is initiated. Under our example,
that would be Saturday, March the
2nd, which is 2 days before my petition
is required to be acted upon.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:29 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28FE7.005 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2278 February 28, 2019
At that point, I would be required to
start the process over again entirely.
There could be no end to this cycle.
Now, I am not sure if H.R. 1112 was
written this way out of just messed-up
writing or malice. I am not sure. But it
does do this, and there is no mistaking
what is written.
As I have said many times, we do not
vote on aspirational ideas in this
Chamber. They are great to debate, but
we do not vote on aspirational ideas.
We vote on words on paper, and words
on paper are just as I have described.
I will let the American people deter-
mine what the intent was here. How-
ever, as I noted yesterday, in the rush
to put this to the floor, they did not
bother to fix some several major issues.
We also know, as we go forward in
this that this indefinite and perpetual
delay of the transfer of firearms to law-
abiding citizens is perhaps the intent of
this bill.
Keep in mind, under current law, an
FFL has the option to transfer the fire-
arm after 3 business days unless the
transfer has been denied by NICS.
I would contend that 3 business days
is not instant and a month is anything
but instant, particularly as tech-
nologies continue to advance.
These laws have real-world con-
sequences, and consequences can be
deadly.
Carol Bowne was a New Jersey resi-
dent with a restraining order against
her ex-boyfriend. Her application for a
firearm took longer than 40 days to
process, and he stabbed her to death
while she was waiting to legally pro-
tect herself.
Let that sink in.
This bill would empower abusers and
violent predators by making their vic-
tims more vulnerable.
Madam Chair, we oppose this legisla-
tion. It doesn’t make sense in its cur-
rent form. It will do nothing to make
our communities safer, but it will
make it harder for law-abiding citizens
to exercise their Second Amendment
rights and to defend themselves and
their families.
Madam Chair, I am not often going
to be able to say this, but I am joined
today by the ACLU, who is opposing
this bill and scoring against this bill.
It is not ready for prime time. It is
ready to go back to actually have hear-
ings and actually do markups and actu-
ally work with this bill.
I appreciate the gentleman, espe-
cially, from South Carolina’s intent.
No one fights stronger for his constitu-
ency than the gentleman from South
Carolina. This is just not the right
piece of legislation at the right time
for the reasons that I spoke of, that
have nothing to do with the intent. It
has everything to do with words on
paper. Remember, Madam Chair, that
is what we vote on, not aspirational
ideas.
With that, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chair, I yield 7
minutes to the gentleman from South
Carolina (Mr. CLYBURN), the distin-
guished Democratic whip.
(Mr. CLYBURN asked and was given
permission to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. CLYBURN. Madam Chair, I
thank my friend for yielding me the
time.
Madam Chair, let me begin my re-
marks, first of all, by welcoming to our
Capitol today Miss Jennifer Pinckney
and her two daughters. They are the
wife and children of Reverend
Clementa Pinckney, who, along with
eight of his Bible study parishioners,
lost his life to a demented white su-
premacist who said that he was inter-
ested in starting a race war.
He entered their church, participated
in the Bible study, into which they
welcomed him. And, as they closed
their study that evening and prayed for
what they had experienced and for
their next meeting, this gentleman,
while their eyes were closed, opened his
and slaughtered them.
I find it interesting that my col-
league has talked about the inconven-
ience of waiting longer than 3 days to
purchase a weapon, without men-
tioning those poor souls of Emanuel
AME Church.
He has talked about people who
might be inconvenienced; he has talked
about something he read in the news-
papers; but he has not mentioned them.
Well, I am here today to say that the
Members of this august body need to
think a little bit about the value of
those lives.
Are they more valuable than the in-
convenience a gun purchaser may have
by having to wait 10 rather than 3 days
to make a purchase?
What would make one so anxious to
purchase a gun in the first place? If
you have got to have a gun right now,
chances are you have no useful pur-
pose, no redeeming value, in the pur-
chase of that gun.
Maybe we ought to participate here,
as Members of this body, in helping
this purchaser with a cooling-off pe-
riod, which is all we are asking to do
here.
Charleston, South Carolina, is nick-
named the ‘‘Holy City.’’ Churches and
steeples dominate the skyline of this
historic city, which, until recently, had
an ordinance that no building could be
constructed higher than 55 feet, want-
ing nothing to obstruct its steeples.
Faith is fundamental to the Charles-
ton community. However, that faith
was rocked in June 2015 when this lone
gunman rushed into this Bible study,
after having studied the most historic
African American churches in the
State of South Carolina and developing
a list of five churches, one of which was
Emanuel AME.
He, by his own admission, selected
this church because of its importance
to the African American community,
being the first organized place of wor-
ship in the South for African Ameri-
cans.
b 0930
He selected this. This was a hate
crime of the first order, and we are say-
ing we should not inconvenience him.
And we did not inconvenience him. We
allowed him to get that gun after 3
days, when it was around the fifth day
that they found the glitch in the sys-
tem and found him to be ineligible to
own a gun.
We just had a gunman go into his
workplace in Aurora, Illinois. He was
ineligible to have a gun, but he was al-
lowed to purchase the gun. When they
found out that he was ineligible to
have a gun, they then sent him a letter
and said: Please bring us the gun back.
You are not eligible to have a gun.
Give me a break. No, he didn’t return
the gun, because he had no redeeming
value in having a gun. And he mur-
dered his coworkers. And you are tell-
ing me we should not inconvenience
him.
Well, my colleague, the chair of the
committee, has laid out for you the
procedure in this bill, a procedure that
makes it a maximum, irrespective of
what my colleague may say, it is a
maximum of 20 working days, business
days, that one would have in order to
purchase a gun.
I would hope, as we move forward
here today, we would think about those
poor souls of Emanuel AME Church,
and we think about those 4,000 people,
4,200 people, who purchased guns in 2016
using this loophole, and the 4,800 peo-
ple who purchased guns in 2017 using
this loophole. Think about their fami-
lies. Think about their children. And
think about what we are about to do
here today.
The Acting CHAIR (Ms. JUDY CHU of
California). The time of the gentleman
has expired.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chair, I yield
the gentleman from South Carolina an
additional 1 minute.
Mr. CLYBURN. Let me just take this
minute to go back to what I had pre-
pared to say here today.
In troubling times, many of us find
solace in the Serenity Prayer: God,
grant me the serenity to accept the
things I cannot change, the courage to
change the things I can, and the wis-
dom—wisdom—to know the difference.
The Charleston loophole is something
all Members of Congress should have
the courage to change and, by doing so,
grant the American people the serenity
they deserve in their schools, in their
entertainment venues, in their neigh-
borhood streets, and, God forbid, in
their places of worship.
Madam Chair, I rise today in support of H.R.
1112, the Enhanced Background Checks Act
of 2019.
Charleston, South Carolina, is nicknamed
the Holy City. Church spires dominate the sky-
line of this historic city, which, until recently,
had an ordinance that no building could be
constructed higher than 55 feet. In this city,
faith is foundational. It is a source of strength
and community that dates back centuries.
However, that faith was rocked in June
2015 when a lone gunman punctuated his par-
ticipation in a Bible study at Emanuel AME
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:29 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K28FE7.007 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2279
February 28, 2019
Church with gunshots fired upon the parish-
ioners who had welcomed him, killing nine and
wounding three others. The shooter targeted
this place of worship because of its historic
significance to the African-American commu-
nity. This egregious hate crime shattered the
sanctity of the Holy City, and in response Con-
gress observed a moment of silence and all
Americans offered thoughts and prayers.
While a moment of silence and our thoughts
and prayers are appreciated in times of trag-
edy, they do nothing to solve the underlying
problem. The real tragedy in Charleston is it
could have been prevented. The gunman ac-
quired the weapon used in the massacre be-
cause of a fault in the law that is now known
as the Charleston Loophole. The gun pur-
chase was subject to a background check;
however, when a glitch in the system caused
the background review to take more than the
three-day limit allowed by law, the gunman
was able to purchase the weapon, although it
was later found that he was ineligible to pur-
chase a gun. The system failed to stop this
gun sale to an ineligible purchaser and 4,864
others in 2017.
It has been 25 years since the Brady Bill
became law, and there has been no significant
legislation enacted since to stem gun violence.
Yet in 2017, 100 people were killed each day
in this country with a firearm—which touches
every district represented in this august body.
A vote in support of the Enhanced Back-
ground Checks Act of 2019 extends the time
allowed for law enforcement to conduct back-
ground checks. Under this bill, if the back-
ground check isn’t concluded within 10 busi-
ness days, the purchaser can request an ex-
pedited background check, which notifies law
enforcement of the urgency of the review and
starts an additional 10 business day period for
the background check to be completed. While
more than 96 percent of background checks
are completed within three days—and 90 per-
cent of Americans support background
checks—this expedited review allows for law
enforcement to complete the small percentage
that may take longer than three days. If at the
end of the expedited review the background
check is inconclusive, then the purchase may
proceed.
Restricting the Charleston Loophole doesn’t
prohibit law abiding citizens from purchasing a
gun, but it does provide more time, if needed,
for law enforcement to ensure weapons are
not sold to those with criminal convictions or
mental illness. This is an important first step
our country should take to protect our citizens
and their first amendment rights.
In troubling times many of us find solace in
the Serenity prayer—God, grant me the seren-
ity to accept the things I cannot change; cour-
age to change the things I can; and wisdom
to know the difference.’’ The Charleston Loop-
hole is something all Members of Congress
should have the courage to change and grant
the American people the serenity they deserve
in their schools, entertainment venues, neigh-
borhood streets and—God forbid—their places
of worship.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Look, I have great sympathy for
what the gentleman from South Caro-
lina just spoke of. But, also, I have
even greater sympathy for the fact it
could have been avoided and had noth-
ing, frankly, to do at the end when the
FBI under Mr. Comey actually admit-
ted that there were mistakes made.
The FBI could have stopped that in-
stead of letting it happen. They saw
problems. They let it go. It could have
stopped.
This was already in law, Madam
Chair. It could have stopped.
Yes, what I laid out for you is not
just simply 20 business days, when you
look at the fact that, coupled with
other restrictions, it can do what we
said.
I have great sympathy and grief for
every loss of life, no matter where it
comes from. But to simply say that
this would have fixed it, when the FBI
and others knew they could have fixed
it at that moment and could have went
later and got the guns, because there
was a delay even in the horrific act
that happened—again, we are simply
talking about what is on the paper.
Madam Chairman, I yield 11⁄2 minutes
to the gentleman from California (Mr.
MCCLINTOCK).
Mr. MCCLINTOCK. Madam Chair-
man, we all deplore and mourn the
monstrous, despicable, and evil mas-
sacre in Charleston. But that terrible
crime was committed 67 days after the
perpetrator applied to purchase the
firearm.
As Mr. COLLINS said, this was pre-
ventable if, under current law, it was a
failure of the FBI and not of the law.
This bill is not about public safety.
Most gun predators already get their
firearms illegally. A recent Johns Hop-
kins study found that California’s uni-
versal background check had no effect
on gun violence.
Their true objective is to make gun
ownership by law-abiding people so le-
gally hazardous and so bureau-
cratically time-consuming that people
simply give up. This bill cleverly and, I
believe, insidiously sets up a poten-
tially never-ending bureaucratic re-
view process.
As Mr. COLLINS said, a background
check is only good for 30 calendar days
from the day you apply. But this bill
sets up a 20-business-day delay process.
Now, what that means is, if a single
holiday falls within that window, or
the store is closed on weekends, or you
slip a single day on that timetable,
your background check is no longer
valid, and you have to start all over
again in a perpetual cycle of
Kafkaesque proportions.
Now, would a bureaucracy be so abu-
sive as to play this game? Well, of
course it would. Just ask Lois Lerner.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chair, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Ms. BASS), the chair of the
Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Secu-
rity Subcommittee.
Ms. BASS. Madam Chair, I support
H.R. 1112, the Enhanced Background
Checks Act of 2019 as a commonsense
measure to improve the current fire-
arms background check system and to
save lives.
Twenty-five years ago today, we
began implementation of the Brady
Background Checks Act. The system it
employs to run background checks on
those seeking to purchase firearms
from licensed gun dealers has made us
safer.
Now it is time to address the cir-
cumstances in which the FBI needs ad-
ditional time to investigate informa-
tion relating to a prospective pur-
chaser when the records may not be
immediately clear as to whether some-
one is legally allowed to purchase a
firearm.
Under current law, after 3 days, a gun
dealer has the discretion to sell a gun
to a purchaser, if the system has not
given a green light to the sale after 3
business days have passed without a
denial being issued by the system. In
these circumstances, it is the choice of
the dealer as to whether to proceed
with the sale, which we call a default
proceed, or whether to wait for the
check to be implemented.
The results of such a choice were
tragic in Charleston, South Carolina,
in 2015, when a young man filled with
hate shot and killed nine worshippers
at the Emanuel AME Church. The gun
used in this murder had been trans-
ferred by a gun dealer to the shooter
even though the check had not been
completed by the FBI, but would have
resulted in a denial had the check been
finished.
This is not an isolated incident.
Since 1994, gun sellers proceeded with
between 3,000 and 4,000 default proceed
sales per year. Analyzing data provided
by the Department of Justice, one
study found that such sales are eight
times more likely to involve a prohib-
ited purchaser than other background
checks.
In 2017 alone, default proceed sales
accounted for more than 4,800 transfers
to purchasers who were prohibited
from owning firearms. The FBI re-
ported that, in 2007 and 2008, in cases a
licensed seller sold a firearm through
default proceed transfers——
The Acting CHAIR. The time of the
gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chairman, I
yield the gentlewoman from California
an additional 30 seconds.
Ms. BASS. The FBI reported that, in
2007 and 2008, in cases where a licensed
seller sold a firearm through default
proceed transfers, approximately 22
percent of the individuals investigated
were legally prohibited from pur-
chasing or possessing a firearm.
The additional time provided by H.R.
1112 is not too much to ask so that we
may help prevent tragedies such as the
Charleston shooting from happening.
This is why I ask my colleagues to join
me in supporting this bill today.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Virginia (Mr. CLINE).
Mr. CLINE. Madam Chair, I want to
thank the gentleman from Georgia for
the time.
Madam Chair, I rise in strong opposi-
tion to H.R. 1112. This legislation is an
attack on the constitutional rights of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:29 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE7.002 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2280 February 28, 2019
Americans. This bill puts incredible
roadblocks in the way of law-abiding
citizens seeking to exercise their Sec-
ond Amendment rights that are guar-
anteed to them in the Constitution.
We should be focused on enforcing
the current laws that we have on the
books instead of passing Federal man-
dates that stifle freedom. This bill cre-
ates a bureaucratic maze that will
allow the Federal Government to sit on
its hands and force citizens to submit
formal petitions to the Attorney Gen-
eral when they are trying to legally
purchase a firearm, to ask permission
to exercise their constitutional right.
What other constitutional right
would you suggest we put this level of
restriction on? The freedom of the
press? The freedom of religion? Should
we start having the Federal Govern-
ment review every media outlet’s story
for 10 days before they can be pub-
lished? before a church can meet for
worship? I don’t think so.
It is my hope that we will soon move
forward with solutions, solutions that
will actually make a difference for
hardworking Americans across this
great country.
When I was sworn in as a Member of
the House earlier this year, I saw great
potential for Congress to come to-
gether and advance solutions to our
Nation’s greatest problems. Instead, I
find myself standing here on the floor
of this Chamber fighting for the basic
liberties that our Founding Fathers
sought to guarantee for every Amer-
ican.
Madam Chair, I will continue to
stand and continue to fight each and
every day, and I urge the House to re-
ject this misguided legislation.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chair, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Illi-
nois (Ms. UNDERWOOD).
Ms. UNDERWOOD. Madam Chair, ev-
eryone deserves to feel safe in their
community, whether they are at work,
at home, at school, or at church.
Less than 2 weeks ago, five people,
four of whom were my constituents,
left their homes for work at the Henry
Pratt Company in Aurora, Illinois, and
never returned. Their lives were taken
by a horrific act of gun violence.
I am committed to honoring the lives
of the victims of gun violence through
action. H.R. 1112 is an important bill
that will help address a deficiency in
background check laws by allowing law
enforcement to conduct a thorough
background check. I am proud to co-
sponsor an amendment that will help
ensure this legislation improves the
safety of victims of domestic violence,
domestic abuse, dating partner vio-
lence, sexual assault, and stalking.
Yesterday was the first time in more
than two decades that this U.S. House
of Representatives passed a major gun
safety bill, and today we have an op-
portunity to take a further step. H.R.
1112 will help save innocent lives, and I
look forward to working on common-
sense legislation that balances pro-
tecting our gun rights and ensuring the
safety of our communities.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I yield as much time as he may
consume to the gentleman from Ten-
nessee (Mr. DAVID P. ROE).
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
Madam Chair, I thank the gentleman
for yielding.
Madam Chair, I rise today to fight
for the rights of the brave men and
women who have risked their lives
fighting for our rights.
The bill we are debating, H.R. 1112,
would have a significant impact on vet-
erans’ Second Amendment rights. A
little-known and poorly understood
provision of H.R. 1112 would amend the
law to make it unlawful for an indi-
vidual who has been ‘‘adjudicated with
mental illness, severe developmental
disability, or severe emotional insta-
bility’’ to purchase, to possess a fire-
arm. It would make it illegal to sell a
firearm to such an individual.
Let’s put this in perspective. There
are over 1.6 million disabled veterans
with service-connected adjudication by
VA of mental illness, including 1 mil-
lion veterans with PTSD. H.R. 1112 has
the potential to add all those names of
veterans to the FBI NICS list and pre-
vent those veterans from being able to
purchase or possess a firearm.
Now, I know that may not have been
the intent of the author of this bill, but
that is a lot of veterans who will be im-
pacted if this becomes law.
I offered an amendment at the Rules
Committee to clarify that veterans
with VA PTSD, diagnosed mental ill-
ness, and other affected adjudications
would be exempted from the bill’s
standards, but it was ruled out of
order.
VA already sends the names of vet-
erans who have a VA fiduciary for in-
clusion on the NICS list—not because
there is a concern that the veteran
might be a harm to themselves or oth-
ers, but because the VA has determined
that the veteran needs assistance han-
dling his or her financial benefits.
b 0945
I am concerned that the expanded
definition proposed in H.R. 1112 would
infringe on the Second Amendment
rights of over 1 million veterans solely
because they receive benefits from VA
that they have rightly earned through
their service to our great country.
The last thing any of us in this room
want to do is to discourage veterans
from seeking VA benefits and treat-
ment because they are afraid it might
cost them a constitutional right.
Think about that.
Although there may not have been a
finding by a judicial authority that a
veteran poses a danger to themselves
or society, these veterans will be told
that they were good enough to use a
firearm to fight for our freedoms, but
they are not good enough to have the
freedom to bear arms as a civilian.
That is wrong, Madam Chair. Even
criminals must be convicted in a court
of law before their names are added to
the NICS list.
Of all Americans who deserve their
constitutional rights, the most deserv-
ing are those who fought for our coun-
try. Madam Chair, that is why I strong-
ly oppose H.R. 1112, and I urge my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘no’’ on this bill.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chair, I yield 3
minutes to the gentlewoman from
Georgia (Mrs. MCBATH), a member of
the committee.
Mrs. MCBATH. Madam Chair, I thank
Chairman NADLER for yielding.
Madam Chair, I rise in support of
H.R. 1112, the Enhanced Background
Checks Act of 2019.
After losing my son Jordan to gun vi-
olence in 2012, I began reaching out to
other families who recently lost a
loved one to gun violence. I would send
them letters. That is how I came to
know Reverend Sharon Risher of Char-
lotte, North Carolina.
On June 17, 2017, Reverend Risher
lost her mother, two cousins, and a
childhood friend when a young man
shot and killed nine people during a
prayer service at the Emanuel Church
in Charleston, South Carolina. Today,
with H.R. 1112, we can close the loop-
hole in background checks for the gun
purchase that led to their terrible loss.
I support this legislation for Reverend
Sharon Risher and the memory of her
family and her loved ones.
Tragically, this was not the last time
our country witnessed horrific violence
in a place of worship. A few months
ago, the shooting at the Tree of Life
synagogue in Pittsburgh, Pennsyl-
vania, took the lives of 11 human
beings.
Our places of worship, whether they
are churches, synagogues, mosques, or
something else, should be safe places of
love, support, and community. H.R.
1112 would allow law enforcement the
time that they need to make sure all
these community centers are places of
peace and safety.
Yesterday, we voted to expand back-
ground checks. Today, we vote to make
sure those background checks are thor-
ough, even if a few of them take a few
more days to process. Those few extra
days will save lives.
In the days after the Emanuel shoot-
ing, I was there in the community
praying with the community and deal-
ing with their pain and loss. America
deserves better than this.
Why not make sure that we are doing
everything that we can to protect
them? A few more days in making sure
that the FBI has the ability to really
soundly make a conscious and critical
decision, America deserves that.
Madam Chair, I ask my colleagues to
join me in supporting this bill.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chair, I yield
myself as much time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Chair, I heard the argument
from the other side a moment ago that
people adjudged ineligible for the sys-
tem by the VA, that their names
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:29 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28FE7.011 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2281
February 28, 2019
should not be given into the system so
that they may purchase firearms.
I would point out that one of the
largest sources of mortality among
veterans is suicide. Veterans are, I
think, the highest group in our society
in terms of suicide rate. So it really
makes sense to make it easier for peo-
ple adjudged not to be proper to have a
gun to have a gun if you are worried
about suicides. That argument is,
frankly, nonsensical. I am very glad
the VA helps protect our veterans by
participating in the system.
Madam Chair, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentleman from Rhode Island (Mr.
CICILLINE), a member of the committee
and the chairman of one of our sub-
committees.
Mr. CICILLINE. Madam Chair, I
thank the chairman for yielding.
Madam Chair, I would just point out
in further support of Mr. NADLER’s re-
marks, on average, 20 veterans commit
suicide every single day in this coun-
try, and two-thirds of those suicides
are caused by use of a gun. So Mr. NAD-
LER is quite right.
Madam Chair, I rise in strong support
of H.R. 1112 to close the Charleston
loophole.
We have heard a lot about what is at
stake in terms of constitutional rights
as it relates to possession of a firearm.
There are other constitutional rights
that are at issue here, and that is the
right to life, liberty, the right to live
free of gun violence and death, the
right of a grandmother to sit on her
porch and enjoy a summer evening free
from the dangers of gun violence, the
right of young children to play in a
playground and play safely.
So this legislation is very important
because it closes a very significant
loophole in our law.
Over the last two decades, the
Charleston loophole has allowed more
than 60,000 purchases of guns by prohib-
ited individuals.
Let that sink in.
Sixty thousand people who are pro-
hibited from having a gun by law were
allowed to get those guns because of
this loophole.
One of those purchasers was a white
supremacist who used the gun that he
purchased to kill nine worshippers at
the Mother Emanuel Church in South
Carolina. Even though he had a felony
drug charge on his record, this killer
was able to buy a gun because his back-
ground check wasn’t completed in 3
days.
And he isn’t the only one, of course.
A 2016 GAO report found that, between
2006 and 2015, guns were transferred to
about 6,700 people with domestic vio-
lence convictions and more than 500 in-
dividuals with prohibiting protective
orders.
So there are many, many examples
where the American people are less
safe because criminals and disqualified
people can access a firearm because the
background check wasn’t completed in
3 days. This is a very simple common-
sense solution to that problem.
Our laws will not work if we don’t
keep guns out of the hands of crimi-
nals, dangerous people, other disquali-
fied purchasers, and this bill does that.
This is a commonsense proposal.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support this legislation. I thank Mr.
CLYBURN for his leadership, and I thank
Mr. NADLER for bringing these bills be-
fore the Judiciary Committee so we
can finally take some responsible ac-
tion to reduce gun violence in this
country.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I am actually glad, and one
thing I will agree on with my friend
just now is I do agree that there is a
right to life, and that is why I would
love to see this House bring forth the
Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protec-
tion Act, which also protects life as
well.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Chair, at this time I would
like to address a concern that has been
raised by one section of the bill that is
unrelated to the changes to current
law to address the Charleston loophole.
Section 3 of the bill replaces out-
dated and offensive terminology in the
categories of individuals who are ineli-
gible to purchase or possess firearms
under current law. Among those in-
cluded, there are individuals subject to
such prohibitions because, as stated by
the current law, they are ‘‘adjudicated
as a mental defective.’’
At the Judiciary Committee’s mark-
up of the bill, we agreed with our rank-
ing member, Representative COLLINS,
to replace this offensive language and
to insert different terminology in the
bill as a placeholder as we work to de-
velop alternative language that does
not alter the scope of who is included
in these prohibitions and to work with
stakeholders who have an interest in
how this would be accomplished.
We have heard from various advo-
cates in the mental health, disability
rights, and veterans communities who
have expressed their desire to develop
an acceptable alternative. We agree.
Yesterday, the Veterans of Foreign
Wars brought their concerns related to
this issue to our attention. The VFW
agrees that the current terminology is
archaic but is concerned about a poten-
tial unintended consequence of replac-
ing it.
Their concern is that replacing these
terms with ‘‘mental illness,’’ ‘‘severe
developmental disability,’’ or ‘‘severe
emotional instability’’ could result in
some veterans who are not now in-
cluded being added to the NICS index
due to their receipt of VA care or bene-
fits for mental illnesses such as PTSD
or traumatic brain injury.
It is not the intent of the changes in
this terminology made by section 3 to
alter the scope of those currently con-
sidered to be ‘‘adjudicated as a mental
defective.’’ It is the intent simply to
replace that offensive language, but
not to change the underlying law.
We will work with stakeholders, in-
cluding the VFW, the mental health
community, and the disability rights
community to address the concerns re-
lated to this outdated terminology in a
manner that does not change the scope
of present law as this bill proceeds.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Madam Chair, I do appreciate the
gentleman from New York clarifying
that, but he just clarified it in the very
way—because we had brought this up.
It was late in the day, and we brought
this up, and this language was offen-
sive. And, frankly, Ms. LOFGREN, who
was in the chair at the time, presented
this language as an alternative to get
us to a place where, as we talked
about, we could get to Rules to actu-
ally fix this.
This is why I have said so many
times that I have not—I understand the
majority’s willingness to bring the bill
forward. What I didn’t understand here
is the willingness of this majority to
put themselves on a time table to bring
bills that were not ready. The reason
we did it that night was so that we
could get to Rules.
I served on the Rules Committee for
4 years. We could have fixed it at
Rules.
Dr. ROE actually just brought an
amendment to Rules, but it was re-
jected.
I understand that now we are going
to continue forward.
I have a daughter who has spina
bifida, and many would say ‘‘mental
defective.’’ For anyone in that commu-
nity who believes that those who are
born that way would be a mental defec-
tive is a problem. It needs to be fixed.
But the problem that we have here
was a committee process that broke
and a Rules process that broke. There
were plenty of opportunities to address
this, plenty of opportunities to discuss
this. In the rush to do, again, what I
said yesterday many times, what
makes you feel good does not always
heal you, now you have a problem, a
valid problem.
But it was not a problem from the
perspective of not trying to fix it. It
came from the heart on both sides of
the aisle to say this language is ar-
chaic, this language should not be
there. There were plenty of times to fix
it.
I appreciate the chairman. I am glad
to hear his willingness to continue to
work on this. What would another day
have taken? What problem would an
amendment voted up or down by Dr.
ROE have caused on the floor?
I guess when the ACLU and others
started scoring against it, we decided
we might need to fix it.
Again, this is a process problem. I
know nobody likes to talk about proc-
ess problems because, at the end of the
day, I believe the authors’ intents be-
hind these bills, I believe their intents
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:16 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28FE7.012 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2282 February 28, 2019
are good. I believe their process may be
wrong, and I will speak to that, but
this is a problem that we have.
I am glad the chairman is moving
forward, I am glad the chairman is
looking at this, and I am glad the
chairman is willing to address this
going forward, but it is just sad that we
had to get here today, because this
could have been fixed except for an ar-
bitrary timeline put onto my chairman
that he really had no control over, I be-
lieve, to bring something forward that
is not ready for prime time.
I respect my chairman. I am glad
that he has addressed this. I hope that
they will give him plenty of time in the
future to continue to work these prob-
lems out.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Chair, our mistake was in ac-
cepting the amendment from the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. COLLINS).
The amendment dealt with the under-
lying language of the underlying law,
not with the bill. We should have in-
sisted that an attempt to correct that
language be in a separate bill.
The gentleman from Georgia is now
telling us that we should kill this bill
that will save so many lives because we
have not figured out acceptable lan-
guage to replace existing bad language
in the existing law that had nothing to
do with this bill.
We should pass this bill.
We will work as we go forward to see
if we can come up with acceptable lan-
guage, but in any event, we should pass
this bill and deal with the separate
problem of bad language in the under-
lying law separately.
Madam Chair, how much time do I
have remaining?
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from New York has 6 minutes remain-
ing.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chair, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Illi-
nois (Ms. KELLY).
b 1000
Ms. KELLY of Illinois. Madam Chair,
I rise today for Myra Thompson and
Susie Jackson, people who were mur-
dered in their church during a Bible
study. And I rise for the tens of thou-
sands of Americans who will die if Con-
gress does not close the Charleston
loophole.
In 2015, the FBI reported that more
than 270,000 guns were sold because the
NICS system failed to issue a ‘‘do not
sale’’ order within 3 days.
One was sold to a man with a hate-
filled heart, as we have heard. He
walked into Mother Emanuel church in
Charleston, South Carolina, a histori-
cally Black church, and murdered nine
people who were simply seeking to get
closer to their God.
Madam Chair, we have seen this time
and time again. Our houses of worship
are not safe from gun violence: Mother
Emanuel, First Baptist Church in
Sutherland Springs, Tree of Life, Oak
Creek’s house of worship, and the list
goes on and on.
We talk about PTSD, post-traumatic
stress disorder. Just recently, I heard
someone in the Chicago area talk
about PTSD, but it was ‘‘present-trau-
matic stress disorder’’ because of all
the guns that are in the streets in the
hands of people who should not have
them.
Madam Chair, today, I challenge my
colleagues to do the right thing: Pass
this bill and save lives. Pass this bill
and prevent dangerous people from get-
ting guns. Pass this law because you
never know if it will be your son or
mother who could be next, gunned
down by doing something as routine as
praying.
Today, we need to do the right thing.
Today, we need to pass H.R. 1112.
Today, we need to honor the Emanuel
9 and close the Charleston loophole.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Madam Chair, I can go back through
my opening statement and list the
many reasons I oppose this bill that
have nothing to do with the amend-
ment that should have been fixed by
the time we got to Rules, which was
agreed upon. Actually, the language
was given by Ms. LOFGREN and staff,
and we said that we will take that and
move to Rules to fix it.
If you go back and look at my state-
ment, I am opposing this bill for many
other reasons that are very valid. I be-
lieve when you look for timing, you
look for other things.
Again, I believe working the process
is proper. Working the process will go
through. The majority brought this to
the floor, and they should have the
votes to pass it. If not, then the Senate
can work on this language, and we go
forward.
I think the bigger issue is the very
fundamental issue of the timing of this
bill, the timing that it is not just 20
days, and it is not just 10 days. There
is another, when you couple it with the
actual 30-day restriction on the appli-
cation itself. So there are plenty of
reasons for me to oppose this bill.
The other part was simply a discus-
sion that should have been fixed and
wasn’t. That is a tragedy, that we are
coming to the floor and that even be a
problem. But at the end of the day, we
pointed it out, we tried to, and that is
where it is at.
My problem with this bill is the bill
itself and much of the language that
we have here.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chair, I yield 2
minutes to the distinguished gentle-
woman from Texas (Ms. JACKSON LEE),
a member of the committee.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Chair, I
thank the chairman and Mr. CLYBURN,
who, for years, has been working on
this issue.
Madam Chair, H.R. 1112, the En-
hanced Background Checks Act of 2019,
is long in coming. It responds to many
people, but it responds to Dylann Roof.
In 2015, he went to a gun store to get
a gun. He was not the normal pur-
chaser, and it did not approve in 90 sec-
onds, as most of them do. But in a day
or two, when it had not yet been ap-
proved, Dylann Roof was able to get a
gun. And Dylann Roof’s whole message
was: I am going to start a race war by
going into an unlocked church on a
prayer night and kill nine worshippers
praying to their God and their pastor—
whose wife was here today.
The question has to be: When are we
going to stop the senseless killings and
the eons and eons of mass shootings?
My good friend from Georgia (Mr.
COLLINS) is a man of faith. I was in the
committee room as a senior member on
the Subcommittee on Crime, Ter-
rorism, Homeland Security, and Inves-
tigations as we were trying to delib-
erate his concern, a very vital concern,
one that I have, to love people with dis-
abilities, to love them and treat them
with dignity.
The language in this legislation does
that as best we could at the time, be-
cause it puts the language adjudicated,
determined by some objective body,
that you have a health problem that
deals with a mental concern.
The question has to be, if it is not
workable, you pass the bill. All of us
have made a commitment to work
through this process and to give dig-
nity to every person, including vet-
erans.
But at the same time, would you
want to have a situation that happened
with Dylann Roof, a convicted felon
who grabbed a gun in 2 days and killed
nine innocent people, or killed people
in various other places, from Col-
umbine, to Aurora, to Virginia Tech?
The Acting CHAIR. The time of the
gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chair, I yield
an additional 30 seconds to the gentle-
woman from Texas.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Look at the sto-
ries of mass shootings, or look at the
violence in cities where people are get-
ting guns.
Madam Chair, I would make the ar-
gument that, today, we must pass H.R.
1112. The mercy of all of us dealing
with issues to give dignity to those
who suffer from illnesses that embrace
mental illness concerns, it was because
Mr. COLLINS, a man of faith, offered
that suggestion. Therefore, we are
going to move forward with the com-
mitment to work it through and pro-
vide the dignity necessary, but to save
the lives and to give tribute in death to
those who lost their lives at the hands
of Dylann Roof. Vote for H.R. 1112.
Madam Chair, I rise in support of H.R. 1112,
the ‘‘Enhanced Background Checks Act of
2019,’’ legislation that would strengthen the
background check system that is already in
place to purchase a firearm.
I thank the Majority Whip, Congressman
CLYBURN, for introducing H.R. 1112 in re-
sponse to the atrocity perpetrated at Mother
Emmanuel A.M.E. Church in Charleston,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:09 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K28FE7.014 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2283
February 28, 2019
South Carolina, which killed nine members of
one of the most historically significant church-
es in African American history.
One June 17, 2015, Dylann Roof was re-
sponsible for the mass shooting that took the
lives of nine individuals at the Emanuel African
Methodist Episcopal Church.
The victims were later referred to as ‘‘The
Charleston Nine’’ and ‘‘The Emanuel Nine’’.
Under current law, after a prospective buyer
completes the appropriate form, the holder of
a Federal Firearms License initiates the back-
ground check by phone or computer.
If a determination is not obtained within
three business days then the transfer may le-
gally be completed by default proceeding and
that is how Dylan Roof obtain the handgun he
used to commit the killings, which he pur-
chased from a retail store in West Columbia,
SC.
H.R 1112, the ‘‘Enhanced Background
Checks Act of 2019,’’ would strengthen the
background check procedures that firearms li-
censees or dealers follow before selling or
transferring a firearm.
As under current law, firearms dealers
would be required to run a background check
on prospective buyers using the National In-
stant Criminal Background Check System
(‘‘NICS’’).
Over 90% of NICS checks are completed
within 90 seconds.
Under H.R. 1112, if the NICS system has
not returned an answer to the licensed fire-
arms dealer within ten days, the prospective
firearms purchaser may file a petition with the
Attorney General for review.
Then, after another ten-day period has ex-
pired, the licensed firearms dealer may sell or
transfer the firearm to the prospective pur-
chaser if it has not received a response
through the NICS system and the dealer has
no reason to believe that the purchaser is pro-
hibited from obtaining a firearm under federal,
state, or local law.
Under this measure, licensed firearms deal-
ers could not sell or transfer under the ‘‘default
proceed’’ provision until at least 20 days have
passed since the initial background check,
thus closing the so-called ‘‘Charleston loop-
hole.’’
An internal assessment by the Federal Bu-
reau of Investigation (FBI) demonstrated that
the National Instant Criminal Background
Checks System (‘‘NICS’’) yields results that
are approximately 99.3 percent to 99.8 per-
cent accurate, and in 90 percent of cases, are
processed within 90 seconds.
We must be constructive and proactive in
our response to the countless mass shootings
and gun violence in our country that continue
to claim so many innocent lives.
Newly released data from the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention (‘‘CDC’’)
found firearm-related deaths rose for the sec-
ond-straight year in 2016, largely due to
spikes in gun violence.
In 2016, the new CDC report on preliminary
mortality data shows that there were more
than 38,000 gun-related deaths in the U.S.—
4,000 more than 2015.
An Associated Press analysis of FBI data
shows there were about 11,000 gun-related
homicides in 2016, up from 9,600 in 2015.
Congress must act to keep our country safe
through gun safety and violence deterrence.
There is nearly one mass shooting per day
in the United State—355 mass shootings in
2015.
In December 2012, a gunman walked into
Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown,
Connecticut, and killed 20 children, 6 adults,
and himself.
Since December 2012, there have been at
least 1,518 mass shootings, with at least
1,715 people killed and 6,089 wounded.
On the night of October 1, 2017, a gunman
opened fire on a large crowd of concertgoers
at the Route 91 Harvest Music Festival on the
Las Vegas Strip, leaving 58 people dead and
527 injured.
On November 5, 2017, a mass shooting oc-
curred at the First Baptist Church in Suther-
land Springs, Texas, where the gunman, 26-
year-old Devin Patrick Kelley, killed 26 and in-
jured 20 others.
Every day, on average, 92 Americans are
victims of gun violence, resulting in more than
33,000 deaths annually.
States with higher gun ownership rates have
higher gun murder rates—as much as 114
percent higher than other states.
A recent study by the CDC looking at 30
years of homicide data found that for every 1
percent increase in a state’s gun ownership
rate, there is a nearly 1 percent increase in its
firearm homicide rate.
Gun death rates are generally lower in
states with restrictions such as safe storage
requirements or assault weapons bans.
Mass shootings stopped by armed civilians
in the past 33 years: 0.
This is why legislation put forward to arm
teachers is not the solution.
Stronger legislation is needed to prevent
guns from getting into the wrong hands be-
cause unfortunately, more than 75 percent of
the weapons used in mass shootings between
1982 and 2012 were obtained legally.
We must look at gun violence in its totality
to determine what are the root causes of
these alarming rates of lives cut short.
We are elected by our constituents to lead
in resolving the issues that plague our country,
and the issue of gun violence is a definite
plague across the nation.
My good friend, Houston Police Chief Art
Acevedo, gave a statement after four of his of-
ficers were shot while on duty.
He rightfully admonished us elected officials
who, so far, have accomplished absolutely
nothing about the public-health epidemic of
gun violence.
Thanks to the new Democratic majority in
Congress, we had a long overdue Gun Safety
Hearing in the Judiciary Committee.
That hearing is the first step in the legisla-
tive process of addressing the epidemic.
Chief Acevedo was a witness at that hear-
ing, testifying that if the proposed legislation
on background checks is enacted and saves
at least one life, then it is worth it.
Back in my state, despite incident after inci-
dent of rampant gun violence, Texas Governor
Greg Abbott and Attorney General Ken
Paxton, both prominent Republican opponents
of gun control, issued the usual statements of-
fering the usual thoughts and prayers.
Chief Acevedo said, ‘‘I appreciate your pray-
ers . . . but the question is, what are policy-
makers willing to do, besides prayers, to ad-
dress a public-health epidemic?’’
I want to answer his question—‘‘what ARE
we going to do?’’
We are going to overcome the fierce oppo-
sition from House minority members.
We are going to overcome a recalcitrant
and reluctant Senate.
And finally, we are going to overcome the
opposition of the President and the gun lobby.
I am a defender and supporter of the con-
stitution.
I appreciate the Second Amendment and
the right that it provides our citizens.
However, I am also a defender of the right
to live, the greatest divine right of all.
I want all Americans to enjoy their Second
Amendment right, but not at the expense of
the lives of our children, students, commu-
nities, and law enforcement officials.
Imagine going to grade school in this day
and age and having to undergo ‘‘active shoot-
er’’ drills.
Imagine having children in grade school
today.
Imagine the anxiety parents feel knowing
that any day the precious lives of their children
may be interrupted by someone with an AK–
47 or AR–15.
Imagine a brighter future for America’s chil-
dren, one that does not include active shooter
drills and funerals for adolescents.
We can help make that future a reality and
we can start by voting to pass H.R. 1112, the
‘‘Enhanced Background Checks Act of 2019,’’
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Madam Chair, in closing, we have had
an interesting debate this morning. I
think we went back on two points.
One, I believe I laid out the problems
in a very methodical way on why this
bill has serious defects in it that could
possibly be fixed, if given long enough
to work. I still may disagree with the
premise of the bill, but it could have
been worked out, when you actually
take one part of law and combine it
with another part of law. And we have
seen a calendaring problem here. That
is one part. That is the main part I
have.
I think we have also seen how the
process has not worked out again.
Sometimes in life, getting it first is
not best. Getting it quickly may not
always be the best result. I think what
we are seeing here is something that
when we are dealing with the rights of
individuals, especially in this area here
and especially for the reasons that
were given, which was a tragedy in
Charleston that could have been
stopped by the FBI that already had
suspicions on not selling this firearm
and could have went and taken that
firearm, this is just a problem.
I have laid out as much as I can. I
think the speakers have as well. There
are many opposed to this. They will
continue to be opposed to it, on both
sides of the spectrum, our side from the
perspective of our rights and those that
are being violated, and the ACLU for
what their reasons may be and others.
But it is time we had some honest
discussion about what can actually
deter this mass violence that we are
seeing. Unfortunately, Madam Chair,
we always speak of mass violence.
Why do we always have to go to the
big violence? Why do we have to go to
the ones who were killed that are trag-
edies that we all see? What about the
ones that we can actually work on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:09 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE7.003 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2284 February 28, 2019
where we give better enforcement to
our law enforcement, better prosecu-
tion of gun crimes, better prosecution
that affects a single life in a neighbor-
hood today? Is a single life not as im-
portant as the ones that we are not af-
fecting now?
I think as we look forward, I would
ask that this, of course, be voted down.
I think we have laid out a reason why
it at least should be considered by all
Members before they put their card in
that machine to decide why they are
supporting a bill that we believe has
some obvious flaws to it. It is not the
intent of the individual offering it, but
the actual words on paper have flaws in
them. That is why we oppose this bill.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Chair, this is an important
bill that addresses a significant, and
tragically demonstrated, threat to pub-
lic safety.
Today is the 25th anniversary of the
implementation of the Brady Back-
ground Check Act. This lifesaving law
has served us well, helping to prevent
firearms from getting into the hands of
those who are legally prohibited from
possessing and purchasing them. But
we know that some aspects of this law
and the system that implements it
must be updated and improved.
Let’s remember what this bill does.
All this bill does is give the FBI addi-
tional time—gives the NICS system ad-
ditional time—to complete a back-
ground check in the 8 or 9 percent of
cases where it is not done within 90
seconds. If you haven’t gotten a back-
ground check back in 3 days, under this
bill, you can’t get it automatically,
and you can’t get the weapon auto-
matically.
They have 10 days to do it. If after 10
days they still haven’t done it, then
you can petition the Attorney General.
And if they still don’t do it, get your
firearm within 10 days. That will save
a lot of lives.
We hear about mass shootings, but
we also should remember that we are
not talking about just mass shootings.
Thirty-four people a day are killed in
this country by guns—34 a day. Every
other industrialized country in the
world: 90 deaths with guns a year, 120,
170. The United States: 39,000.
How are we different? Are we thou-
sands of times more mentally ill than
people in Europe or Japan? No.
Are we more vicious? No.
Are our habits more degraded? No.
The difference is that this country is
awash in guns. The difference is that,
in this country, people who are dan-
gerous can get guns.
These are modest steps. We should
take much more advanced steps. We
should ban assault weapons. We should
ban large capacity magazine clips. But
we are not doing that. We are starting
with very moderate steps.
This is a very moderate step to im-
prove the background check system.
With all the rhetoric we hear, that is
all it does. It gives a little extra time
to make sure that someone who is dan-
gerous, whose possession of a firearm is
illegal, cannot get it.
Enacting this bill will save lives. I
urge my colleagues to ignore all the
nonsense rhetoric about extraneous
considerations. Join me in supporting
this bill today. Join me in supporting
saving lives. Join me in making the
United States a little safer to live in.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. I rise today to
voice my support for H.R. 1112, The En-
hanced Background Checks Act of 2019. This
bill will strengthen our federal gun background
check procedures by closing the ‘‘Charleston’’
loophole, thus ensuring that guns can no
longer be erroneously sold due to incomplete
background checks.
This epidemic of gun violence has left its
scars on my home state of Texas. A recent
study by the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention revealed that there were 3,353
gun-related deaths in Texas in 2017 alone.
Hundreds of these victims are children and
teenagers under 19 years of age.
Our country has struggled with gun violence
for too long, and the multitudes of loopholes in
our laws are complicit in our difficulties. This
bill will not only eliminate a significant loop-
hole, but it will do so without infringing upon
Second Amendment rights. It will ensure that
only responsible and able individuals are able
to purchase guns in our country.
I share our nation’s concerns about the
widespread proliferation of guns in our neigh-
borhoods, and I agree that reasonable restric-
tions on firearms are essential to a com-
prehensive strategy to reduce crime and vio-
lence in our society. We must take sensible
steps to ensure that these firearms do not fall
into the wrong hands.
Furthermore, it has come to my attention
that the mental illness reference in this bill
may be outdated and not in line with current
medical and legal standards. I will be review-
ing this issue as we progress through the
116th Congress.
I urge my colleagues to support this bill.
The Acting CHAIR. All time for gen-
eral debate has expired.
Pursuant to the rule, the bill shall be
considered for amendment under the 5-
minute rule.
In lieu of the amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute recommended by
the Committee on the Judiciary, print-
ed in the bill, an amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute consisting of the
text of Rules Committee Print 116–6 is
adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be
considered as an original bill for the
purpose of further amendment under
the 5-minute rule and shall be consid-
ered as read.
The text of the bill, as amended, is as
follows:
H.R. 1112
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Enhanced
Background Checks Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. STRENGTHENING OF BACKGROUND
CHECK PROCEDURES TO BE FOL-
LOWED BEFORE A FEDERAL FIRE-
ARMS LICENSEE MAY TRANSFER A
FIREARM TO A PERSON WHO IS NOT
SUCH A LICENSEE.
Section 922(t)(1)(B)(ii) of title 18, United
States Code is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking clause (ii)
and inserting the following:
‘‘(ii) in the event the system has not notified
the licensee that the receipt of a firearm by such
other person would violate subsection (g) or (n)
of this section—
‘‘(I) not fewer than 10 business days (meaning
a day on which State offices are open) has
elapsed since the licensee contacted the system,
and the system has not notified the licensee that
the receipt of a firearm by such other person
would violate subsection (g) or (n) of this sec-
tion, and the other person has submitted, elec-
tronically through a website established by the
Attorney General or by first-class mail, a peti-
tion for review which—
‘‘(aa) certifies that such other person has no
reason to believe that such other person is pro-
hibited by Federal, State, or local law from pur-
chasing or possessing a firearm; and
‘‘(bb) requests that the system respond to the
contact referred to in subparagraph (A) within
10 business days after the date the petition was
submitted (or, if the petition is submitted by
first-class mail, the date the letter containing
the petition is postmarked); and
‘‘(II) 10 business days have elapsed since the
other person so submitted the petition, and the
system has not notified the licensee that the re-
ceipt of a firearm by such other person would
violate subsection (g) or (n) of this section;
and’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(7) The Attorney General shall—
‘‘(A) prescribe the form on which a petition
shall be submitted pursuant to paragraph
(1)(B)(ii);
‘‘(B) make the form available electronically,
and provide a copy of the form to all licensees
referred to in paragraph (1);
‘‘(C) provide the petitioner and the licensee
involved written notice of receipt of the petition,
either electronically or by first-class mail; and
‘‘(D) respond on an expedited basis to any
such petition received by the Attorney Gen-
eral.’’.
SEC. 3. NEW TERMINOLOGY FOR THOSE WITH
MENTAL ILLNESS.
Section 922 of title 18, United States Code, is
amended in each of subsections (d)(4) and (g)(4)
by striking ‘‘adjudicated as a mental defective’’
and inserting ‘‘adjudicated with mental illness,
severe developmental disability, or severe emo-
tional instability’’.
The Acting CHAIR. No further
amendment to the bill, as amended,
shall be in order except those printed
in part B of House Report 116–14. Each
such further amendment may be of-
fered only in the order printed in the
report, by a Member designated in the
report, shall be considered read, shall
be debatable for the time specified in
the report, equally divided and con-
trolled by the proponent and an oppo-
nent, shall not be subject to amend-
ment, and shall not be subject to a de-
mand for division of the question.
AMENDMENT NO. 1 OFFERED BY MR. RICE OF
SOUTH CAROLINA
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 1 printed in
part B of House Report 116–14.
Mr. RICE of South Carolina. Madam
Chair, I have an amendment at the
desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:09 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28FE7.016 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2285
February 28, 2019
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 3, after line 23, insert the following:
SEC. l. REQUIREMENT THAT THE NICS SYSTEM
SEARCH THE NATIONAL DATA EX-
CHANGE DATABASE IN CONDUCTING
BACKGROUND CHECKS.
Section 922(t) of title 18, United States
Code, a amended by section 2 of this Act, is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(8) The national instant criminal back-
ground check system established under sec-
tion 103 of the Brady Handgun Violence Pre-
vention Act shall search the database of the
National Data Exchange in conducting a
background check pursuant to this section.’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 145, the gentleman
from South Carolina (Mr. RICE) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from South Carolina.
Mr. RICE of South Carolina. Madam
Chair, Dylann Roof is a monster.
Dylann Roof should never have been
able to buy a gun. Dylann Roof walked
into a church in my hometown of
Charleston, South Carolina, my birth-
place of Charleston, South Carolina,
and he slaughtered nine people in a
Bible study. I can’t imagine a more
horrific crime. We all, naturally, look
for a response.
My friend, Mr. CLYBURN, and the ma-
jority have noted that thousands of
people have wrongfully acquired guns
because of the failure of our back-
ground check system under what has
become known as the Charleston loop-
hole.
The stated purpose of this underlying
legislation, Mr. CLYBURN’s legislation,
is certainly noble: to close the Charles-
ton loophole. The only problem is that
it does not carry out that purpose.
Too often here, we take up noble
causes; we create legislation with noble
names; we pass this legislation to feel
better; but the legislation fails to solve
the problem in the title.
After these horrific murders, the
families of the victims sued the Fed-
eral Government for allowing this
monster to buy a gun.
b 1015
Charleston Federal District Court
Judge Gergen wrote a lengthy opinion
in which he laid bare the Federal back-
ground check process and its failures in
this case, the case of Dylann Roof. His
opinion is available for anybody to
read.
And in his 22-page opinion, he lays
out the various structural flaws in the
background check system. Most nota-
bly, that the FBI maintains four crimi-
nal databases. And under the back-
ground check system, the background
checker is allowed to check only three
of those.
Why? I assume because those are the
three that existed in the nineties when
the background check came into place.
There is a fourth one. It is more ex-
tensive and it is more detailed. It is
called N-DEx. In this file was all the
information that Dylann Roof’s back-
ground checker needed to know to deny
him the right to buy the gun. This N-
DEx system contained that informa-
tion, and it is maintained by the FBI.
All they had to do was allow this back-
ground checker to look at that. The
FBI has admitted had they been able to
do that, this man—this monster—
would never have been able to buy a
gun.
My amendment would actually fix
the Charleston loophole. The problem
is that I cannot support the underlying
legislation. Why? Because it creates an
undue amount of time to be able to buy
a gun.
And number two, the thing that
bothers me the most, is that it shifts a
part of the burden to the American cit-
izen trying to exercise his Second
Amendment rights. It requires him, in
the event that you don’t hear back
from the government, to file a petition
with the Federal court. I think this is
an undue interference with his Second
Amendment right; therefore, I cannot
accept this underlying legislation.
The Senate has indicated it will not
be taken up in the Senate; and the
President has indicated that, if it
passed, he would veto it. Therefore, I
plan to withdraw my amendment.
I plan to offer it separately as a new
piece of legislation, which will, in fact,
close the Charleston loophole. It will
allow the FBI background checkers to
search the most current N-DEx file
that has all this detailed information
that was created after 9/11, well after
the background check law came into
effect.
The FBI has admitted, it would have
prevented Dylann Roof from buying a
gun and, I suspect, many of the other
people who have carried out these hor-
rific shootings in recent years.
It will hopefully garner the bipar-
tisan support necessary to actually be-
come law and fix the underlying prob-
lem.
Madam Chair, I ask unanimous con-
sent to withdraw the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Is there objection
to the request of the gentleman from
South Carolina?
There was no objection.
The Acting CHAIR. The amendment
is withdrawn.
AMENDMENT NO. 2 OFFERED BY MR. SCHNEIDER
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 2 printed in
part B of House Report 116–14.
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Madam Chair, I
have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 3, after line 16, insert the following:
SEC. 3. REPORTS ON PETITIONS SUPPORTING
FIREARM TRANSFERS NOT IMME-
DIATELY APPROVED BY NICS SYS-
TEM, THAT WERE NOT RESPONDED
TO IN A TIMELY MANNER.
The Director of the Federal Bureau of In-
vestigation shall make an annual report to
the public on the number of petitions re-
ceived by the national instant criminal
background check system established under
section 103 of the Brady Handgun Violence
Prevention Act that were submitted pursu-
ant to subclause (I) of section 922(t)(1)(B)(ii)
of title 18, United States Code, with respect
to which a determination was not made
within the 10-day period referred to in sub-
clause (II) of such section.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 145, the gentleman
from Illinois (Mr. SCHNEIDER) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Illinois.
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Madam Chair, I
rise in support of my amendment to
H.R. 1112, the Enhanced Background
Checks Act of 2019, and I applaud the
gentleman from South Carolina (Mr.
CLYBURN), my good friend, for his lead-
ership and enduring commitment to re-
ducing gun violence and making our
communities safer. I also appreciate
my friend from Texas, SHEILA JACKSON
LEE, for her leadership on this issue as
well.
Madam Chair, it is unconscionable to
think that convicted felons, domestic
abusers, and others who are prohibited
by law from purchasing a firearm could
end up with these weapons anyway.
Sadly, this is the reality we currently
live in due to the default proceed sales,
also known as the Charleston loophole.
I have introduced legislation on this
problem in the past because we must
do everything we can to ensure fire-
arms do not end up in the hands of
those who should not have them. This
is why I am also a cosponsor of Mr.
CLYBURN’s Enhanced Background
Checks Act.
The FBI should and, in fact, needs to
know if a default proceeds sale has
taken place. Currently, this is not the
case unless the FBI eventually com-
pletes a background check, determines
the purchaser should be prohibited
from owning a firearm, and subse-
quently contacts the dealer.
We need more information through-
out this process, and my amendment
would do just that: require the FBI to
report on the number of background
checks that they are not able to com-
plete within the designated time pe-
riod.
This information will help keep
track of the FBI’s ability to clear
background checks in a timely manner
as well as give better understanding of
where there is still room for improve-
ment. It will also provide much-needed
transparency to the default proceed
process.
All who support commonsense solu-
tions to reduce the gun violence epi-
demic in this country should support
this amendment and the underlying
legislation. I encourage my colleagues
to vote ‘‘yes.’’
Madam Chair, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
JACKSON LEE), my dear friend and a
tireless champion and leader on the ef-
forts to reduce gun violence.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Chair, I
thank the gentleman very much, and I
thank him for his leadership on a very
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:09 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28FE7.018 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2286 February 28, 2019
important enhancement to the En-
hanced Background Checks Act of 2019,
which requires the FBI to report on the
number of petitions it was not able to
make a determination on within the 10-
day period.
I think Mr. SCHNEIDER knows that
why we are here on the floor is to save
lives, to be able to protect innocent
people from being subjected to what
the Emanuel Nine were: worshippers in
a church with their pastor, praying, as
this country allows one to do.
It is my belief that the Schneider-
Jackson Lee amendment should be
passed, because with this critical data
and compliance reporting we can learn
more about legislative injustices like
the one that enabled Dylann Roof to
process a handgun used to murder the
nine innocent persons at Mother Eman-
uel AME Church in Charleston, South
Carolina, and to remind everybody he
had not been approved by the NICS re-
porting system, and he was able to
come back. This system allows us to
know how many have not been ap-
proved, to be able to address the ques-
tion, to have better policies dealing
with protecting gun violence.
It is my privilege to join my col-
league in supporting the Schneider-
Jackson Lee amendment.
Madam Chair, I close by saying that
this tracks the Accidental Firearms
Transfer Reporting Act that I intro-
duced in previous Congresses in H.R.
3125 and H.R. 57.
I look forward to working with my
colleague as we expand reasonable gun
safety legislation to protect our chil-
dren, our families, and Americans.
Madam Chair, I rise in strong support of this
amendment which I am proud to cosponsor
with the gentleman from Illinois, Congressman
BRAD SCHNEIDER.
I thank the Rules Committee for making the
Schneider/Jackson Lee Amendment in order
and thank the Majority Whip for introducing
the underlying legislation, H.R. 1112, the ‘‘En-
hanced Background Checks Act of 2019.’’
H.R. 1112, the ‘‘Enhanced Background
Checks Act of 2019,’’ would strengthen the
background check procedures that firearms li-
censees or dealers follow before selling or
transferring a firearm.
As under current law, firearms dealers
would be required to run a background check
on prospective buyers using the National In-
stant Criminal Background Check System
(‘‘NICS’’).
Over 90% of NICS checks are completed
within 90 seconds.
If the NICS system has not returned an an-
swer to the licensed firearms dealer within ten
days, the prospective firearms purchaser may
file a petition with the Attorney General for re-
view.
Then, after another ten-day period has ex-
pired, the licensed firearms dealer may sell or
transfer the firearm to the prospective pur-
chaser if it has not received a response
through the NICS system and the dealer has
no reason to believe that the purchaser is pro-
hibited from obtaining a firearm under federal,
state, or local law.
Under this measure, licensed firearms deal-
ers could not sell or transfer under the ‘‘default
proceed’’ provision until at least 20 days have
passed since the initial background check.
The Schneider/Jackson Lee Amendment
strengthens the bill by requiring the FBI to re-
port on the number of petitions on which it
was not able to make a determination regard-
ing the eligibility of the transferee to possess
a firearm within the 10-day period allotted by
H.R. 1112.
I urge my colleagues to support the Schnei-
der/Jackson Lee Amendment because, with
this critical data and compliance reporting, we
can learn more about legislative interstices like
the one that enabled Dylan Roof to possess
the handgun used to murder 9 innocent per-
sons at Mother Emanuel A.M.E. Church in
Charleston, South Carolina, as well as the nu-
merous other cases where a firearm was
handed over to an unintended and potentially
dangerous recipient.
Making sure that policy makers have the
most accurate, reliable, and current data re-
garding background checks is one of the main
reasons I introduced the Accidental Firearms
Transfers Reporting Act in the 114th and
115th Congress (H.R. 3125 and H.R. 57 re-
spectively).
Madam Chair, if anything, it is gun violence
that is a national emergency, and reducing
gun violence should be one of Congress’s
highest priorities.
The Schneider/Jackson Lee Amendment will
help to do that.
I ask my colleagues to support the Schnei-
der/Jackson Lee Amendment in order.
Again, I thank Majority Whip CLYBURN for in-
troducing the underlying legislation and Con-
gressman SCHNEIDER for his work on this salu-
tary amendment.
I urge all Members to support the Schnei-
der/Jackson Lee Amendment.
[Feb. 20, 2018]
LIST OF MASS SHOOTINGS SINCE COLUMBINE
MASSACRE
(By Zayed Abdalla)
Below is a list of all mass shootings in the
United States which occurred after the Col-
umbine High School Massacre. Dates and
death tolls (excluding the shooter) are in-
cluded. Although many other mass shootings
have occurred, for the sake of time and phys-
ical space, only shootings involving the
death of five or more people have been in-
cluded in this article.
1. Columbine High School Shooting, Little-
ton, Colorado—April 1999: 13 Dead
2. Atlanta Shootings, Atlanta, Georgia—
July 1999: 12 Dead
3. Wedgwood Baptist Church shooting, Fort
Worth, Texas—September 1999: 7 Dead
4. Xerox Killings, Honolulu, Hawaii—No-
vember 1999: 7 Dead
5. Tampa Hotel Shootings, Tampa, Flor-
ida—December 1999: 5 Dead
6. Wakefield Massacre, Wakefield, Massa-
chusetts—December 2000: 7 Dead
7. Lockheed Martin Shooting, Median, Mis-
sissippi—July 2003: 6 Dead
8. Living Church of God Shooting, Brook-
field, Wisconsin—March 2005: 7 Dead
9. Red Lake High School, Red Lake Indian
Reservation, Minnesota—March 2005: 9 Dead
10. Goleta Postal Shootings, Goleta, Cali-
fornia—January 2006: 7 Dead
11. Capitol Hill Massacre, Seattle Wash-
ington—March 2006: 6 Dead
12. West Nickel Mines Amish School, Nick-
el Mines, Pennsylvania—October 2006: 5 Dead
13. Tolley Square Shooting, Salt Lake
City, Utah—February 2007: 5 Dead
14. Virginia Tech University, Blacksburg,
Virginia—April 2007: 32 Dead
15. Crandon Shooting, Crandon Wisconsin—
October 2007: 6 Dead
16. Westroads Mall Shooting, Omaha Ne-
braska—December 2007: 8 Dead
17. Kirkwood City Council Shooting, Kirk-
wood, Missouri—February 2008: 6 Dead
18. Northern Illinois University, Dekalb, Il-
linois—February 2008: 5 Dead
19. Atlantis Plastics Shooting, Henderson
Kentucky—June 2008: 5 Dead
20. Carthage Nursing Home Shooting—
Carthage, North Carolina—March 2009: 8
Dead
21. Geneva County Massacre, Geneva and
Samson, Alabama—March 2009: 10 Dead
22. Binghampton Shootings,
Binghampton—April 2009: 13 Dead
23. Fort Hood Shooting, Fort Hood, Texas—
November 2009: 13 Dead
24. Hartford Beer Distributor Shooting,
Manchester, Connecticut—August 2010: 8
Dead
25. Tucson Shooting, Tucson, Arizona—
January 2011: 6 Dead
26. Seal Beach Shooting, Seal Beach, Cali-
fornia—October 2011: 8 Dead
27. Oikos University, Oakland, California—
April 2012: 7 Dead
28. Seattle Café Shooting, Seattle, Wash-
ington—May 2012: 5 Dead
29. Aurora Shooting, Aurora, Colorado—
July 2012: 12 Dead
30. Sikh Temple Shooting, Oak Creek, Wis-
consin—August 2012: 6 Dead
31. Accent Signage Systems Shooting, Min-
neapolis, Minnesota—September 2012: 6 Dead
32. Sandy Hook Elementary School, New-
town, Connecticut—December 2012: 27 Dead
33. Santa Monica College, Santa Monica,
California—June 2013: 5 Dead
34. Hialeah Shooting, Hialeah, Florida—
July 2013: 6 Dead
35. Washington Navy Yard Shooting, Wash-
ington D.C.—September 2013: 12 Dead
36. University of California Santa Barbara,
Isla Vista, California—May 2014: 6
Dead
37. Marysville Pilchuck High School,
Marysville, Washington—October 2014: 4
Dead
38. Charleston Church Shooting, Charles-
ton, South Carolina—June 2015: 9 Dead
39. Chattanooga Military Recruitment Cen-
ter, Chattanooga Tennessee—July 2015: 5
Dead
40. Umpqua Community College, Roseburg,
Oregon—October 2015: 9 Dead
41. San Bernardino Attack, San
Bernardino, California—December 2015: 14
Dead
42. Kalamazoo Shooting Spree, Kalamazoo
County, Michigan—February 2016: 6 Dead
43. Orlando Night-club Shooting, Orlando,
Florida—June 2016: 49 Dead
44. Dallas Police Shooting, Dallas Texas—
July 2016: 5 Dead
45. Cascade Mall Shooting, Burlington,
Washington—September 2016: 5 Dead
46. Fort Lauderdale Airport Shooting, Fort
Lauderdale, Florida—January 2017: 5 Dead
47. Las Vegas Shooting, Las Vegas, Ne-
vada—October 2017: 58 Dead
48. Sutherland Springs Church, Sutherland
Springs, Texas—November 2017: 26 Dead
49. Rancho Tehama Shooting, Rancho
Tehama, California—November 2017: 5 Dead
50. Marjory Stoneman Douglas High
School, Parkland, Florida—February 2018: 17
Dead
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Madam Chair, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
New York (Mr. NADLER), chairman of
the committee.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chair, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
I support this amendment, which re-
quires the FBI to report on the number
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28FE7.022 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2287
February 28, 2019
of petitions it was not able to resolve
with a determination within 10 days.
We know that providing more time
for checks to be completed in the in-
stances that more time is needed will
help prevent guns from getting into the
hands of those who are ineligible under
current law from purchasing and pos-
sessing the guns.
The goal of this bill is to do just
that, and to allow individuals whose
checks take longer than 10 days to
complete the opportunity to petition
for their case to be reviewed within an-
other 10-day period.
Madam Chair, the report required by
this amendment will help us oversee
the implementation of this new process
and the changes instituted by this law.
I urge my colleagues to support this
salutary amendment.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I claim the time in opposition.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is
recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Madam Chair, does
the gentleman from Georgia have any
speakers on this issue?
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. To the good
gentleman, I do not.
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Madam Chair, I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I yield back the balance of my
time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Illinois (Mr. SCHNEIDER).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chair, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from Illinois will be
postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 3 OFFERED BY MR. LEVIN OF
MICHIGAN
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 3 printed in
part B of House Report 116–14.
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Madam
Chair, I have an amendment at the
desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 3, after line 16, insert the following:
SEC. 3. GAO REPORTS.
Within 90 days after the end of each of the
1-year, 3-year, and 5-year periods that begin
with the effective date of this Act, the Comp-
troller General of the United States shall
prepare and submit to the Committee on the
Judiciary of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on the Judiciary of the
Senate a written report analyzing the extent
to which, during the respective period, para-
graphs (1)(B)(ii) and (7) of section 922(t) of
title 18, United States Code, have prevented
firearms from being transferred to prohib-
ited persons, which report shall include but
not be limited to the following—
(1) an assessment of the overall implemen-
tation of such subsections, including a de-
scription of the challenges faced in imple-
menting such paragraphs; and
(2) an aggregate description of firearm pur-
chase delays and denials, and an aggregate
analysis of the petitions submitted pursuant
to such paragraph (1)(B)(ii).
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 145, the gentleman
from Michigan (Mr. LEVIN) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Michigan.
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Madam
Chairwoman, I am proud to cosponsor
the Enhanced Background Checks Act,
H.R. 1112, and I am also proud today to
present an amendment that will make
sure we can track and learn from the
good that this bill will accomplish once
it becomes law.
In 2017, 39,773 Americans died from
gun violence. This is a public health
epidemic.
Under current law, if a background
check is not completed within 3 busi-
ness days, a federally licensed firearm
dealer may move forward with a fire-
arms transfer or sale.
The devastating reality is that many
horrific acts of gun violence, including
the massacre of the Emanuel Meth-
odist Church in Charleston, South
Carolina, which ended nine lives and
left several people wounded, could have
been avoided.
Today, we will vote to close the loop-
hole that allowed for that tragedy by
closing what has become known as the
Charleston loophole. The Enhanced
Background Checks Act will provide
the background check system with ad-
ditional time to make a final deter-
mination on a potential firearm pur-
chaser before a licensed dealer can
transfer a gun.
We have an obligation to the Amer-
ican people and to the victims of the
shooter at the AME church to pass the
bill before us today, and I am proud to
be part of this effort to protect our
communities from gun violence.
My amendment to H.R. 1112 will re-
quire the Government Accountability
Office to submit a report to Congress 1
year, 3 years, and 5 years following the
implementation of this law. These re-
ports will analyze the extent to which
the changes made by this law will pre-
vent firearms from being transferred to
prohibited persons.
I am proud that this amendment has
broad support from all stakeholders
that have been involved in making this
bill a reality.
We must strive for effective, evi-
dence-based policies that promote pub-
lic health and protect our commu-
nities. My amendment will cost us
nothing, but it will help build the evi-
dence base around the effectiveness of
good gun violence prevention policies
like this one.
This amendment is all the more im-
portant, given the regrettable lack of
Federal funding for gun violence re-
search. My amendment will finally
help us demonstrate with data that gun
violence prevention measures like the
one before us today will prevent fire-
arms from ending up in the hands of
people who should not have them.
I came to Washington because the
people of southern Macomb and south-
eastern Oakland Counties sent me here
on a mission, and that mission includes
protecting our communities from
senseless gun violence.
I stand today in solidarity with the
courageous people of Michigan’s Ninth
Congressional District’s Moms Demand
Action and Students Demand Action.
We have a responsibility as Members
of Congress and as human beings not
just to talk about the horrors of gun
violence, but to do everything in our
powers to end it. Today, we will take
the critically necessary step to do just
that.
I would like to thank Congressman
JIM CLYBURN, PETER KING, and JOE
CUNNINGHAM for their leadership to en-
sure that we close the Charleston loop-
hole. I urge my colleagues to support
H.R. 1112 and support this amendment.
Madam Chair, I yield 1 minute to the
gentleman from New York (Mr. NAD-
LER), the chairman of the House Judi-
ciary Committee.
b 1030
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chair, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
I support this amendment to require
the GAO to submit a report to the rel-
evant congressional committees ana-
lyzing the extent to which the addi-
tions required by this bill prevent fire-
arms from being transferred to prohib-
ited persons.
It will be important for us to get in-
formation about the implementation of
the law and its impact on so-called de-
fault proceed transactions. The amend-
ment also requires that the GAO report
its findings after 90 days and again
after 1 year, 3 years, and 5 years.
I think it is always a good idea to ac-
tually track the effect of new legisla-
tion and see how effective it is.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to join me in supporting this amend-
ment, and I commend the sponsor for
doing so.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I claim the time in opposition.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is
recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Madam
Chair, I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I yield back the balance of my
time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Michigan (Mr. LEVIN).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 4 OFFERED BY MS. PORTER
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 4 printed in
part B of House Report 116–14.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28FE7.023 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2288 February 28, 2019
Ms. PORTER. Madam Chair, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 3, after line 23, insert the following:
SEC. l. REPORT TO THE CONGRESS.
Within 150 days after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, the Attorney General, in
consultation with the National Resource
Center on Domestic Violence and Firearms,
shall submit to the Congress a report ana-
lyzing the effect, if any, of this Act on the
safety of victims of domestic violence, do-
mestic abuse, dating partner violence, sexual
assault, and stalking, and whether any fur-
ther amendments to the background check
process, including amendments to the condi-
tions that must be met under this Act for a
firearm to be transferred when the system
has not notified the licensee that such trans-
fer would not violate subsection (g) or (n) of
section 922 of title 18, United States Code,
would likely result in a reduction in the risk
of death or great bodily harm to victims of
domestic violence, domestic abuse, dating
partner violence, sexual assault, and stalk-
ing.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 145, the gentlewoman
from California (Ms. PORTER) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
Ms. PORTER. Madam Chair, I yield
myself 3 minutes.
Madam Chair, when we discuss the
epidemic of gun violence in our coun-
try, we must confront the issues of do-
mestic violence, domestic abuse, dat-
ing partner violence, sexual assault,
and stalking.
According to the National Task
Force to End Sexual and Domestic Vio-
lence, firearms pose a significant dan-
ger to victims of domestic violence,
and this is true no matter who owns
the firearm. Research shows that a
male abuser’s access to a firearm in-
creases the risk of intimate partner
femicide fivefold and does not support
the contention that firearm possession
is a protective factor for the victim.
The fact is, prohibited buyers who
obtain a firearm through the Charles-
ton loophole are disproportionately
likely to be prohibited because of do-
mestic violence. Indeed, in 2017, 23 per-
cent of cases where a gun was trans-
ferred to a prohibited purchaser
through a default proceed sale involved
a person prohibited due to a conviction
for domestic violence, or prohibited
due to a domestic violence restraining
order.
Denials related to domestic violence
often require more investigation than
denials based on other factors.
I am offering this amendment so that
this bill’s background check process,
before it goes into effect, Congress can
hear from experts in the Justice De-
partment and at the National Resource
Center on Domestic Violence and Fire-
arms on whether any changes could be
made to better protect victims of do-
mestic violence.
This amendment requires the study
on domestic violence to be completed
within 150 days. If the Van Drew
amendment passes, this bill will have
an effective date of 210 days after en-
actment.
If the study finds that further
changes would be advisable to better
protect domestic violence victims,
Congress will have enough time to
make those changes.
Madam Chair, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentlewoman from Wisconsin (Ms.
MOORE).
Ms. MOORE. Madam Chair, let me
thank the gentlewoman for offering
this amendment, along with our other
colleagues, to H.R. 1112 that would sim-
ply require the Department of Justice
to release a report analyzing the effect
of this bill’s provisions on the safety of
the victims of domestic violence, do-
mestic abuse, dating partner violence,
sexual assault, and stalking.
Madam Chairwoman, I am here on
the floor today with the hopes that my
colleagues will listen to the 10 million
men, women, and children who experi-
ence domestic violence each year. Do-
mestic violence is a horrible scourge,
and the presence or possession of a gun
only worsens these tragedies.
You heard my colleague, Representa-
tive PORTER, say that women are five
times more likely to die or be killed in
a domestic violence situation if a gun
is owned, which is one of the reasons,
Madam Chair, I have introduced legis-
lation to help incentivize States to
adopt laws that ensure that we do ev-
erything to take guns from those with
a court restraining order or other pro-
tective order.
I hope, Madam Chair, that my col-
leagues will listen to the one in three
women and one in four men who have
been victims of intimate partner vio-
lence. I sure hope that my colleagues
will listen to me as one of the 4.5 mil-
lion women who have experienced gun
violence firsthand.
There is much discussion in these
Chambers about a national emergency.
Gun violence and domestic violence are
a national emergency, and that is why
we have offered this amendment so
that our laws actually reflect the reali-
ties.
The data collected will be critical to
inform Congress about ways to prevent
needless tragedies in our country, and
to help us evolve in a way that will
more accurately protect our constitu-
ents.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I claim the time in opposition.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is
recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Ms. PORTER. Madam Chair, I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I yield back the balance of my
time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from California (Ms. POR-
TER).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 5 OFFERED BY MR. VAN DREW
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 5 printed in
part B of House Report 116–14.
Mr. VAN DREW. Madam Chair-
woman, I have an amendment at the
desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 3, line 16, strike the close quotation
marks and the following period.
Page 3, after line 16, insert the following:
‘‘(8)(A) If, after 3 business days have
elapsed since the licensee initially contacted
the system about a firearm transaction, the
system notifies the licensee that the receipt
of a firearm by such other person would not
violate subsection (g) or (n), the licensee
may continue to rely on that notification for
the longer of—
‘‘(i) an additional 25 calendar days after
the licensee receives the notification; or
‘‘(ii) 30 calendar days after the date of the
initial contact.
‘‘(B) If such other person has met the re-
quirements of paragraph (1)(B)(ii) before the
system destroys the records related to the
firearm transaction, the licensee may con-
tinue to rely on such other person having
met the requirements for an additional 25
calendar days after the date such other per-
son first met the requirements.’’.
Page 3, after line 23, insert the following:
SEC. l. EFFECTIVE DATE.
This Act and the amendments made by
this Act shall take effect 210 days after the
date of the enactment of this Act.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 145, the gentleman
from New Jersey (Mr. VAN DREW) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New Jersey.
Mr. VAN DREW. Madam Chair, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
My amendment will ensure that from
the date a firearm purchase is legally
authorized under the bill, the firearm
purchaser has 25 calendar days to pick
up their gun, regardless of how much
time has elapsed since the background
check was first initiated.
This would prevent a situation under
the bill as it is written that, although
rare, would still be possible, where the
maximum allowable number of busi-
ness days, 20 business days, that a pur-
chaser would have to wait for an ap-
proval could actually run longer, hypo-
thetically, than the 30 days.
That would be problematic because
under a current ATF, Bureau of Alco-
hol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives
regulation, a gun cannot be transferred
after 30 days once a background check
begins.
Where more than 30 calendar days
have passed since the licensee first
contacted NICS, the National Instant
Criminal Background Check System,
the licensee must initiate a new NICS
check prior to transferring the firearm.
My amendment would prevent an un-
necessary background check do-over.
For those who get approved by the
FBI after 3 business days, my amend-
ment would essentially nullify the 30
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28FE7.027 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2289
February 28, 2019
days ATF regulation, allowing prospec-
tive firearm owners the peace of mind
that they do deserve.
After this bill went through the Judi-
ciary Committee, the point was raised
that an existing ATF regulation, if left
unchanged, could result in a situation
where even after a background check
was approved or a petition process was
followed, the lawful gun buyer would
still not be able to get the gun without
doing a second background check be-
cause too much time had elapsed since
the first background check began.
This is clearly not the intent of the
bill, and while I believe that ATF
would amend the regulation if this bill
is passed, this amendment removes all
doubt. Anyone who is legally author-
ized to obtain a firearm under the new
process will have ample time, 25 days,
to return to the dealer and retrieve the
gun.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I claim the time in opposition.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is
recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I appreciate the gentleman here
on this. It is good to fix this. But the
only problem is, it doesn’t fix it—I
think that is the problem that we are
looking at—as written. As we discussed
earlier, your amendment claims to pre-
vent this endless loop, but it fails to do
so.
Per ATF regulation, a NICS check is
only valid for 30 calendar days from
when the NICS is initially contacted.
This language does not extend the
timeframe in the event of a delayed re-
sponse, nor does it direct the attorney
general to do so.
So if the purchaser completes the
three-step process under H.R. 1112, then
attempts to take possession of the fire-
arm on calendar day 31, ATF regula-
tions would suggest it is too late. The
NICS check has expired, and as a re-
sult, the federally licensed firearms
dealer would need to conduct a new
NICS check while restarting the proc-
ess.
Madam Chair, I did offer an amend-
ment to extend the validity of the
NICS check to 60 days to cure this defi-
ciency, however, the Democrats refused
to make my amendment in order. For
that reason, I am glad that the gen-
tleman is trying to fix this, which is
where it should be, but it just doesn’t
fix it.
So we are again searching for an
amendment and solution to a problem
that could have been fixed, but this
amendment does not fix it. I am glad
the gentleman brought the amendment
and in the plain reading of the statute
and the plain reading of this amend-
ment, this is a great attempt. It just
falls short.
For that reason, I would urge my col-
leagues to vote against this amend-
ment because it does not actually fix
the problem we outlined earlier.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. VAN DREW. Madam Chair-
woman, I would just again emphasize
that this is 25 days after the approval,
and also that law supersedes regula-
tion. There is no question that that 25
days would be in place and that would
give more than a sufficient amount of
time, in fact, a lenient amount of time,
just to ensure that there aren’t any
problems here.
Madam Chair, I yield 1 minute to the
gentleman from New York (Mr. NAD-
LER), the chairman, to speak in favor of
this amendment.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chair, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
I rise in support of this amendment,
and this completely takes care of Mr.
COLLINS’ concern, whether he realizes
it or not. Because this says that the
transfer can take place for 25 days
after the transfer becomes legally per-
missible.
In other words, under the longest
timeframe, the background check
doesn’t come back within 10 days. The
purchaser waits a few days, and then
petitions the attorney general. It takes
another 10 days. Then it becomes le-
gally permissible.
This says the transfer can take place
for 25 days after that. So there is no
way that this doesn’t take care of the
problem that Mr. COLLINS raised, and
then some.
The current procedures in place do
not take into account the longer wait-
ing period in the petition process that
H.R. 1112 requires. This amendment
more than takes care of that. It is a
salutary amendment. It makes the sys-
tem work, and I can’t understand any-
body, whether they support the bill or
not, who wouldn’t want to support this,
so I support the amendment.
Mr. VAN DREW. Madam Chair, I
thank the chairman, and just as a cou-
ple of other points, on a personal level,
I have always been a supporter of Sec-
ond Amendment rights and continue to
be. The purpose of this amendment is
to, obviously, do so, support Second
Amendment rights.
b 1045
Secondly, I know that there is lan-
guage in another part of the bill that
many people have asked me about
which is not something that I am
amending or had to do with, but I know
that there is a commitment from lead-
ership that that language is going to be
completely redone and that language
will be totally appropriate and actually
will be a major improvement.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I appreciate my chairman, but I
disagree, because there is still the 30-
day limitation. The 30-day limitation
is not done here, and so there is and
could be a problem if it was done. I still
have my time, and there is no time re-
maining.
The issue here is that if it is ap-
proved after the 30 days, then this bill
does not fix it. The easy fix here was an
amendment we offered that simply ex-
tended it for 60 days. That is your fix.
Instead, we go through this where
there can be, as all good things
lawyerly, we can have lawyerly dis-
agreements. I think in the end, when
you actually go back and look at this,
you will see that there is an interpreta-
tion problem here. The 30 days still ex-
ists.
Why could we have not just simply
extended the NICS date for 60 days in-
stead of 30 days instead of going
through this exercise of legal interpre-
tation?
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. VAN DREW. Madam Chair, I ask
unanimous consent to reclaim my
time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Objection.
The Acting CHAIR. Objection is
heard.
The question is on the amendment
offered by the gentleman from New
Jersey (Mr. VAN DREW).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from New Jersey will be
postponed.
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, proceedings now
will resume on those amendments
printed in part B of House Report 116–
14 on which further proceedings were
postponed, in the following order:
Amendment No. 2 by Mr. SCHNEIDER
of Illinois.
Amendment No. 5 by Mr. VAN DREW
of New Jersey.
The Chair will reduce to 2 minutes
the minimum time for any electronic
vote after the first vote in this series.
AMENDMENT NO. 2 OFFERED BY MR. SCHNEIDER
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Illinois (Mr. SCHNEI-
DER) on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the ayes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 282, noes 144,
not voting 11, as follows:
[Roll No. 100]
AYES—282
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Arrington
Axne
Bacon
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28FE7.030 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2290 February 28, 2019
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Budd
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Graves (LA)
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Guthrie
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wenstrup
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Woodall
Yarmuth
Yoho
NOES—144
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Babin
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Burchett
Burgess
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marshall
Massie
McCarthy
McCaul
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Steube
Stewart
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Walberg
Walker
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Wright
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—11
Abraham
Byrne
Frankel
Garamendi
González-Colón
(PR)
Katko
Marchant
Plaskett
Radewagen
San Nicolas
Soto
b 1115
Messrs. BALDERSON, MOOLENAAR,
MITCHELL, JOYCE of Pennsylvania,
Mrs. HARTZLER, and Mr. RUTHER-
FORD changed their vote from ‘‘aye’’
to ‘‘no.’’
Mr. POSEY, Mrs. WALORSKI,
Messrs. WOODALL, SHIMKUS, COL-
LINS of New York, McHENRY, and
YOHO changed their vote from ‘‘no’’ to
‘‘aye.’’
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 5 OFFERED BY MR. VAN DREW
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. VAN
DREW) on which further proceedings
were postponed and on which the ayes
prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a
2-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 234, noes 193,
not voting 10, as follows:
[Roll No. 101]
AYES—234
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Yarmuth
NOES—193
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE7.012 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2291
February 28, 2019
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peterson
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—10
Abraham
Frankel
Garamendi
González-Colón
(PR)
Katko
Plaskett
Radewagen
San Nicolas
Soto
Wilson (FL)
b 1126
Mr. RICE of South Carolina changed
his vote from ‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’
Ms. LEE of California changed her
vote from ‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The Acting CHAIR. There being no
further amendments, under the rule,
the Committee rises.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Ms.
CLARK of Massachusetts) having as-
sumed the chair, Ms. JUDY CHU of Cali-
fornia, Acting Chair of the Committee
of the Whole House on the state of the
Union, reported that that Committee,
having had under consideration the bill
(H.R. 1112) to amend chapter 44 of title
18, United States Code, to strengthen
the background check procedures to be
followed before a Federal firearms li-
censee may transfer a firearm to a per-
son who is not such a licensee, and,
pursuant to House Resolution 145, she
reported the bill, as amended by that
resolution, back to the House with sun-
dry further amendments adopted in the
Committee of the Whole.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the rule, the previous question is or-
dered.
Is a separate vote demanded on any
further amendment reported from the
Committee of the Whole? If not, the
Chair will put them en gros.
The amendments were agreed to.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the engrossment and
third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
MOTION TO RECOMMIT
Mrs. LESKO. Madam Speaker, I have
a motion to recommit at the desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the
gentlewoman opposed to the bill?
Mrs. LESKO. I am.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion to recom-
mit.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mrs. Lesko moves to recommit the bill
H.R. 1112 to the Committee on the Judiciary
with instructions to report the same to the
House forthwith with the following amend-
ment:
Page 1, line 13, insert ‘‘(I)’’ after ‘‘(ii)’’;
Page 1, line 17, strike ‘‘(I)’’ and insert
‘‘(aa)’’.
Page 2, line 9, strike ‘‘(aa)’’ and insert
‘‘(AA)’’.
Page 2, line 14, strike ‘‘(bb)’’ and insert
‘‘(BB)’’.
Page 2, line 21, strike ‘‘(II)’’ and insert
‘‘(bb)’’.
Page 3, line 1, insert ‘‘or’’ after the semi-
colon.
Page 3, strike line 2 and insert the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(II) in the case that the transferee is a
victim of a crime of domestic violence, 3
business days (meaning days on which State
offices are open) have elapsed since the li-
censee contacted the system. In this sub-
clause, the term ‘crime of domestic violence’
means an offense that has, as an element,
the use, attempted use, or threatened use of
physical force, or the threatened use of a
deadly weapon, committed by a current or
former spouse, parent, or guardian of the vic-
tim, by a person with whom the victim
shares a child in common, by a person who is
cohabiting with or has cohabited with the
victim as a spouse, parent, or guardian, or by
a person similarly situated to a spouse, par-
ent, or guardian of the victim; and’’; and
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from Arizona is recognized
for 5 minutes.
Mrs. LESKO. Madam Speaker, this
motion to recommit will not kill the
bill or send it back to committee, to be
clear. If adopted, the bill will imme-
diately proceed to final passage as
amended.
My Democratic colleagues are set to
pass this bill despite the fact that the
ACLU opposes it.
Let me repeat that. The ACLU op-
poses H.R. 1112 because it is so sweep-
ing and improperly perpetrates un-
founded assumptions that people with
mental disabilities should be consid-
ered dangerous and are prone to vio-
lence without any meaningful due
process.
As most of you know, I am a survivor
of domestic violence, and that is why
this motion to recommit is so person-
ally important to me. This motion to
recommit, in contrast, is narrowly tai-
lored. It would simply allow victims of
domestic violence who go through a
NICS check to receive their firearms in
3 days, which is the status quo, if NICS
has not responded with a denial or ap-
proval in 3 business days—again, the
status quo.
Do we really want to tell victims of
domestic violence they have to wait up
to 20 business days, which is under this
bill, before they are allowed to ade-
quately defend themselves?
Do we really want to tell them:
Sorry. I know you are purchasing a
firearm to protect yourself, but you
have to wait 20 business days?
Should we tell them: Hopefully you
can hide from your abuser for the next
month?
The Judiciary Committee recently
heard testimony from a young woman
who was raped on her college campus.
She did not have a gun on campus be-
cause the State did not allow her to
carry a gun in order to defend herself.
This is a clear example of how law-
abiding citizens, not criminals, follow
the law and how this law-abiding
young woman was harmed by gun con-
trol laws.
Another specific example related to
this bill of a well-intentioned law gone
wrong is Carol Bowne, a New Jersey
woman stabbed to death while waiting
to be approved for her firearm applica-
tion. She already had an order of pro-
tection from the courts, but that
wasn’t enough for her. She needed
more than just that piece of paper. She
needed to protect herself, so she went
and tried to get a gun to defend herself,
but because of the waiting period, she
was killed.
Let me repeat that. Carol Bowne had
an order of protection. She attempted
to purchase a firearm, and she was
tragically murdered by her abuser
while waiting to be approved.
H.R. 1112 will make the realities of
Carol’s story happen across the coun-
try, putting millions of women and
law-abiding citizens in danger. Women
who seek avenues of protection will be
forced to wait almost a month, like
Carol.
How many women will potentially
suffer like Carol? And what will the
Democrats say: Sorry; we hope you can
hide from your abuser for a month?
Madam Speaker, that would be fool-
ish as well as heartless. It would be an
infringement of Second Amendment
rights for someone who needs them the
most.
Given the insidious flaws in this bill,
do we really want to burden law-abid-
ing victims by placing them in a never-
ending cycle of background checks? Of
course not.
This motion to recommit is a com-
monsense measure. It would ensure
that domestic violence victims, many
of whom live in fear, can receive the
protection they need and deserve.
Vote for this motion to recommit
and you vote to protect domestic vio-
lence victims. Vote against the motion
to recommit and you are telling vic-
tims who live in fear: Sorry; we won’t
help you.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support this motion to re-
commit, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE7.018 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2292 February 28, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Chair, I rise
in opposition to this motion to recom-
mit.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from Michigan is recognized
for 5 minutes.
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, the
underlying bill, H.R. 1112, is a critical
and carefully crafted bill to address the
Charleston loophole.
We have discussed it here today, but
I will repeat, the very name ‘‘Charles-
ton loophole’’ is a grim reminder of the
deficiency in current law that allows
killers to get guns even if a firearms
background check has not been com-
pleted. This is a dangerous flaw that
we can address with a minor change to
the system.
When a background check cannot be
completed within a 3-day period, it is
important that the FBI work to resolve
the unanswered questions presented,
because these are the very cases that
present the most danger.
Unfortunately, we have seen many
default proceeds go forward in domes-
tic violence cases, allowing an abuser
to obtain a firearm even when he or she
is prohibited from owning one. The sta-
tistics back that up.
In 2013 and 2014, a plurality of default
proceed transfers to prohibit a person
were related to domestic violence. In
that same period, 30 percent of denials
due to convictions for misdemeanor do-
mestic violence were issued after the
abuser took possession of the gun.
My heart goes out to my colleague,
Mrs. LESKO, because she should never
have suffered from domestic violence.
Unfortunately, we are colleagues that
both know it.
I have spent more time thinking
about how you keep guns out of the
hands of abusers, probably, than any-
body in this Chamber. I know better
than most the dangers they pose.
It is not easy for me to talk about it
this week, but more than once—and I
think of the abuser. I will be honest on
this floor. My father was mentally ill.
I had to hide in that closet with my
siblings wondering if we would live or
die. One night, I kept my father from
killing my mother. He shouldn’t have
had a gun.
This is what I remember as a child.
My mother went out and bought a gun,
and then all of us were scared to death
about her gun and my father’s gun. We
had two guns to worry about.
No child, no woman, no man should
ever have to go through that.
The additional time provided by H.R.
1112 will help us stop more massacres
such as the one in Charleston, and may
it prevent another child or family
going through what I did as a child.
These amendments made by this mo-
tion would undermine the lifesaving
improvements to current law that this
bill will initiate. I oppose this motion
with every bit of my heart and soul and
urge my colleagues to do the same.
Madam Speaker, I yield my remain-
ing time to the gentleman from South
Carolina (Mr. CLYBURN), the distin-
guished whip.
Mr. CLYBURN. Madam Speaker, how
much time is remaining?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from Michigan has 1 minute
remaining.
Mr. CLYBURN. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman so much for
yielding the time.
Madam Speaker, let me just take
this 1 minute to welcome to this Cap-
itol Ms. Jennifer, Ms. Malana, and Ms.
Eliana Pinckney, the widow and two
surviving daughters of Reverend
Clementa Pinckney.
They hid under his desk in the base-
ment of Emanuel AME Church while a
demented gentleman who wanted to
start a race war, was welcomed into
their Bible study—at the end of that
hour, Reverend Clementa asked all of
the worshippers to bow their heads and
close their eyes as he prayed for what
had occurred that evening. While their
heads were bowed and their eyes
closed, Dylann Roof opened his, after
having been welcomed into their midst,
and he slaughtered Reverend Pinckney
and his eight worshippers.
Why? Because he was allowed to get
this gun when he was not eligible to
get one. They found out on the fifth
day that he was ineligible but, by that
point, it was too late. As a result, those
poor souls lost their lives.
Let’s give the FBI, let’s give the au-
thorities, enough time to do their jobs.
We will save lives and we will be better
off for it.
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I
yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the previous question is or-
dered on the motion to recommit.
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to recommit.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the noes appeared to have it.
Mrs. LESKO. Madam Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 5-
minute vote on the motion to recom-
mit will be followed by 5-minute votes
on:
Passage of the bill, if ordered; and
Agreeing to the Speaker’s approval of
the Journal, if ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 194, nays
232, not voting 5, as follows:
[Roll No. 102]
YEAS—194
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peterson
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—232
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Massie
Matsui
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28FE7.038 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2293
February 28, 2019
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—5
Abraham
Frankel
Garamendi
Katko
Soto
b 1152
So the motion to recommit was re-
jected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mrs. LESKO. Madam Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 228, nays
198, not voting 6, as follows:
[Roll No. 103]
YEAS—228
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
King (NY)
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pelosi
Perlmutter
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—198
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kind
King (IA)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McAdams
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peterson
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Torres Small
(NM)
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—6
Abraham
Frankel
Garamendi
Katko
Meuser
Soto
b 1200
Mr. TURNER changed his vote from
‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
Stated against:
Mr. MEUSER. Madam Speaker, I was
present, did insert card and voted No on final
passage on Enhanced Background Checks
Act, but my vote was not recorded.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. SOTO. Madam Speaker, I apologize for
not being present to vote. I had a family health
emergency in Florida to attend. Had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall
No. 100, ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 101, ‘‘nay’’ on
rollcall No. 102, and ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 103.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the question on agree-
ing to the Speaker’s approval of the
Journal, which the Chair will put de
novo.
The question is on the Speaker’s ap-
proval of the Journal.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. MITCHELL. Madam Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration of the bill,
H.R. 962, the Born-Alive Abortion Sur-
vivors Protection Act, and ask for its
immediate consideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is advised that, under guide-
lines consistently issued by successive
Speakers, as recorded in section 956 of
the House Rules and Manual, the Chair
is constrained not to entertain the re-
quest unless it has been cleared by the
bipartisan floor and committee leader-
ships.
Mr. MITCHELL. Madam Speaker, if
this unanimous consent request cannot
be entertained, I urge the Speaker and
the majority leader to immediately
schedule the Born-Alive bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is not recognized for debate.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE7.020 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2294 February 28, 2019
ADJOURNMENT FROM THURSDAY,
FEBRUARY 28, 2019, TO MONDAY,
MARCH 4, 2019; AND HOUR OF
MEETING ON TUESDAY, MARCH
5, 2019
Ms. SPEIER. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that when the
House adjourns today, it adjourn to
meet at 11:30 a.m. on Monday, March 4,
2019, and further, when the House ad-
journs on that day, it adjourn to meet
on Tuesday, March 5, 2019, when it
shall convene at noon for morning-hour
debate and 2 p.m. for legislative busi-
ness.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
f
‘‘I AM JAZZ’’
(Ms. SPEIER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. SPEIER. Madam Speaker, today
I have the great honor of reading again
along with my colleague, ANGIE CRAIG,
‘‘I Am Jazz.’’ It is a book about a
transsexual young boy who becomes a
young girl.
‘‘I am Jazz.
‘‘For as long as I can remember, my
favorite color has been pink. My sec-
ond-favorite color is silver and my
third favorite color is green.
‘‘Here are some of my other favorite
things: dancing, singing, back flips,
drawing, soccer, swimming, makeup,
and pretending I’m a pop star.
‘‘Most of all, I love mermaids. Some-
times I even wear a mermaid tail in the
pool.
‘‘My best friends are Samantha and
Casey. We always have fun together.
We like high heels and princess gowns,
or cartwheels and trampolines.
‘‘But I am not exactly like Samantha
and Casey.
‘‘I have a girl brain but a boy body.
This is called transgender. I was born
this way.’’
f
IN RECOGNITION OF FIREFIGHTER
DOUG HOPE
(Mr. YOHO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. YOHO. Today, I would like to
recognize the kindness and generosity
of one of my constituents, High
Springs firefighter Doug Hope.
Last week, Doug responded to a Life
Alert emergency call for an elderly
woman who lives alone.
Thankfully, the alert was a false
alarm, but while assessing the woman,
Doug noticed that her microwave
wasn’t working, so she was unable to
heat up the Meals on Wheels food that
she relies on to get by. When he real-
ized how long it had been since she had
eaten a warm meal, Doug decided to go
out and buy her a new microwave.
The High Springs Fire Department
shared the story on Facebook, and it
has since been viewed by more than a
million people.
Despite this attention, Doug has re-
mained humble. He says he just hopes
people who hear about this story are
inspired to pay attention to one an-
other and do something for someone
else.
Well done, Doug. Your compassion
and selflessness are an inspiration to
all. And, Doug, thanks for being a
great example of passing it forward.
f
‘‘I AM JAZZ’’
(Mrs. CRAIG asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Mrs. CRAIG. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in celebration of Jazz and
Friends National Day of Readings.
And I continue: ‘‘Mom said that
being Jazz would make me different
from the other kids at school, but that
being different is okay. What’s impor-
tant, she said, is that I’m happy with
who I am.
‘‘Being Jazz caused some other peo-
ple to be confused too, like the teach-
ers at school.
‘‘At the beginning of the year they
wanted me to use the boys’ bathroom,
and play on the boys’ team in gym
class, but that didn’t feel normal to me
at all.
‘‘I was so happy when the teachers
changed their minds. . . . ’’
‘‘Even today, there are kids who
tease me, or call me by a boy name, or
ignore me altogether. This makes me
feel crummy.
‘‘Then I remember that the kids who
get to know me usually want to be my
friend. They say I am one of the nicest
girls at school.
‘‘I don’t mind being different. Dif-
ferent is special. I think what matters
most is what a person is like on the in-
side.
‘‘And inside, I am happy. I am having
fun. I am proud.
‘‘I am Jazz.’’
f
TYBEE ISLAND MARINE SCIENCE
CENTER
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize
Tybee Island in the First Congressional
District of Georgia for breaking ground
on a brand-new Marine Science Center.
After years of hard work and plan-
ning by Tybee residents, local officials,
business leaders, engineers, and so
many other individuals, a ceremony
was held on February 25 to celebrate
the start of construction.
Scheduled to open in March of 2020,
the programs at the current Marine
Science Center have been enormously
successful. One program called Side-
walk to the Sea has been able to reach
more than 40,000 kids and educate them
about the nearby Atlantic Ocean,
which sits only a few hundred yards
away from the facility.
Additionally, the new Marine Science
Center will include interpretive exhib-
its, an amphitheater, a shark school,
animal rescue activities, a dune habi-
tat trail, and more.
It is so encouraging to see the resi-
dents of this local community taking
steps to appreciate our oceans, while
educating old and young alike on ways
that they can pitch in to preserve
them.
Congratulations, and keep up the
good work.
f
CHILDREN’S DENTAL HEALTH
MONTH
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Madam Speaker,
thank you for allowing me to raise
awareness for Children’s Dental Health
Month.
Madam Speaker, I rise today because
tooth decay is the number one chronic
infectious disease among children in
the United States, and the impact of
untreated tooth decay goes far beyond
oral health.
Having been a dentist for over 30
years, this issue is something that I
have witnessed firsthand, and it is
something I have great concern for.
This is why the American Dental Asso-
ciation has dedicated February as Na-
tional Children’s Dental Health Month.
This annual celebration allows dentists
and volunteers to spread awareness and
prevention tips that help parents,
teachers, and others.
Attitudes and habits established at
an early age are critical in maintain-
ing good oral health and oral health
that lasts throughout life. Ensuring
that children and adults get quality
and accessible oral health care should
remain a priority for everyone
throughout the year.
Remember, if you ignore your teeth,
they will go away.
f
THE RIGHT TO KEEP AND BEAR
ARMS
(Mr. BANKS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. BANKS. Madam Speaker, I rise
in strong opposition to the majority
party’s attempts to take away Ameri-
cans’ Second Amendment rights.
The legislation before the House this
week is a constitutional overreach that
would limit the rights of law-abiding
citizens and does not address the seri-
ous issue of illegal gun transfers.
Madam Speaker, criminals do not
follow the law. According to the De-
partment of Justice, 77 percent of
State prison inmates convicted of a
firearm crime either obtain their fire-
arm through theft, off the black mar-
ket, from a drug dealer, or on the
street.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28FE7.045 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2295
February 28, 2019
This legislation would make crimi-
nals out of law-abiding citizens, in-
stead, and infringe upon Second
Amendment gun rights. I urge my col-
leagues to protect the constitutional
right of the American people to keep
and bear arms.
f
GUN LAWS THAT MAKE AMERICA
SAFE
(Mr. CÁRDENAS asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. CÁRDENAS. Madam Speaker, I
have the honor and the privilege of
being a Member of the House of Rep-
resentatives.
I also am speaking without notes be-
cause, over 40 years ago, I lost a teen-
age friend of mine just a few yards
from my front door in what was per-
haps one of the first drive-bys in the
history of Los Angeles, a senseless kill-
ing where a young man on drugs de-
cided to shoot through a wall of some-
one’s home—my friend’s home. With
one shot, Rudy died at the age of 16.
Today, I had the honor and the privi-
lege of voting on a bill that would
make our streets safer—not solve every
problem, but reduce the amount of cry-
ing and dying that goes on in too many
communities around America.
I must say this—and it is unfortunate
to have to clarify—because I am
Latino, people are assuming that the
person who shot Rudy was a Latino or
a Black male or what have you. He was
not. He was a young man—a victim,
himself, of drug abuse—a White young
man.
It should never happen to anyone,
and people should never assume that it
only happens to certain people in cer-
tain communities. Tens of thousands of
human lives are lost every year in the
greatest country, America, and we
need to make it better.
f
b 1215
IN COMMEMORATION OF JUDGE
JAMES DEAN
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SPANO. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to bring attention to an unsung
hero in Florida’s history.
In 1858, James Dean was born into
slavery in Ocala, Florida. In pursuit of
his dream to enter public office, Dean
entered Howard University School of
Law working part time as a clerk to
put himself through school.
He earned a bachelor’s and master’s
of law, graduating as the valedictorian
in both degrees. After graduating, Dean
returned home to Florida in 1887, tak-
ing a position as a school principal and
establishing a law practice in Key
West.
His practice grew so quick that he
had to resign from the school within a
year to care for his clients. As his busi-
ness grew, so did his standing in the
community. In 1888, just a year after
moving to Key West, he was nominated
to serve as a county judge.
This didn’t sit well with many White
political leaders in Key West who con-
spired to have him removed from the
bench. They fabricated a story that
Judge Dean illegally married an inter-
racial couple and the Governor of Flor-
ida removed him from office.
As Black History Month comes to a
close today, it is important to not shy
away from uncomfortable moments in
our history. And while Governor Bush
posthumously reinstating his judgeship
in 2002 can never make up for the harm
suffered, remembering his story makes
us all more sensitive to current injus-
tices suffered by our friends in the
Black community.
f
PRESERVING QUINDARO TOWNSITE
(Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend her remarks.)
Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas. Madam
Speaker, I thank my colleagues, Rep-
resentatives CLEAVER, WATKINS, and
LARSEN, for cosponsoring this bipar-
tisan piece of legislation to designate
the Quindaro Townsite in Kansas City,
Kansas, as a national commemorative
site. I would also like to thank Senator
PAT ROBERTS for his important leader-
ship on this issue.
The bill that passed this week honors
the significant history of Quindaro,
which served as a key stop on the Un-
derground Railroad and helps preserve
the site for future generations.
Quindaro is an important part of
United States and Kansas history in
the fight for freedom and equality. It
serves as a reminder of a dark chapter
in our Nation’s history.
Sadly, for too long, the Quindaro
Townsite has lacked proper invest-
ments needed to preserve it as a his-
toric site. But the community leaders
in Kansas never gave up on fighting for
Quindaro, people like Marvin Robinson
a Kansas City, Kansas, native who
spent over 30 years working for this
legislation to pass.
He now plans to use the site to im-
prove racial relations in the commu-
nity and to educate people about our
shared history.
Madam Speaker, I am proud to pro-
tect Quindaro’s history and keep its
stories alive for future generations.
f
ENDANGERING AMERICANS WITH
GUN CONTROL
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Madam Speaker, this
week the new Democrat majority has
endangered more Americans with its
push for more and more gun control.
By definition, criminals don’t follow
the law. Criminals don’t honor gun
laws. They steal. They commit murder,
all sorts of crimes without permission.
They don’t seek permission when they
take something from you, when they
enter your home.
They don’t seek permission to be-
come gun owners. Yet, what happens
here in the legislation this week, lim-
its the rights, limits the ability for
people to defend themselves, defend
their own homes, defend their own fam-
ilies, by having less options or less
ability to get a weapon if they need it,
especially timely.
These measures do not work. They do
not work to stop the shootings that are
often cited as the reason to deny people
their Second Amendment rights in this
country.
Indeed, it is a political agenda that
gets pushed in every election, every
possible time in legislation, and fi-
nally, with the majority they have,
they are able to push this stuff through
and harm innocent Americans and
their ability to defend themselves.
This has to come to a stop. I hope the
Senate will defeat this measure.
f
IMPORTANT ISSUES OF THE DAY
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
FINKENAUER). Under the Speaker’s an-
nounced policy of January 3, 2019, the
gentleman from Texas (Mr. GOHMERT)
is recognized for 60 minutes as the des-
ignee of the minority leader.
Mr. GOHMERT. Madam Speaker, I do
appreciate the Speaker’s new policy
that says a Member of Congress can
only have one Special Order in which
they are in charge of the time each
week once a week. I have been trying
to get Republicans to take our time,
much in the way my colleague, DEBBIE
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, and the group
they call the ‘‘30 Somethings’’ did in
2005 and 2006.
I have not had a great deal of success
in getting a lot of people to take Spe-
cial Order time. But with this new rule
and some of the terrific freshmen that
we have got who have come in—some of
the folks who have been here a term or
two—they are stepping up and taking
our time to discuss critically impor-
tant issues for our country. Today, I
am it from our party, and I am honored
to be here.
We have heard a lot of talk, and the
reason we say have heard a lot of talk
is because there is truth in seeing a
double standard at the Department of
Justice for a number of years now.
There was a time when it was the De-
partment of Justice that Jeff Sessions
remembered back in the 1980s during
his time as U.S. attorney. That time
changed with top people in the FBI and
top people in the DOJ; it became no
longer about justice, but just us and
what we want at the DOJ and the FBI.
In talking to former Justice attor-
neys, prosecutors, one dear friend in
Texas—not in my district, but a very
dear friend—we were talking about how
the things that were done by people,
including Rosenstein, the former U.S.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28FE7.047 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2296 February 28, 2019
attorney, McCabe, Strzok, Page, all of
these other people, Ohr, were incred-
ible, just incredible, and I would in-
clude Mueller in that.
Mueller as FBI Director, I continue
to believe did more damage to the FBI
during his 12 years as the director of
the FBI than anyone, even the prob-
lems that J. Edgar Hoover created, es-
pecially in his later years, the wire-
tapping that he did of people who
should not have been wiretapped. Of
course, he didn’t just do it on his own.
As I recall, Attorney General Kennedy
had supported wiretapping of Martin
Luther King, Jr., if I remember cor-
rectly.
But what we have seen in the un-
masking of American citizens who have
been followed by email, by wire—not
taps, but just following their conversa-
tions as the NSA and our intelligence
community is able to do these days, is
absolutely incredible. Hundreds and
hundreds of Americans were unmasked.
We were assured with the PATRIOT
Act when it was up for being reauthor-
ized, oh, no, we are so careful to make
sure that we don’t capture Americans
that should not be captured unless
they are involved with a terrorist orga-
nization or a known foreign terrorist.
They don’t get picked up.
But now, if they are talking to a ter-
rorist, a known foreign agent, then it
is possible they could be picked up, but
those names are masked. They are
never unmasked. That is too big of a
burden. And then we find out under the
Obama administration, the American
people have had their privacy violated,
like Democrats and Republicans alike
swore to us would not happen. Well, it
has happened. And it has continued to
go on.
I had hoped that Christopher Wray
would clean things up at the FBI, but
he appears to be more concerned about
covering up problems rather than
cleaning up the problems. I saw a good
example of that at the end of August
when, once again, the intelligence com-
munity had made clear they sent their
investigator, Frank Rucker, over to ex-
plain to Peter Strzok, as head of the
FBI’s counterintelligence—and also
Dean Chappell, their liaison—to ex-
plain that we now have 100 percent
proof, there is no question, Hillary
Clinton’s private email server was
hacked.
They embedded a direction into her
server that forced every email coming
in and going out into what has now
been disclosed publicly by others as a
Chinese intelligence agency front.
They were getting every one of Hil-
lary Clinton’s—over 30,000 emails to
and from. There were four that were
glitches, but otherwise, over 30,000
emails. So that must include the ones
that President Obama sent using an-
other name so people wouldn’t realize
it was him using a private server.
But there were also the President’s
daily intelligence briefings that went
through her home. She had somebody
at the home print them out for her
without any security clearance. There
were all kinds of violations, what ap-
peared from the code to be outright
crimes, but the double standard ap-
pears to continue.
This is from February 25, an article
from CNS News, Terence Jeffrey re-
ported that the inspector general says,
‘‘Prosecution Was Declined for Senior
DOJ Official Who Sexually Assaulted a
Subordinate.’’
And it goes on to talk about that.
The name is not disclosed. He sexually
harassed subordinates, sexually as-
saulted yet another subordinate, and
then lacked candor. That is the DOJ’s
explanation for people they don’t want
to prosecute when they are actually
saying that he lied, committed a
crime, but lied when the IG inves-
tigated this matter.
So the unnamed prosecutor or pros-
ecutors were not disclosed, but allowed
to retire, no consequences, though
guilty of sexual assault in the DOJ.
Now, there were a lot of things I dis-
agreed on with a late, former Federal
judge in Texas named William Wayne
Justice, but one thing I agreed with
him on, and I heard him tell people:
‘‘You, of all people, especially, knew
better.’’
And he would come down harder on
somebody like this who had been part
of the DOJ. I would imagine Judge Jus-
tice, if he were around, he would throw
the book at somebody who worked at
Justice and still committed crime and
abused the system. I can just hear him
still today coming after somebody like
that.
But not in the DOJ. We have got lots
of carryover from the Obama years,
and I know my friend, Jeff Sessions,
called them career people because they
were in career slots. But he was talk-
ing about people who loved Sally
Yates, thought she did the right thing
in refusing to defend constitutional po-
sitions taken by the Trump adminis-
tration.
Yet, many of those people are still
there undercutting President Trump,
undercutting Matt Whitaker when he
was acting, and will, no doubt, be un-
dercutting Attorney General Barr.
b 1230
So this is a real problem when the
Justice Department, the one we count-
ed on for many decades now, if there
was something wrong, whether it is
civil rights or others, and justice could
not be found, the Department of Jus-
tice could be counted on to come in and
pursue real justice, to their credit.
FBI agents and prosecutors, some re-
tired now from the Department of Jus-
tice, have privately conveyed to me
their broken hearts over the damage
done to the Department of Justice and
to the FBI because they became so cal-
loused, so self-absorbed, and so polit-
ical that they have damaged not only
the FBI and not only the Department
of Justice, but this country.
But when you have willing allies in
the alt-left media—or some call them
the mainstream media; certainly, alt-
left these days—it is understandable
that same feeling of desperation is felt
by the American people: Where do we
turn when the Justice Department is
not honest?
It used to be you could trust the
media. You could find somebody who
would do such great investigative jour-
nalism that they would get to the
heart of it and bring something to the
forefront, to the point that the Amer-
ican people would justifiably become
outraged, and that would force either
elected or appointed Federal officials
with the Federal Government to do
something.
But here we have alt-left,
lamestream media saying that there is
no crisis on our border. Yet if you look
at the same things said by Obama offi-
cials about the same problems, except
now exacerbated on our border with all
the caravans that have come, are com-
ing, and are continuing to be estab-
lished in Central America, it is amaz-
ing how some of these media outlets
can even continue to call themselves
journalists.
An article from Brian Flood, January
10, this year, points out that: ‘‘News
outlets readily described a ‘crisis’ at
the border under then-President
Barack Obama when he sought funding
to deal with a surge of migrants, many
of them women and children. But now
that President Trump is in the White
House, the mainstream media seem far
more reluctant to use the word.
‘‘Back in the summer of 2014, the
headlines and stories referring to the
C-word’’—apparently the crisis word—
‘‘were plentiful as the border surge was
taken seriously along the Acela cor-
ridor.
‘‘The Washington Post’’—now an alt-
left medium—‘‘wrote in 2014, ‘White
House requests $3.7 billion in emer-
gency funds for border crisis’ ’’—there
is that C-word, crisis—‘‘while CNN pub-
lished a feature, ‘Daniel’s journey: How
thousands of children are creating a
crisis in America.’ It described a prob-
lem of ‘epic proportions.’ ’’
Now, they point out that: ‘‘Around
the same time, the Huffington Post de-
clared that ‘photos of the humani-
tarian crisis’ ’’—even Huffington called
it a crisis—‘‘along the southern border
were ‘shocking,’ and ABC News re-
ported that Obama requested ‘$3.7 bil-
lion to cope with the humanitarian cri-
sis on the border and the spike in ille-
gal crossings by unaccompanied minors
from Central America.’ ’’
The ABC News story even mentioned
this word to deal with plans for $3.7 bil-
lion. This was ABC’s headline: ‘‘Immi-
gration crisis funds.’’ Incredible.
NBC, June 2014, Andrea Mitchell said
the undocumented children flooding
the border were, in her words, ‘‘cre-
ating a crisis’’ for authorities.
How these news outlets can turn
around and now say that there is no
crisis when the testimony and the evi-
dence is clear that the overall numbers
for last year may have been down, but
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28FE7.049 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2297
February 28, 2019
as the testimony and evidence makes
clear, in October, November, Decem-
ber, and January, those numbers
spiked to numbers that our Border Pa-
trol has not dealt with before for mi-
nors and family units.
Why would they all of a sudden spike
during that time? Because it appeared
the Democrats had a chance of taking
the majority here in the House, and in
so doing, Democrats have made clear
they wanted to continue to allow ille-
gal immigration. They welcomed the
families. Naturally, you were going to
see a spike.
These people below our southern bor-
der in Mexico, Central America, South
America, and now coming from the
Middle East and other continents, have
been coming for some time from other
countries. They are being lured in.
The head of the Border Patrol testi-
fied this week in our committee that
they were being pulled in. But really, it
is being lured. They hear: Gee, if we
will just come now, we have people who
are in charge of the House of Rep-
resentatives who want us there, and
they are going to try to stop the Presi-
dent from enforcing and securing the
border, so now is the time to come.
And they are coming. We heard the
testimony that about 80 percent of the
people who came across our borders in
decades past were normally male
adults. It made sense. Usually, it was
people who were coming looking for
work, and they were going to send
money to their families back in Mex-
ico. But the word got out the end of
last year and this year that if you will
come and bring a minor child, whether
it is your child or not, then you have a
good chance of staying in the country.
We know that nobody crosses our
border illegally on the south unless
they have gotten permission by paying
the drug cartels. Over and over during
the nights I have spent on the border,
the question has been asked: Where did
you get the money to pay to come?
Oh, 1,000 here, 1,000 from people in
the U.S.
Well, what about the rest of the
money you have to pay?
The drug cartels are going to let me
work it off when I get where I am
going.
They would normally have an ad-
dress. As I understand it, that is often
the address the drug cartel told them
where they would need to go get set up
and work off what they owed to the
drug cartels.
But, Madam Speaker, you shouldn’t
be surprised when you see headlines
like: Meth lab in major U.S. city bust-
ed, run by drug cartels.
As the Department of Homeland Se-
curity folks have pointed out to me be-
fore, the drug cartels call us their lo-
gistics. All they have to do is get some-
body illegally into the country, and
they hand us the address of somebody
supposedly that they know where they
can go live, and we handle the shipping
for them. We ship them to wherever
they want to go. Sometimes, they are
detained, but we have shipped millions
of people around, all over the country.
If what they have told the Border Pa-
trol about working off what they owe
the drug cartels is true—I haven’t seen
or heard any reason it wouldn’t be—
then our Homeland Security Depart-
ment for a decade or so has been ship-
ping people to the location where the
drug cartels want them. The drug car-
tels are making billions and billions of
dollars a year.
When you hear any Mexican or Cen-
tral American official who says they
want to keep the American border
open, you can just pretty well guar-
antee they are getting money from the
drug cartels.
The best thing, the most caring and
loving thing, we could do for our neigh-
bors to the south would be to secure
our border, put border barriers where
they need it, whether it is a wall, a 30-
foot barrier, whatever. Secure the bor-
der and then that will cut off the bil-
lions of dollars of American money
going to the drug cartels for them to
terrorize people in Mexico and people
in Central America.
You care about people south of our
border. Of course, we can’t bring in all
those millions who are suffering under
drug cartel rule and reign, but we could
secure our border and cut off the do-
mestic terrorists called the drug car-
tels, cut off their funding so they won’t
be able to pay people to cut off the
heads of police chiefs or mayors who
take a strong stand against the drug
cartels and put those heads on a pike
as an example to anybody who tries to
stand up against the cartels.
It used to be that the drug cartels
had a deal. It was just kind of a policy
that they are not going to allow any
kind of crime or violence to tourists
because that is too important for Mex-
ico to have those tourists’ money com-
ing in. That has long since gone by the
way. Tourists are killed and terrorized.
I long for the day when my wife and
I can go back to where we
honeymooned in Mexico, back to where
we celebrated anniversaries. It was
wonderful. We don’t believe we can do
that now.
If we secure our border and dry up
the money to the drug cartels, then the
money can begin flowing to Mexico for
something besides drugs, and we can
cut off the fentanyl and the massive
amount of drugs that pours across our
southern border undetected.
I know some people say the majority
of drugs are coming through the ports
of entry. That is where they catch
more of it. But as it was explained to
me and STEVE CHABOT some years back
down in Colombia, when they were
showing us—we had DEA. The British
had people who were helping. They
were doing a great job fighting the
FARC’s drugs down in Colombia under
then-President Uribe. They were say-
ing that this guy is fearless. It is hard
keeping him alive, but he is amazing.
He is fighting the drug cartels down
there.
I said, well, so you are saying about
two-thirds of the cocaine, the drugs
from Colombia, goes up through the
Gulf of Mexico into Mexico, so it can
cross our southern border. Another
one-third apparently goes up to Cali-
fornia, trying to cross the border, it
goes into Mexico across our southern
border. I mean, if they have boats that
will go that far, why not just have
them pull up to a Texas or California
beach that is deserted?
These Colombian, American, and
British drug experts explained that it
is because the drug cartels are
businesspeople. They have a business
model. They have a business plan. They
play the odds. They know the odds are
many times better to get the drugs
into America if they don’t go to a port
of entry and they don’t go to an aban-
doned beach somewhere. They bring it
into Mexico, have it cross the Mexico-
U.S. border, and they will get most of
their drugs in. So that is their business
plan.
b 1245
That is still going on. It was going on
during President Bush’s administra-
tion, probably back to Clinton and the
former Bush and even Reagan, to a
lesser extent. But it is sure going on in
the 21st century.
With all the discussion about there
not being a crisis when clearly there
has been and is—it is a humanitarian
crisis, but it is also a crisis of U.S. sov-
ereignty.
We cannot have a country that is
based on laws if we cannot control our
own borders. We will be overwhelmed,
as we have been, by more and more
people who do not observe the laws, do
not think the laws are important. They
do not understand. They have not been
educated how important it is to enforce
the law fairly across the board. They
don’t know what it is to preserve self-
government.
Franklin knew that, Benjamin
Franklin, when he said: ‘‘It is a Repub-
lic, madam, if you can keep it.’’ He
knew. He had studied history, as had
our Founders. They knew that the Con-
stitution that came together, as Wash-
ington referenced, had to have divine
providence at work, because no way
these guys who started out for 5 weeks
doing nothing but yelling at each other
could have come up with a document
that was the best governing document,
the best constitution, put together in
the history of mankind.
Here is more about the media’s hy-
pocrisy, an article from the Wash-
ington Examiner, Eddie Scarry. This
has a quote: ‘‘We now have an actual
humanitarian crisis’’—there is that C-
word again—‘‘on the border that only
underscores the need to drop the poli-
tics and fix our immigration system
once and for all.’’ That was a quote
from then-President Barack Obama in
the Rose Garden in 2014.
He went on to say—that is, President
Obama—‘‘In recent weeks, we’ve seen a
surge of unaccompanied children arrive
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28FE7.050 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2298 February 28, 2019
at the border, brought here and to
other countries by smugglers and traf-
fickers.’’
That is basically, as the Examiner
points out, what President Trump said.
He said: ‘‘Last month, 20,000 migrant
children were illegally brought into the
United States, a dramatic increase.
These children are used as human
pawns by vicious coyotes and ruthless
gangs.’’
This article says: ‘‘The only dif-
ference is how the media are covering
it.’’
The Washington Post said, 2014—this
is The Washington Post’s words—‘‘The
current crisis on the Southwest border,
where authorities have apprehended
tens of thousands of unaccompanied
Central American children since Octo-
ber’’—well, there you are. There is that
C-word they used then and belittle the
word being used now.
Anyway, this is an article from The
New York Times from 2014 by Michael
Shear and Jeremy Peters. They said,
talking about the border crossing into
Texas, it is ‘‘an urgent humanitarian
situation.’’
Their article said, and this is from
Senator MARCO RUBIO: ‘‘Let’s remem-
ber, this administration’’—talking
about the Obama administration—
‘‘went around for years saying the bor-
der has never been more secure than it
is now. I think,’’ and this is MARCO
RUBIO, ‘‘that’s been exposed as a fal-
lacy over the last 3 weeks.’’ That is be-
cause people were realizing it was a
border crisis during the Obama years.
Just the fact that it has gone on for
years and years does not diminish the
crisis. It actually exacerbates the cri-
sis. When you put the October, Novem-
ber, December, January numbers,
record numbers, of people coming in
claiming to be family units—why? Be-
cause they have heard, if they have
minor children, then they will be al-
lowed to stay, and they will be allowed
to keep the minor children. It is en-
couraging a dark market, a criminal
market, in children.
Make sure, if you are coming to
America, you have a child in your
group, because then you claim: Oh, we
can’t be separated.
As the Director of Border Patrol
pointed out this week in testimony
under oath, now the huge majority is
people coming who are claiming to be
family units. Most of them are, but we
don’t know. That is why it is impor-
tant to check.
So this is a time of crisis, and you
would hope that major media, whether
it is alt-left or whatever, would be re-
porting what is happening in America.
It is a humanitarian crisis, as they ac-
knowledged during President Obama’s
term. It is even more of a humani-
tarian crisis now that there are so
many more minor children who are
being brought here.
Once again, for those who bring up
the term ‘‘war on women,’’ how about
the fact that over a third of the young
girls, the young women, who are
brought to our southern border ille-
gally are being sexual assaulted, raped,
normally multiple times along the
way? Do people not care what is hap-
pening? Wouldn’t that be a war on
women that some of us want to stop?
The estimate by doctors who have
been treating these people say that 17
percent of the young boys coming up
and crossing into the U.S. illegally
have been sexually molested, as-
saulted.
Where is the outrage? It ought to be
from both sides of the aisle.
These are people whose lives are just
being terrorized. When we hear about,
‘‘Oh, well, people are just caring about
their families,’’ really? You would sub-
ject your daughter to being one of the
third who is sexually raped numerous
times while you want to come into
America? You would do that to your
daughter?
We ought to be helping Mexico. They
are not helping much. They are helping
some. But we ought to be shoring up
the border. It is the best thing we can
do for Mexico, continue to be the most
generous country in the world, in the
history of the world, in allowing people
to come into our country legally.
Keep that going. It is good for Amer-
ica. But stop the drug cartels from con-
trolling our southern border. It ought
to be our authorities controlling our
border, nobody else.
If that is not enough, here comes
what has been called a Green New Deal.
Some have accurately called it more of
a green socialist manifesto, a green
raw deal.
Rick Manning has a great article this
month: ‘‘Everyone is talking about the
Green New Deal and how it would end
domestic airline travel, the internal
combustion engine, fossil fuel usage,
most electricity generation, and even
ban cow flatulence. You have groups
guessing what the cost of the Green
New Deal would be in terms of dollars
on an annual basis. . . . To everyone
seeking to normalize this Green New
Deal, please just shut up.
‘‘The Green New Deal is the baring of
teeth by the new American communist,
a new breed unleashed that we have
seen in the streets, attacking people
attending Trump rallies, screaming at
teenagers wearing Make America Great
Again hats, shouting down and rioting
against conservative speakers on col-
lege campuses.
‘‘Here is the truth. Socialism and
communism are evil. Putting a shroud
of legitimacy and normalcy to the de-
struction of the American ideal is
being a Menshevik in a Bolshevik revo-
lution. You cannot moderate the
bloodlust of those who seek to enslave
you by trying to come up with common
ground or discuss alternatives to meet
their needs. The revolution demands
immediate payment.
‘‘So let’s stop talking about the
symptoms which the Green New Deal
represents and actually begin to dis-
sect the disease that is collectivism.
First, definitionally, the only dif-
ference between socialism and com-
munism is if you voluntarily surrender
your freedom and wealth or have it
confiscated. Either alternative ulti-
mately comes from the coercive power
of the gun and are based upon the
premise that those who have attained
wealth used ill-gotten means to get it.
As a result, they have no moral author-
ity to keep it from those from whom it
presumably was stolen.
‘‘In socialism and communism, indi-
vidual rights are not derived from God
and guaranteed by the Constitution.
Instead, everything you have and can
expect comes from the goodwill of the
government. It is no mistake that John
Lennon’s socialist anthem ‘Imagine’
starts with the following words: ‘Imag-
ine there’s no heaven. It’s easy if you
try. No hell below us; above us, only
sky. Imagine all the people living for
today.’
‘‘In order to achieve a kingdom ruled
by man, unfettered by morality or
rules, you have to nix a sovereign God
from the equation. If there is no God,
then all rights are nothing more than
those that the government chooses to
allow you to have, and the only protec-
tions that exist are those which they
grant. The only question is who gets to
be the one holding the keys over every-
one else’s life.’’
This is what, on one hand, surprises
me about billionaires in America fund-
ing a move toward socialism. Obvi-
ously, these are not stupid people.
They can look at the history of social-
ism, communism. They know that,
whether it is socialists or communists,
you have two classes. You eliminate
the middle class. There is no middle
class. You have this small group of rul-
ing class, and then you have everybody
else, all the miserables.
I guess they think they get us to so-
cialism and they will be part of that
elite socialist class that rules over ev-
erybody else.
I have seen it. The summer I lived in
the Soviet Union, when it was the real
Soviet Union, there were some nice
things, but it was clear they didn’t
have freedom. The government
watched, through spies, everything
that those people did.
I asked, on one occasion: Why is that
lady running off?
Well, she is going to go report me, he
said.
Why would she go report you? You
are not anything to her.
No. In your country you can get
ahead by making money. In my coun-
try, he said, we get ahead by stepping
on others. So anybody you can turn in
for anything, anybody that you can
step on, it elevates you in our system
here in the Soviet Union.
He was right. And that is where we
are headed with people thinking social-
ism is a good way to go.
The bumper sticker is true. The big
problem with socialism is you can vote
your way into it, but you will have to
shoot your way out.
That is what we are seeing play out
in Venezuela. They voted themselves
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28FE7.052 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2299
February 28, 2019
into it, and now they are having to
shoot their way out. Unfortunately for
most of them, they don’t have guns, so
they are pretty empty-handed in fight-
ing a government that has the guns.
b 1300
It is a tragic situation. It should be
one of the most prosperous countries in
the world. It was until socialism took
over. And again, as Rick Manning is
trying to point out, that is where we
are headed.
‘‘It makes one wonder if Ono,’’ he
said, ‘‘has given up 100 percent of her
songwriter royalties to the song to the
government as a show of solidarity for
the dream.
‘‘And here is what they don’t say,’’
he says, ‘‘in order for the world to ‘live
as one’ with no possessions, someone is
going to have to take all the stuff and
hold it collectively for the common
good.
‘‘In order for there to be stuff to take
and most importantly eat in the fu-
ture, someone is going to have to do
the hard work to produce it. Someone
is going to have to figure out how to
produce it, and someone is going to
have to get it from where it is produced
to where the brotherhood is living. And
then someone is going to have to dis-
tribute it, being certain that everyone
gets the same amount of gruel.’’
And I saw that, too, in the stores
back in the Soviet Union. If you were
part of that elite ruling class, they
would keep back a really nice pair of
shoes, maybe the only pair they got,
for the highest ranking person that
they dealt with.
In the stores, the Soviets would tell
me: We never find toilet paper; they
hold it in the back for the ruling class.
We never find good, fresh vegetables.
They hold that back for the ruling
class.
It is really tragic the way people are
treated, ultimately, in a socialist or
communist society, or now called pro-
gressivist.
So, good article by Brad Polumbo,
February 26, How Socialism Destroys
Private Charity and Hurts the Poor. It
is tragic.
Between what we see destroying the
rule of law in America, coming across
our southern border illegally, over-
whelming our schools—how fair is it? If
you really care about children, how
fair is it to this big group of children in
school?
And as teachers have pointed out to
me: I love my kids. I love the kids that
come in and don’t speak English. But
they throw them into a class of English
speakers because we are required to
educate them, and we have to stop
teaching, basically, the English-speak-
ing citizens and residents and go to
teaching the new kids that just got
thrown in, no fault of their own. But
those that suffer are the kids.
They have dreams, but, unfortu-
nately for them, they were either born
here or came here legally and speak
English. But their dreams are going to
be put on hold. They are not going to
be able to be educated as well because
we have not secured our southern bor-
der. And children who don’t speak the
same language are thrown into their
classes, and they are harming the
dreams and the hopes of the children
who were here.
So is the solution to welcome in 30
million or so people from Mexico? No.
It would overwhelm this country, and
there would be no place for people to
flee to when they are trying to find
real asylum from danger.
The better thing is just enforce the
law. Secure the border. Cut off the flow
of money to the drug cartels, and allow
people to live freely here, without wor-
rying about extra crime that wouldn’t
be here if people weren’t here illegally.
It is about preserving the Republic
that the Founders gave us. It is about
acknowledging that we have, as a na-
tion, been more blessed than any na-
tion in the history of the world. Solo-
mon’s Israel didn’t have the individual
opportunities, the individual assets,
the freedoms that we have.
When a majority of Americans fail to
recognize that we have been blessed by
God and His protective hand has se-
cured our Nation, then those blessings
and that protective hand will dis-
appear; and we will be the once-great
Camelot, where people could live free,
and they could work and keep what
they grew, built, earned, that once-
great country where people were treat-
ed the same, whether poor or rich.
They were treated the same under the
law.
That once-great country. Wow, what
a dream. How did it go wrong?
Well, we just talked about it, and it
is time we did something together to
stop it.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
f
STATEHOOD FOR THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentlewoman from the
District of Columbia (Ms. NORTON) is
recognized for 60 minutes as the des-
ignee of the majority leader.
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, this
week was, for all intents and purposes,
D.C. Statehood Week in the Capital. I
am pleased that, today, Senator CAR-
PER has announced that he is intro-
ducing the Washington, D.C. Admission
Act to make the District of Columbia
the 51st State. I am grateful to Senator
CARPER, who garnered a record number
of Senate cosponsors last year and has
been a most vigorous champion of
statehood for the District of Columbia.
I come to the floor for my first time
this session to discuss D.C. statehood
because we have many new Members
who may be under the mistaken im-
pression that the 700,000 people who
live in your Nation’s Capital are treat-
ed in the same rights that your own
residents are. I beg to differ.
In this city, the citizens do not have
each and every right in this Congress.
To be sure, we have what is called
home rule, and I will later indicate
that even that is limited.
The reasons for this unique place, for
our Capital, left without the full rights
of other citizens, has to do with a
quirk, an accident, where the Framers
came to believe that the Capital should
not be part of a State because they
were, in the beginning, parts of various
States, and they felt that they could
not then control what the Capital
would do.
Well, of course, they don’t want a
Capital to be part of a State, but they
didn’t really envision statehood, the
Capital as a State, because they were
thinking of the Thirteen Colonies. And
since every city had to be in a State,
they could only envision putting the
city in a State.
We are about 218 years beyond that,
and it is time, way past time—shall I
say, overdue in time—to understand
how the Nation’s Capital of the great-
est nation in the world should be
viewed and what rights its citizens
should have.
So I am very grateful to Senator
CARPER for the work he has done and
for his introduction of the bill in the
Senate this week, the counterpart of
the D.C. statehood bill, which I have
already introduced in the House.
The bill I have introduced already
has 198 cosponsors. I bet—I haven’t
looked closely, but there is probably no
bill in the hopper that has more co-
sponsors than the D.C. statehood bill.
It is not bipartisan yet. That will hap-
pen, because this is how we make
progress on matters in the House of
Representatives. We go one House at a
time.
Remember, the District doesn’t have
any representation in the Senate; yet
we have gotten a distinguished Senator
introducing the statehood bill, and he
has been most energetic, getting the
majority of the Democratic Senators
on the bill last session.
I am particularly moved today be-
cause of the record number of D.C. resi-
dents and their colleagues who came to
the Congress yesterday to demand that
they have equal rights with all other
American citizens. I greeted a room
full of residents who had visited every
office to tell Members what they don’t
know.
I am grateful particularly that the
Speaker of the House, NANCY PELOSI,
has strongly endorsed D.C. statehood. I
believe that means that D.C. statehood
will be on the floor this session. I want
to thank our Speaker for making D.C.
statehood a priority, and indicating in
her own words how important it is that
every citizen be treated equally.
In the same way, Oversight and Re-
form Committee Chairman ELIJAH
CUMMINGS has committed to holding a
hearing on D.C. statehood, and I will
predict this afternoon on the floor that
that bill will get out of committee and
come to the floor of the House for a
vote.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28FE7.053 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2300 February 28, 2019
The progress we are making on D.C.
statehood is also seen in the inclusion
of our statehood demands in what is
called H.R. 1. That is an all-democracy
bill that tries to improve and make
sure that full democracy in every form
is present in the United States. In H.R.
1 are extensive findings for D.C. state-
hood.
I thank the Democratic majority for
including the District of Columbia and
its plea for statehood in this all impor-
tant pro-democracy bill. It is called the
For the People Act, and H.R. 1 was the
first bill introduced.
Most Members who come to the Con-
gress come knowing only that the Na-
tion’s Capital is where all these won-
derful memorial buildings are. They
know that it is a tourist mecca. Many
may have come as children or even as
adults, as tourists. They probably don’t
know that 30 million visitors from all
over the world visit our Nation’s Cap-
ital.
In other words, most Members of the
House who, by the way, will spend
more time in the District of Columbia
than they will spend at home, still
don’t know very much about their own
Capital City. They probably don’t
know that only in America does the
legislature not grant full representa-
tion to their Capital City.
Well, I have just voted on the House
floor. I vote on amendments, but I did
not vote on the final bill. I do vote in
what is called the Committee of the
Whole. The reason I am able to vote
there is that, when I first came to Con-
gress in 1991, I saw that I could, indeed,
vote in committee, and I knew there
was something called the Committee of
the Whole.
Well, what is the difference between
voting in committee, like the Trans-
portation and Infrastructure Com-
mittee, for example, where I have al-
ways served and voted, what is the dif-
ference between that and the Com-
mittee of the Whole? No difference.
b 1315
Both are committees that were cre-
ated by the Congress, not the Constitu-
tion.
So, since I vote in committee, I asked
for the right to vote in the Committee
of the Whole. It was granted.
But only in America, again, could the
following happen: my Republican
friends sued the House for allowing the
vote in the Committee of the Whole.
The courts looked at that, pro-
nounced the right of the Congress to
give that vote in the Committee of the
Whole, just as the District has the vote
in committee, and my Republican
friends then appealed.
At the Court of Appeals, the verdict
was, yes, the District of Columbia can
vote in the Committee of the Whole,
just as they vote in committee.
And my good Republican friends
didn’t quite have the nerve to appeal
that one to the Supreme Court, but
what they did do, when Democrats lost
the House 2 years later, was to take
away a vote, that the courts had said
was legitimate, from the residents of
the District of Columbia, who are num-
ber one per capita in taxes paid to sup-
port the government of the United
States. And therein lies the outrageous
anomaly.
Those who pay the most taxes per
capita have the least rights. That is
why we are determined to get our
rights.
Yes, I have just voted on two gun
safety amendments that were on this
floor today. I couldn’t vote on the final
bill, but I could vote on those amend-
ments. They were important amend-
ments relating to background checks.
By the way, something like 97 per-
cent of the American people in one poll
were shown to favor background
checks. That means you check to see if
a person has a criminal background
and shouldn’t have a gun. What is the
controversy in that one?
So I was able to vote on those two
amendments.
This is all by way of self-help, think-
ing through what is it I can do to make
sure the people I represent have the
maximum of representation they can. I
sure am not crying about what I can-
not do, when you consider what I can
do.
I am chair of the most important
subcommittee now in the Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure Committee.
Through that committee, I have been
able to rebuild whole parts of the Dis-
trict of Columbia: The Wharf, the
Southwest Waterfront as it is called;
the southeast waterfront, Capitol
Riverfront; parts of Washington, like
NoMa.
I have been able to do a great deal.
That is not the issue.
The issue is equal. Not equal for me
personally; equal for those I represent,
who have paid their dues without get-
ting their rights.
When I say, ‘‘pay their dues,’’ I want
to elaborate on that. The city I rep-
resent has one of the strongest econo-
mies in the Nation. It has a budget of
about $14 billion. That is larger than
the budget of 12 States. Many States
are crying poor, trying to tax or not
tax their residents, embroiled in that
controversy.
The city I represent has a $2 billion
surplus. Its per capita income, the per
capita income of the Americans who
live in your Capital City, is higher
than that of any State.
Now, we are about the equivalent in
size of seven states. Our per capita in-
come, though, is higher than that of
any State. Take your biggest States,
Texas and New York and California:
higher per capita income. That tells
you about how much economic activity
there is in your Nation’s capital.
This city, which is something of a
city state, has residents whose per-
sonal income is higher than that of
seven States; we do not cry poor.
Our population growth is among the
highest in the Nation. People want to
live in your Nation’s capital. It is one
of the most pleasant, livable cities in
our country.
What do they pay per capita in taxes?
$12,000 per resident in taxes to support
a government that does not give them
equal rights.
Our Armed Forces—Armed Forces
with representatives from every State,
it should be known—has always had
residents of the District of Columbia
who fought and died in every war, in-
cluding the war that created the
United States, the Revolutionary War.
You, of course, are aware of that war,
the war that was fought for taxation
without representation. No wonder Dis-
trict residents are demanding that our
Congress live up to that great slogan
and standard.
Now, as I indicated, it is not as if we
don’t have any rights. The Congress
passed the Home Rule Act in 1974—I
will speak later about the deficiencies
of the Home Rule Act—but that means
that the city does have its own elected
mayor and its own elected legislature,
its council.
How did we get that? Well, first of
all, it took over 100 years after the
Civil War. The first home rule was
given to the Capital City by Repub-
licans in the 19th century who had
fought and won the Civil War, where
those in my party the Democrats had
fought on the side of slavery.
Republicans fought on the side of
freedom, and when it saw it had a cap-
ital that did not have freedom, it gave
the District home rule.
Now, the Republicans had rather
much lost their way, as the Democrats
certainly had, for more than 100 years,
but when Richard Nixon was President
of the United States, the Home Rule
Act was passed.
I would just like to read a few of his
words. He said, in signing the bill: ‘‘As
a longtime supporter of self-govern-
ment for the District of Columbia, I am
pleased to sign into law a measure
which is of historic significance for the
citizens of our Nation’s Capital.’’
He went on to say: ‘‘I,’’ that is Rich-
ard Nixon, now, ‘‘first voted for home
rule as a Member of the House of Rep-
resentatives in 1948, and I have en-
dorsed the enactment of home rule leg-
islation during both my terms as Presi-
dent.’’
This was bipartisan, finally. And Re-
publicans, that party, that post-war
party, post-World War II party, de-
serves credit for understanding that
the time had come for the Capital City
to have home rule.
That home rule was not complete, in
the sense that, and most importantly,
the District budget has to come here,
and it becomes a foil on which to press
amendments to overturn laws that peo-
ple may not like.
I have been able to defeat most of
those riders, as we call them, or at-
tempts to take down D.C. laws, but the
D.C. budget shouldn’t come here at all.
I recognized that while pursuing
statehood, I could get close to state-
hood by simply finishing the Home
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28FE7.055 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2301
February 28, 2019
Rule Act and making it whole and
complete, and so I embarked on a two-
track road. One, of course, is the one I
have just discussed: D.C. statehood.
The other is what I call free and
equal D.C. bills, bills that together
bring us close to statehood. I started
with a congressional review amend-
ment. This one is really nonsensical.
The District passes a law. Ulti-
mately, most of those laws matter not
to the Congress and certainly aren’t
overturned, but the Home Rule Act
says that the law shall not become
final for 30 days, and that is 30 consecu-
tive days.
The House is not in session consecu-
tive days. This is Thursday, for exam-
ple. We are out, so I don’t know if it is
3 or 4 days this week that would be
counted, but you have to count up till
you get to 30 days, and then, of course,
the bill can become law.
Well, it always does. No one uses this
particular power at all. If they want to
overturn D.C. laws, then they simply
try to attach it to appropriations as
they come.
So this is completely unused, but it
is terribly burdensome on the city, be-
cause you simply have to keep renew-
ing these bills that have been passed in
the District until you get finally
through the 30-day period. It is ridicu-
lous: not used by the Congress, burden-
some on the city, should and could be
gotten rid of without anyone noticing
it in the Congress or caring about it.
So I began with that one, which the
Congress can’t possibly care about, be-
cause it doesn’t even use it ever.
But look at some of the other things
that could be done even without state-
hood, which is leading me to embark
on this two-track system.
For example, the District of Colum-
bia does not have a local prosecutor,
like a district attorney, for example, or
a state’s attorney.
The U.S. attorney for the District of
Columbia, a Federal official, not cho-
sen by the District of Columbia, but by
the President of the United States, is
essentially the district attorney for the
District of Columbia. We have no say
in this.
And that U.S. attorney has a juris-
diction that has nothing to do with
what U.S. attorneys do in other States.
It is local law. 90 percent of what the
U.S. attorney has as jurisdiction is
local law, like the law a DA would en-
force. About 10, sometimes 15 percent
of his work is Federal.
We want to send him back to all of
his Federal work, give him time to do
all of that so that we would have a
local prosecutor.
That is one of the bills that this Con-
gress could pass, House and Senate,
and hardly think about it, because it is
certainly uncontroversial that the city
have its own law enforcement officer to
enforce its criminal laws.
And there is a National Guard rule
act. Now, that is the equivalent of
what I am speaking of when I say that
the Congress should have no interest,
only the District.
The National Guard cannot be called
out in the event, for example, of a hur-
ricane or a huge snowfall or a flood,
only the President of the United States
can.
b 1330
The President of the United States
does not need to be bothered with tasks
related to ordinary emergencies in the
District of Columbia. Somehow, the
Mayor would have to find the President
and say: Please call out the National
Guard. That is the local National
Guard.
We don’t want jurisdiction over the
National Guard when it comes to na-
tional matters. We want the same ju-
risdiction that the States have. The
States have the right to call out the
National Guard to protect their resi-
dents when there are natural disasters.
That is, essentially, what we are ask-
ing for. So that, too, is part of my Free
and Equal D.C. series.
Again, there are 20 of these bills. Let
me just indicate one other: the District
of Columbia Home Rule Clemency Act.
I investigated how often clemency is
allowed or has been afforded, and I
found only one instance. I will tell you
why.
The President of the United States
alone can offer clemency to someone
who has broken local law. Do you
think he bothers or, for that matter,
should bother? That is why they don’t
post anyone who gets clemency in the
District of Columbia.
These are the kind of local matters
that are holdovers, absolute holdovers,
from the days when the District had no
home rule. We can’t possibly hold our
heads up as a democracy and have mat-
ters like this that cannot be attended
at the local level.
Occasionally, someone comes forward
with the notion: We understand, Con-
gressman. We want to make sure that
the residents of the Nation’s Capital
have the same rights as other places.
Here is what we would like to do. You
come out of a portion of land, contrib-
uted by the State of Maryland, so why
not return the District of Columbia to
Maryland, then you would get your full
and equal rights?
Well, the first thing you ought to do
is ask Maryland about that. Then you
might ask the District of Columbia.
And here I have the answers, I think.
Statehood is endorsed by 86 percent
of D.C. residents. Retrocession, as it is
called, has no constituency either in
Maryland or in the District.
This is how I know that.
There was a poll taken in Maryland
asking whether or not they thought
the District of Columbia should be re-
turned to Maryland. Now, understand,
Maryland is a very progressive jurisdic-
tion, but it only has one big city. That
is the city of Baltimore. It apparently
is not welcoming of another city which
has formed its own identity as a State
and, for that reason, has an identity as
a big city.
I am not surprised that a poll of
Maryland legislators found that 92 per-
cent of Maryland Senators oppose ret-
rocession of the District to Maryland,
and 82 percent of Maryland Delegates—
that is their lower house—oppose ret-
rocession.
What I think this points up is that
there are no easy answers: taking a
city that is almost as old as the Nation
itself—the District became the Capital
City in 1801—and somehow finding
some easy answer, which turns out to
be even harder. It is hard enough to get
the Congress to recognize statehood.
Now, suppose we have to go to Mary-
land, in the case of retrocession, and
D.C. to get that answer. That is a hard-
er road to climb. It is not democratic,
because that is not what Maryland
wants and that is not what the District
of Columbia wants. It is a very me-
chanical answer to a very deep prob-
lem.
I indicated that I just voted in the
Congress in the Committee of the
Whole, and I have voted now, in this
new Congress, which is about 8 weeks
old, two or three times. Each of those
votes are of such great significance to
the people I represent. It encourages
them to believe that they will have a
vote not only in the Committee of the
Whole, but they will have a vote where
every other American has a vote.
For them, I can only say that they
have overpaid, in every conceivable
way, for equal rights—yes, by fighting
and dying in every war and, yes, in
Federal taxes paid, per capita, a larger
amount than any residents.
For me, of course, this is a labor of
love because I was born and raised
here. I am the daughter of a runaway
slave who ran away from Virginia.
It is interesting that he ran away and
found himself and settled in the Dis-
trict of Columbia as an illegal immi-
grant, I suppose—a runaway slave—but
there was work here. He found work in
the city and began to raise work help-
ing to build the city because they were
building the roads of the city at that
time in the 1830s.
It was no part of his vision that the
District would ever have the same
rights as other Americans, certainly no
part of his vision, as then still a slave,
that he would have anything to do with
it.
So, this afternoon, as I think about
my city and strive for its equality, I
think of my great-grandfather, Richard
Holmes, who sought freedom for him-
self and his family the only way he
could: by simply walking off of a plan-
tation and making his way to the Dis-
trict of Columbia. In his name, I am
honored to seek more of that freedom
and equality for the 700,000 Americans
who now live in our Nation’s Capital.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28FE7.057 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2302 February 28, 2019
PUBLICATION OF COMMITTEE
RULES
RULES OF THE COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS
FOR THE 116TH CONGRESS
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, February 28, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to Rule
XI, Clause 2(a) of the Rules of the House of
Representatives, I respectfully submit the
rules of the 116th Congress for the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs for publication in
the Congressional Record. The Committee
adopted these rules by voice vote, with a
quorum being present, at our organizational
meeting on Tuesday, January 29, 2019.
Sincerely,
ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman.
1. GENERAL PROVISIONS
(a) The Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, and in particular, the committee rules
enumerated in clause 2 of rule XI, are the
rules of the Committee on Foreign Affairs
(hereafter referred to as the ‘‘Committee’’),
to the extent applicable.
(b) A motion to recess and a motion to dis-
pense with the first reading (in full) of a bill
or resolution, if printed copies are available,
are privileged non-debatable motions in
Committee.
(c) The Chairman of the Committee on
Foreign Affairs shall consult the Ranking
Minority Member to the extent possible with
respect to the business of the Committee.
Each subcommittee of the Committee is a
part of the Committee and is subject to the
authority and direction of the Committee
and to its rules, to the extent applicable.
2. DATE OF MEETING
The regular meeting date of the Com-
mittee shall be the first Tuesday of every
month when the House of Representatives is
in session pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XI
of the House of Representatives. Additional
meetings may be called by the Chairman as
the Chairman may deem necessary or at the
request of a majority of the Members of the
Committee in accordance with clause 2(c) of
rule XI of the House of Representatives. The
determination of the business to be consid-
ered at each meeting shall be made by the
Chairman subject to clause 2(c) of rule XI of
the House of Representatives. A regularly
scheduled meeting need not be held if, in the
judgment of the Chairman, there is no busi-
ness to be considered.
3. QUORUM
For purposes of taking testimony and re-
ceiving evidence, two Members shall con-
stitute a quorum, and the Chairman of the
full Committee or a subcommittee shall
make every effort to ensure that the rel-
evant Ranking Minority Member or another
Minority Member is present at the time a
hearing is convened. One-third of the Mem-
bers of the Committee or subcommittee shall
constitute a quorum for taking any action,
except: (1) reporting a measure or rec-
ommendation; (2) closing Committee meet-
ings and hearings to the public; (3) author-
izing the issuance of subpoenas; and (4) any
other action for which an actual majority
quorum is required by any rule of the House
of Representatives or by law. No measure or
recommendation shall be reported to the
House of Representatives unless a majority
of the Committee is actually present. No
measure or recommendation shall be re-
ported to the full Committee by a sub-
committee unless half of the subcommittee
is actually present A record vote may be de-
manded by one-fifth of the Members present
or, in the apparent absence of a quorum, by
any one Member.
4. MEETINGS AND HEARINGS OPEN TO THE
PUBLIC
(a) Meetings
(1) Each meeting for the transaction of
business, including the markup of legisla-
tion, of the Committee or a subcommittee
shall be open to the public except when the
Committee or subcommittee, in open session
and with a majority present, determines by
record vote that all or part of the remainder
of the meeting on that day shall be closed to
the public, because disclosure of matters to
be considered would endanger national secu-
rity, would compromise sensitive law en-
forcement information, or would tend to de-
fame, degrade or incriminate any person or
otherwise violate any labor rule of the House
of Representatives. No person, other than
Members of the Committee and such con-
gressional staff and departmental represent-
atives as the Committee or subcommittee
may authorize, shall be present at any busi-
ness or markup session which has been
closed to the public. This subsection does not
apply to open Committee hearings which are
provided for by subsection (b) of this rule.
(2) The Chairman of the full Committee or
a subcommittee may postpone further pro-
ceedings when a record vote is ordered on the
question of approving any measure or mat-
ter, or adopting an amendment. The relevant
Chairman may resume proceedings on a post-
poned request at any time. When exercising
postponement authority, the relevant Chair-
man shall take all reasonable steps nec-
essary to notify Members on the resumption
of proceedings on any postponed record vote.
When proceedings resume on a postponed
question, notwithstanding any intervening
order for the previous question, an under-
lying proposition shall remain subject to fur-
ther debate or amendment to the same ex-
tent as when the question was postponed.
(b) Hearings
(I) Each hearing conducted by the Com-
mittee or a subcommittee shall be open to
the public except when the Committee or
subcommittee, in open session and with a
majority present, determines by record vote
that all or part of the remainder of that
hearing on that day should be closed to the
public because disclosure of testimony, evi-
dence or other matters to be considered
would endanger the national security, would
compromise sensitive law enforcement infor-
mation, or otherwise would violate any law
or rule of the House of Representatives. Not-
withstanding the preceding sentence, a ma-
jority of those present, there being in at-
tendance the requisite number required
under the rules of the Committee to be
present for the purpose of taking testi-
mony—
(A) may vote to close the hearing for the
sole purpose of discussing whether testimony
or evidence to be received would endanger
the national security, would compromise
sensitive law enforcement information, or
violate paragraph (2) of this subsection; or
(B) may vote to close the hearing, as pro-
vided in paragraph (2) of this subsection.
(2) Whenever it is asserted by a Member of
the Committee that the evidence or testi-
mony at a hearing may tend to defame, de-
grade, or incriminate any person, or it is as-
serted by a witness that the evidence or tes-
timony that the witness would give at a
hearing may tend to defame, degrade, or in-
criminate the witness—
(A) such testimony or evidence shall be
presented in executive session, notwith-
standing the provisions of paragraph (1) of
this subsection, if by a majority of those
present, there being in attendance the req-
uisite number required under the rules of the
Committee to be present for the purpose of
taking testimony, the Committee or sub-
committee determines that such evidence or
testimony may tend to defame, degrade, or
incriminate any person; and
(B) the Committee or subcommittee shall
proceed to receive such testimony in open
session only if the Committee, a majority
being present, determines that such evidence
or testimony will not tend to defame, de-
grade, or incriminate any person.
(3) No Member of the House of Representa-
tives may be excluded from non-
participatory attendance at any hearing of
the Committee or a subcommittee unless the
House of Representatives has by majority
vote authorized the Committee or sub-
committee, for purposes of a particular se-
ries of hearings, on a particular article of
legislation or on a particular subject of in-
vestigation, to close its hearings to Members
by the same procedures designated in this
subsection for closing hearings to the public.
(4) A Member of the House of Representa-
tives who is not a Member of the Committee
may not be recognized to participate in a
Committee or Subcommittee hearing except
by the unanimous consent of Committee
Members present at such hearing.
Participatory recognition of a non-Com-
mittee Member shall occur only after all
Committee Members seeking recognition,
both majority and minority, have had their
opportunity to participate and question any
witnesses.
(5) The Committee or a subcommittee may
by the procedure designated in this sub-
section vote to close one (1) subsequent day
of hearing.
(6) No congressional staff shall be present
at any meeting or hearing of the Committee
or a subcommittee that has been closed to
the public, and at which classified informa-
tion will be involved, unless such person is
authorized access to such classified informa-
tion in accordance with rule XX of the House
of Representatives.
5. CONVENING HEARINGS AND MARKUPS
(a) Hearings
(1) Notice. Public announcement shall be
made of the date, place, and subject matter
of any hearing to be conducted by the Com-
mittee or a subcommittee at the earliest
possible date, and in any event at least one
(1) week before the commencement of that
hearing. If the Chairman of the full Com-
mittee or a subcommittee, with the concur-
rence of the relevant Ranking Minority
Member, determines that there is good cause
to begin a hearing sooner, or if the Com-
mittee or subcommittee so determines by
majority vote in the presence of the number
of members required under the rules of the
Committee for the taking of action, the
Chairman of the full Committee, if concur-
ring, shall make the announcement at the
earliest possible date. No change shall be
made to a publicly announced hearing title
until after consultation with the relevant
Ranking Minority Member and notice to pre-
viously announced witnesses.
(2) Member Day Hearing. During the first
session of each Congress, the full Committee
shall hold a hearing at which it receives tes-
timony from Members, Delegates, and the
Resident Commissioner on proposed legisla-
tion within its jurisdiction.
(b) Markups and Other Meetings to Trans-
act Business
(1) Convening. The Chairman of the full
Committee or a subcommittee may call or
convene, as the relevant Chairman considers
necessary, meetings of the Committee or
subcommittee for the consideration of a bill
or resolution pending before the Committee
or subcommittee, as the case may be, or for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE7.030 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2303
February 28, 2019
the conduct of other Committee or sub-
committee business.
(2) Notice. Public announcement shall be
made by the Chairman of the full Committee
of the date, place, and subject matter of any
markup or other meeting to conduct busi-
ness at the earliest possible date, and in any
event at least one (1) week before the com-
mencement of such markup or meeting, un-
less the relevant Chairman determines, in
consultation with the relevant Ranking Mi-
nority Member, that there is good cause to
begin such a markup or meeting on an ear-
lier date. If such determination is made, the
Chairman of the full Committee, if concur-
ring in that determination, shall make the
announcement at the earliest possible date.
(3) Agenda and Texts. The relevant Chair-
man shall provide to all Committee or sub-
committee Members an agenda for each
Committee and subcommittee markup or
other meeting to transact business, setting
out all items of business to be considered, in-
cluding whenever possible a copy of any
measure scheduled for markup, at least 48
hours (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and
legal holidays) before the meeting. Bills on
subjects not listed on such agenda shall be
subject to a point of order unless their con-
sideration is agreed to by a two-thirds vote
of the Committee or subcommittee, or by the
Chairman of the full Committee with the
concurrence of the Ranking Minority Mem-
ber. The text of any measure to be marked
up shall be made publicly available in elec-
tronic form at least 24 hours prior to the
commencement of the markup meeting, or
at the lime of an announcement under sub-
paragraph (b)(2) made within 24 hours before
such meeting.
(c) Publication. Public announcement of
all hearings and markups shall be published
in the Daily Digest portion of the Congres-
sional Record and made publicly available in
electronic form. Members shall be notified
by the Staff Director of all meetings (includ-
ing markups and hearings) and briefings of
subcommittees and of the full Committee.
(d) Member Seating. During Committee
and subcommittee hearings and markups,
chairs on the dais are for Members. No staff
member other than a Committee or sub-
committee staff director, counsel, or profes-
sional staff member may occupy a chair on
the dais, unless authorized by the Chairman
of the full Committee, after consultation
with the Ranking Member of the Full Com-
mittee. Only one staff member each from the
majority and the minority may occupy
chairs on the dais at any time during a hear-
ing or markup.
6. WITNESSES
(a) Interrogation of Witnesses
(1) In so far as practicable, witnesses shall
be permitted to present their oral state-
ments without interruption subject to rea-
sonable time constraints imposed by the
Chairman of the full Committee or a sub-
committee, with questioning by the Com-
mittee Members taking place afterward.
Members should refrain from questions until
such statements are completed.
(2) In recognizing Members, the relevant
Chairman shall, to the extent practicable,
give preference to the Members on the basis
of their arrival at the hearing, taking into
consideration the majority and minority
ratio of the Members actually present. A
Member desiring to speak or ask a question
shall address the relevant Chairman and not
the witness.
(3) Subject to paragraph (4), each Member
may interrogate the witness for 5 minutes,
the reply of the witness being included in the
5-minute period. After all Members have had
an opportunity to ask questions, the round
shall begin again under the 5-minute rule.
(4) Notwithstanding paragraph (3), the rel-
evant Chairman, with the concurrence of the
Ranking Minority Member, may permit one
(1) or more majority Members of the Com-
mittee designated by the relevant Chairman
to question a witness for a specified period of
not longer than 30 minutes. On such occa-
sions, an equal number of minority Members
of the Committee designated by the Ranking
Minority Member shall be permitted to ques-
tion the same witness for the same period of
time. Committee staff may be permitted to
question a witness for equal specified periods
either with the concurrence of the Chairman
and Ranking Minority Member of the full
Committee or by motion. However, in no
case may questioning by Committee staff
proceed before each Member of the Com-
mittee who wishes to speak under the 5-
minute rule has had one opportunity to do
so.
(b) Testimony of Witnesses
(1) Advance Filing Requirement. Each wit-
ness who is to appear before the Committee
or a subcommittee is required to file testi-
mony with the Committee or subcommittee
at least two (2) business days in advance of
that appearance. For purposes of this sub-
section, testimony includes the written
statement of a witness, as well as any video,
photographs, audio-visual matter, posters, or
other supporting materials that the witness
intends to present or display before the Com-
mittee. Such testimony should be provided
in electronic form to the extent practicable.
The Committee or subcommittee shall notify
Members at least two business days in ad-
vance of a hearing of the availability of tes-
timony submitted by witnesses. In addition,
each witness shall provide sufficient copies,
as determined by the Chairman of the full
Committee or a subcommittee, of his or her
proposed written statement to be provided to
Members and start of the Committee or sub-
committee, the news media, and the general
public. The text of the written statement
provided pursuant to this paragraph shall be
considered final, and may not be revised by
the witness after the Committee meeting at
which the witness appears.
(2) Witness Preclusion and Waiver. The re-
quirements of paragraph (1) or any part
thereof may be waived by the Chairman of
the full Committee or a subcommittee, or
the presiding Member, or the Ranking Mem-
ber of the Committee or subcommittee as it
relates to witnesses who are called by the
minority to testify, provided that the wit-
ness or the relevant Chairman or Ranking
Minority Member has submitted, prior to the
witness’s appearance, a written explanation
to the reasons testimony has not been made
available to the Committee or sub-
committee. If a witness who is not an official
of the U.S. Government has not submitted
testimony as required by paragraph (1) and
no such written explanation has been sub-
mitted, the witness shall be released from
testifying unless a majority of the Com-
mittee or subcommittee votes to accept his
or her testimony.
(3) Remote Witness Participation. The
Chairman of the full Committee or a sub-
committee shall promptly, and not later
than 48 hours beforehand if possible, notify
the relevant Ranking Member of any witness
who is likely to present testimony other
than in person, such as by videoconference.
A witness may not testify via telephone or
other audio-only medium without the con-
currence of the Chairman and Ranking Mem-
ber of the Committee or subcommittee. The
relevant Chairman shall make reasonable ef-
forts to verify the identity of any witness
participating remotely.
(4) ‘Truth In Testimony’ Disclosure. In the
case of a witness appearing in a nongovern-
mental capacity, a written statement of pro-
posed testimony shall, to the extent prac-
ticable, include: a curriculum vitae; a disclo-
sure of the amount and source of any Federal
grant (or subgrant thereof) or contract (or
subcontract thereof), or of any contract or
payment originating with a foreign govern-
ment, received during the current calendar
year or either of the two previous calendar
years by the witness or by an entity rep-
resented by the witness, to the extent that
such information is relevant to the subject
matter of, and the witness’ representational
capacity at, the hearing; a disclosure of
whether the witness is negotiating or await-
ing approval to receive a contract with or
payment from a foreign government; and a
disclosure of whether the witness is an ac-
tive registrant under the Foreign Agents
Registration Act (FARA). Such statements,
with appropriate redactions to protect the
privacy, safety, or security of the witness,
shall be made publicly available in elec-
tronic form not later than one day after the
witness appears.
(5) Witness Presentation. A witness shall
limit his or her oral presentation to a brief
summary of his or her written statement.
(6) Translation. A witness requiring an in-
terpreter or translator should include in the
testimony provided pursuant to paragraph
(1) the identity of the interpreter or trans-
lator that the witness intends to use. Unless
properly noticed as a separate witness, an in-
terpreter or translator appearing before the
Committee should not present views or
statements other than those expressed by
the witness.
(c) Oaths. The Chairman of the full Com-
mittee or a subcommittee, or any Member of
the Committee designated by the relevant
Chairman, may administer oaths to any wit-
ness appearing before the Committee.
7. PREPARATION AND MAINTENANCE OF
COMMITTEE RECORDS
An accurate stenographic record shall be
made of all hearings and markup sessions.
Members of the Committee and any witness
may examine the transcript of his or her own
remarks and may make any grammatical or
technical changes that do not substantively
alter the record. Any such Member or wit-
ness shall return the transcript to the Com-
mittee offices within seven (7) calendar days
(not including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) after receipt of the transcript, or
as soon thereafter as is practicable.
Any information supplied for the record at
the request of a Member of the Committee
shall be provided to the Member when re-
ceived by the Committee.
Transcripts of hearings and markup ses-
sions (except for the record of a meeting or
hearing which is closed to the public) shall
be printed as soon as is practicable after re-
ceipt of the corrected versions, except that
the Chairman may order the transcript of a
hearing to be printed without the correc-
tions of a Member or witness if the Chairman
determines that such Member or witness has
been afforded a reasonable time to correct
such transcript and such transcript has not
been returned within such time.
The records of the Committee at the Na-
tional Archives and Records Administration
shall be made available for public use in ac-
cordance with rule VII of the House of Rep-
resentatives. The Chairman shall notify the
Ranking Minority Member of any decision,
pursuant to clause 3(b)(3) or clause 4(b) of
the rule, to withhold a record otherwise
available, and the matter shall be presented
to the Committee for a determination on the
written request of any Member of the Com-
mittee.
The Committee shall, to the maximum ex-
tent feasible, make its publications available
in electronic form, including official prints
of hearings and markups sessions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE7.031 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2304 February 28, 2019
8. EXTRANEOUS MATERIALS IN COMMITTEE
HEARINGS PRINTS
No extraneous material shall be printed in
either the body or appendices of any Com-
mittee or subcommittee hearing, except
matter which has been accepted for inclusion
in the record during the hearing or by agree-
ment of the Chairman of the full Committee
or a subcommittee and Ranking Minority
Member of the Committee or subcommittee
within five (5) calendar days of the hearing.
Copies of bills and other legislation under
consideration and responses to written ques-
tions submitted by Members shall not be
considered extraneous material.
Extraneous material in either the body or
appendices of any hearing to be printed
which would be in excess of eight (8) printed
pages (for any one submission) shall be ac-
companied by a written request to the rel-
evant Chairman. Such written request shall
contain an estimate in writing from the Pub-
lic Printer of the probable cost of publishing
such material.
9. INFORMATION ON COMMITTEE ACTION
(a) Record Votes. The result of each record
vote in any meeting of the Committee out-
side of executive session shall be made pub-
licly available in electronic form within 48
hours of such record vote. Such result shall
include a description of the amendment, mo-
tion, order, or other proposition, the name of
each Member voting for and against, and the
Members present but not voting.
(b) Adopted Amendments. Not later than 24
hours after the adoption of any amendment
to a measure or matter considered by the
Committee, the text of each such amend-
ment shall be made publicly available in
electronic form.
(c) Hearing and Markup Attendance. Mem-
ber attendance at each Committee hearing
and markup shall be recorded and included
in the Committee print of the transcript of
that hearing or markup.
10. PROXIES
Proxy voting is not permitted in the Com-
mittee or in subcommittees.
11. REPORTS
(a) Reports on Bills and Resolutions. To
the extent practicable, not later than 24
hours before a report is to be filed with the
Clerk of the House on a measure that has
been ordered reported by the Committee, the
Chairman shall make available for inspec-
tion by all Members of the Committee a copy
of the draft Committee report in order to af-
ford Members adequate Information and the
opportunity to draft and file any supple-
mental, minority or additional views which
they may deem appropriate.
With respect to each record vote on a mo-
tion to report any measure or matter of a
public character, and on any amendment of-
fered to the measure or matter, the total
number of votes cast for and against, and the
names of those Members voting for and
against, shall be included in any Committee
report on the measure or matter.
(b) Prior Approval of Certain Reports. No
Committee, subcommittee, or staff report,
study, or other document which purports to
express publicly the views, findings, conclu-
sions, or recommendations of the Committee
or a subcommittee may be released to the
public or filed with the Clerk of the House
unless approved by a majority of the Com-
mittee or subcommittee, as appropriate. A
proposed investigative or oversight report
shall be considered as read if it has been
available to Members of the Committee for
at least 24 hours (excluding Saturdays, Sun-
days, or legal holidays except when the
House is in session on such a day). In any
case in which clause 2(1) of rule XI and
clause 3(a)(1) of rule XIII of the House of
Representatives does not apply, each Mem-
ber of the Committee or subcommittee shall
be given an opportunity to have views or a
disclaimer included as part of the material
filed or released, as the case may be.
(c) Foreign Travel Reports. At the same
time that the report required by clause
8(b)(3) of rule X of the House of Representa-
tives, regarding foreign travel reports, is
submitted to the Chairman, Members and
employees of the Committee shall provide a
report to the Chairman listing all official
meetings, interviews, inspection tours and
other official functions in which the indi-
vidual participated, by country and date.
Under extraordinary circumstances, the
Chairman may waive the listing in such re-
port of an official meeting, interview, inspec-
tion tour, or other official function. The re-
port shall be maintained in the Committee
offices and shall be available for public in-
spection during normal business hours. Ex-
cept in extraordinary circumstances, no
Member or employee of the Committee will
be authorized for additional Committee trav-
el until the reports described in this sub-
section have been submitted to the Chair-
man for that person’s prior Committee trav-
el.
12. REPORTING BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Except in extraordinary circumstances,
bills and resolutions will not be considered
by the Committee unless and until the ap-
propriate subcommittee has recommended
the bill or resolution for Committee action,
and will not be taken to the House of Rep-
resentatives for action unless and until the
Committee or a relevant subcommittee has
ordered reported such bill or resolution, a
quorum being present.
Except in extraordinary circumstances, a
bill or resolution originating in the House of
Representatives that contains exclusively
findings and policy declarations or expres-
sions of the sense of the House of Represent-
atives or the sense of the Congress shall not
be considered by the Committee or a sub-
committee unless such bill or resolution has
at least 25 House co-sponsors, at least 10 of
whom are Members of the Committee.
For purposes of this rule, extraordinary
circumstances will be determined by the
Chairman, after consultation with the Rank-
ing Minority Member and such other Mem-
bers of the Committee as the Chairman
deems appropriate.
The Committee or a subcommittee shall
not consider a bill or resolution originating
in the House of Representatives that ex-
presses appreciation, commends, congratu-
lates, celebrates, recognizes the accomplish-
ments of, or celebrates the anniversary of,
an entity, event, group, individual, institu-
tion, team, or government program, or that
acknowledges or recognizes a period of time
for such purposes, except in circumstances
determined by the Chairman with the con-
currence of the Ranking Minority Member.
The Chairman is directed to offer a motion
under clause 1 of rule XXII of the Rules of
the House whenever the Chairman considers
it appropriate.
13. STAFF SERVICES
The Committee staff shall be selected and
organized so that it can provide a com-
prehensive range of professional services in
the field of foreign affairs to the Committee,
the subcommittees, and all its Members. The
staff shall include persons with training and
experience in foreign affairs, making avail-
able to the Committee individuals with
knowledge of major countries, areas, and
U.S. overseas programs and operations.
Subject to clause 9 of rule X of the House
of Representatives, the staff of the Com-
mittee, except as provided in paragraph (c),
shall be appointed, and may be removed, by
the Chairman with the approval of the ma-
jority of the Members in the majority party
of the Committee. Their remuneration shall
be fixed by the Chairman, and they shall
work under the general supervision and di-
rection of the Chairman. Staff assignments
are to be authorized by the Chairman or by
the Staff Director under the direction of the
Chairman.
Subject to clause 9 of rule X of the House
of Representatives, the staff of the Com-
mittee assigned to the minority shall be ap-
pointed, their remuneration determined, and
may be removed, by the Ranking Minority
Member with the approval of the majority of
the minority party Members of the Com-
mittee. Such staff shall work under the gen-
eral supervision and direction of the Rank-
ing Minority Member with the approval or
consultation of the minority Members of the
Committee.
The Chairman shall ensure that sufficient
staff is made available to each subcommittee
to carry out its responsibilities under the
rules of the Committee. The Chairman shall
ensure that the minority party is fairly
treated in the appointment of such staff.
14. NUMBER AND JURISDICTION OF
SUBCOMMITTEES
(a) Full Committee. The full Committee
will be responsible for oversight and legisla-
tion relating to: foreign assistance (includ-
ing development assistance, Millennium
Challenge Corporation, the Millennium Chal-
lenge Account, HIV/AIDS in foreign coun-
tries, security assistance, and Public Law 480
programs abroad); national security develop-
ments affecting foreign policy; strategic
planning and agreements; war powers, trea-
ties, executive agreements, and the deploy-
ment and use of United States Armed
Forces; peacekeeping, peace enforcement,
and enforcement of United Nations or other
international sanctions; arms control and
disarmament issues; the International De-
velopment Finance Corporation, the United
States Agency for International Develop-
ment; activities and policies of the State,
Commerce, and Defense Departments and
other agencies related to the Arms Export
Control Act and the Foreign assistance Act,
including export and licensing policy for mu-
nitions items and technology and dual-use
equipment and technology; international
law; promotion of democracy; international
law enforcement issues, including narcotics
control programs and activities; inter-
national cyber issues; U.S. Agency for Global
Media; embassy security; international
broadcasting; public diplomacy, including
international communication and informa-
tion policy, and international education and
exchange programs; and all other matters
not specifically assigned to a subcommittee.
The full Committee will have jurisdiction
over legislation with respect to the adminis-
tration of the Export Administration Act,
including the export and licensing of dual-
use equipment and technology and other
matters related to international economic
policy and trade not otherwise assigned to a
subcommittee, and with respect to the
United Nations, its affiliated agencies, and
other international organizations, including
assessed and voluntary contributions to such
organizations. The full Committee may con-
duct oversight and investigations with re-
spect to any matter within the jurisdiction
of the Committee as defined in the Rules of
the House of Representatives.
(b) Subcommittees. There shall be six (6)
standing subcommittees. The names and ju-
risdiction of those subcommittees shall be as
follows:
Africa, Global Health, Global Human
Rights, and International Organizations
Asia, the Pacific and Nonproliferation
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE7.031 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2305
February 28, 2019
Europe, Eurasia, Energy and the Environ-
ment
Middle East, North Africa and Inter-
national Terrorism
Oversight and Investigations
Western hemisphere, Civilian Security and
Trade
The subcommittees shall have jurisdiction
over the following within their respective re-
gions:
(1) Matters affecting the political relations
between the United States and other coun-
tries and regions, including resolutions or
other legislative measures directed to such
relations.
(2) Legislation and oversight regarding
human rights practices in particular coun-
tries.
(3) Legislation with respect to region- or
country-specific loans or other financial re-
lations outside the Foreign Assistance Act.
(4) Legislation with respect to disaster as-
sistance outside the Foreign Assistance Act,
boundary issues, and international claims.
(5) Oversight of regional lending institu-
tions.
(6) Oversight of matters related to the re-
gional activities of the United Nations, of its
affiliated agencies, and of other multilateral
institutions.
(7) Identification and development of op-
tions for meeting future challenges relating
to U.S. interests in the region including ter-
rorism and cyber issues.
(8) Oversight of base rights and other fa-
cilities access agreements and regional secu-
rity pacts.
(9) Concurrent oversight jurisdiction with
respect to matters assigned to the other sub-
committees insofar as they may affect the
region.
(10) Oversight of foreign assistance activi-
ties affecting the region.
(11) Such other matters as the Chairman of
the full Committee may determine.
The Subcommittee on Africa, Global
Health, Global Human Rights, and Inter-
national Organizations: In addition to its re-
gional jurisdiction, oversight of: inter-
national health issues, including transbound-
ary infectious diseases, maternal health and
child survival, and programs related to the
global ability to address health issues; popu-
lation issues; the United Nations and its af-
filiated agencies (excluding peacekeeping
and enforcement of United Nations or other
international sanctions); the American Red
Cross; and the Peace Corps. In addition, leg-
islation and oversight pertaining to: imple-
mentation of the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights; other matters relating to
internationally recognized human rights, in-
cluding legislation aimed at the promotion
of human rights and democracy generally;
and the Hague Convention on the Civil As-
pects of International Child Abduction, and
related issues.
The Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific and
Nonproliferation: In addition to its regional
jurisdiction, oversight of: nonproliferation
matters involving nuclear, chemical, biologi-
cal and other weapons of mass destruction.
The Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, En-
ergy and the Environment: In addition to its
regional jurisdiction, oversight of: global en-
ergy trends; energy security, responses to
energy crises and challenges; international
efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions;
development of renewable energy tech-
nologies; promotion of transparency and
good governance in the global energy sector;
universal access to uninterrupted and afford-
able energy; environmental conservation and
wildlife protection.
The Subcommittee on the Middle East,
North Africa and International Terrorism: In
addition to its regional jurisdiction, over-
sight of: international terrorist threats,
United States’ efforts to manage and coordi-
nate international programs to prevent and
combat terrorism as coordinated by the De-
partment of State and other agencies, and ef-
forts to bring international terrorists to jus-
tice.
The Subcommittee on Oversight and Inves-
tigations: With the concurrence of the Chair-
man of the full Committee, oversight and in-
vestigations of all matters within the juris-
diction of the Committee.
The Subcommittee on the Western Hemi-
sphere, Civilian Security and Trade: In addi-
tion to its regional jurisdiction, oversight of:
matters relating to international economic
and trade policy; commerce with foreign
countries; international investment policy;
the International Development Finance Cor-
poration and Trade and Development Agen-
cy; commodity agreements; and special over-
sight of international financial and mone-
tary institutions; the Export-Import Bank,
and customs; civilian security, including
transnational organized crime and pre-
venting violence by state or non-state ac-
tors. With the concurrence of the Chairman
of the full Committee, legislative jurisdic-
tion over measures related to export pro-
motion and measures related to the Inter-
national Development Finance Corporation
and the Trade and Development Agency.
15. POWERS AND DUTIES OF SUBCOMMITTEES
(a) In General. Each subcommittee is au-
thorized to meet, hold hearings, receive evi-
dence, and report to the full Committee on
all matters referred to it.
(b) Scheduling. Subcommittee chairmen
shall set meeting dates after consultation
with the Chairman, other subcommittee
chairmen, the relevant Ranking Minority
Member and other appropriate Members,
with a view toward minimizing scheduling
conflicts. Subcommittee meetings shall not
be scheduled to occur simultaneously with
meetings of the full Committee. Hearings
shall not be scheduled to occur prior to the
first vote or subsequent to the last vote of a
legislative week, or outside of Washington,
D.C., without prior consultation with the
relevant Ranking Minority Member. In order
to ensure orderly administration and fair as-
signment of hearing and meeting rooms, the
subject, time, and location of hearings and
meetings shalt be arranged in advance with
the Chairman through the Staff Director of
the Committee.
(c) Vice Chairmen. The Chairman of the
Full Committee shall designate a Member of
the majority party on each subcommittee as
its vice chairman.
(d) Participation. The Chairman of the full
Committee and the Ranking Minority Mem-
ber may attend the meetings and participate
in the activities of all subcommittees of
which they are not Members, except that
they may not vote or be counted for a
quorum in such subcommittees.
(e) Required Oversight Hearings. During
each 180-day period following organization of
the Committee, each subcommittee shall
hold at least one hearing on oversight of U.S.
Government Activities.
16. REFERRAL OF BILLS BY CHAIRMAN
In accordance with rule 14 of the Com-
mittee and to the extent practicable, all leg-
islation and other matters referred to the
Committee shall be referred by the Chair-
man to a subcommittee of primary jurisdic-
tion within two (2) weeks. In accordance
with rule 14 of the Committee, legislation
may also be referred to additional sub-
committees for consideration. Unless other-
wise directed by the Chairman, such sub-
committees shall act on or be discharged
from consideration of legislation that has
been approved by the subcommittee of pri-
mary jurisdiction within two (2) weeks of
such action. In referring any legislation to a
subcommittee, the Chairman may specify a
date by which the subcommittee shall report
thereon to the full Committee.
Subcommittees with regional jurisdiction
shall have joint jurisdiction with the Sub-
committee on Africa, Global Health, Global
Human Rights, and International Organiza-
tions over legislation regarding human
rights practices in particular countries with-
in their regions.
The Chairman may designate a sub-
committee Chairman or other Member to
take responsibility as manager of a bill or
resolution during its consideration in the
House of Representatives.
17. PARTY RATIOS ON SUBCOMMITTEES AND
CONFERENCE COMMITTEES
The majority party caucus of the Com-
mittee shall determine an appropriate ratio
of majority to minority party Members for
each subcommittee. Party representation on
each subcommittee or conference committee
shall be no less favorable to the majority
party than the ratio for the full Committee.
The Chairman and the Ranking Minority
Member are authorized to negotiate matters
affecting such ratios including the size of
subcommittees and conference committees.
18. SUBCOMMITTEE FUNDING AND RECORDS
Each subcommittee shall have adequate
funds to discharge its responsibility for leg-
islation and oversight.
In order to facilitate Committee compli-
ance with clause 2(e)(1) of rule XI of the
House of Representatives, each sub-
committee shall keep a complete record of
all subcommittee actions which shall include
a record of the votes on any question on
which a record vote is demanded. The result
of each record vote shall be promptly made
available to the full Committee for inspec-
tion by the public in accordance with rule 9
of the Committee.
All subcommittee hearings, records, data,
charts, and files shall be kept distinct from
the congressional office records of the Mem-
ber serving as Chairman of the sub-
committee. Subcommittee records shall be
coordinated with the records of the full Com-
mittee, shall be the property of the House,
and all Members of the House shall have ac-
cess thereto.
19. MEETINGS OF SUBCOMMITTEE CHAIRMEN
The Chairman shall call a meeting of the
subcommittee chairmen on a regular basis
not less frequently than once a month. Such
a meeting need not be held if there is no
business to conduct. It shall be the practice
at such meetings to review the current agen-
da and activities of each of the subcommit-
tees.
20. ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFORMATION
(a) Authorized Persons. In accordance with
the stipulations of the Rules of the House of
Representatives, all Members of the House
who have executed the oath required by
clause 13 of rule XXIII of the House of Rep-
resentatives shall be authorized to have ac-
cess to classified information within the pos-
session of the Committee.
Members of the Committee staff shall be
considered authorized to have access to clas-
sified information within the possession of
the Committee when they have the proper
security clearances, when they have exe-
cuted the oath required by clause 13 of rule
XXIII of the House of Representatives, and
when they have a demonstrable need to
know. The decision on whether a given staff
member has a need to know will be made on
the following basis:
(1) In the case of the full Committee ma-
jority staff, by the Chairman, acting through
the Staff Director;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE7.032 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2306 February 28, 2019
(2) In the case of the full Committee mi-
nority staff, by the Ranking Minority Mem-
ber of the Committee, acting through the
Minority Staff Director;
(3) In the case of subcommittee majority
staff, by the chairman of the subcommittee;
(4) In the case of the subcommittee minor-
ity staff, by the Ranking Minority Member
of the subcommittee.
No other individuals shall be considered
authorized persons, unless so designated by
the Chairman of the full Committee.
(b) Designated Persons. Each Committee
Member is permitted to designate one mem-
ber of his or her staff as having the right of
access to information classified Confidential.
Such designated persons must have the prop-
er security clearance, have executed the oath
required by clause 13 of rule XXIII of the
house of Representatives, and have a need to
know as determined by his or her principal
Upon request of a Committee Member in spe-
cific instances, a designated person also
shall be permitted access to information
classified Top Secret which has been fur-
nished to the Committee pursuant to section
36 of the Arms Export Control Act, as
amended. Upon the written request of a Com-
mittee Member and with the approval of the
Chairman in specific instances, a designated
person may be permitted access to other
classified materials. Designation of a staff
person shall be by letter from the Committee
Member to the Chairman.
(c) Location. Classified information will be
stored in secure safes in the Office of the Se-
curity Officer and in the Office of the Minor-
ity Staff Director. All materials classified
Top Secret or higher must be stored in a Se-
cure Compartmentalized Information Facil-
ity (SCIF).
(d) Handling. Materials classified Confiden-
tial or Secret may he taken from Committee
offices to other Committee offices and hear-
ing rooms by Members of the Committee and
authorized Committee staff in connection
with hearings and briefings of the Com-
mittee or its subcommittees for which such
information is deemed to be essential. Re-
moval of such information from the Com-
mittee offices shall be only with the permis-
sion of the Chairman under procedures de-
signed to ensure the safe handling and stor-
age of such information at all times. Except
as provided in this paragraph, Top Secret
materials may not be taken from approved
storage areas for any purpose, except that
such materials may be taken to hearings and
other meetings that are being conducted at
the Top Secret level when necessary. Mate-
rials classified Top Secret may otherwise be
used under conditions approved by the Chair-
man after consultation with the Ranking Mi-
nority Member.
(e) Notice. Appropriate notice of the re-
ceipt of classified documents received by the
Committee from the Executive Branch will
be sent promptly to Committee Members
through the Survey of Activities or by other
means.
(f) Access. Except as provided for above,
access to materials classified Top Secret or
otherwise restricted held by the Committee
will be in approved Committee spaces. The
following procedures will be observed:
(1) Authorized persons will be permitted
access to classified documents after inquir-
ing of the Staff Director or an assigned staff
member. Access to the SCIF will be afforded
during regular Committee hours.
(2) Authorized persons will be required to
identify themselves, to identify the docu-
ments or information they wish to view, and
to sign the Classified Materials Log, which is
kept with the classified information.
(3) The assigned staff member will be re-
sponsible for maintaining a log which identi-
ties: (1) authorized persons seeking access,
(2) the classified information requested, and
(3) the time of arrival and departure of such
persons. The assigned staff member will also
assure that the classified materials are re-
turned to the proper location.
(g) Divulgence. Classified information pro-
vided to the Committee by the Executive
Branch shall be handled in accordance with
the procedures that apply within the Execu-
tive Branch for the protection of such infor-
mation. Any classified information to which
access has been gained through the Com-
mittee may not be divulged to any unauthor-
ized person. Classified material shall not be
photocopied or otherwise reproduced. In no
event shall classified information be dis-
cussed in a non-secure environment. Appar-
ent violations of this rule should be reported
as promptly as possible to the Chairman for
appropriate action.
(h) Other Regulations. The Chairman, after
consultation with the Ranking Minority
Member, may establish such additional regu-
lations and procedures as in his judgment
may be necessary to safeguard classified in-
formation under the control of the Com-
mittee. Members of the Committee will be
given notice of any such regulations and pro-
cedures promptly. They may be modified or
waived in any or all particulars by a major-
ity vote of the full Committee.
21. BROADCASTING OF COMMITTEE HEARINGS AND
MEETINGS
All Committee and subcommittee meet-
ings or hearings which are open to the public
may be covered, in whole or in part, by tele-
vision broadcast, radio broadcast, and still
photography, or by any such methods of cov-
erage in accordance with the provisions of
clause 3 of House rule XI.
The Chairman of the full Committee or a
subcommittee shall determine, in his or her
discretion, the number of television and still
cameras permitted in a hearing or meeting
room, but shall not limit the number of tele-
vision or still cameras to fewer than two (2)
representatives from each medium.
Such coverage shall be in accordance with
the following requirements contained in sec-
tion 116(b) of the Legislative Reorganization
Act of 1970, and clause 4 of rule XI of the
Rules of the House of Representatives:
(a) If the television, Internet or radio cov-
erage of the hearing or meeting is to be pre-
sented to the public as live coverage, that
coverage shall be conducted and presented
without commercial sponsorship.
(b) No witness served with a subpoena by
the Committee shall be required against his
will to be photographed at any hearing or to
give evidence or testimony while the broad-
casting of that hearing, by radio or tele-
vision is being conducted. At the request of
any such witness who does not wish to be
subjected to radio, television, Internet or
still photography coverage, all lenses shall
be covered and all microphones used for cov-
erage turned off. This subparagraph is sup-
plementary to clause 2(k)(5) of rule XI of the
Rules of the House of Representatives relat-
ing to the protection of the rights of wit-
nesses.
(c) The allocation among cameras per-
mitted by the Chairman of the full Com-
mittee or a subcommittee in a hearing room
shall be in accordance with fair and equi-
table procedures devised by the Executive
Committee of the Radio and Television Cor-
respondents’ Galleries.
(d) Television cameras shall be placed so as
not to obstruct in any way the space between
any witness giving evidence or testimony
and Member of the Committee or its sub-
committees or the visibility of that witness
and that Member to each other.
(e) Television cameras shall operate from
fixed positions but shall not be placed in po-
sitions which obstruct unnecessarily the cov-
erage of the hearing by the other media.
(f) Equipment necessary for coverage by
the television and radio media shall not be
installed in, or removed from, the hearing or
meeting room while the Committee or sub-
committee is in session.
(g) Floodlights, spotlights, strobe lights,
and flashguns shall not be used in providing
any method of coverage of the hearing or
meeting, except that the television media
may install additional lighting in the hear-
ing room, without cost to the Government,
in order to raise the ambient lighting level
in the hearing room to the lowest level nec-
essary to provide adequate television cov-
erage of the hearing or meeting at the cur-
rent state-of-the art level of television cov-
erage.
(h) In the allocation of the number of still
photographers permitted by the Chairman of
the full Committee or a subcommittee in a
hearing or meeting room, preference shall be
given to photographers from Associated
Press Photos, United Press International
News pictures, and Reuters. If requests are
made by more of the media than will be per-
mitted by the Chairman of the full Com-
mittee or a subcommittee for coverage of the
hearing or meeting by still photography,
that coverage shall be made on the basis of
a fair and equitable pool arrangement de-
vised by the Standing Committee of Press
Photographers.
(i) Photographers shall not position them-
selves, at any time during the course of the
hearing or meeting, between the witness
table and the Members of the Committee or
its subcommittees.
(j) Photographers shall not place them-
selves in positions which obstruct unneces-
sarily the coverage of the hearing by the
other media.
(k) Personnel providing coverage by the
television and radio media shall be currently
accredited to the Radio and Television Cor-
respondents’ Galleries.
(l) Personnel providing coverage by still
photography shall be currently accredited to
the Press Photographers’ Gallery Committee
of Press Photographers.
(m) Personnel providing coverage by the
television and radio media and by still pho-
tography shall conduct themselves and their
coverage activities in an orderly and unob-
trusive manner.
22. SUBPOENA POWERS
A subpoena may be authorized and issued
by the Chairman, in accordance with clause
2(m) of rule XI of the House of Representa-
tives, in the conduct of any investigation or
activity or series of investigations or activi-
ties within the jurisdiction of the Com-
mittee, following consultation with the
Ranking Minority Member.
In addition, a subpoena may be authorized
and issued by the Committee or its sub-
committees in accordance with clause 2(m)
of rule XI of the House of Representatives, in
the conduct of any investigation or activity
or series of investigations or activities, when
authorized by a majority of the Members
voting, a majority of the Committee or sub-
committee being present.
Authorized subpoenas shall be signed by
the Chairman or by any Member designated
by the Committee.
23. RECOMMENDATION FOR APPOINTMENT OF
CONFEREES
Whenever the Speaker is to appoint a con-
ference committee, the Chairman shall rec-
ommend to the Speaker as conferees those
Members of the Committee who are pri-
marily responsible for the legislation (in-
cluding to the full extent practicable the
principal proponents of the major provisions
of the bill as it passed the House), who have
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE7.033 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2307
February 28, 2019
actively participated in the Committee or
subcommittee consideration of the legisla-
tion, and who agree to attend the meetings
of the conference. With regard to the ap-
pointment of minority Members, the Chair-
man shall consult with the Ranking Minor-
ity Member.
24. GENERAL OVERSIGHT
Not later than March 1 of the first session
of a Congress, the Chairman shall prepare, in
consultation with the Ranking Minority
Member, an oversight plan for that Congress;
provide a copy of that plan to each member
of the Committee for at least seven calendar
days before its submission; and submit the
plan (including any supplemental, minority,
additional, or dissenting views submitted by
a member of the Committee) simultaneously
to the Committee on Oversight and Reform
and the Committee on House Administra-
tion, in accordance with the provisions of
clause 2(d) of rule X of the House of Rep-
resentatives.
In accordance with the provisions of clause
2(n) of rule XI of the House of Representa-
tives, the Committee or a subcommittee
thereof shall hold at least one hearing during
each 120-day period following its establish-
ment on the topic of waste, fraud, abuse, or
mismanagement in programs within its ju-
risdiction, as documented in reports received
from a Federal Office of the Inspector Gen-
eral or the Comptroller General of the
United States that have been provided to the
Ranking Minority Member prior to the no-
tice of the hearing pursuant to Committee
rule 5.
25. OTHER PROCEDURES AND REGULATIONS
The Chairman, in consultation with the
Ranking Minority Member, may establish
such other procedures and take such actions
as may be necessary to carry out the fore-
going rules or to facilitate the effective oper-
ation of the Committee. Any additional pro-
cedures or regulations may be modified or
rescinded in any or all particulars by a ma-
jority vote of the full Committee.
f
PUBLICATION OF COMMITTEE
RULES
RULES OF THE COMMITTEE ON HOUSE
ADMINISTRATION FOR THE 116TH CONGRESS
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON HOUSE ADMINISTRATION,
Washington, DC, February 26, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to clause
2(a)(2) of House rule XI, the Committee on
House Administration adopted its rules for
the 116th Congress on February 7, 2019, and I
submit them now for publication in the Con-
gressional Record.
Sincerely,
ZOE LOFGREN,
Chairperson.
RULE NO. 1—GENERAL PROVISIONS
(a) The Rules of the House of Representa-
tives are the rules of the Committee so far as
applicable, except that a motion to recess
from day to day is a privileged motion in the
Committee.
(b) The Committee is authorized at any
time to conduct such investigations and
studies as it may consider necessary or ap-
propriate in the exercise of its responsibil-
ities under rule X of the Rules of the House
of Representatives and, subject to the adop-
tion of expense resolutions as required by
clause 6 of rule X of the Rules of the House
of Representatives, to incur expenses (in-
cluding travel expenses) in connection there-
with.
(c) The Committee is authorized to have
printed and bound testimony and other data
presented at hearings held by the Com-
mittee, and to make such information avail-
able to the public. All costs of stenographic
services and transcripts in connection with
any meeting or hearing of the Committee
shall be paid from the appropriate House ac-
count.
(d) The Committee shall submit to the
House, not later than January 2 of each odd-
numbered year, a report on the activities of
the committee under rules X and XI of the
Rules of the House of Representatives.
(e) The Committee’s rules shall be made
publicly available in electronic form and
published in the Congressional Record not
later than 60 days after the Committee is
elected in each odd-numbered year.
RULE NO. 2—REGULAR AND SPECIAL MEETINGS
(a)(1) The regular meeting date of the Com-
mittee shall be the second Tuesday of every
month when the House is in session in ac-
cordance with clause 2(b) of rule XI of the
Rules of the House of Representatives. If the
House is not in session on the second Tues-
day of a month, the regular meeting date
shall be the third Tuesday of that month.
(2) Additional meetings may be called by
the Chairperson of the full Committee as the
Chairperson considers necessary, or at the
request of a majority of the members of the
Committee in accordance with clause 2(c) of
rule XI of the Rules of the House of Rep-
resentatives.
(3) The determination of the business to be
considered at each meeting shall be made by
the Chairperson subject to clause 2(c) of rule
XI of the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives. A regularly scheduled meeting may be
dispensed with if, in the judgment of the
Chairperson, there is no need for the meet-
ing.
(b) If the Chairperson is not present at any
meeting of the Committee, the ranking
member of the majority party who is present
shall preside at the meeting.
(c) The Chairperson, in the case of meet-
ings to be conducted by the Committee shall
make public announcement of the date,
place, and subject matter of any meeting to
be conducted on any measure or matter.
Such meeting shall not commence earlier
than the third calendar day (excluding Sat-
urdays, Sundays, or legal holidays except
when the House is in session on such a day)
on which members have notice thereof. If the
Chairperson, with the concurrence of the
ranking minority member, determines that
there is good cause to begin the meeting
sooner, or if the Committee so determines by
majority vote, a quorum being present, the
Chairperson shall make the announcement
at the earliest possible date. The announce-
ment shall promptly be made publicly avail-
able in electronic form and published in the
Daily Digest.
(d) The Chairperson, in the case of meet-
ings to be conducted by the Committee shall
make available on the Committee’s web site
the text of any legislation to be marked up
at a meeting at least 24 hours before such
meeting (or at the time of an announcement
made within 24 hours of such meeting). This
requirement shall also apply to any resolu-
tion or regulation to be considered at a
meeting.
RULE NO. 3—OPEN MEETINGS
As required by clause 2(g), of rule XI of the
Rules of the House of Representatives, each
meeting for the transaction of business, in-
cluding the markup of legislation of the
Committee shall be open to the public except
when the Committee in open session and
with a quorum present determines by record
vote that all or part of the remainder of the
meeting on that day shall be closed to the
public because disclosure of matters to be
considered would endanger national security,
would compromise sensitive law enforcement
information, or would tend to defame, de-
grade or incriminate any person, or other-
wise would violate any law or rule of the
House. Provided, however, that no person
other than members of the Committee, and
such congressional staff and such other per-
sons as the Committee may authorize, shall
be present in any business or markup session
which has been closed to the public. To the
maximum extent practicable, the Chair-
person shall cause to be provided audio and
video coverage of each hearing or meeting
that allows the public to easily listen to and
view the proceedings and maintain the re-
cordings of such coverage in a manner that
is easily accessible to the public.
RULE NO. 4—RECORDS AND ROLLCALLS
(a)(1) A record vote shall be held if re-
quested by any member of the Committee.
(2) The result of each record vote in any
meeting of the Committee shall be made
available for inspection by the public at rea-
sonable times at the Committee offices, in-
cluding a description of the amendment, mo-
tion, order or other proposition; the name of
each member voting for and against; and the
members present but not voting.
(3) The Chairperson shall make the record
of the votes on any question on which a
record vote is demanded available on the
Committee’s website not later than 48 hours
after such vote is taken (excluding Satur-
days, Sundays, and legal holidays). Such
record shall include a description of the
amendment, motion, order, or other propo-
sition, the name of each member voting for
and each member voting against such
amendment; motion, order, or proposition,
and the names of those members of the Com-
mittee present but not voting.
(4) The Chairperson shall make available
on the Committee’s website not later than 24
hours (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and
legal holidays) after the adoption of any
amendment to a measure or matter the text
of such amendment.
(b)(1) Subject to subparagraph (2), the
Chairperson may postpone further pro-
ceedings when a record vote is ordered on the
question of approving any measure or matter
or adopting an amendment. The Chairperson
may resume proceedings on a postponed re-
quest at any time.
(2) In exercising postponement authority
under subparagraph (1), the Chairperson
shall take all reasonable steps necessary to
notify members on the resumption of pro-
ceedings on any postponed record vote.
(3) When proceedings resume on a post-
poned question, notwithstanding any inter-
vening order for the previous question, an
underlying proposition shall remain subject
to further debate or amendment to the same
extent as when the question was postponed.
(c) All Committee hearings, records, data,
charts, and files shall be kept separate and
distinct from the congressional office
records of the member serving as Chair-
person; and such records shall be the prop-
erty of the House and all members of the
House shall have access thereto.
(d) House records of the Committee which
are at the National Archives shall be made
available pursuant to rule VII of the Rules of
the House of Representatives. The Chair-
person shall notify the ranking minority
member of any decision to withhold a record
pursuant to the rule, and shall present the
matter to the Committee upon written re-
quest of any Committee member.
(e) To the maximum extent feasible, the
Committee shall make its publications avail-
able in electronic form.
RULE NO. 5—PROXIES
No vote by any member in the Committee
may be cast by proxy.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE7.034 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2308 February 28, 2019
RULE NO. 6—POWER TO SIT AND ACT; SUBPOENA
POWER
(a) For the purpose of carrying out any of
its functions and duties under rules X and XI
of the Rules of the House of Representatives,
the Committee is authorized (subject to sub-
paragraph (b)(1) of this paragraph)—
(1) to sit and act at such times and places
within the United States, whether the House
is in session, has recessed, or has adjourned,
and to hold such hearings; and
(2) to require, by subpoena or otherwise,
the attendance and testimony of such wit-
nesses and the production of such books,
records, correspondence, memorandums, pa-
pers, documents and other materials as it
deems necessary, including materials in elec-
tronic form. The Chairperson, or any mem-
ber designated by the Chairperson, may ad-
minister oaths to any witness.
(b)(1) A subpoena may be authorized and
issued by the Chairperson of the full Com-
mittee, in accordance with clause 2(m) of
rule XI of the House of Representatives, in
the conduct of any investigation or activity
or series of investigations or activities with-
in the jurisdiction of the Committee, fol-
lowing consultation with the ranking minor-
ity member.
(2) In addition, a subpoena may be author-
ized and issued by the Committee in accord-
ance with clause 2(m) of rule XI of the Rules
of the House of Representatives, in the con-
duct of any investigation or activity or se-
ries of investigations or activities, when au-
thorized by a majority of the Members vot-
ing, a majority of the Committee being
present. Authorized subpoenas shall be
signed by the Chairperson or by any Member
designated by the Committee.
(3) At least two business days before
issuing any subpoena pursuant to paragraph
(1) of this subsection, the Chairperson shall
consult with the ranking minority member
regarding the authorization and issuance of
such subpoena, and the Chairperson shall
provide a full copy of the proposed subpoena,
including any proposed document schedule,
at that time.
(4) The requirements of paragraph (3) may
be waived in the event of an exigent cir-
cumstance that does not reasonably allow
for advance written notice.
RULE NO. 7—QUORUMS
No measure or recommendation shall be
reported to the House unless a majority of
the Committee is actually present. For the
purposes of taking any action other than re-
porting any measure, issuance of a subpoena,
closing meetings, promulgating Committee
orders, or changing the rules of the Com-
mittee, one-third of the members of the
Committee shall constitute a quorum. For
purposes of taking testimony and receiving
evidence, two members shall constitute a
quorum.
RULE NO. 8—AMENDMENTS
Any amendment offered to any pending
legislation before the Committee must be
made available in written form when re-
quested by any member of the Committee. If
such amendment is not available in written
form when requested, the Chairperson will
allow an appropriate period of time for the
provision thereof.
RULE NO. 9—HEARING PROCEDURES
(a) The Chairperson shall make public an-
nouncement of the date, place, and subject
matter of any hearing to be conducted on
any measure or matter at least one week be-
fore the commencement of that hearing. If
the Chairperson, with the concurrence of the
ranking minority member, determines that
there is good cause to begin the hearing
sooner, or if the Committee so determines by
majority vote, a quorum being present, the
Chairperson shall make the announcement
at the earliest possible date. The clerk of the
Committee shall promptly notify the Daily
Digest Clerk of the Congressional Record as
soon as possible after such public announce-
ment is made.
(b) Unless excused by the Chairperson,
each witness who is to appear before the
Committee shall file with the clerk of the
Committee, at least 48 hours in advance of
his or her appearance, a written statement of
his or her proposed testimony and shall limit
his or her oral presentation to a summary of
his or her statement.
(c) When any hearing is conducted by the
Committee upon any measure or matter, the
minority party members on the Committee
shall be entitled, upon request to the Chair-
person by a majority of those minority mem-
bers before the completion of such hearing,
to call witnesses selected by the minority to
testify with respect to that measure or mat-
ter during at least one day of hearings there-
on.
(d) All other members of the Committee
may have the privilege of sitting with any
subcommittee during its hearing or delibera-
tions and may participate in such hearings
or deliberations, but no member who is not a
member of the subcommittee shall count for
a quorum or offer any motion or amendment
or vote on any matter before the sub-
committee.
(e) Committee members may question wit-
nesses only when they have been recognized
by the Chairperson for that purpose, and
only for a 5-minute period until all members
present have had an opportunity to question
a witness. The 5-minute period for ques-
tioning a witness by any one member can be
extended as provided by clause 2(j) of Rule XI
of the Rules of the House of Representatives.
The questioning of a witness in Committee
hearings shall be initiated by the Chair-
person, followed by the ranking minority
member and all other members alternating
between the majority and minority. In rec-
ognizing members to question witnesses in
this fashion, the Chairperson shall take into
consideration the ratio of the majority to
minority members present and shall estab-
lish the order of recognition for questioning
in such a manner as not to disadvantage the
members of the majority. The Chairperson
may accomplish this by recognizing two ma-
jority members for each minority member
recognized.
(f) The following additional rules shall
apply to hearings of the Committee as appli-
cable:
(1) The Chairperson at a hearing shall an-
nounce in an opening statement the subject
of the investigation.
(2) A copy of the Committee rules and this
clause shall be made available to each wit-
ness as provided by clause 2(k)(2) of rule XI
of the Rules of the House of Representatives.
(3) Witnesses at hearings may be accom-
panied by their own counsel for the purpose
of advising them concerning their constitu-
tional rights.
(4) The Chairperson may punish breaches
of order and decorum, and of professional
ethics on the part of counsel, by censure and
exclusion from the hearings; and the Com-
mittee may cite the offender to the House
for contempt.
(5) If the Committee determines that evi-
dence or testimony at a hearing may tend to
defame, degrade, or incriminate any person,
it shall—
(A) afford such person an opportunity vol-
untarily to appear as a witness;
(B) receive such evidence or testimony in
executive session; and
(C) receive and dispose of requests from
such person to subpoena additional wit-
nesses.
(6) Except as provided in paragraph (5) of
this subsection, the Chairperson shall re-
ceive, and the Committee shall dispose of,
requests to subpoena additional witnesses.
(7) No evidence or testimony taken in exec-
utive session may be released or used in pub-
lic sessions without the consent of the Com-
mittee.
(8) In the discretion of the Committee, wit-
nesses may submit brief and pertinent sworn
statements in writing for inclusion in the
record. The Committee is the sole judge of
the pertinence of testimony and evidence ad-
duced at its hearing.
(9) A witness may obtain a transcript copy
of his testimony given at a public session or,
if given at an executive session, when au-
thorized by the Committee.
RULE NO. 10—PROCEDURES FOR REPORTING
MEASURES OR MATTERS
(a)(1) It shall be the duty of the Chair-
person to report or cause to be reported
promptly to the House any measure ap-
proved by the Committee and to take or
cause to be taken necessary steps to bring
the matter to a vote.
(2) In any event, the report of the Com-
mittee on a measure which has been ap-
proved by the Committee shall be filed with-
in 7 calendar days (exclusive of days on
which the House is not in session) after the
day on which there has been filed with the
clerk of the Committee a written request,
signed by a majority of the members of the
Committee, for the reporting of that meas-
ure. Upon the filing of any such request, the
clerk of the Committee shall transmit imme-
diately to the Chairperson notice of the fil-
ing of that request.
(b)(1) No measure or recommendation shall
be reported to the House unless a majority of
the Committee is actually present.
(2) With respect to each record vote on a
motion to report any measure or matter of a
public character, and on any amendment of-
fered to the measure or matter, the total
number of votes cast for and against, and the
names of those members voting for and
against, shall be included in the Committee
report on the measure or matter.
(c) The report of the Committee on a meas-
ure or matter which has been approved by
the Committee shall include the matters re-
quired by clause 3(c) of Rule XIII of the
Rules of the House of Representatives.
(d)(1) If, at the time any measure or matter
is ordered reported by the Committee, any
member of the Committee gives notice of in-
tention to file supplemental, minority, addi-
tional, or dissenting views, that member
shall be entitled to not less than two addi-
tional calendar days after the day of such
notice, commencing on the day on which the
measure or matter(s) was approved, exclud-
ing Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays,
in which to file such views, in writing and
signed by that member, with the clerk of the
Committee.
(2) All such views so filed by one or more
members of the Committee shall be included
within, and shall be a part of, the report filed
by the Committee with respect to that meas-
ure or matter.
(3) The report of the Committee upon that
measure or matter shall be printed in a sin-
gle volume which—
(A) shall include all supplemental, minor-
ity, additional or dissenting views, in the
form submitted, by the time of the filing of
the report, and
(B) shall bear upon its cover a recital that
any such supplemental, minority, additional,
or dissenting views (and any material sub-
mitted under subparagraph (c)) are included
as part of the report. This paragraph does
not preclude—
(i) the immediate filing or printing of a
Committee report unless timely request for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE7.036 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2309
February 28, 2019
the opportunity to file supplemental, minor-
ity, additional, or dissenting views has been
made as provided by subsection (c); or
(ii) the filing of any supplemental report
upon any measure or matter which may be
required for the correction of any technical
error in a previous report made by the Com-
mittee upon that measure or matter.
(4) shall, when appropriate, contain the
documents required by clause 3(e) of Rule
XIII of the Rules of the House.
(e) The Chairperson, following consulta-
tion with the ranking minority member, is
directed to offer a motion under clause 1 of
rule XXII of the Rules of the House of Rep-
resentatives relating to going to conference
with the Senate, whenever the Chairperson
considers it appropriate.
(f) If hearings have been held on any such
measure or matter so reported, the Com-
mittee shall make every reasonable effort to
have such hearings published and available
to the members of the House prior to the
consideration of such measure or matter in
the House.
(g) The Chairperson may designate any
majority member of the Committee to act as
floor manager of a bill or resolution during
its consideration in the House.
RULE NO. 11—COMMITTEE OVERSIGHT
(a) The Committee shall conduct oversight
of matters within the jurisdiction of the
Committee in accordance with clauses 2 and
4 of rule X of the Rules of the House of Rep-
resentatives.
(b) Not later than March 1 of the first ses-
sion of a Congress and in accordance with
clause 2(d) of rule X of the Rules of the
House of Representatives, the Committee
shall prepare an oversight plan for that Con-
gress.
RULE NO. 12—REVIEW OF CONTINUING
PROGRAMS; BUDGET ACT PROVISIONS
(a) The Committee shall, in its consider-
ation of all bills and joint resolutions of a
public character within its jurisdiction, en-
sure that appropriation for continuing pro-
grams and activities of the Federal Govern-
ment will be made annually to the maximum
extent feasible and consistent with the na-
ture, requirement, and objectives of the pro-
grams and activities involved. For the pur-
poses of this paragraph a Government agen-
cy includes the organizational units of gov-
ernment listed in clause 4(e) of rule X of the
Rules of the House of Representatives.
(b) The Committee shall review, from time
to time, each continuing program within its
jurisdiction for which appropriations are not
made annually in order to ascertain whether
such program could be modified so that ap-
propriations therefore would be made annu-
ally.
(c) The Committee shall, in accordance
with clause 4(f)(1) of rule X of the Rules of
the House of Representatives, submit to the
Committee on the Budget (1) its views and
estimates with respect to all matters to be
set forth in the concurrent resolution on the
budget for the ensuing fiscal year which are
within its jurisdiction or functions, and (2)
an estimate of the total amounts of new
budget authority, and budget outlays result-
ing there from, to be provided or authorized
in all bills and resolutions within its juris-
diction which it intends to be effective dur-
ing that fiscal year.
(d) Whenever the Committee is directed in
a concurrent resolution on the budget to de-
termine and recommend changes in laws,
bills, or resolutions under the reconciliation
process it shall promptly make such deter-
mination and recommendations, and report a
reconciliation bill or resolution (or both) to
the House or submit such recommendations
to the Committee on the Budget, in accord-
ance with the Congressional Budget Act of
1974.
RULE NO. 13—BROADCASTING OF COMMITTEE
HEARINGS AND MEETINGS
Whenever any hearing or meeting con-
ducted by the Committee is open to the pub-
lic, those proceedings shall be open to cov-
erage by television, radio, and still photog-
raphy, as provided in clause 4 of Rule XI of
the Rules of the House of Representatives,
subject to the limitations therein. Operation
and use of any Committee Internet broadcast
system shall be fair and nonpartisan and in
accordance with clause 4(b) of rule XI of the
Rules of the House of Representatives and all
other applicable rules of the Committee and
the House.
RULE NO. 14—COMMITTEE STAFF
The staff of the Committee on House Ad-
ministration shall be appointed as follows:
(a) The staff shall be appointed by the
Chairperson except as provided in paragraph
(b), and may be removed by the Chairperson,
and shall work under the general supervision
and direction of the Chairperson;
(b) All staff provided to the minority party
members of the Committee shall be ap-
pointed by the ranking minority member,
and may be removed by the ranking minor-
ity member of the Committee, and shall
work under the general supervision and di-
rection of such member;
(c) The appointment of all professional
staff shall be subject to the approval of the
Committee as provided by, and subject to the
provisions of, clause 9 of rule X of the Rules
of the House;
(d) The Chairperson shall fix the compensa-
tion of all staff of the Committee, after con-
sultation with the ranking minority member
regarding any minority party staff, within
the budget approved for such purposes for
the Committee.
RULE NO. 15—TRAVEL OF MEMBERS AND STAFF
(a) Consistent with the primary expense
resolution and such additional expense reso-
lutions as may have been approved, the pro-
visions of this rule shall govern travel of
Committee members and staff. Travel for
any member or any staff member shall be
paid only upon the prior authorization of the
Chairperson or her or his designee. Travel
may be authorized by the Chairperson for
any member and any staff member in con-
nection with the attendance at hearings con-
ducted by the Committee and meetings, con-
ferences, and investigations which involve
activities or subject matter under the gen-
eral jurisdiction of the Committee. Before
such authorization is given there shall be
submitted to the Chairperson in writing the
following:
(1) The purpose of the travel;
(2) The dates during which the travel will
occur;
(3) The locations to be visited and the
length of time to be spent in each; and
(4) The names of members and staff seek-
ing authorization.
(b)(1) In the case of travel outside the
United States of members and staff of the
Committee for the purpose of conducting
hearings, investigations, studies, or attend-
ing meetings and conferences involving ac-
tivities or subject matter under the legisla-
tive assignment of the committee, prior au-
thorization must be obtained from the Chair-
person. Before such authorization is given,
there shall be submitted to the Chairperson,
in writing, a request for such authorization.
Each request, which shall be filed in a man-
ner that allows for a reasonable period of
time for review before such travel is sched-
uled to begin, shall include the following:
(A) the purpose of the travel;
(B) the dates during which the travel will
occur;
(C) the names of the countries to be visited
and the length of time to be spent in each;
(D) an agenda of anticipated activities for
each country for which travel is authorized
together with a description of the purpose to
be served and the areas of committee juris-
diction involved; and
(E) the names of members and staff for
whom authorization is sought.
(2) At the conclusion of any hearing, inves-
tigation, study, meeting or conference for
which travel outside the United States has
been authorized pursuant to this rule, mem-
bers and staff attending meetings or con-
ferences shall submit a written report to the
Chairperson covering the activities and
other pertinent observations or information
gained as a result of such travel.
(c) Members and staff of the Committee
performing authorized travel on official busi-
ness shall be governed by applicable laws,
resolutions, or regulations of the House and
of the Committee on House Administration
pertaining to such travel.
RULE NO. 16—STAFF DEPOSITION AUTHORITY
The Chairperson may authorize the staff of
the Committee to conduct depositions pursu-
ant to section 3(a) of H. Res. 6, 116th Con-
gress, and subject to any regulations issued
pursuant thereto.
RULE NO. 17—NUMBER AND JURISDICTION OF
SUBCOMMITTEES
(a) There shall be one standing sub-
committee, with party ratios of members as
indicated. The subcommittee shall have ju-
risdiction as stated by these rules, may con-
duct oversight over such subject matter, and
may consider such legislation as may be re-
ferred to them by the Chairperson. The name
and jurisdiction of the subcommittee shall
be:
(1) Subcommittee on Elections (3/1)—. Mat-
ters relating to voting rights issues and such
other matters as may be referred to the sub-
committee.
(b) No subcommittee shall meet during any
full Committee meeting or hearing.
(c) The Chairperson may establish and ap-
point members, consistent with the ratio be-
tween majority and minority members serv-
ing on the Subcommittee on Elections, to
serve on task forces, panels, special, or select
subcommittees of the Committee, to perform
specific functions for limited periods of time,
as the Chairperson deems appropriate.
RULE NO. 18—REFERRAL OF LEGISLATION TO
SUBCOMMITTEES
The Chairperson may refer legislation or
other matters to a subcommittee as the
Chairperson considers appropriate. The
Chairperson may discharge the sub-
committee of any matter referred to it.
RULE NO. 19—POWERS AND DUTIES OF
SUBCOMMITTEES
The subcommittee is authorized to meet,
hold hearings, receive evidence and report to
the full committee on all matters referred to
it. No subcommittee shall meet during any
Committee meeting.
RULE NO. 20—OTHER PROCEDURES AND
REGULATIONS
The Chairperson may establish such other
procedures and take such actions as may be
necessary to carry out the foregoing rules or
to facilitate the effective operation of the
committee.
RULE NO. 21—DESIGNATION OF CLERK OF THE
COMMITTEE
For the purposes of these rules and the
Rules of the House of Representatives, the
staff director of the Committee shall act as
the clerk of the Committee.
f
JOINT RESOLUTION PRESENTED
TO THE PRESIDENT
Karen L. Haas, Clerk of the House,
reported that on February 15, 2019, she
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE7.037 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2310 February 28, 2019
presented to the President of the
United States, for his approval, the fol-
lowing joint resolution:
H.J. Res. 31. Making consolidated appro-
priations for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I
move that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 1 o’clock and 37 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until Monday, March
4, 2019, at 11:30 a.m.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
249. A letter from the Assistant Legal Ad-
visor, Office of Treaty Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting a report concerning
international agreements other than treaties
entered into by the United States to be
transmitted to the Congress within the
sixty-day period specified in the Case-Za-
blocki Act, pursuant to 1 U.S.C. 112b(a); Pub-
lic Law 92-403, Sec. 1(a) (as amended by Pub-
lic Law 108-458, Sec. 7121(b)); (118 Stat. 3807);
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
250. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-640, ‘‘Students in the Care of D.C. Co-
ordinating Committee Act of 2018’’, pursuant
to Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat.
814); to the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form.
251. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-639, ‘‘Local Jobs and Tax Incentive
Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public
Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
252. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-638, ‘‘Hyacinth’s Place equitable Real
Property Tax Relief Act of 2018’’, pursuant to
Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat.
814); to the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form.
253. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-636, ‘‘DC Water Consumer Protection
Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public
Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
254. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-635, ‘‘Repeat Parking Violations
Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public
Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
255. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-634, ‘‘Performing Arts Promotion
Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public
Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
256. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-632, ‘‘Economic Development Return
on Investment Accountability Amendment
Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-198,
Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
257. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-641, ‘‘New Communities Bond Author-
ization Temporary Amendment Act of 2018’’,
pursuant to Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1);
(87 Stat. 814); to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
258. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-642, ‘‘Community Harassment Preven-
tion Temporary Amendment Act of 2019’’,
pursuant to Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1);
(87 Stat. 814); to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
259. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-643, ‘‘Power Line Undergrounding Pro-
gram Certified Business Enterprise Utiliza-
tion Temporary Act of 2019’’, pursuant to
Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat.
814); to the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form.
260. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-624, ‘‘School Safety Omnibus Amend-
ment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public Law
93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
261. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-623, ‘‘Safe Fields and Playgrounds Act
of 2018’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-198, Sec.
602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
262. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-622, ‘‘Insurance Modernization and Ac-
creditation Omnibus Amendment Act of
2018’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-198, Sec.
602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
263. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-621, ‘‘LGBTQ Health Data Collection
Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public
Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
264. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-619, ‘‘Community Health Omnibus
Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public
Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
265. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-618, ‘‘Gas Station Advisory Board
Abolishment Amendment Act of 2018’’, pur-
suant to Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87
Stat. 814); to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
266. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-617, ‘‘Opioid Overdose Treatment and
Prevention Omnibus Act of 2018’’, pursuant
to Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat.
814); to the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form.
267. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-616, ‘‘Department of Consumer and
Regulatory Affairs Omnibus Amendment Act
of 2018’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-198, Sec.
602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
268. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-615, ‘‘Principle-Based Reserves
Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public
Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
269. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-613, ‘‘Safe Disposal of Controlled Sub-
stances Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public Law
93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
270. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-612, ‘‘East End Grocery Incentive Act
of 2018’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-198, Sec.
602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
271. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-611, ‘‘Disabled Veterans Homestead
Exemption Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursu-
ant to Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87
Stat. 814); to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
272. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-610, ‘‘Language Access for Education
Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public
Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
273. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-609, ‘‘Employment Protections for
Victims of Domestic Violence, Sexual Of-
fenses, and Stalking Amendment Act of
2018’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-198, Sec.
602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
274. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-608, ‘‘Public Restroom Facilities In-
stallation and Promotion Act of 2018’’, pur-
suant to Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87
Stat. 814); to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
275. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-631, ‘‘District Government Employee
Residency Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursu-
ant to Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87
Stat. 814); to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
276. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-637, ‘‘Athletic Trainers Clarification
Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public
Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
277. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-633, ‘‘Wage Garnishment Fairness
Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public
Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
278. A letter from the Deputy Chief Finan-
cial Officer and Director for Financial Man-
agement, Department of Commerce, trans-
mitting the Department’s final rule — Civil
Monetary Penalty Adjustments for Inflation
[Docket No.: 181218999-8999-01] (RIN: 0605-
AA50) received February 27, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
279. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s Major
final regulations — Regulations Regarding
the Transition Tax Under Section 965 and
Related Provisions [TD 9846] (RIN: 1545-BO51)
received February 27, 2018, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
280. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s IRB only
rule — Rulings and determination letters
(Rev. Proc. 2019-5) received February 27, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
281. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s final rule
— Section 199A Trade or Business Safe Har-
bor: Rental Real Estate [Notice 2019-07] re-
ceived February 27, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
282. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s final rule
— Safe Harbor for Determining Depreciation
Deductions for Certain Passenger Auto-
mobiles (Rev. Proc. 2019-13) received Feb-
ruary 27, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE7.035 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2311
February 28, 2019
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
283. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s IRB only
rule — 26 CFR 1.199A-2: Determination of W-
2 Wages (Rev. Proc. 2019-11) received Feb-
ruary 27, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
284. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s final reg-
ulation — Centralized Partnership Audit Re-
gime [TD 9844] (RIN: 1545-BO03; 1545-BO04) re-
ceived February 27, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
285. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s final reg-
ulation — Public Approval of Tax-Exempt
Private Activity Bonds [TD 9845] (RIN: 1545-
BG91) received February 27, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
286. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s IRB only
rule — Update to Revenue Procedure 2018-4
(Rev. Proc. 2019-4) received February 27, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
287. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s IRB only
rule — Individual Shared Responsibility Pay-
ment Hardship Exemptions that May Be
Claimed on a Federal Income Tax Return
Without Obtaining a Hardship Exemption
Certification from the Marketplace for the
2018 Tax Year [Notice 2019-05] received Feb-
ruary 27, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
288. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s IRB only
rule — Section 162(a) Safe harbors for certain
Payments Made by a C Corporation or a
Specified Pass-Through Entity in Exchange
for a State or Local Tax Credit (Rev. Proc.
2019-12) received February 27, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
289. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s IRB only
rule — Maximum Values for 2018 for Use
With Vehicle Cents-Per-Mile and Fleet Aver-
age Valuations Rules [Notice 2019-08] re-
ceived February 27, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
290. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s IRB only
rule — Making Elections under Section 179
and 168 (Rev. Proc. 2019-08) received February
27, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
291. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s final reg-
ulation — Public Approval of Tax-Exempt
Private Activity Bonds [TD 9845] (RIN: 1545-
BG91) received February 27, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
292. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s final rule
— Rulings and determination letters (Rev.
Proc. 2019-3) received February 27, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Ways and Means.
293. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s IRB only
rule — Previously Taxed Earnings and Prof-
its Accounts [Notice 2019-01] received Feb-
ruary 27, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mrs. LAWRENCE (for herself, Mr.
KHANNA, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr. POCAN,
Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY,
Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Ms. MOORE, Ms.
OMAR, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr.
WELCH, Ms. NORTON, Ms. JACKSON
LEE, Mr. COHEN, Mr. RASKIN, Ms.
HAALAND, Ms. LEE of California, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan,
Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. GALLEGO, Ms. HILL
of California, Mr. ROUDA, Ms. PIN-
GREE, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. GABBARD,
Mr. MCGOVERN, Mrs. BUSTOS, Ms.
SLOTKIN, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Mr.
CARBAJAL, Mr. DELGADO, Mr. KILDEE,
Ms. DEAN, Mr. BROWN of Maryland,
Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New
York, Mr. NADLER, Mrs. CAROLYN B.
MALONEY of New York, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. MENG, Ms.
BARRAGÁN, and Ms. PRESSLEY):
H.R. 1417. A bill to establish a trust fund to
provide for adequate funding for water and
sewer infrastructure, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Transportation and In-
frastructure, and in addition to the Commit-
tees on Energy and Commerce, Ways and
Means, and Agriculture, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. DEFAZIO (for himself, Mr.
GOSAR, Mr. MEEKS, Mr. LYNCH, Mr.
GRIJALVA, Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr. NOR-
MAN, Mr. DESJARLAIS, Mr. DAVIDSON
of Ohio, and Mr. YOHO):
H.R. 1418. A bill to restore the application
of the Federal antitrust laws to the business
of health insurance to protect competition
and consumers; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. DEFAZIO (for himself, Mr.
CARBAJAL, and Mr. PERLMUTTER):
H.R. 1419. A bill to amend the Patient Pro-
tection and Affordable Care Act to establish
a public health insurance option; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Ms. ESHOO (for herself, Mr.
KINZINGER, Mr. WELCH, and Mr.
TONKO):
H.R. 1420. A bill to amend the Energy Inde-
pendence and Security Act of 2007 to pro-
mote energy efficiency via information and
computing technologies, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce.
By Ms. ESHOO (for herself, Mr. COO-
PER, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. KHANNA,
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr.
CASE, and Mr. RASKIN):
H.R. 1421. A bill to repeal debt collection
amendments made by the Bipartisan Budget
Act of 2015, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. GOSAR (for himself, Mr. MEAD-
OWS, Mr. WEBER of Texas, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mr. COOPER,
Ms. ESHOO, Mr. NEWHOUSE, and Mrs.
KIRKPATRICK):
H.R. 1422. A bill to amend the Federal Elec-
tion Campaign Act of 1971 to prohibit the ac-
ceptance by political committees of online
contributions from certain unverified
sources, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on House Administration.
By Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia (for him-
self, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Ms. BASS, Mr.
BEYER, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of
Pennsylvania, Mr. BRINDISI, Mr.
BROWN of Maryland, Ms. BROWNLEY of
California, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Mr. CARSON of Indiana,
Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr. CASTEN of Illi-
nois, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. CISNEROS,
Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mr. COHEN, Mr.
CONNOLLY, Mr. COURTNEY, Mr. CUM-
MINGS, Mr. CUNNINGHAM, Mr. DANNY
K. DAVIS of Illinois, Ms. DEGETTE,
Ms. DELAURO, Ms. DELBENE, Mr.
DELGADO, Mr. DEUTCH, Mrs. DINGELL,
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. ENGEL, Ms. ESCOBAR, Ms.
ESHOO, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. EVANS,
Ms. FRANKEL, Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr.
GARCÍA of Illinois, Ms. GARCIA of
Texas, Mr. GOLDEN, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr.
GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr. GREEN of
Texas, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. HAALAND,
Mr. HARDER of California, Mr. HAS-
TINGS, Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Ms.
HILL of California, Ms. KENDRA S.
HORN of Oklahoma, Mr. HORSFORD,
Mr. HUFFMAN, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Mr. JEFFRIES, Ms. JOHNSON
of Texas, Ms. KAPTUR, Mr. KENNEDY,
Mr. KILDEE, Mr. KIM, Mrs. KIRK-
PATRICK, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire, Mr. LAN-
GEVIN, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Ms. LEE of
California, Mrs. LEE of Nevada, Mr.
LEVIN of Michigan, Mr. LEVIN of Cali-
fornia, Mr. TED LIEU of California,
Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. LOEBSACK, Ms. LOF-
GREN, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. LUJÁN,
Mrs. LURIA, Mr. LYNCH, Mrs. CAROLYN
B. MALONEY of New York, Mrs.
MCBATH, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
MCEACHIN, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr.
MCNERNEY, Ms. MENG, Ms. MOORE,
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr. NADLER,
Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. NEGUSE, Ms.
NORTON, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Ms.
OMAR, Mr. PANETTA, Mr. PAPPAS, Mr.
PASCRELL, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Ms. PIN-
GREE, Mr. POCAN, Ms. PORTER, Ms.
PRESSLEY, Mr. PRICE of North Caro-
lina, Mr. RASKIN, Miss RICE of New
York, Mr. RICHMOND, Mr. ROSE of
New York, Mr. ROUDA, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. RUSH, Mr. RYAN, Ms.
SÁNCHEZ, Mr. SARBANES, Mr. SCOTT of
Virginia, Mr. SERRANO, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. SIRES, Mr.
SMITH of Washington, Mr. SOTO, Ms.
SPEIER, Mr. SWALWELL of California,
Mr. TAKANO, Ms. TLAIB, Mr. TONKO,
Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. VAN DREW, Mr.
VELA, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. VIS-
CLOSKY, Ms. WATERS, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr.
WELCH, Ms. WILD, Mr. PALLONE, Ms.
FINKENAUER, Ms. FUDGE, Mr. LAWSON
of Florida, Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr. PAYNE,
Mr. SABLAN, Mr. LEWIS, Mr. KHANNA,
Ms. DEAN, Mrs. HAYES, Ms. WILSON of
Florida, and Mr. DOGGETT):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L28FE7.000 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2312 February 28, 2019
H.R. 1423. A bill to amend title 9 of the
United States Code with respect to arbitra-
tion; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio (for him-
self, Mr. CHABOT, Mr. WENSTRUP, Mrs.
BEATTY, Mr. JORDAN, Ms. KAPTUR,
Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio, Mr. TURNER,
Mr. RYAN, Ms. FUDGE, Mr. GIBBS, Mr.
STIVERS, Mr. JOYCE of Ohio, Mr. DA-
VIDSON of Ohio, Mr. LATTA, and Mr.
BALDERSON):
H.R. 1424. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to ensure the Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs permits the display of Fallen
Soldier Displays in national cemeteries; to
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mrs. CRAIG (for herself and Mr.
PETERS):
H.R. 1425. A bill to amend the Patient Pro-
tection and Affordable Care Act to provide
for a Improve Health Insurance Affordability
Fund to provide for certain reinsurance pay-
ments to lower premiums in the individual
health insurance market; to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. OLSON (for himself, Mr. MI-
CHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi, and Mr.
WEBER of Texas):
H.R. 1426. A bill to amend the Department
of Energy Organization Act to address insuf-
ficient compensation of employees and other
personnel of the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for him-
self and Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York):
H.R. 1427. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to provide for priority for mak-
ing payments for lodging expenses for Fed-
eral employees that are booked in places
with policies to protect individuals from se-
vere forms of human trafficking, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
By Ms. WATERS (for herself, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Mr. CARSON of Indiana,
Ms. CLARKE of New York, Ms. MOORE,
Mr. SIRES, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
GARCÍA of Illinois, Ms. JACKSON LEE,
Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, Ms. OMAR, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr.
COHEN, Mr. CLEAVER, Mrs. TORRES of
California, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. GRI-
JALVA, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. GALLEGO,
Mr. CICILLINE, Ms. LEE of California,
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Ms. PRESSLEY,
Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. LYNCH, Ms. TLAIB,
and Mrs. BEATTY):
H.R. 1428. A bill making supplemental ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2019 for the
BUILD Discretionary Grant program, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Appro-
priations, and in addition to the Committee
on the Budget, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Ms. WATERS (for herself, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Mr. CARSON of Indiana,
Ms. CLARKE of New York, Ms. MOORE,
Mr. SIRES, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
GARCÍA of Illinois, Ms. JACKSON LEE,
Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, Ms. OMAR, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr.
COHEN, Mr. CLEAVER, Mrs. TORRES of
California, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. GRI-
JALVA, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. GALLEGO,
Mr. CICILLINE, Ms. LEE of California,
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Ms. PRESSLEY,
Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. LYNCH, Ms. TLAIB,
Ms. NORTON, and Mr. SABLAN):
H.R. 1429. A bill making supplemental ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2019 for the
Drinking Water State Revolving Funds, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Ap-
propriations, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on the Budget, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Ms. WATERS (for herself, Mr.
TAKANO, Ms. SPEIER, Ms. NORTON, and
Mr. COHEN):
H.R. 1430. A bill to provide that chapter 1
of title 9 of the United States Code, relating
to the enforcement of arbitration agree-
ments, shall not apply to enrollment agree-
ments made between students and certain in-
stitutions of higher education; and to pro-
hibit limitations on the ability of students
to pursue claims against certain institutions
of higher education; to the Committee on
Education and Labor, and in addition to the
Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to
be subsequently determined by the Speaker,
in each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. KHANNA (for himself, Mrs.
WATSON COLEMAN, Ms. NORTON, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. POCAN, Ms. ROY-
BAL-ALLARD, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr.
COHEN, Mr. NADLER, Mr. WELCH, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mr. SERRANO,
Mr. CICILLINE, Ms. TLAIB, Mr. RYAN,
Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. LEE
of California, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. GON-
ZALEZ of Texas, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr.
LEVIN of Michigan, Mr. EVANS, Ms.
PRESSLEY, and Mr. SCOTT of Vir-
ginia):
H.R. 1431. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to modify the earned in-
come tax credit to account for the amount
by which economic growth has outpaced in-
come growth, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. MCNERNEY (for himself, Ms.
BARRAGÁN, Ms. JUDY CHU of Cali-
fornia, Mr. RUSH, and Mr. YOUNG):
H.R. 1432. A bill to establish a Minority
Business Development Administration in the
Department of Commerce, to clarify the re-
lationship between such Administration and
the Small Business Administration, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Finan-
cial Services, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Small Business, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi:
H.R. 1433. A bill to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to improve morale with-
in the Department of Homeland Security
workforce by conferring new responsibilities
to the Chief Human Capital Officer, estab-
lishing an employee engagement steering
committee, requiring action plans, and au-
thorizing an annual employee award pro-
gram, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security.
By Mr. BYRNE (for himself, Mr.
WRIGHT, Mr. LAMALFA, Ms. FOXX of
North Carolina, Mr. ROONEY of Flor-
ida, Mrs. LESKO, Mr. BANKS, Mr.
GAETZ, Mr. MITCHELL, Mrs.
WALORSKI, Mr. ALLEN, Mr. POSEY,
Mr. BUDD, Mr. STIVERS, Mr. GOSAR,
Mr. BISHOP of Utah, Mr. MOONEY of
West Virginia, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr.
HAGEDORN, Mr. GIANFORTE, Mr.
HUIZENGA, Mr. BIGGS, Mr. WALBERG,
Mr. TIMMONS, Mr. WEBER of Texas,
Mr. NEWHOUSE, Mr. NORMAN, Mr. SCA-
LISE, Mr. FLORES, Mr. ROGERS of Ala-
bama, Mr. SMITH of Nebraska, Mr.
HARRIS, Mrs. ROBY, Mr. WILSON of
South Carolina, Mr. YOHO, Mr.
LOUDERMILK, Mr. CHABOT, Mr. BABIN,
Mr. BARR, and Mr. DUNCAN):
H.R. 1434. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to establish tax credits to
encourage individual and corporate tax-
payers to contribute to scholarships for ele-
mentary and secondary students through eli-
gible scholarship-granting organizations, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Ways and Means, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. GARAMENDI (for himself and
Mr. LAMALFA):
H.R. 1435. A bill to direct the Secretary of
the Interior to take actions supporting non-
Federal investments in water infrastructure
improvements in the Sacramento Valley,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN (for her-
self, Mr. KHANNA, Ms. MOORE, Mr.
RYAN, Mr. CICILLINE, Ms. HAALAND,
Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms.
NORTON, and Ms. CLARKE of New
York):
H.R. 1436. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to extend the earned in-
come tax credit to all taxpayers with de-
pendents and to qualifying students, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Ways
and Means.
By Mr. CORREA (for himself and Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi):
H.R. 1437. A bill to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to require the Under
Secretary for Management of the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security to achieve secu-
rity of sensitive assets among the compo-
nents of the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security.
By Ms. HAALAND (for herself, Mr.
WELCH, Mr. COOPER, Mrs. KIRK-
PATRICK, Mr. EVANS, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. HIMES, Mrs. LAWRENCE,
Mr. ROUDA, Mr. GARAMENDI, Ms. LEE
of California, Mr. PHILLIPS, Mrs.
CRAIG, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms. DEAN,
Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Ms. SEWELL of
Alabama, Mrs. DINGELL, and Ms.
OMAR):
H.R. 1438. A bill to amend the Help Amer-
ica Vote Act of 2002 to require States to
allow same day registration for Federal elec-
tions, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on House Administration.
By Mr. WALBERG (for himself, Ms.
BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mr. DAVID P. ROE
of Tennessee, Ms. SEWELL of Ala-
bama, Mr. LOEBSACK, and Mr. MITCH-
ELL):
H.R. 1439. A bill to amend the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 to
provide a fiduciary safe harbor for the selec-
tion of a lifetime income provider, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
By Mr. WALBERG (for himself, Mr.
RYAN, Mr. MOOLENAAR, Mr.
HUIZENGA, Ms. SLOTKIN, Mr. MITCH-
ELL, Mr. KILDEE, Mrs. DINGELL, and
Mr. LATTA):
H.R. 1440. A bill to provide for the issuance
of a Great Lakes Restoration Semipostal
Stamp; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform, and in addition to the Committees
on Transportation and Infrastructure, and
Natural Resources, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee (for
himself and Mr. GOTTHEIMER):
H.R. 1441. A bill to require a report on
oligarchs and parastatal entities of Iran, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L28FE7.100 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2313
February 28, 2019
for other purposes; to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services, for a period to
be subsequently determined by the Speaker,
in each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. BEYER (for himself, Mr.
BUTTERFIELD, Mr. COHEN, Ms. NOR-
TON, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. RASKIN,
Mr. PAYNE, Ms. BONAMICI, Ms. WILSON
of Florida, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN,
Ms. MOORE, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mr. PETERS, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, Ms. CLARKE of New York,
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Mr. MCGOV-
ERN, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. SERRANO, Ms.
JACKSON LEE, Mr. TAKANO, Mr. CUM-
MINGS, Mr. HASTINGS, Ms. BLUNT
ROCHESTER, Mr. PALLONE, Mr.
MCEACHIN, and Ms. SPEIER):
H.R. 1442. A bill to amend the National
Voter Registration Act of 1993 to require
each State to implement a process under
which individuals who are 16 years of age
may apply to register to vote in elections for
Federal office in the State, to direct the
Election Assistance Commission to make
grants to States to increase the involvement
of minors in public election activities, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
House Administration.
By Mrs. BUSTOS (for herself, Ms.
STEFANIK, Ms. JAYAPAL, and Mr.
GRIFFITH):
H.R. 1443. A bill to amend title 9 of the
United States Code with respect to arbitra-
tion; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. CARTER of Georgia (for him-
self, Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia,
Ms. PINGREE, Mr. HICE of Georgia,
Mr. MARSHALL, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr.
WESTERMAN, Mr. BABIN, Mr. TIPTON,
Mr. DUNN, Mr. KELLY of Mississippi,
and Mr. GUEST):
H.R. 1444. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide a special rule for
certain casualty losses of uncut timber; to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. CHENEY (for herself and Mr.
GIANFORTE):
H.R. 1445. A bill to direct the Secretary of
the Interior to reissue a final rule relating to
removing the Greater Yellowstone Eco-
system population of grizzly bears from the
Federal list of endangered and threatened
wildlife; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. CLAY (for himself and Mr. FOR-
TENBERRY):
H.R. 1446. A bill to require the United
States Postal Service to continue selling the
Multinational Species Conservation Funds
Semipostal Stamp until all remaining
stamps are sold, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform,
and in addition to the Committee on Natural
Resources, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. GROTHMAN:
H.R. 1447. A bill to amend title XIX of the
Social Security Act to equalize the Federal
medical assistance percentage applicable to
certain individuals in the expansion popu-
lation of the Patient Protection and Afford-
able Care Act; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
By Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER:
H.R. 1448. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to waive fees for Purple Heart
recipients serving on active duty for loans
guaranteed under the home loan program of
Department of Veterans Affairs; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Ms. KELLY of Illinois (for herself,
Mr. RUSH, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. QUIGLEY,
Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Mr. DANNY K.
DAVIS of Illinois, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY,
Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr. FOSTER, Mr. ROD-
NEY DAVIS of Illinois, Ms. UNDER-
WOOD, Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr. LAHOOD, Ms.
JACKSON LEE, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois,
Mr. SHIMKUS, and Mr. BOST):
H.R. 1449. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
3033 203rd Street in Olympia Fields, Illinois,
as the ‘‘Captain Robert L. Martin Post Of-
fice’’; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
By Mr. KENNEDY (for himself, Mr.
SCOTT of Virginia, Mrs. DEMINGS, Ms.
DEGETTE, Ms. SPEIER, Ms. NORTON,
Mr. HASTINGS, Miss RICE of New
York, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. COHEN, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Ms. DELAURO, Mr. SMITH
of Washington, Mr. LYNCH, Mr.
KHANNA, Ms. MENG, Mr. SWALWELL of
California, Mr. KILMER, Mr. QUIGLEY,
Ms. MCCOLLUM, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mrs. BEATTY, Mrs.
WATSON COLEMAN, Ms. WILD, Mr. PA-
NETTA, Ms. BROWNLEY of California,
Mr. MOULTON, Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr.
POCAN, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. SERRANO, Mrs. LAW-
RENCE, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. WELCH, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. NADLER, Mr. SEAN
PATRICK MALONEY of New York, Ms.
PORTER, Mr. PALLONE, Ms. CLARK of
Massachusetts, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr.
DEFAZIO, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr.
LAMB, Ms. SCANLON, Mr. KIND, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. RUSH, Mr. SCHIFF,
Mr. MCGOVERN, and Ms. HAALAND):
H.R. 1450. A bill to amend the Religious
Freedom Restoration Act of 1993 to protect
civil rights and otherwise prevent meaning-
ful harm to third parties, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. KIM:
H.R. 1451. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit interfering with
voter registration, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on House Administra-
tion, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. KIND (for himself and Mrs.
WALORSKI):
H.R. 1452. A bill to require the establish-
ment of a process for excluding articles im-
ported from the People’s Republic of China
from certain duties imposed under section
301 of the Trade Act of 1974, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
By Mr. KINZINGER (for himself, Mr.
MCCAUL, and Mr. FITZPATRICK):
H.R. 1453. A bill to prioritize the efforts of
and enhance coordination among United
States agencies to encourage European coun-
tries to diversify their energy sources and
supply routes, increase European countries’
energy security, and help the United States
reach its global energy security goals, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs.
By Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI (for him-
self, Mr. CASE, Ms. DEAN, Ms.
DELAURO, Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr. DEUTCH,
Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. FOSTER, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Ms. HAALAND, Mr. HAS-
TINGS, Mr. HIMES, Ms. JACKSON LEE,
Mr. KHANNA, Mr. MCNERNEY, Ms.
MENG, Mr. MOULTON, Ms. NORTON,
Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Ms. OMAR, Mr.
PAYNE, Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. RASKIN, Mr.
RUPPERSBERGER, Mr. SIRES, Mr.
SOTO, Mr. VARGAS, Mr. GREEN of
Texas, Ms. LEE of California, Mr.
DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, and Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi):
H.R. 1454. A bill to provide for a 3-day wait-
ing period before a person may receive a
handgun, with exceptions; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
By Ms. LEE of California (for herself,
Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. NEGUSE, Mr.
PERLMUTTER, Mr. KHANNA, Ms.
PRESSLEY, and Ms. GABBARD):
H.R. 1455. A bill to protect States and indi-
viduals in States that have laws which per-
mit the use of cannabis, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary,
and in addition to the Committees on Finan-
cial Services, and Energy and Commerce, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Ms. LEE of California (for herself,
Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. KHANNA, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. RUSH, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY,
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Ms.
TLAIB, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr.
PERLMUTTER, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Ms.
JOHNSON of Texas, Mr. DANNY K.
DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. GREEN of Texas,
Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr. COHEN, Mr.
HUFFMAN, Mr. CORREA, Ms. JAYAPAL,
Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr.
HASTINGS, Mr. RICHMOND, Mr. CLY-
BURN, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mr. JOHNSON
of Georgia, Ms. WILSON of Florida,
Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Ms. ADAMS, and Ms. FUDGE):
H.R. 1456. A bill to amend the Controlled
Substances Act to provide for a new rule re-
garding the application of the Act to mari-
huana, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, and in addition to
the Committees on Energy and Commerce,
Agriculture, Natural Resources, and Finan-
cial Services, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 1457. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Education to make grants to State edu-
cational agencies for the modernization, ren-
ovation, or repair of public school facilities,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Education and Labor.
By Ms. MCCOLLUM (for herself, Mr.
TONKO, Ms. NORTON, Mr. COHEN, Ms.
MOORE, Mr. CICILLINE, Ms. GABBARD,
Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr.
POCAN, Ms. OMAR, and Ms. SEWELL of
Alabama):
H.R. 1458. A bill to prohibit the Corpora-
tion for National and Community Service
from removing State offices of the Corpora-
tion from States without Congressional ap-
proval; to the Committee on Education and
Labor.
By Mr. MEADOWS (for himself and Mr.
SCHNEIDER):
H.R. 1459. A bill to support security and
law enforcement training and cooperation
between the United States and Israel; to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL (for her-
self, Mr. COHEN, Ms. GARCIA of Texas,
Mr. COOPER, Ms. HAALAND, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mr. SOTO, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Ms. SHALALA, and Mr.
RUSH):
H.R. 1460. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit voter caging and
other questionable challenges; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, and in addition to
the Committee on House Administration, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. MULLIN (for himself and Mr.
FLORES):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L28FE7.100 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2314 February 28, 2019
H.R. 1461. A bill to impose sanctions with
respect to the Government of Georgia if the
President determines that the Government
of Georgia is taking actions to undermine
commitments or contractual agreements
with United States persons engaging in busi-
ness operations in the country of Georgia,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the Com-
mittees on Financial Services, and the Judi-
ciary, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. O’HALLERAN:
H.R. 1462. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Defense to submit periodic reports on the
cost of presidential travel, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Armed Services.
By Mr. O’HALLERAN:
H.R. 1463. A bill to limit the use of Federal
funds for the use of the travel expenses of
senior Federal officials in contravention of
certain regulations, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. O’HALLERAN:
H.R. 1464. A bill to enact House Resolution
895, One Hundred Tenth Congress, (estab-
lishing the Office of Congressional Ethics)
into permanent law; to the Committee on
House Administration, and in addition to the
Committee on Rules, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. O’HALLERAN:
H.R. 1465. A bill to require the Speaker of
the House of Representatives to convene a
session of the House on each day in which a
Government shutdown is in effect, to pro-
hibit the use of funds for the official travel
of Members of the House of Representatives
during any period in which a Government
shutdown is in effect, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on House Administration,
and in addition to the Committee on Rules,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. O’HALLERAN:
H.R. 1466. A bill to provide that the sala-
ries of Members of a House of Congress will
be held in escrow if that House has not
agreed to a concurrent resolution on the
budget for fiscal year 2020 by April 15, 2019,
to eliminate automatic pay adjustments for
Members of Congress, to prohibit the use of
funds provided for the official travel ex-
penses of Members of Congress and other of-
ficers and employees of the legislative
branch for first-class airline accommoda-
tions, and to amend title 18, United States
Code, to establish a uniform 5-year post-em-
ployment ban on lobbying by former Mem-
bers of Congress; to the Committee on House
Administration, and in addition to the Com-
mittees on the Judiciary, and Oversight and
Reform, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Ms. OMAR (for herself and Mr. SAR-
BANES):
H.R. 1467. A bill to amend the Foreign
Agents Registration Act of 1938 to establish
a separate unit within the Department of
Justice for the investigation and enforce-
ment of such Act, to provide the Attorney
General with the authority to impose civil
money penalties for violations of such Act,
and to require agents of foreign principals
who are registered under such Act to disclose
transactions involving things of financial
value conferred on officeholders; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD (for herself,
Mr. AGUILAR, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of
Pennsylvania, Ms. BROWNLEY of Cali-
fornia, Mr. CICILLINE, Ms. CLARK of
Massachusetts, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mr. COHEN, Mr. CORREA, Mr.
CUMMINGS, Mr. DEFAZIO, Ms.
DELAURO, Mr. DEUTCH, Mrs. DINGELL,
Mr. ESPAILLAT, Ms. FRANKEL, Mr.
GALLEGO, Mr. HASTINGS, Ms. JACKSON
LEE, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Ms. KAP-
TUR, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. KILMER, Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire, Ms. LEE
of California, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALO-
NEY of New York, Ms. MATSUI, Ms.
MCCOLLUM, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr.
MCNERNEY, Mr. MEEKS, Ms. MOORE,
Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms. NORTON, Ms.
OMAR, Mr. POCAN, Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr.
RICHMOND, Mr. RUIZ, Mr. RUSH, Mr.
RYAN, Mr. SABLAN, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY,
Mr. SERRANO, Ms. SPEIER, Mr.
SWALWELL of California, Mr. TAKANO,
Ms. TITUS, Mrs. TORRES of California,
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Ms.
WILD, and Mr. SOTO):
H.R. 1468. A bill to promote the economic
security and safety of survivors of domestic
violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or
stalking, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor, and in addi-
tion to the Committees on Financial Serv-
ices, Ways and Means, and the Judiciary, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. SCHWEIKERT (for himself, Mr.
GOSAR, and Mr. GAETZ):
H.R. 1469. A bill to amend title IV-A of the
Social Security Act, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. SERRANO (for himself, Mr.
HASTINGS, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. LEE of
California, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN,
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Ms.
OMAR, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. RUSH, Mr.
NADLER, Mr. BLUMENAUER, and Mr.
ESPAILLAT):
H.R. 1470. A bill to amend the Food and Nu-
trition Act of 2008 to provide greater access
to the supplemental nutrition assistance
program by reducing duplicative and burden-
some administrative requirements, authorize
the Secretary of Agriculture to award grants
to certain community-based nonprofit feed-
ing and anti-hunger groups for the purpose of
establishing and implementing a Beyond the
Soup Kitchen Pilot Program for certain so-
cially and economically disadvantaged popu-
lations, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture.
By Mr. SHERMAN (for himself and Mr.
YOHO):
H.R. 1471. A bill to require a joint resolu-
tion of approval for the entry into effect of
a civilian nuclear cooperation agreement
with Saudi Arabia, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. SMITH of Nebraska:
H.R. 1472. A bill to rename the Homestead
National Monument of America near Bea-
trice, Nebraska, as the Homestead National
Historical Park; to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. SMITH of Nebraska:
H.R. 1473. A bill to amend title IV of the
Social Security Act to target funds to truly
needy families; to the Committee on Ways
and Means.
By Ms. SPANBERGER:
H.R. 1474. A bill to require the Director of
National Intelligence to submit a pre-elec-
tion threat assessment prior to each regu-
larly scheduled general election for Federal
office, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Intelligence (Permanent Select).
By Mr. STAUBER (for himself, Mr.
LAHOOD, and Mr. EMMER):
H.R. 1475. A bill to create a publicly avail-
able lottery system for permits for the use of
motorized or nonmotorized boats in the
Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
By Mrs. WALORSKI (for herself, Mr.
SMITH of Nebraska, and Mr.
WENSTRUP):
H.R. 1476. A bill to provide for the conduct
of demonstration projects to provide coordi-
nated case management services for TANF
recipients; to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
By Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (for
herself, Mr. DIAZ-BALART, Mr. SOTO,
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, and Ms.
SHALALA):
H.R. 1477. A bill to require a threat assess-
ment and strategy to counter Russian influ-
ence in Venezuela, an assessment of foreign
acquisition of CITGO assets in the United
States, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to
the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. WELCH (for himself and Mr.
ROONEY of Florida):
H.R. 1478. A bill to amend the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to allow for
the importation of affordable and safe insu-
lin by wholesale distributors, pharmacies,
and individuals; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
By Mr. WELCH (for himself, Mr. KELLY
of Pennsylvania, Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire, and Ms. PINGREE):
H.R. 1479. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to include biomass heating
appliances for tax credits available for en-
ergy-efficient building property and energy
property; to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
By Mr. WELCH (for himself, Mr.
KINZINGER, Mr. TONKO, and Mr.
MCKINLEY):
H.R. 1480. A bill to amend the Energy Pol-
icy and Conservation Act to establish the
CHP Technical Assistance Partnership Pro-
gram, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on Science, Space,
and Technology, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. LEVIN of Michigan (for himself
and Mr. AMASH):
H. Con. Res. 23. Concurrent resolution ex-
pressing the sense of Congress that any
United States-Saudi Arabia civilian nuclear
cooperation agreement must prohibit the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia from enriching
uranium or separating plutonium on its own
territory, in keeping with the strongest pos-
sible nonproliferation ‘‘gold standard’’; to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mrs. CRAIG:
H. Res. 157. A resolution amending the
Rules of the House of Representatives to pro-
hibit Members of the House from serving on
the boards of for-profit entities; to the Com-
mittee on Ethics.
By Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois (for
himself and Mrs. DAVIS of California):
H. Res. 158. A resolution encouraging peo-
ple in the United States to recognize Friday,
March 1, 2019, as Read Across America Day;
to the Committee on Education and Labor.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L28FE7.100 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2315
February 28, 2019
By Mr. WOODALL:
H. Res. 159. A resolution recognizing the
100th anniversary of the March First Move-
ment and Korea’s declaration of independ-
ence from the Empire of Japan; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. BANKS:
H. Res. 160. A resolution expressing con-
cern about the threat posed to democracy
and human rights by theocratic groups oper-
ating in South Asia; to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. CARSON of Indiana:
H. Res. 161. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of the last day of Feb-
ruary each year, as ‘‘Rare Disease Day’’; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. FOSTER (for himself and Ms.
UNDERWOOD):
H. Res. 162. A resolution expressing the
condolences of the House of Representatives
and honoring the memory of the victims of
the mass shooting in Aurora, Illinois, on
February 15, 2019; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
By Ms. LEE of California (for herself,
Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. PERLMUTTER,
Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr. KHANNA, and
Ms. PRESSLEY):
H. Res. 163. A resolution urging action to
increase equity within the legal cannabis
marketplace; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce, and in addition to the Com-
mittees on the Judiciary, and Education and
Labor, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. MENG (for herself, Mr. KIM, Mr.
CISNEROS, Mr. PASCRELL, and Mr.
KEATING):
H. Res. 164. A resolution commemorating
the centennial anniversary of Korea’s March
First Movement Day; to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs.
By Ms. MENG (for herself, Ms. JUDY
CHU of California, Mr. CISNEROS, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mr. COHEN, Mr.
CURTIS, Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr.
HUFFMAN, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr.
KHANNA, Ms. LEE of California, Mr.
TED LIEU of California, Mr. PETERS,
Mr. SABLAN, Mr. SAN NICOLAS, Mr.
SMITH of Washington, Mr. SOTO, Mr.
SUOZZI, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. WILSON
of Florida, Mr. ZELDIN, Mr. MEEKS,
and Mr. MCADAMS):
H. Res. 165. A resolution recognizing Chi-
nese railroad workers who worked on the
Transcontinental Railroad from 1865 to 1869,
and their important contribution to the
growth of the United States; to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
By Mr. MORELLE:
H. Res. 166. A resolution expressing support
for designation of March 3, 2019, as National
Triple-Negative Breast Cancer Day; to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for him-
self and Mrs. BEATTY):
H. Res. 167. A resolution recognizing the
rise of cardiovascular disease as the world’s
leading cause of preventable death and dis-
ability and as the global public health crisis
of our generation and supporting the rec-
ognition of February 2019 as ‘‘American
Heart Month’’; to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mrs. LAWRENCE:
H.R. 1417.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18, ‘‘To make
all Laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying into Execution the foregoing
Powers, and all other Powers vested by this
Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.’’
By Mr. DEFAZIO:
H.R. 1418.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 (relating to
the power to make all laws necessary and
proper for carrying out the powers vested in
Congress)
By Mr. DEFAZIO:
H.R. 1419.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 (relating to
the power to make all laws necessary and
proper for carrying out the powers vested in
Congress)
By Ms. ESHOO:
H.R. 1420.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 and Article IV, Section
3 of the Constitution.
By Ms. ESHOO:
H.R. 1421.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clauses 3 and 18 of Section 8 of Article I of
the U.S. Constitution.
By Mr. GOSAR:
H.R. 1422.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8, Clause 18, the Nec-
essary and Proper Clause
In 2011, the United States District Court
for the District of Columbia held in Bluman
v. FEC that ‘‘It is fundamental to the defini-
tion of our national political community
that foreign citizens do not have a constitu-
tional right to participate in, and thus may
be excluded from, activities of democratic
self-government.’’ Bluman specifically ad-
dressed and prohibited political campaign
contributions to U.S. elections.
In 2012, the United States Supreme Court
affirmed, holding that the prohibition in 2
U.S.C. 441 (e) on campaign contributions by
any ‘‘foreign national’’ was narrowly tai-
lored to achieve a compelling governmental
interest.
Given that the Stop Foreign Donations Af-
fecting Our Elections Act supplements the
intent of these rulings and the 1966 law that
banned such contributions, it is both within
the scope of Congress’s power and is thus
constitutional.
By Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia:
H.R. 1423.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Constitution, Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio:
H.R. 1424.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The United States Constitution, Article 1,
Section 8, ‘‘To make all Laws which shall be
necessary and proper for carrying into Exe-
cution the foregoing Powers, and all other
Powers vested by this Constitution in the
Government of the United States, or in any
Department or Officer thereof’’
By Mrs. CRAIG:
H.R. 1425.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. OLSON:
H.R. 1426.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18 of the U.S.
Constitution
By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey:
H.R. 1427.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3.
By Ms. WATERS:
H.R. 1428.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, clause 1 of the U.S.
Constitution and
Article 1, Section 9, clause 7 of the U.S.
Constitution.
By Ms. WATERS:
H.R. 1429.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, clause 1 of the U.S.
Constitution and
Article 1, Section 9, clause 7 of the U.S.
Constitution.
By Ms. WATERS:
H.R. 1430.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, clause 1 of the U.S.
Constitution and
Article 1, Section 9, clause 7 of the U.S.
Constitution.
By Mr. KHANNA:
H.R. 1431.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Sixteenth Amendment provides Con-
gress the power to ‘‘lay and collect taxes on
incomes.’’
By Mr. MCNERNEY:
H.R. 1432.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States grants Congress the au-
thority to enact this bill.
By Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi:
H.R. 1433.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8.
By Mr. BYRNE:
H.R. 1434.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1 and Clause 18
of the Constitution of the United States
By Mr. GARAMENDI:
H.R. 1435.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN:
H.R. 1436.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1: The Congress
shall have Power to lay and collect Taxes,
Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay the
Debts and provide for the common Defence
and general Welfare of the United States; but
all Duties, Imposts and Excises shall be uni-
form throughout the United States.
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18: To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L28FE7.100 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2316 February 28, 2019
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by the Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mr. CORREA:
H.R. 1437.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
(1) The U.S. Constitution including Article
1, Section 8.
By Ms. HAALAND:
H.R. 1438.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution of the United States.
By Mr. WALBERG:
H.R. 1439.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the Con-
stitution
By Mr. WALBERG:
H.R. 1440.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee:
H.R. 1441.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Under Article I, Section 8, the Necessary
and Proper Clause. Congress shall have
power to make all laws which shall be nec-
essary and proper for carrying into Execu-
tion the foregoing powers and all Powers
vested by this Constitution in the Govern-
ment of the United States, or in any Depart-
ment of Officer thereof.
By Mr. BEYER:
H.R. 1442.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States. [Page H7089]
By Mrs. BUSTOS:
H.R. 1443.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. CARTER of Georgia:
H.R. 1444.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution.
By Ms. CHENEY:
H.R. 1445.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the U.S.
Constitution
By Mr. CLAY:
H.R. 1446.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
section 8 of article I of the Constitution.
By Mr. GROTHMAN:
H.R. 1447.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER:
H.R. 1448.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Ms. KELLY of Illinois:
H.R. 1449.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. KENNEDY:
H.R. 1450.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 (relating to
the power of Congress to provide for the gen-
eral welfare of the United States) and Clause
18 (relating to the power to make all laws
necessary and proper for carrying out the
powers vested in Congress).
By Mr. KIM:
H.R. 1451.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. KIND:
H.R. 1452.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3—‘‘the United
States Congress shall have power ‘‘To regu-
late Commerce with foreign Nations’’
By Mr. KINZINGER:
H.R. 1453.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the US Constitution
By Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI:
H.R. 1454.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
United States Constitution, Article I, Sec-
tion 8
By Ms. LEE of California:
H.R. 1455.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Ms. LEE of California:
H.R. 1456.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 1457.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. MCCOLLUM:
H.R. 1458.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution
By Mr. MEADOWS:
H.R. 1459.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8 Clause 11:
To define and punish Piracies and Felonies
committed on the high Seas, and Offenses
against the Law of Nations;
And
Article I Section 8 Clause 1:
The Congress shall have Power To lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises,
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States;
By Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL:
H.R. 1460.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Const. art. I, § 1.
By Mr. MULLIN:
H.R. 1461.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clauses 3 and 18 of the
U.S. Constitution
By Mr. O’HALLERAN:
H.R. 1462.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. O’HALLERAN:
H.R. 1463.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. O’HALLERAN:
H.R. 1464.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. O’HALLERAN:
H.R. 1465.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. O’HALLERAN:
H.R. 1466.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Ms. OMAR:
H.R. 1467.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1., Section 1. of the Consitution of
the United States
By Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD:
H.R. 1468.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. SCHWEIKERT:
H.R. 1469.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18 of the U.S.
Constitution: The Congress shall have Power
to make all Laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into Execution the
foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vest-
ed by this Constitution in the Government of
the United States, or in any Department or
Officer thereof.
By Mr. SERRANO:
H.R. 1470.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the U.S.
Constitution
By Mr. SHERMAN:
H.R. 1471.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the U.S.
constitution
By Mr. SMITH of Nebraska:
H.R. 1472.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. SMITH of Nebraska:
H.R. 1473.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the United
States Constitution, to ‘‘provide for the com-
mon Defence and general Welfare of the
United States.’’
By Ms. SPANBERGER:
H.R. 1474.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. STAUBER:
H.R. 1475.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE7.015 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2317
February 28, 2019
Article 4, Section 3, Clause 2 of the Con-
stitution, which gives Congress the power to
dispose of and make all needful rules and
regulations respecting the territory or other
property belonging to the United States.
By Mrs. WALORSKI:
H.R. 1476.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the United
States Constitution, to ‘‘provide for the com-
mon Defence and general Welfare of the
United States.’’
By Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ:
H.R. 1477.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I of the Constitution.
By Mr. WELCH:
H.R. 1478.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18: The Con-
gress shall have Power To . . . make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof..
By Mr. WELCH:
H.R. 1479.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18: The Con-
gress shall have Power To . . . make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mr. WELCH:
H.R. 1480.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18: The Con-
gress shall have Power To . . . make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 24: Mr. NORMAN and Mr. TIMMONS.
H.R. 51: Ms. SHALALA.
H.R. 64: Mr. JORDAN.
H.R. 144: Mr. RIGGLEMAN.
H.R. 155: Mr. YOHO.
H.R. 188: Ms. PORTER.
H.R. 230: Mrs. NAPOLITANO and Mr.
CARBAJAL.
H.R. 270: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 303: Mr. WITTMAN and Mr. PRICE of
North Carolina.
H.R. 305: Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 342: Mr. CRAWFORD.
H.R. 490: Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 500: Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 515: Ms. PORTER.
H.R. 532: Ms. GARCIA of Texas.
H.R. 553: Ms. SCANLON and Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 578: Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma.
H.R. 582: Mr. NEAL.
H.R. 587: Mr. LOEBSACK, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK,
and Mr. STAUBER.
H.R. 612: Mr. WESTERMAN.
H.R. 613: Mr. MARSHALL, Mr. KEVIN HERN of
Oklahoma, and Mr. TURNER.
H.R. 625: Mr. RIGGLEMAN.
H.R. 634: Mr. BANKS and Mr. ESTES.
H.R. 636: Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 641: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 649: Ms. OMAR.
H.R. 652: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 663: Mr. TAYLOR and Mr. CARBAJAL.
H.R. 677: Mr. LEVIN of Michigan.
H.R. 712: Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. YARMUTH, Ms.
GABBARD, and Mr. ROSE of New York.
H.R. 726: Mr. LOEBSACK.
H.R. 728: Ms. MOORE, Ms. LOFGREN, and Mr.
VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 734: Ms. MENG.
f
H.R. 739: Mr. BUCK.
H.R. 777: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico.
H.R. 808: Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms. SEWELL of
Alabama, and Mr. GALLAGHER.
H.R. 823: Mr. PERLMUTTER and Ms.
DEGETTE.
H.R. 847: Mrs. HARTZLER, Mr. CARTER of
Georgia, and Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 864: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 897: Mr. JORDAN.
H.R. 936: Mr. PASCRELL, Mr. HUFFMAN, Ms.
HAALAND, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, and Ms. LEE of
California.
H.R. 943: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 945: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 996: Mr. GUEST.
H.R. 1004: Mr. KEATING, Mr. PHILLIPS, Mr.
COSTA, Ms. WILD, Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas,
and Ms. JAYAPAL.
H.R. 1008: Mr. BEYER.
H.R. 1011: Ms. MENG and Ms. GARCIA of
Texas.
H.R. 1012: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 1013: Ms. MOORE, Ms. MENG, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL,
Ms. HAALAND, Mr. GALLEGO, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Ms. GABBARD, Mr. LARSEN of Wash-
ington, Mr. GRIJALVA, and Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 1042: Mr. DOGGETT.
H.R. 1044: Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr.
MCNERNEY, Mr. RYAN, Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Mr.
GONZALEZ of Ohio, Mr. GREEN of Texas, Mrs.
KIRKPATRICK, Mr. TIPTON, and Mr. CUMMINGS.
H.R. 1045: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. PALLONE, and Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 1050: Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. KENNEDY, and
Mr. CASTEN of Illinois.
H.R. 1054: Mr. LAWSON of Florida.
H.R. 1066: Mr. COLLINS of New York and Mr.
LARSEN of Washington.
H.R. 1108: Mr. SCHRADER and Mr. ZELDIN.
H.R. 1137: Ms. GARCIA of Texas.
H.R. 1155: Ms. SLOTKIN, Mr. MOULTON, Ms.
SHALALA, Ms. HAALAND, and Ms. CASTOR of
Florida.
H.R. 1169: Mrs. CRAIG, Mr. PAYNE, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, and Ms. MOORE.
H.R. 1216: Mr. PETERSON.
H.R. 1224: Mr. FITZPATRICK and Mr. HURD of
Texas.
H.R. 1225: Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Mr.
SABLAN, Mr. RUSH, and Mr. COLLINS of New
York.
H.R. 1234: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 1241: Mr. BOST.
H.R. 1277: Mr. BROWN of Maryland and Mr.
MCNERNEY.
H.R. 1308: Mr. BILIRAKIS.
H.R. 1325: Mr. GUTHRIE, Mr. BARR, and Mr.
FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 1327: Mr. GOMEZ, Ms. SPEIER, Ms.
ESCOBAR, Mr. RASKIN, Mrs. LEE of Nevada,
and Mr. BURGESS.
H.R. 1351: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 1360: Mr. STAUBER.
H.R. 1372: Mrs. HARTZLER, Mr. COLLINS of
New York, and Mr. KING of New York.
H.R. 1377: Mr. BURGESS, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr.
COSTA, Mr. MCGOVERN, and Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 1407: Mrs. AXNE, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr.
KELLY of Mississippi, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD,
Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mr. RYAN, Mr. WITT-
MAN, and Mrs. DAVIS of California.
H.R. 1411: Ms. SHALALA.
H.J. Res. 2: Ms. VELÁZQUEZ.
H. Res. 33: Mr. TED LIEU of California, Mr.
COX of California, Ms. UNDERWOOD, Ms.
SÁNCHEZ, Mr. VARGAS, Mr. SHERMAN, Ms.
LOFGREN, Mr. CLEAVER, and Ms. FINKENAUER.
H. Res. 54: Mr. GARAMENDI, Ms. GABBARD,
Mr. VARGAS, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Ms.
WATERS, Mrs. AXNE, Mrs. DAVIS of Cali-
fornia, Ms. LOFGREN, and Ms. SÁNCHEZ.
H. Res. 58: Ms. FINKENAUER.
H. Res. 60: Mr. LOEBSACK, Ms. WATERS, and
Mr. KING of New York.
H. Res. 63: Ms. HAALAND and Mr. GONZALEZ
of Texas.
H. Res. 64: Ms. HAALAND and Mr. GONZALEZ
of Texas.
H. Res. 65: Mr. CICILLINE, Ms. HAALAND, Mr.
SERRANO, Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Ms. MENG,
and Mr. KING of New York.
H. Res. 93: Mr. RIGGLEMAN.
H. Res. 106: Mr. CHABOT and Mr. DEUTCH.
H. Res. 110: Ms. CHENEY.
H. Res. 129: Mr. PALLONE.
H. Res. 141: Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr. AUSTIN
SCOTT of Georgia, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr. KIL-
MER, Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio, Mr. KING of Iowa,
Ms. MENG, Mr. WEBER of Texas, Mr. PETERS,
Mr. COHEN, Mr. GALLEGO, Mrs. HARTZLER,
Mr. ADERHOLT, Mr. MCCAUL, Mr. LAMALFA,
Mrs. TORRES of California, Mr. BANKS, Mr.
YOHO, Mr. CALVERT, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Mr. CARTER of Texas, Mr. WILSON of South
Carolina, Mr. LAMBORN, Mr. HUIZENGA, Mr.
COLLINS of New York, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr.
GREEN of Tennessee, Mr. GRAVES of Lou-
isiana, Mrs. WAGNER, Mr. WALKER, Mr.
ALLEN, Mr. MARSHALL, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr.
KIND, Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania, and Mr.
BROWN of Maryland.
H. Res. 142: Mr. RUTHERFORD.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE7.029 H28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S1555
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2019 No. 37
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Eternal God, Spirit of light and
truth, beauty and freedom, thank You
for Your sustaining grace.
Continue to strengthen our law-
makers that they may play their part
in the life of our times. Lord, give
them wisdom to think clearly, speak
kindly, and act bravely. Make them pa-
tient and thoughtful with one another
as they seek to serve You and country
with integrity. May they remember
that without You, they will fail to do
their best or reach their highest. Keep
them from stumbling or slipping.
We pray in Your Holy Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH). Under the previous order,
the leadership time is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to resume
consideration of the following nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Andrew Wheeler, of Virginia, to be Ad-
ministrator of the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent to speak for 1
minute as in morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEES
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President,
when it comes to considering Presi-
dential nominees, I have said in the
past that I don’t believe in playing by
two sets of rules.
If the Democrats insist on rejecting
President Trump’s Cabinet nominees
for petty policy disagreements or insist
on rejecting qualified judges based on
an ideological litmus test, they can’t
expect kid-glove treatment for the
next Democratic President.
However, I urge Senators to end this
arms race now. We can start the disar-
mament by agreeing to the Blunt-
Lankford proposal based on the bipar-
tisan agreement that was worked out
with then-Majority Leader Reid in the
113th Congress.
I yield the floor.
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
NORTH KOREA
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I would like to begin with a few words
on President Trump’s Hanoi summit
with North Korea. The President
should be commended for his personal
commitment to persuading Kim Jong
Un to pursue a different path.
By January 2017, it was clear the
prior administration’s policy of stra-
tegic patience had not worked. In ret-
rospect, it was not very strategic to sit
patiently while North Korea dramati-
cally expanded its nuclear and missile
capabilities. The Trump administra-
tion, in taking a different path, moved
quickly to adopt the policy of max-
imum pressure, rallying international
partners to respond firmly to North
Korea’s provocations. The President
also demonstrated a willingness to en-
gage the North Korean leader directly,
breathing new life into our diplomacy
to solve this seemingly intractable
problem.
The President has gone the extra
mile to demonstrate his sincerity in
wanting to resolve this issue. It was
smart to bring Kim Jong Un to Singa-
pore and to Vietnam to expose the
North Korean delegation to the kind of
economic prosperity that could be pos-
sible if he were to choose a new path.
High-level diplomacy can carry high-
level risk, but the President should be
commended for walking away when it
became clear insufficient progress had
been made on denuclearization. Kim
Jong Un now has a long train ride
home, and he will have time to reflect
on the future that is still within North
Korea’s grasp, but the President has
demonstrated that such a future must
be accompanied by real
denuclearization.
Every country has a stake in North
Korea’s denuclearization. I hope China
and other countries with influence over
Kim Jong Un will do their part to urge
him to return to the negotiating table
and seize the opportunity to bring
prosperity to the people of North Korea
and peace and stability to the Korean
Peninsula and to the region.
NOMINATIONS
Madam President, on another mat-
ter, this week, the Senate has made
progress in confirming President
Trump’s nominees. On Tuesday, Eric
Miller became the 31st circuit court
judge to be confirmed under this ad-
ministration. Yesterday, we confirmed
Michael Desmond to serve as Chief
Counsel at the IRS.
Of course, this progress is only re-
markable given the Senate Democrats’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:42 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE6.000 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1556 February 28, 2019
historic level of obstruction. As I noted
yesterday, for example, Mr. Desmond’s
nomination earned near-unanimous ap-
proval from the Finance Committee in
August of last year but only this week
received a vote on the Senate floor. So
many important roles are still vacant
with well-qualified nominees who are
ready and willing to fill them.
Later today, we will vote on Andrew
Wheeler to serve as Administrator of
the EPA. Mr. Wheeler has spent the
last year as Deputy and now as Acting
Administrator. He has wasted no time
in proving he has what it takes to lead
the Agency. In drawing on a wealth of
experience that includes service as
staff director of the Senate Environ-
ment and Public Works Committee and
a tenure at the EPA that first began
back in 1991, Mr. Wheeler has proven
his ability to advance pragmatic solu-
tions to pressing environmental chal-
lenges. I hope each of my colleagues
will join me in supporting yet another
well-qualified nominee and vote to con-
firm him.
Later today, we will also have an op-
portunity to take care of one other
long-overdue item—the nomination of
John Ryder to the Board of the Ten-
nessee Valley Authority. Even after
being reported out of committee twice
on a voice vote, this well-qualified,
uncontroversial nominee was nearly
subjected to a needless cloture vote
this week. I am glad that, instead, we
will be voting to confirm Ryder and
sending him on to work on behalf of
the Tennessee Valley communities.
THE GREEN NEW DEAL
Madam President, on another mat-
ter, I have been spotlighting all week
our Democratic colleagues’ hard left
turn toward socialism—their fixation
on gaining more government control
over more of our lives. With the Demo-
cratic Politician Protection Act, Wash-
ington Democrats want to control
more of what Americans can say about
them and how they get elected.
With the so-called Green New Deal,
Washington Democrats want our gov-
ernment to spend more money than the
entire gross domestic product of the
entire world on new spending programs
to forcibly remodel Americans’ homes,
take away our cars, dramatically in-
crease energy costs, and disarm our
economy while China roars straight
ahead. You might think that right
there is plenty of leftwing social engi-
neering. You might think it is
enough—oh, but they aren’t stopping
there, the Democrats. They are going
after Americans’ healthcare and their
private health insurance plans.
Earlier this week, House Democrats
introduced a bill that would take away
every private insurance option that
American families rely on and force ev-
eryone into a single, government-run
system. Employer-sponsored coverage
wouldn’t just be discouraged, it would
be illegal. They call this legislation
Medicare for All. It is really more like
‘‘Medicare for None.’’ It completely ex-
plodes the Medicare system as it cur-
rently exists. The program our seniors
have paid into for decades and now rely
on, the Democrats want gone—wiped
out.
Remember, by the time Americans
turn 65, most have paid tens and tens of
thousands of dollars into the current
system through Medicare taxes. Ac-
cording to one estimate, Americans
with average earnings who reached the
retirement age back in 2015 will have
paid a present value of more than
$70,000 into Medicare over the years.
American seniors have counted on
Medicare. They have planned around it,
and they have paid into it with every
paycheck. Yet now House Democrats
have decided it is time to change the
rules on them in the middle of the
game. They want to tear down Medi-
care until the only thing left is the
name and slap that name on a com-
pletely different system that a few
House Democrats invented and that
the Democratic Socialists of America
is proud to endorse. The Democratic
Socialists of America is proud to en-
dorse that. Then the Democrats pro-
pose to take that new government sys-
tem and pile every single American
into it as a one-size-fits-all—long waits
for treatment, higher costs, and an end
to Medicare as we know it—no choice,
no options, and no alternatives al-
lowed.
More than 170 million Americans cur-
rently get health insurance through
their employers. Surveys show that a
majority is actually pretty happy with
its own specific plans. Well, too bad.
The Democrats want those families
thrown off those plans. Within 2 years,
their proposal would make private
health insurance, as Americans know
it, illegal across the board. It would be
unlawful for employers to offer health
benefits to their employees and their
families. It is right there in the bill. It
would be against the law for employers
to offer healthcare to their employees.
Here is what it reads: ‘‘It shall be un-
lawful for a private health insurer to
sell health insurance coverage . . . [or]
an employer to provide benefits . . .
that duplicate the benefits provided
under this Act by the government.’’
How about that? We all remember
ObamaCare’s famous broken promise:
If you like your healthcare plan, you
can keep it. If you like the doctor you
have, you can keep your doctor too.
That was the pledge before the Demo-
crats’ policy was actually imple-
mented. Not long after, the fact check-
ers named that promise their ‘‘lie of
the year.’’
Well, this time around, my Demo-
cratic friends are not even bothering to
pretend that families’ lives would not
be disrupted. A reporter asked one of
our Senate colleagues who is running
for President, ‘‘So for people out there
who like their insurance, they don’t
get to keep it?’’ Her response? Listen
to this. ‘‘Let’s eliminate all of that.’’
This is one of our colleagues running
for President.
All the plans American families like
and rely on made illegal—illegal—by
this bill, not just unaffordable, not just
inconvenient, illegal, and all to clear
space for a new government takeover.
So how much is this massive take-
over going to cost? Well, under even
conservative estimates, this proposal
would cost more than $32 trillion over
the first 10 years—$32 trillion over the
first 10 years, more than the Federal
Government spent on everything over
the last 8 years combined.
Where is that money going to come
from? Well, I think we all know the an-
swer to that: massive tax hikes on the
American people, cuts to services, ra-
tioning of healthcare, broken promises,
and debt. That is where it is going to
come from.
Here is what one economist found in
the numbers.
The Federal Reserve’s data only go back to
1929, but it’s unlikely that the government
ever collected more than 20 percent of GDP
in taxes. To fully fund Medicare-for-all, that
figure would have to rise to more than 30
percent of GDP.
Now, look, I am sure we will hear the
class warfare rhetoric about soaking
the rich and making a small group of
Americans pay for all of this, but it
will not be true. We all know it will
not be true. The bill for this $32 trillion
takeover would land squarely—square-
ly—on middle-class families. There is
no way around it.
Even if the IRS confiscated every
dollar of Americans’ adjusted gross in-
comes over $1 million—took it all—if
the IRS took every cent over $1 mil-
lion, it wouldn’t even pay for half of
the proposal—wouldn’t even pay for
half of it.
Now, look, class warfare may be a fa-
vorite tactic across the aisle, but num-
bers are stubborn things. Math is math.
The costs would have to fall on the
middle class. Actually, they would fall
on everyone, one way or another.
That economist put it this way, he
said: ‘‘The simple fact is that financing
Medicare-for-all would require a dra-
matic shift in the Federal tax struc-
ture and a substantial tax increase for
almost all Americans.’’ Almost all
Americans.
So let’s sum it up. Washington Demo-
crats want the American people to fork
over a recordbreaking percentage of
our gross domestic product in taxes for
the privilege of having their healthcare
plans ripped away from them, even if
they are happy with what they have,
and the middle class is going to pay for
it. What a great deal.
All this, and I haven’t even begun to
explain how this takeover would cut
Americans’ access to care and degrade
the quality of care. We have all heard
horror stories from abroad about bu-
reaucrats making decisions instead of
citizens and long waits for treatment.
Last year in Canada, the median wait
time for medically necessarily treat-
ment from a specialist was 21 weeks—
21 weeks. That is the average wait time
for medically necessary treatment in
Canada—more than double what it was
up there just 25 years ago.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:06 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28FE6.002 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1557
February 28, 2019
In the UK, it is not just long waits
patients have to contend with, it is
flatout denials of care. In the first
quarter of last year alone, Britain’s
National Health Service abruptly can-
celed 25,000 surgeries—canceled them.
Imagine that—being fully reliant on
the government for healthcare, plan-
ning on a medically necessary proce-
dure, and being told at the last minute
the whole thing was called off. Wel-
come to socialized medicine. Needless
to say, if some Democrats had their
way, you wouldn’t have to imagine
much longer.
Before I conclude, I want to highlight
one more thing. I suppose no far-left
wish list like this would have been
complete without radical policies on
the issue of abortion, without trying to
hurt pro-life Americans.
Sure enough, this legislation would
shatter the longstanding consensus—
consensus—that Federal dollars should
not pay for abortions and force tax-
payers to fund abortions nationwide.
That has been the longstanding con-
sensus. Talk about a perfect case study
in the perils of a Federal takeover.
Talk about a perfect example of why
Washington Democrats should not get
the power to twist American
healthcare to suit their own radical
views—$32 trillion, every family kicked
off its insurance plans, no choice, no
options for the middle class, just a
huge bill.
The Democrats are so confident the
American people will love their new
government plan that they feel the
need to make other kinds of insurance
illegal, and Democratic Presidential
candidates are rushing headlong to em-
brace all of this—watching them em-
brace all of this. Goodness. If this is
one of their best and brightest new
ideas, I would sure hate to see the bad
ones.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
VIETNAM SUMMIT
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President,
several hours ago, in the middle of the
night here in the United States, we re-
ceived word that the summit in Hanoi
between the United States and North
Korea would be ending prematurely.
Unable to reach an understanding on
either sanctions relief or
denuclearization, President Trump de-
cided to walk away from the talks
without an agreement.
Though I don’t know the details yet,
and I look forward to speaking with
Secretary Pompeo, I was pleased to see
the President recognized North Korea’s
unwillingness to strike a comprehen-
sive deal. President Trump did the
right thing by walking away and not
cutting a poor deal for the sake of a
photo op.
Just like the President, I want a deal
with North Korea that will bring an
end to the conflict and change the
course of the region. However, I have
always been concerned about the possi-
bility of a bad deal, especially with the
other pressures currently on the Presi-
dent. A deal that fell short of complete,
verifiable denuclearization would have
only made North Korea stronger and
the world less safe, and it would have
squandered the substantial leverage
our negotiators have now thanks to the
bite of sanctions.
President Trump must now apply the
lesson of North Korea diplomacy to our
trade negotiations with China. Presi-
dent Trump must have the courage to
do the same thing with China as he has
done for North Korea. The President
must be willing to hold the line and
walk away if China does not agree to
meaningful, enduring, structural re-
form of its unfair trading policy. Presi-
dent Trump should not fall into the
trap of seeking a deal for the sake of a
deal, especially now that talks with
Pyongyang are on hold.
What he did in North Korea was
right. He must do the same thing in
China—hold out because he has the
upper hand—until we get China to do
the right thing. Just because an accord
is, for the moment, out of reach in
North Korea does not mean that the
President should be any more eager to
strike one with China if the terms are
inadequate or unacceptable.
The President deserves credit for
bringing China to the negotiating table
with tariffs, but he must not squander
that opportunity by cutting a deal that
fails to achieve American priorities.
Unless China promises to end its preda-
tory cyber theft of American intellec-
tual property and know-how, unless
China promises to stop artificially
propping up its businesses, unless
China promises to end its practice of
forcing American companies to give
away their IP to their future Chinese
competitors in order to do business in
China, President Trump should walk
away from the negotiations once again.
As important as North Korea is to
national security, China is just as crit-
ical—maybe even more critical—to
American economic security. President
Trump and his team have a genera-
tional imperative to get this one right.
They have a generational imperative
not to squander the chance to achieve
permanent reforms to China’s eco-
nomic relations with the world,
changes that would finally put Amer-
ican investors, businesses, and workers
on a level playing field.
BIPARTISAN BACKGROUND CHECKS BILL
Madam President, on guns, I was so
glad to see the House passage of a
background checks bill. I urge Leader
MCCONNELL to take it up in the Senate.
Background checks are supported
overwhelmingly by close to 90 percent
of the American people—a majority of
Republicans, a majority of gun owners.
It doesn’t take anyone’s guns away. It
simply says that if you are a felon,
spousal abuser, or adjudicated men-
tally ill, you shouldn’t have a gun, and
it takes the means to make sure that
happens.
Now there are so many loopholes in
the background check law—the Brady
law, which I was proud to lead the
charge on back in the House in 1994.
Now, some 25 years later, they have
found ways around it through the
internet and through gun shows. Just
as it was the right thing to do to close
the loopholes that existed in 1994 with
the Brady law, it is the right thing to
do to close those loopholes that have
come about since the law passed. It
simply updates the Brady law, which
has saved tens of thousands of lives.
CLIMATE CHANGE
Madam President, finally, on cli-
mate, in a short time, I will be return-
ing to the floor to lead a group of
Democratic Senators in talking about
climate change. One of the great but
positive ironies of Leader MCCONNELL’s
stunt to put the Green New Deal on the
floor is that it has inspired Members of
both parties to talk about climate
change—more than ever before,
maybe—under the Republican leader-
ship in the Senate.
Democrats are more than happy
about that. We want to turn the spot-
light back to the issue of climate
change and keep it there, where it be-
longs. Climate change is an existential
threat to our planet, not just in the fu-
ture but right now. We should be talk-
ing about climate change nearly every
day, and more than that, the Senate
should be taking bold action to address
it.
So I am glad at least Leader MCCON-
NELL is talking about climate. He just
says what he is not for.
So I will repeat the three questions I
have asked Leader MCCONNELL repeat-
edly: One, Leader MCCONNELL, do you
believe that climate change is real?
Two, do you believe, Leader MCCON-
NELL, that it is caused by humans?
Three, do you believe Congress should
take immediate action to address the
crisis of climate change?
Until Leader MCCONNELL puts some-
thing positive on the floor and starts
talking positively, no one is going to
pay much attention to his stunts and
his gambits, but, certainly, we Demo-
crats are energized to talk positively
about the things we want to do to deal
with this issue, and we will be positive
and discuss positive proposals until we
get something done in this Chamber.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority whip is recognized.
ECONOMIC GROWTH
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, just
in getting started this morning, I
wanted to take a minute to mention
the good news on economic growth we
received this morning.
While headlines mentioned the very
solid 2.9 percent growth number for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:06 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28FE6.003 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1558 February 28, 2019
2018, if we use the measure that econo-
mists prefer, the news is even better—
3.1 percent growth from the fourth
quarter of 2017 to the fourth quarter of
2018. This is just more evidence that
Republican economic policies are
working.
We lifted burdensome regulations and
passed a comprehensive reform of our
Tax Code to put more money in Ameri-
cans’ pockets and make it easier for
businesses to grow and expand jobs.
Now we are seeing the effects.
Unemployment is low. January
marked the 11th straight month that
unemployment has been at or below 4
percent. That is the longest streak in
nearly five decades. The number of job
openings hit a record high in Decem-
ber, and, once again, there were more
job openings than job seekers. Wage
growth has accelerated. Wages have
now been growing at a rate of 3 percent
or greater for 6 straight months. The
last time wage growth reached this
level was in 2009. Median household in-
come is at an all-time, inflation-ad-
justed record of $61,372. The list goes
on.
What does all of this mean? It means
more money in American families’
bank accounts, more jobs and opportu-
nities for American workers, more
Americans feeling hopeful about their
future.
Republican economic policies are
making life better for American fami-
lies, which is why it is particularly dis-
turbing that Democrats are currently
advancing policies that would not only
destroy the economic progress we have
made but would severely damage our
economy for the long term.
THE GREEN NEW DEAL
Madam President, yesterday, I came
down and talked about the so-called
Green New Deal, which is a fantasy put
forward by a number of our colleagues
on the other side. I think 11 Demo-
cratic Senators have cosponsored that
legislation, which the early analysis
shows would cost somewhere between
$51 trillion and $94 trillion over the
next decade. To put that into more per-
sonal terms, that is $600,000 per family
in this country—the cost of the Green
New Deal.
My colleague from Illinois, the
Democratic whip, was asked about it
on an interview recently, and he re-
sponded by saying that he had read and
reread the proposal and still doesn’t
know what the heck it is. Well, that is
an honest answer. But I think what we
do know is that this is a proposal that
will dramatically, massively drive up
costs for American families. It would
be a disaster for the pocketbooks of the
people of this country, which brings me
to my topic for today.
On Tuesday, POLITICO released an
article with this headline: ‘‘House
Democrats to release ‘Medicare for All’
bill—without a price tag.’’ That was
the headline.
This is becoming par for the course
for Democrats. First we get the Green
New Deal resolution without a
pricetag. Now we get Medicare for All,
also without a pricetag. Why? Well, be-
cause there is no way to actually pay
for these socialist fantasies. They
sound nice, until you actually look at
the staggering costs.
Imagine if you decided that you need-
ed to repair the plumbing at your
house, and the plumber came and sug-
gested that not only should you repair
the plumbing, you should rebuild the
house from the ground up. Then he
wanted you to sign on for demolition
and reconstruction without telling you
how much it would cost.
That is what Democrats are trying to
do on a grand scale here. They want to
overhaul large parts of the economy
and rebuild them on socialist lines, all
without telling you what it will cost or
how they will pay for it.
Of course, while it is irresponsible, it
is not surprising that Democrats don’t
want to discuss the pricetag for their
fantasies, because there is no way to
pay for these massive government
takeovers without taxing ordinary
Americans.
Democrats make vague suggestions
that these programs can be paid for by
taxing the rich. That is always the
line. But the truth is that taxing mil-
lionaires at a 100-percent income tax
rate would not pay for these programs.
Taxing Americans making much less
than $1 million at a 100-percent rate
wouldn’t pay for these programs.
The cost of these programs will never
be borne just by millionaires. These
programs will be paid for on the backs
of working families in this country.
That is the pure and simple reality.
A left-leaning think tank modeled a
version of the Medicare for All plan
proposed by the junior Senator from
Vermont and found that it would cost a
staggering $32 trillion over 10 years—
$32 trillion—and it is possible that the
House Democrats’ plan could cost even
more.
POLITICO noted in their story that,
unlike the plan of the Senator from
Vermont, the House Democrats’ plan
would also ‘‘fund long-term care, a par-
ticularly expensive part of the health
system.’’
But moving away from the stag-
gering pricetag, let’s talk about what
life would be like under Medicare for
All.
For starters, of course, it would
mean that Americans would lose their
private insurance, even if they like
their private insurance. Democrats
have been very clear about this.
At a CNN townhall just this week,
the junior Senator from Vermont was
asked, ‘‘Will these people be able to
keep their health insurance plans,
their private plans through their em-
ployers, if there is a Medicare for All
program that you endorse?’’
The Senator from Vermont’s re-
sponse: ‘‘No.’’
Another Democratic candidate for
President, the junior Senator from New
York, was recently asked:
Should ending private insurance, as we
know it, be a Democratic . . . goal, and do
you think it’s an urgent goal?
Her response:
Oh yeah, it is a goal. An urgent goal.
So if you like your health insurance,
you definitely will not be able to keep
it. You will be forced into the govern-
ment healthcare plan, whether you like
that plan or not. Then, of course, you
will be facing long wait times and like-
ly a limited choice of doctors and hos-
pitals, and you will have fewer options
if the government decides a particular
treatment isn’t cost-effective and
shouldn’t be covered.
Democrats can talk all they want
about generous coverage, but what
happens when they don’t have the
money for that generous coverage? We
already know this program is likely to
cost more than $30 trillion over just 10
years, and government programs aren’t
exactly known for staying under budg-
et.
What happens if it ends up costing
more or if the government can’t even
pay the $32 trillion that we know it is
going to cost? Well, there will be still
more taxes, undoubtedly, but also re-
ductions in coverage and care.
Our Nation’s current Medicare Pro-
gram is going bankrupt. If action isn’t
taken, in 2026 Medicare will not be able
to pay the benefits that are promised
under current law. Yet Democrats are
suggesting that we more than quin-
tuple the size of the program and that
somehow we will be able to pay for
that.
If we ever do pay for Medicare for
All, we will pay for it by taking the
money from the American people
through devastating tax increases that
will permanently reduce Americans’
standard of living and permanently
damage our economy.
Like all socialist dreams, Medicare
for All would quickly become a night-
mare for the American people.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. UDALL. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
(The remarks of Senator UDALL and
Senator COLLINS pertaining to the sub-
mission of S.J. Res. 10 are printed in
today’s RECORD under ‘‘Submitted Res-
olutions.’’)
Ms. COLLINS. I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SCOTT of Florida). The clerk will call
the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
(The remarks of Mr. SCHUMER per-
taining to the introduction of S.J. Res.
9 are printed in today’s RECORD under
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:06 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28FE6.006 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1559
February 28, 2019
‘‘Statements on Introduced Bills and
Joint Resolutions.’’)
CLIMATE CHANGE
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, now I
want to address two more issues re-
lated to this topic.
First, are the reports that the Presi-
dent is planning to create a panel of
cherry-picked scientists who question
the severity of climate change to
‘‘counter’’ the scientific consensus. I
mentioned these reports earlier this
week, but I want to update my friends
in this Chamber that Democrats are in
the process of preparing legislation
that would defund this fake climate
panel. We hope this legislation, like
our resolution, will eventually be bi-
partisan because it shouldn’t be par-
tisan to oppose a group of handpicked
climate deniers spreading the fossil
fuel industry’s propaganda under the
imprimatur of the White House. It
shouldn’t be partisan to oppose the ad-
ministration’s setting up its own Or-
wellian Ministry of Truth on climate
change.
So I urge my friends on the other
side of the aisle who believe in climate
science to sign on to our legislation
once we have it ready.
NOMINATION OF ANDREW WHEELER
Mr. President, second is the nomina-
tion of Andrew Wheeler to be the next
Administrator of the EPA—a question
currently before the Senate. I opposed
Mr. Wheeler’s nomination to be the
Deputy Administrator, and I will op-
pose his nomination to be Adminis-
trator as well.
I opposed Mr. Wheeler initially be-
cause I thought his career as a lobbyist
working on behalf of big polluters and
climate deniers was exactly the wrong
kind of experience for a job at the EPA,
the Environmental Protection Agency.
He spent most of his career lobbying
against the same environmental pro-
tections he now oversees, and his time
at the EPA has done little to assuage
my original concerns.
Mr. Wheeler has failed to take mean-
ingful action on toxic chemicals, in-
cluding the chemical PFAS, which has
plagued my home State. He has
downplayed the severity of climate
change and undermined several EPA
programs that seek to address it, in-
cluding the regulation of poisonous
mercury from powerplants, efforts to
reduce carbon emissions from cars and
trucks, as well as replacing the Clean
Power Plan.
At a time when climate change is the
No. 1 threat facing our planet, install-
ing a man such as Mr. Wheeler as per-
manent Administrator of the EPA—the
Environmental Protection Agency—is
the wrong thing to do.
So as I said earlier this morning,
Leader MCCONNELL’s move to bring the
Green New Deal forward is nothing
more than a stunt, but one of the great
and positive ironies is that, finally,
folks are talking about climate change
again, more than at any time I can
think of under this Republican major-
ity.
If and when Leader MCCONNELL
brings his version of the Green New
Deal forward for a vote, we will de-
mand that Republicans first answer the
core questions on climate change.
Again, three simple things: Do you
believe climate change is real and hap-
pening? Do you believe human activity
contributes to it? Do you believe Con-
gress must act to address this pressing
challenge?
If Leader MCCONNELL and my Repub-
lican friends can’t answer those three
questions—run away from them—the
American people will see right through
the ploy. The American people will see
that Leader MCCONNELL and his party
stand against science and against facts,
ostriches with their heads buried in the
sand as the tide swiftly comes in.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island is recognized.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President,
our Democratic leader has set three
plain and very obvious questions about
fossil fuel-burning carbon emissions
and climate change that should be eas-
ily answered by every single Member of
the Senate, and the fact that this is a
problem is a clear indication of fossil
fuel influence in this body—the regret-
table extent of fossil fuel influence in
this body.
It was not always this way. Here is a
letter that a number of us came to the
floor to talk about yesterday. The let-
ter was written December 23, 1986.
There had been hearings on climate
change in the Environment and Public
Works Committee, and a bipartisan
group of Senators wanted some an-
swers. They wrote this letter to what
then existed, an Office of Technology
Assessment for the Congress, inquiring
about how serious they felt this was
and what could be done about it, signed
by Senator Stafford, Senator Chafee,
Senator Durenberger, and three Demo-
crats in 1986. I do not believe that a Re-
publican Senator could be found to sign
this letter today.
I got here in 2007, and for that year,
and in 2008 and 2009, we had multiple
bipartisan climate bills being discussed
in this body. Over and over again, there
were a Democrat and Republican who
got together and worked to try to solve
the climate problem—more than a dec-
ade ago. We have seen bipartisanship
on this issue.
We have even seen, in 2009, this New
York Times full-page advertisement
signed by Donald J. Trump, which said
that the science of climate change is
‘‘scientifically irrefutable.’’ Those were
his words, not mine, in 2009, which said
that if we don’t act there would be
‘‘catastrophic and irreversible con-
sequences for humanity and our plan-
et’’—his words, not mine. That was
1986, that was 2007, and this was 2009.
Then something happened. Citizens
United got decided by the Supreme
Court or, to be fair to the Supreme
Court, Citizens United got decided by
five Republican appointees on the Su-
preme Court.
In my view, the fossil fuel industry
asked for that decision, predicted that
decision, and they were off like a
sprinter at the gun when they got that
decision. From that moment, all of
that bipartisan activity on climate
change here in the Senate ended, and it
ended because the fossil fuel industry
was allowed to spend unlimited money
in politics. They found out how to
spend unlimited dark money in poli-
tics. It is politically obvious that if one
can spend unlimited money in politics,
one can also threaten to spend unlim-
ited money in politics. So between the
unlimited spending and the unlimited,
anonymous dark money spending and
whatever they did in the way of threats
and promises, it has been like a heart
attack—flatlined—here in the Senate,
since that moment. It is a tragedy.
In fact, if you go back to this letter
for a minute, there were six signato-
ries. We couldn’t get six States to come
to the floor yesterday because one of
these States has two Republican Sen-
ators, and we couldn’t get either of
them to come to the floor.
I don’t know what has happened to
the Republican Party that they can’t
take this seriously even now—even as
States like Florida are flooding on
sunny days, even as States see
wildfires they have never seen before,
even as farmers are recording drought
and flood conditions that are unprece-
dented, even as my State looks forward
to 5 or 6 feet of sea level rise.
And then we got a clue as to what
goes on here. This is a letter that was
written on behalf of Andrew Wheeler,
who is the slightly cleaned-up version
of Scott Pruitt and who is pending be-
fore us to lead the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency. It ought to tell us a lot
that the Republicans put up a coal lob-
byist to represent the people of Amer-
ica leading the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency.
What tells you a lot also is this letter
of support for this guy. Who is on it?
These are these phony-baloney front
group organizations funded by the fos-
sil fuel industry that got together to
write this letter:
The Heartland Institute. Koch-affili-
ated groups gave it $7.18 million, and
$730,000 came from Exxon. Heartland is
such a slippery, slimy group that they
compared climate scientists to the
Unabomber. That is the company that
they travel in.
The Cornwall Alliance. Secret fund-
ing—we don’t know, but they are al-
ways in this climate-denier fringe
crowd. The founder doesn’t believe in
evolution. He said that tornadoes are a
punishment from God, and that AIDS
is punishment for being gay. You are
running in great company with them,
guys.
FreedomWorks is next. They received
$2.5 million from Koch-affiliated
groups, and at least $130,000 from the
American Petroleum Institute.
The Competitive Enterprise Institute
is next, with at least $2 million given
from Exxon, and Koch-affiliated groups
gave at least $5.2 million.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:06 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28FE6.009 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1560 February 28, 2019
Americans for Prosperity. This is ba-
sically the hit squad for the Kochs in
politics. It is one of the largest dark-
money election spenders, spending
more than $70 million since Citizens
United on Federal elections. They re-
ceived a minimum of $12 million, that
we know of, in funding from the Kochs
and more than $23 million from the
Koch-linked Donors Trust. Donors
Trust, by the way, is a big enterprise
whose sole purpose is to launder away
the identity of big donors so that their
money can flow without people know-
ing who is behind it.
Americans for Limited Government
received at least $5.6 million from
Koch-affiliated groups.
Freedom Partners is described as
‘‘the Koch brothers’ secret bank.’’ It
has spent more than $55 million in dark
money on Federal elections since Citi-
zens United and received at least $3
million from the Kochs, but, as usual,
its funders are shrouded in secrecy.
Americans for Tax Reform. The
American Petroleum Institute gave at
least $525,000, and Koch-affiliated
groups gave at least $330,000.
The Energy and Environmental Legal
Institute received at least half a mil-
lion dollars from Koch-affiliated
groups.
CFACT received at least $580,000 in
funding from Exxon and more than $8
million from Koch-linked groups.
Then, at the bottom is this little
Caesar Rodney Institute, which is part
of the larger State Policy Network,
funded by the Kochs to spread their
propaganda and poison into State legis-
latures.
This crew of fossil-fuel-funded, cli-
mate-denying front groups have re-
ceived a minimum of more than $63
million from the fossil fuel industry,
and this is why we have Andrew Wheel-
er, a coal lobbyist, lined up to run our
environmental agency in this country.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Mexico.
Mr. HEINRICH. Mr. President, I rise
today to state the obvious—to state in
clear terms what scientists have been
warning us about for decades. The sci-
entific data couldn’t be any clearer.
Climate change is real. Climate change
is here, and we are causing its dev-
astating impacts and disruptions. Un-
less we start to implement policies to
curb our carbon emissions and to miti-
gate its impacts, climate change will
continue to wreak havoc upon commu-
nities across the Nation and around the
world.
These are facts. These facts present
us with the greatest and most existen-
tial global challenge humanity has lit-
erally ever faced. There are not two
sides to these facts. The Earth’s five
warmest years on record happened
since 2014. It is not a coincidence. It is
not an unexplained phenomenon. It is
the direct result of both our actions
and our inactions. Only the willfully
ignorant refuse to acknowledge these
facts and the gravity and urgency of
what we face because of the fact of
human-caused climate change.
Unfortunately, the current occupant
of the White House and too many here
in Washington can be counted in that
camp. President Trump’s decision to
upend the Clean Power Plan and pull
us out of the Paris climate accord was
perhaps the most consequential rep-
resentation of his inward-looking, iso-
lationist view for America. It was a
dangerous abdication of our Nation’s
leadership role on the international
stage, and if we choose to accept his
failure to lead here in Congress, we will
continue down a path toward a very
real and very costly climate disrup-
tion.
In the coming weeks, Majority Lead-
er MCCONNELL says he plans to call a
vote here on the Senate on the Green
New Deal resolution. I wish this were a
genuine effort to address our climate
challenges. Clearly, it is not. It is a po-
litical stunt by the majority leader to
divide those who actually want to rise
to the occasion and who actually want
to address this crisis, rather than offer
up any substantive solutions of his
own.
The majority leader would have you
believe that solutions to climate
change are too costly or they are just
too impractical to be taken seriously. I
don’t know about you, but to me, it is
that view that is wildly out of touch
and, frankly, dangerous.
President Trump and Republicans
love to talk about the cost of climate
action. What we should be focusing on
is the much steeper cost of inaction
and the economic benefits of America’s
leading the clean energy transition.
As an engineer, I am certain that our
capacity to confront the challenges
that we face, large and small, rests
heavily on our ability to make policy
that is actually driven by facts, by
data, and by the best available science.
The latest data on climate change
should be deeply alarming to all of us.
Last fall, the U.N. Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change released a re-
port based on the research of thousands
of our planet’s leading climate sci-
entists. It laid out in stark terms how
critical it is for us to find a way to
limit the planet’s warming. Unless we
can reduce global carbon emissions by
45 percent by 2030 and reach net-zero
emissions by 2050, it will be nearly im-
possible to keep global temperatures
below a rise of 3 degrees Fahrenheit by
the end of the century.
I know that is a lot of numbers, but
what those numbers mean in terms of
real ecological, economic, and humani-
tarian costs is incredibly important.
Global average temperatures have al-
ready risen by nearly 2 degrees Fahr-
enheit, and that change is wreaking
havoc on communities around the
world.
One month after the U.N. released its
landmark report, 13 Federal Agencies
finalized the ‘‘Fourth National Climate
Assessment,’’ a report mandated by
Congress to study the evidence and the
impacts of current climate change.
That report provided clear, indis-
putable evidence that the destructive
wildfires, the catastrophic hurricanes,
and the extreme flooding that we have
seen in just the last couple of years is
directly linked to human-caused cli-
mate change. These disasters are cost-
ing us billions of dollars each and every
year.
The Pentagon has correctly called
climate change a threat multiplier,
meaning that climate impacts will am-
plify the existing threats to our na-
tional security. These are massive
problems today—right now—not in
some far off future. We need to recog-
nize what the science is telling us. We
need to recognize that the impacts and
the disasters that we have seen so far
are just the beginning.
Things are only going to get more
chaotic, more unpredictable, and more
expensive unless we change our trajec-
tory. That is going to require global
cooperation. It is going to require sci-
entific ingenuity, and serious, sober
policymaking based on the facts in
front of us to put us on a better path.
I am proud that a number of my col-
leagues are stepping up to think
through what those actions, what those
solutions, and what those policies
should be. We can have a healthy de-
bate about the best ways to achieve
these reductions in our emissions, but
we can’t credibly dispute the science,
what it is telling us, and the urgency of
the need to act. These are facts. It is
chemistry. Yet, instead of allowing us
to productively debate those solutions,
Majority Leader MCCONNELL is plan-
ning to waste our time on a political
stunt.
Since Republicans took control of
the Senate, they have not brought a
single bill to the floor that would ad-
dress emissions—not a single one—and
they have taken many actions that
have actually made the situation
worse. This is not the serious legis-
lating that we were sent here to do.
This is not problem-solving.
The Senate is supposed to be the
world’s greatest deliberative body. We
are supposed to come together here on
the Senate floor and in our committees
and think through the greatest issues
and challenges of our time. We are sup-
posed to propose and debate policies to
meet those challenges. I would wel-
come a long overdue debate on what
policies would most efficiently and
most effectively address our chal-
lenges.
I know that climate change often
feels too big and too hard to fix, but,
frankly, we all need to get out of that
mindset because climate change is a
problem we can solve. In fact, climate
change is a problem that we must
solve.
The good news is that we already
have the technologies and the people to
do it. Clean energy technologies have
been evolving rapidly in recent years,
and many of the clean energy tech-
nologies that seemed absolutely unre-
alistic only a decade ago have become
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:06 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28FE6.011 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1561
February 28, 2019
the new normal. I see a future where
my two boys will use a reliable, cheap,
resilient electrical grid that is 100-per-
cent powered by clean energy because
of the technologies invented in this
country and because of the tech-
nologies built and installed with Amer-
ican labor. We need to invest in actu-
ally deploying these technologies with
the urgency necessary to make real
progress. This should be a bipartisan
priority, not only for its impact on
curbing carbon emissions but because
it will create millions of jobs in com-
munities across this country.
Some States are already moving in
this direction. In my home State, new
wind farms and new solar generation
are bringing in billions of dollars of
private investment. They are creating
thousands of new jobs. Without aggres-
sive, forward-looking national policies,
we will not move fast enough. The
scale of this transformation will be gi-
gantic. There is no doubt about that.
But this great Nation is up to the chal-
lenge.
Thank you, Mr. President.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Massachusetts.
Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, I thank
the gentleman from New Mexico for his
comments. I couldn’t agree more
wholeheartedly with the sentiments
that the gentleman from New Mexico
just uttered and the others, the Sen-
ator from Rhode Island and the Sen-
ator from New York.
This is an emergency situation for
the planet. How do we know? We know
because the U.N. scientists at the end
of 2018 issued a report saying that cli-
mate change is an existential threat to
our planet. Our own U.S. scientists in
the end of 2018 issued their own report.
This is the Trump administration’s sci-
entists, much to his chagrin, who said:
‘‘We must act to avoid substantial
damages to the U.S. economy, environ-
ment, and human health and the well-
being over the coming decades.’’
These are earth-shattering science
reports about the state of our planet.
These are doomsday reports, which the
scientists of our own country and the
world are giving to us. Yet just 3 weeks
ago, the ‘‘Denier in Chief’’ stood before
the Congress and delivered a message
to the American people—not by his
words but by the words he did not
utter, because in an hour and 20 min-
utes, President Trump did not even
mention the words ‘‘climate change.’’
He did not even mention the words
‘‘clean energy revolution.’’
President Trump, further, has sent to
us a new person to be the head of the
Environmental Protection Agency.
Who is Andrew Wheeler? He is a former
lobbyist for the coal industry. That is
what this Senate will be voting on—a
coal lobbyist to take over the environ-
ment of our country, as the scientists
of our country tell us that we are fac-
ing an existential threat if we do not
take urgent actions today.
Our majority leader yesterday called
the Green New Deal ‘‘foolish and dan-
gerous.’’ Well, with all due respect to
my Republican colleagues, the only
thing foolish and dangerous about the
Green New Deal is to ignore the $400
billion in damages over the last 2 years
from supercharged storms and
wildfires, to ignore the tens of trillions
of dollars in the damage that we will
see from climate change in the United
States by 2100 if we do not act, and the
hundreds of trillions of damage across
the entire planet if we are not the lead-
er in creating a clean-energy revolu-
tion.
What is dangerous, I say to the lead-
er, is sending our men and women in
the military overseas to protect tank-
ers of oil that are coming into our
country from the Middle East. Super-
storms, wildfires, rising seas, and other
extreme weather events are the im-
pacts of climate change if we do not
act boldly to stop it. It isn’t just dan-
gerous; it is an existential threat to
our planet, not from politicians or po-
litical scientists but from real sci-
entists—‘‘the’’ scientists—the Nobel
Prize-winning scientists of the whole
planet and in our own country. They
are telling us we are in danger, and
this body has to take positive action to
deal with it.
We have a ‘‘Denier in Chief’’ in the
White House. We have a Republican
leader who has brought climate bills to
the floor while he has been leader, but
they have been bills to make the cli-
mate even more dangerous—the Key-
stone Pipeline bill and drilling in the
Arctic National Wildlife Refuge for oil.
The Republicans are today going to
confirm a coal lobbyist to head the En-
vironmental Protection Agency, which
is the Agency charged with protecting
the planet.
The reality is that the Republicans
have no plan to deal with the climate
crisis. That is why they want to short
circuit this debate on the Green New
Deal. Let’s have a hearing. Let’s hear
from experts. Let’s hear from sci-
entists. Let’s have the evidence in the
U.S. Senate. Then we can decide—but,
no, there will be no debate in the Sen-
ate on science. There will be no debate
on the harm that is going to be done if
we do not act. Instead, in the same pe-
riod, there will be just an attempt to
confirm a coal lobbyist to take over
the Environmental Protection Agency
and to derail any real debate on the
Green New Deal. That is who they are.
Why is that? It is that the Green New
Deal is dangerous. It is dangerous for
the status quo to just continue to re-
main in place on climate change. It is
dangerous for the Koch brothers and
those who are used to killing every cli-
mate debate before it gets a chance to
start. It is dangerous for those who
want us to limp into a frightening fu-
ture with no plan and no protections in
place. It is dangerous for those who
benefit from the continued devaluation
of our workers, from the historic op-
pression of vulnerable communities,
and from the continued destruction of
the environment. That is who would
think the Green New Deal is dan-
gerous.
The Democrats want to support
working families and support a safe cli-
mate future in which all communities
are protected. We welcome debate on
proposals for how to get there, but the
science is clear on what we need to do
and the magnitude of the response that
we have to unleash in this country.
The Republicans may think the
Green New Deal is just a resolution,
but it is more than that. It is a revolu-
tion, and it cannot and will not be
stopped. The science is driving this. It
is an intergenerational concern that we
are heading toward a catastrophe on
this planet that could have been avoid-
ed, but we as a nation have stood on
the sidelines and have allowed it to
happen.
Ladies and gentlemen, this vote that
we take as to whether Andrew Wheeler,
a coal lobbyist, should be the head of
the Environmental Protection Agency
goes right through the heart of wheth-
er we are going to respond to the mag-
nitude of this challenge. I do not know
how anyone can vote for Andrew
Wheeler given the science that has
been presented to us, given the danger
that we now know, given the catas-
trophe that is going to be created if we
don’t change course. This is just dou-
bling down on a disaster. Andrew
Wheeler is going to be the architect of
the Republican plan to ensure that we
do nothing about this climate catas-
trophe. The consequences could not be
greater, but the political ramifications
in the 2020 elections are going to be
great as well. We will see a revolution
that rises up across this country.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oregon.
Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, Henry
David Thoreau asked: What is the use
of a home if you don’t have a tolerable
planet to put it on?
We are here at a unique moment in
human history when the planet is
threatened. It is not just our local
stream that has been polluted by some
factory. It is not a river that is so toxic
that it catches on fire. It is not just a
small section of my home State that
has been afflicted by some new disease
in the forests. It is our entire planet
that is at risk. So any Member of this
Chamber who is not coming forward to
help figure out how to address that is
guilty of vast malpractice, legislative
malpractice, and moral malpractice
and incompetence because that is what
a legislature is about. When there are
big problems that we face, we come to-
gether. We don’t ignore them. We wres-
tle with the best way to take them on.
That is what this conversation is
about.
Senator CARPER’s resolution says
three things, the first of which is we
have a real problem, and it is easy to
demonstrate that. We can take a look
at all of the information we have com-
ing from every major scientific organi-
zation that tracks increasing heat on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28FE6.013 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1562 February 28, 2019
the planet, but maybe that is a little
too complicated. Let’s just ask a sim-
ple question. What have been the hot-
test years in human history? When
have they been? Were they in the 1700s,
in the 1800s, in the 1900s? When were
those 5 hottest years? They were the
last 5 years—2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018.
This is no coincidence because that
would be an astronomically unlikely
thing to occur. We have enough science
to know why this is occurring, not just
that it is occurring.
It is occurring because we are gener-
ating carbon dioxide, and we are gener-
ating methane. They trap heat. We
have been told, for the better part of a
century, that this was going to be a
problem, and the problem has arrived.
It is not some theory. It is not some
computer model. It is not some ivory
tower. The facts are clearly evident.
They are evident in our forests with
longer and hotter fire seasons. They
are evident in more powerful hurri-
canes than we have seen before because
they draw so much more energy from
an overheated ocean. We see it in the
spread of diseases, like Lyme disease
with the spread of tick populations. We
see it with changing species. We see it
with glaciers. We see it with melting
permafrost. We see it with rising sea
levels. We see it everywhere unless you
are blind to the facts. We are not here
to be blind. We are here to act. So we
know the problem is real. That is the
first point.
The second point is we know what is
causing it—human activities, our put-
ting methane into the air and putting
carbon dioxide into the air. Therefore,
we know the third point, which is our
responsibility to act.
So many of us have come forward and
have said: Here is an idea. How about
this? This will completely change the
amount of carbon dioxide from the
transportation sector. Here is an idea.
This would really change the carbon di-
oxide generated by power generation,
electricity generation. How about this?
This would greatly reduce the carbon
dioxide generated from heating build-
ings.
Yet, in that conversation, there is
the sound of silence from the right side
of the aisle. Do we hear multitudinous
ideas? No. We hear none. That is where
the legislative malfeasance and where
the moral irresponsibility lies—in pre-
tending that you can be a leader in this
country, in this Senate Chamber, and
not address this major challenge that
is afflicting our planet. That is unac-
ceptable. We don’t need fake and phone
debates on the floor of a resolution
that hasn’t gone through committee.
We need real discussion and real en-
gagement.
It was not that long ago that Repub-
lican leaders across this Nation were
taking on this issue. H. W. Bush ran for
the Presidency to take on climate
change. When he got into office, he
didn’t end up doing a lot, but he ran on
it and campaigned on it. Other leaders
have said we have a responsibility to be
good stewards of our resources. I have
heard that from the Republican side of
the aisle for my entire lifetime—good
stewardship. So why the silence now?
Why the failure to look at the facts?
Why the failure to bring forward ideas?
This is not OK. We need real debate,
real discussion.
I have put forward ideas I would love
to see debated, one being that we need
to dramatically reduce the fossil fuels,
which we own as a public, coming out
of the ground. We have to lead the
world, and we can’t ask the rest of the
world not to extract and burn fossil
fuels if we are still profiting from
doing so.
I laid out the vision—the 100-percent
mission in all sectors—and how we can
get there over the coming decades. It is
a 300-page bill that is full of ideas.
Maybe they are not all the best of
ideas, but I encourage my colleagues to
read them, to find ones they like, and
to bring forward their ideas. Where do
tax credits play in this conversation?
Where do limits play on pollution?
Where do incentives to transition to re-
newable energy come in? Let’s have
that debate as serious policymakers
and leaders of this country who are re-
sponsible for our Nation and for the fu-
ture of our planet.
Henry David Thoreau lived a long
time ago, but he laid out the point that
we are responsible for the health of our
planet. Let’s take that responsibility
seriously. Let’s engage. Let’s debate
every single idea. There are hundreds
of them out there. Let’s go through
them. Let’s forge a bipartisan plan.
Let’s not let any industry in America
contaminate the process, the political
process, through these dark donations.
Let’s not, any party in this country, be
misled from addressing the serious
issues before us because they are blind-
ed by the hundreds of millions of dol-
lars falling on their campaigns. Let’s
do what we have to do, what we have a
responsibility to do. History will judge
whether we have done that which can-
not be delayed. That is our responsi-
bility.
I thank the Presiding Officer.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Hawaii.
Mr. SCHATZ. Mr. President, as of
now, there are zero climate proposals
coming from Senate Republicans—
none. So it becomes extraordinarily
difficult to debate climate change
when only one political party is com-
mitted to fixing it. I can’t underscore
this enough. I don’t know if I can sort
of stage direct the C–SPAN cameras,
but if I can—if they would pan out—
they would see an empty Chamber on
the other side.
Look, if you don’t like our pro-
posals—if you don’t like the invest-
ment tax credit or the production tax
credit, if you don’t like planting trees,
if you don’t like fuel efficiency stand-
ards, if you don’t like mercury and air
quality standards, if you don’t like in-
vesting in high-tech research to find
that next breakthrough or if you think
climate change is a hoax, come down to
the Senate floor and make your argu-
ment. Yet they are not even doing
that. This is a planetary emergency—
the most important moment in human
history as it relates to the planet
Earth—and the party in power is doing
its best to make the problem worse.
Democrats want to invest in clean
air, clean water, and smarter infra-
structure. We have taken every chance
we can to talk about climate and how
to fix it. Senator WHITEHOUSE alone has
given 200 speeches on the Senate floor
about the climate crisis.
The Republican response has been to
try to make this silly, to score points
about something that was posted on a
Congresswoman’s website and prompt-
ly removed and to make false state-
ments saying Democrats want to ban
cheeseburgers or whatever. That is be-
cause they don’t want to debate this
issue seriously because they don’t have
ideas on climate. Their only plan is to
actively, aggressively make things
even worse.
They need to make this debate about
something—anything—other than what
it is, which is a planet in crisis; weath-
er getting weirder and worse, wildfires,
coastal flooding, fisheries crashing.
Pennsylvania farmers say they had the
worst season they have had in 30 years
because of all the rain they got last
year, while farmers in the Midwest
didn’t get near enough. It is a rolling
disaster happening right now.
In response, here is what the Repub-
licans have done. They have put people
who make their money from pollution
in charge of regulating pollution. They
have given oil and gas companies ac-
cess to millions of acres of land and
water that are supposed to be protected
for things like conservation, hunting,
hiking. They pulled the United States
out of the Paris Agreement, which
means we are the only country on the
planet not at the table when it comes
to figuring out what to do about this
problem.
They have made it easier for compa-
nies to put methane in the air or make
cars that pump pollution into the air,
and instead of just leaving coal compa-
nies alone, instead of saying, hey, let’s
let the market decide, they are actu-
ally looking to subsidize coal because
now it is noncompetitive with wind and
solar, in a lot of instances, but they ac-
tually want to subsidize coal so they
can get another 10 or 20 years’ worth of
fossil fuel pollution. This is not what
you would do if you were trying to stop
climate change. This is what you do if
you are trying to make it worse.
So let’s take a closer look at some of
the worst things on their list. First,
you have to look at the people they
have put in charge of conserving public
lands and keeping air and water clean.
This week, the Senate is voting on An-
drew Wheeler to run the EPA. He is a
coal lobbyist, and I know politicians
are prone to sort of overstatement,
rhetorical flourishes, but this guy is
actually a coal lobbyist. He made his
living working for coal.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28FE6.015 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1563
February 28, 2019
I don’t know him. I presume he is an
honorable fellow, but now we are sup-
posed to believe he is the best person to
keep coal companies in line, to make
sure they follow the rules and don’t
hurt the air people breathe or the riv-
ers they fish in.
If this were a movie about corruption
in politics, this script would be thrown
out because it was too obvious.
Then there is Ryan Zinke, who was
supposed to protect public lands but in-
stead opened up oil and gas leases at
the Department of Interior, or the guy
regulating Federal energy who denies
that climate change is real, even
though we can all see it with our own
eyes. If you don’t believe the science,
you can at least believe your own expe-
rience. The weather is getting worse
and weirder and more severe. He says
carbon dioxide really isn’t a pollutant
at all.
So the nominees have been awful, but
the policy is bad too. Republicans are
trying to pull us out of the Paris
Agreement that every other country in
the world is part of. We are not even
trying to lead on this planetary emer-
gency, and it means that we give the
leadership mantle to China to take the
lead on how the world is going to fix
this problem or make it worse, as if
Americans should trust China to do
what is best for our country.
Then there is the Republican effort
to let polluting companies keep pol-
luting. The whole reason the EPA ex-
ists is to make sure the air we breathe,
the water we drink and swim in, the
land we farm on and live on doesn’t get
polluted, but Republicans have taken
control of the EPA to get rid of these
protections, and they are telling the
auto industry they no longer need to
make cars that put less pollution in
the air. They have gutted the Clean
Power Plan so carbon pollution could
be 12 times worse in the next decade—
12 times worse in the next decade.
Researchers have found it would be
better if we had no policy at all than if
we do the things the Republicans want
to do.
They have let energy companies off
the hook for leaking methane and
made it easier for super pollutants to
leak into the air. Again, this is the
kind of thing you might hear from a
politician who is a little overheated, a
little overly angry, maybe taking a few
liberties with the truth.
This is literally what is happening.
They literally put a coal lobbyist in
charge of the EPA. That should be
enough for someone on the other side
to say: Gosh. I can’t vote for a coal lob-
byist to run the EPA. Now, I don’t
agree with the Democrats about cli-
mate change, but I can’t pretend this
thing doesn’t happen to my home
State. I can’t pretend Alaska isn’t
melting or the fisheries aren’t crashing
or our farms aren’t having great dif-
ficulty or that the floods in South
Carolina and North Carolina and Flor-
ida aren’t real, and so we can’t put a
coal lobbyist in charge of the Environ-
mental Protection Agency.
There was a time when the EPA and
environmental protection itself was
not a partisan issue. Here we are in the
U.S. Senate—which is the place to
solve these kinds of problems over the
course of this country’s great history—
and every time we come to the floor to
talk about climate change, it is an
empty Chamber on the Republican
side. We have to do better as a country.
We have to do better as a Senate. We
have to solve climate change together.
Future generations are counting on us
to transcend partisanship and to have
this great debate.
If Leader MCCONNELL wants to bring
a resolution, which he thinks is clever,
to sort of divide Democrats, fine. We
are not particularly worried about
that. We are taking this opportunity to
say: Great. Let’s talk about climate
change.
The first question to ask—the first
question to ask—is, what is the Repub-
lican plan for climate change? Right
now, the answer is very simple. They
have no plan.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
FISCHER). The Senator from Delaware.
Mr. CARPER. Madam President,
today I am pleased to join with Sen-
ators SCHATZ, MERKLEY, MARKEY, and
others who have spoken to highlight
the need to act on climate change.
I said on the floor earlier this week
that the Democrats may not yet agree
on exactly how we must address cli-
mate change, but we all agree on at
least three things: One, climate change
is real; two, we as human beings are
the primary cause of the climate crisis
we face today, and it has been building
for the last almost 100 years; and,
three, the U.S. Congress—us, the
House—should take immediate action
to address the challenges of climate
change.
That is why I am introducing a reso-
lution today that says those three
things: Climate change is real. Humans
are leading to this crisis we face. We
have an obligation in this body and the
House to do something about it.
Democrats believe in our hearts and
our minds that it is possible to have a
healthy climate and a vibrant, growing
economy, and anyone who says other-
wise is preaching a false choice.
Sadly, with President Trump in the
White House and this administration,
many of our Republican friends across
the aisle have chosen to ignore the
clear science and threat that climate
change poses to our children and to
their children.
As we speak about climate change
today, this Senate is considering the
nomination of Andrew Wheeler to lead
EPA. Under Mr. Wheeler’s leadership,
EPA is rolling back climate regula-
tions that will lead to more carbon pol-
lution in the air while increasing other
air pollution that triggers asthma,
lung disease, and, in some cases, death.
Mr. Wheeler claims these actions are
needed to provide more business cer-
tainty. He believes industry is stuck in
on old world order. I would just say to
Andrew Wheeler, as Bob Dylan once
said, ‘‘the times they are a-changin.’’
Things have changed a lot in the last
15 years. Industry knows where the fu-
ture lies, and that future is in cleaner
technologies. Companies are making
investments now for the next 10 and 20
years down the road. They see where
the global markets are going. They
need to invest in clean energy or be left
behind.
Yet, even when industries ask this
administration to support climate poli-
cies that will help the bottom line of
those businesses, in too many in-
stances, Mr. Wheeler seems to turn a
blind eye. In fact, there are policies
that this administration could support
today, right now; policies that would
dramatically help our climate and our
economy.
One of those policies is the ratifica-
tion of something called the Kigali
amendment to the Montreal Protocol.
You say stuff like that, and my col-
leagues’ eyes glaze over. So I want to
take a minute to talk about what they
mean.
The Montreal Protocol, ratified by
the United States in 1988, is a global
environmental agreement mainly fo-
cused on phasing down emissions that
contributed to the hole in the ozone
layer. It was not that long ago—about
the time our pages here were born—
that it was a burning issue.
Ozone-depleting substances such as
chlorofluorocarbons—we call them
CFCs for short—were often found in the
coolants used to cool food in household
refrigerators and the air-conditioners
in our homes and in our cars. CFCs are
also found in foams and solvents used
in industrial processes.
If there was a poster child for a suc-
cessful global agreement, I think the
Montreal Protocol—which most people
never heard of—has to be that poster
child. This agreement has led to a 97-
percent reduction in the global con-
sumption of ozone-depleting substances
with little, if any, economic disruption.
Think about that.
Over the years, every administration
since the Reagan administration has
supported the Montreal Protocol and
the four amendments associated with
it.
However, it turns out a majority of
the ozone-depleting substances are ac-
tually being replaced by something
called HFCs, hydrofluorocarbons.
Those HFCs are easy to use. They are
efficient. They are safe for the ozone
layer. That is good.
Unfortunately, there is a catch. The
HFCs have a global warming potential
that is thousands of times greater than
carbon dioxide. On the one hand, they
are good for the ozone layer; on the
other hand, they are a killer when it
comes to carbon dioxide. So some real-
ly smart people decided to see what
they could do about this, and what
those smart people did is they came up
with a follow-on product to HFCs.
It is estimated that left unchecked,
HFCs could account for approximately
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28FE6.016 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1564 February 28, 2019
20 percent of greenhouse gas pollution
by 2050, and that ain’t good. So by
using HFCs, we are fixing one global
environmental problem—the hole in
the ozone—but we are contributing to
another, and that is just as serious.
To address this negative side effect,
on October 15, 2016, in a place called
Kigali, which is in Rwanda—that is
why they call it the Kigali amendment
or Kigali treaty—more than 170 coun-
tries agreed to amend the Montreal
Protocol, including ours.
The goal of this agreement is to
achieve more than an 80-percent reduc-
tion in global HFC production and uti-
lization by 2047. It doesn’t say you have
to stop using it tomorrow. This is a
phaseout and a phasedown. If we don’t
do anything by 2047, we will see an in-
crease of about half a degree Celsius—
that is almost a full degree Fahr-
enheit—in global warming by the end
of this century. We can’t afford to do
that. Our planet can’t afford to do that.
Our kids, our grandchildren cannot af-
ford for us to do that.
U.S. industry strongly supports the
Kigali amendment because U.S. compa-
nies have already invested billions of
dollars in order to be able to produce
the next-generation technologies that
are going to replace, over time, HFCs.
Phasing down HFCs allows U.S. compa-
nies to capture a large portion of a
global market that is—listen to this—
$1 trillion in size, which will create
150,000 new direct and indirect Amer-
ican jobs in less than a decade.
These new jobs are expected to gen-
erate close to $39 billion dollars—$39
billion—in annual economic benefits
for our country; again, in less than a
decade.
Industry also believes ratification of
the Kigali treaty will mitigate unfair
Chinese dumping of HFCs in the United
States, hurting our businesses.
Ratification of the Kigali amend-
ment is a no-brainer, and even those
who are skeptical about climate
change ought to be able to admit that
it would be great for U.S. competitive-
ness and good-paying American jobs.
This is a real win-win situation. If we
don’t seize the opportunity, we should
have our heads examined. That is why
we have some pretty strange bedfellows
supporting the Kigali ratification.
There is a chart behind me. Among
others, we have the National Associa-
tion of Manufacturers, Natural Re-
sources development folks, the spirit of
enterprise, FreedomWorks, the Amer-
ican Chemistry Council, Business
Roundtable, and Sierra Club.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator’s time has expired.
Mr. CARPER. They are not all
wrong. They are right. I say to my col-
leagues across the aisle: Listen to
these folks, and let’s use our heads and
our hearts.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
SOCIALISM
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, as
strange as it seems, socialism is having
a bit of a resurgence here in the Na-
tion’s Capital these days.
Why, you might ask, has this failed
economic theory that is so destructive
of individual freedom captured the at-
tention of some of our friends in the
Democratic Party? I admit, to me, it is
somewhat of a mystery.
My guess is I am not the only one
who assumed that every American has
learned the lessons of history and that
those lessons are common knowledge.
Apparently not. One other possibility
is that socialism is a stalking horse for
other, less obvious goals. I will have
more to say about what the Founders
believed about the concentration of
government power that would be need-
ed to implement these utopian schemes
at a later time. I also will return to the
Senate floor at another time to talk
about the well-funded efforts, including
in the State of Texas, to advance the
cause of socialism, unbeknownst to
most of my fellow Texans.
Maybe self-identified socialists or
democratic socialists—by the way, that
is an impossible contradiction in
terms. You can’t be democratic and a
socialist at the same time. Obviously,
people put those two terms together to
try to mask their true intentions.
Obviously, these self-identified demo-
cratic socialists have never learned
what it is or what it stands for. Recent
polling suggests that Americans have
vastly different ideas about what so-
cialism really means. A Gallup poll, for
example, found that 23 percent of the
people who responded understood that
it means economic equality—though
the definition of what equality looks
like varies pretty significantly. About
the same number of people said they
didn’t know or had no opinion of what
socialism means. Roughly 17 percent
understand it to mean government
ownership or control of business and
the economy.
There were a variety of answers,
ranging from government-guaranteed
benefits to communism, to people sim-
ply being social and getting along.
That is what some people think social-
ism is. This confusion about what, ex-
actly, socialism is has allowed its sup-
porters to push this discredited idea
back into the political mainstream.
The so-called democratic socialists
are trying to convince the American
people that bigger government and less
liberty are the solutions to economic
inequality. But they don’t just want
economic opportunity or equal oppor-
tunity; they want equal outcomes.
They clearly want to put the govern-
ment in charge of Americans’ lives.
To be sure, they will not be honest
about the means by which that equal-
ity would be accomplished under so-
cialism. They use a lot of feel-good
phrases to mask the consequences of
their argument. They say things like
‘‘give a voice to the voiceless’’ or ‘‘to
achieve a more just society.’’ What
they don’t tell you is that in order to
redistribute economic benefits, you
would have to marshal the power of the
government to coerce the American
people to give up the fruits of their
labor in pursuit of socialist, utopian
aims.
While socialists will not tell you
what the government would have to do
to force that redistribution, they like
to point to Scandinavian countries as a
model for socialism’s success. But
there are some problems with that.
They will say: Look at Denmark.
They have free higher education, uni-
versal healthcare, and subsidized
childcare, and they are doing great. So,
they say, socialism works. But facts
are stubborn things. For one, Denmark
is not a socialist country. Just ask the
Danish Prime Minister, who said:
Denmark is far from a socialist planned
economy. Denmark is a market economy.
The left argues: It is still a good
model. We want that.
OK, so how are they paying for all of
these programs? It is certainly not just
from the top 1 percent of the wealthi-
est of Americans. It is the middle class
too. Margaret Thatcher once said:
‘‘The problem with socialism is that
you eventually run out of other peo-
ple’s money.’’
Let’s look at tax rates. Danes pay
some of the highest taxes in the world.
In the United States, tax revenue ac-
counts for just over a quarter of the
size of our economy. In Denmark, it is
50 percent—or double.
Let’s also compare our two countries.
The population of the country of Den-
mark is roughly 1/60th the population
of the United States. In terms of
landmass, it is about 16,000 square
miles. Texas is almost 17 times the size
of Denmark.
So if the model used in Denmark is,
one, not socialism and, two,
unaffordable, let’s instead look for a
better example of a country that has
embraced socialism. I would suggest
Venezuela would be a good candidate.
In the late 1990s, then-Presidential
Candidate Hugo Chavez delivered im-
passioned speeches promising to lead
Venezuela into a socialist paradise. He
talked about the country’s wealth
being stolen by evil capitalists and
greedy corporations and promised hope
and change if he was elected. That
sounds similar to some of the snake oil
being sold by a number of radical
Democrats today. By the way, you
don’t see caravans of people attempt-
ing to immigrate to socialist countries
like Venezuela. It is just the opposite.
We now know that Chavez’s promises
were empty and dangerous, and while
Venezuela certainly saw a lot of
change, it wasn’t the kind they wanted
or the kind they expected. The govern-
ment took over businesses; they shut
down free markets; and they sup-
pressed free speech. As a result, one of
the richest countries in the world is
now among the poorest. Basic commod-
ities like food, medicine, and water are
in short supply; freedom of the press
has disappeared; crime rates have sky-
rocketed; and millions have fled.
Of course, it is no surprise that self-
proclaimed socialists in the United
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28FE6.017 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1565
February 28, 2019
States refuse to accept this as an ex-
ample of socialism. But this is the
truth. That is why socialism must be
soundly rejected.
Sir Winston Churchill, who had an
incredible gift for words, once said:
The inherent vice of capitalism is the un-
equal sharing of blessings. The inherent vir-
tue of Socialism is the equal sharing of mis-
eries.
Clearly, misery would be a result of a
current fad celebrating socialism, and
we must firmly and clearly reject it.
In a society like ours, based on the
free enterprise system, business owners
compete for business and make deci-
sions based on what the customer
wants and needs, and this helps keep
the cost of living low while offering
consumers choice.
Competition and free enterprise are
the opposite of centrally planned and
administered socialist economies and
the only economic system compatible
with individual liberty.
In a socialist country, the govern-
ment owns or controls everything. If
you don’t like it or insist on going
your own way, you will be squished
like a bug. Socialism forces citizens to
be submissive to the government’s
plan—a far cry from the freedoms and
liberties promised under our Constitu-
tion.
Most Americans don’t want the gov-
ernment to run their lives. They want
less government, which is to say they
want more freedom. So while things
like free healthcare or free higher edu-
cation or free housing sound pretty
good superficially, they are a fantasy
and part of the agenda to move the
United States toward a socialist, gov-
ernment-controlled economy.
Under our free enterprise system,
people work to earn their living. The
harder you work, the more you benefit
and the better you can provide for
yourself and your family. That is some-
thing we call the American dream. But
with socialism, that kind of motivation
doesn’t exist at all. Why would you put
in the extra effort? Why would you
work longer hours when you will re-
ceive the same pay and benefits as ev-
erybody else? Why would you pursue an
advanced degree and pour your heart
into researching new medical cures
when you know, at the end of the day,
the person who chooses to do nothing
will receive the same benefits you do?
Well, you wouldn’t. That is why social-
ism doesn’t work.
In a recent Washington Post column,
George Will defined today’s under-
standing of socialism as this:
Almost everyone will be nice to almost ev-
eryone, using money taken from a few. This
means having government distribute, ac-
cording to its conception of equity, the
wealth produced by capitalism.
The problem is, as he said, the gov-
ernment will take and take until even-
tually there is nothing more to take.
Once that happens, the economy will
tank; jobs will dry up; taxes will get
higher to pay for the benefits promised;
and those utopian sentiments will not
feel quite so good anymore.
The enemy of socialism isn’t greed. It
is experience. That is why there are no
socialist success stories. Venezuela, the
Soviet Union, Ethiopia, Zimbabwe,
Tanzania—time and again, we have
seen socialism fail. That has been the
universal experience.
As President Trump said in Miami
last week:
Socialism promises prosperity, but it de-
livers poverty. Socialism promises unity, but
it delivers hatred and it delivers division.
Socialism promises a better future, but it al-
ways returns to the darkest chapters of the
past.
Slapping the word ‘‘democratic’’ in
front of the word ‘‘socialism’’ doesn’t
make it any less radical or any less
terrifying. In fact, democracy and so-
cialism are at war with each other.
This is not about lifting up the poor.
It is about taking our freedom away
and turning it over to our government
overlords and taskmasters.
As so many seem to have forgotten
the lessons of history, I plan to return
to the Senate floor to discuss this dis-
turbing trend further and remind the
American people why socialism is the
enemy, not a friend, of our country.
Mr. CARPER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent to address the
Senate for 2 minutes, please.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
NOMINATION OF ANDREW WHEELER
Mr. CARPER. Madam President, I
say to our colleagues that I stand be-
fore you today as a Vietnam veteran—
5 years of naval service during the hot
war in Southeast Asia, trying to make
sure that the force of communism was
stopped. I served another 18 years be-
yond that, right to the end of the Cold
War, as a naval flight officer and re-
tired as a Navy captain.
I am not a socialist. I am somebody
who cares deeply about this planet. I
am someone who believes it is possible
to have clean air, clean water, better
public health, and to foster economic
growth.
As it turns out, there are a lot of
companies in this country that believe
the same thing. They believe the same
thing. A lot of them build cars, trucks,
and vans. They want a 50-State deal on
fuel efficiency standards, CAFE stand-
ards, and tailpipe standards. They want
a 50-State deal so they don’t have to
build a car for 13 or 14 different States
and then a different kind of car or
truck for the rest of the country. They
don’t want to do that. They want cer-
tainty and predictability so they can
build one model for one car. They want
to be able to be successful in com-
peting in the world marketplace in the
next 10, 20, or 30 years.
We need someone leading the Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency who be-
lieves that it is possible to have clean-
er air and, frankly, to foster economic
growth in the auto companies. That is
what the auto companies want. They
are not socialists. They are free-mar-
keters.
There is something called HFCs, or
hydrofluorocarbons. It is a terrible pol-
lutant for the environment. It is 1,000
times worse than carbon for our global
warming challenges. There are a bunch
of American businesses that have new
technology to replace HFCs. They want
to be able not just to develop it, but
they want to able to sell it all over the
world. The marketplace is $1 trillion,
and we are holding it back.
Unfortunately, the person whom we
are going to be voting on here today to
be our EPA Administrator is part of
holding us back because he will not
agree to a treaty that the administra-
tion wants to put forward. It is crazy.
Those companies that developed the
follow-on products to HFCs—Honey-
well, Chemours, and others—are not so-
cialists. They are business people. They
want a piece of the international mar-
ket, and they want to do good things
for the climate at the same time.
I just want to say to my colleagues:
We can do both. We can have clean air.
We can have clean water. We can have
strong economic growth. We need
somebody running the EPA who actu-
ally believes in that too. I am sorry to
say here today that right now I don’t
believe it is Andrew Wheeler, and I say
that with no joy.
Thank you very much.
Mr. DURBIN. Madam President,
throughout the country and in the
great State of Illinois, a host of envi-
ronmental issues are plaguing Ameri-
cans. From air pollution, to ground-
water contamination, to the increases
in climate change-related harm that
we are already facing, there is no more
crucial time to have strong national
leadership on environmental issues
than right now. However, in the midst
of all these issues comes the nomina-
tion of Andrew Wheeler—a former lob-
byist for corporate polluters—to lead
the Environmental Protection Agency.
If there is one major thing we have
learned from the Clean Air Act, it is
that regulations save lives and money.
Regulations that ensure clean air mean
fewer premature deaths and health
issues, as well as fewer asthma attacks
in children and health-related missed
work days. However, the EPA under
this administration that is now led by
Acting Administrator Wheeler, consist-
ently works to roll back clean air and
water rules. This exposes the most vul-
nerable members of our society—in-
cluding children and the elderly—to
toxic and deadly chemicals. The people
in Illinois are no exception. We are fac-
ing several environmental issues in Il-
linois that require immediate action
by the EPA, and so far, I am not satis-
fied that EPA is doing everything it
can and should be doing under Mr.
Wheeler’s leadership.
The Sterigenics facility is causing is
a public health threat in Willowbrook,
IL due to emissions from cancer-caus-
ing ethylene oxide. The EPA’s own risk
assessment from 2016, showed that
ethylene oxide exposure increases the
risk of cancer more than what was pre-
viously thought. However, given this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:15 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28FE6.019 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1566 February 28, 2019
information, the EPA has still not
taken sufficient actions to protect peo-
ple of Willowbrook who are exposed to
this gas. Concerns about ethylene oxide
exposure is not limited to the people of
Willowbrook—it is also of concern to
the people of Gurnee and Waujkegan,
IL who also have plants that use
ehtylene oxide in the middle of their
towns. Every time I have spoken with
Acting Administrator Wheeler about
this issue, I have been disappointed by
the lack of urgency to do anything
more than monitor and collect more
data. When it comes to the facilities in
Gurnee and Waukegan, the EPA won’t
even commit to monitor and collect
data, even though I have joined my col-
league Senator DUCKWORTH in request-
ing that monitoring begin imme-
diately. The EPA is 4 years overdue to
begin the process to promulgate new
standards for this gas, even though
they know the increased cancer risk.
So I, along with my colleague Senator
DUCKWORTH and my colleagues in the
House, introduced legislation to re-
quire the EPA to promulgate new rules
for ethylene oxide. However, the EPA’s
failure to act to limit toxic chemicals
being emitted into neighborhoods does
not end with ethylene oxide. There is
manganese pollution on the Southeast
side of Chicago. Manganese exposure
results in serious neurological effects,
such as learning difficulties, lower IQ
scores in children, and manganese poi-
soning—a condition that resembles
Parkinson’s disease. There are several
facilities on the Southeast side of Chi-
cago that emit manganese, and EPA is
now monitoring these facilities after
my colleague Senator DUCKWORTH and I
pressed EPA to do so. These facilities
contaminate both the air that people
breathe and the soil that children play
on.
Although the EPA knows how dan-
gerous this neurotoxin is and how high
the concentrations are, they will not
commit to strengthening manganese
standards or take immediate action to
clean up sites with soil contamination.
We need someone at the EPA that will
be aggressive in enforcing the Clean
Air Act and the Clean Water Act.
We also need an EPA Administrator
who recognizes how urgent it is to ad-
dress climate change. The Trump ad-
ministration’s own Department of De-
fense issued a report last month identi-
fying national security threats to de-
fense missions, operations, and instal-
lations, due to climate change. Yet
Acting Administrator Wheeler con-
tinues to undermine independent
science for climate change by appoint-
ing members to the EPA’s Scientific
Advisory Board who are biased by in-
dustry or actively deny that climate
change is a problem. How can we ex-
pect the EPA to lead efforts to address
climate change if its leadership doesn’t
believe it requires immediate action?
I would also like to mention one
more thing before I close. This admin-
istration promised farmers, biorefin-
eries, and fuels stations that they
would ensure stations could sell E15
fuels this summer. The EPA is coming
close to failing to fulfil that promise. I
hope the EPA will work with me to en-
sure stations are able to sell E15 fuels
this summer.
We need someone leading the EPA
who will put the health and well-being
of the people of this country above the
profits of corporate polluters. We need
someone who is willing to protect fami-
lies and communities from toxic
chemicals in our air and water by fully
enforcing the Clean Air Act and the
Clean Water Act. And we need someone
who will lead the charge to address cli-
mate change. I am not convinced that
Acting Administrator Wheeler will do
these things. As a result, I cannot sup-
port his nomination. I hope he proves
me wrong.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Madam President,
I rise today to express my opposition
to confirming Andrew Wheeler to serve
as Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency.
His lobbying activities and tenure,
first as Deputy, then as Acting Admin-
istrator, show that he should not be
leading the EPA in a permanent capac-
ity.
We are at a crossroads for action on
climate change. The United Nations
issued a special report in October,
warning of the catastrophic con-
sequences of allowing global warming
to surpass 1.5 degrees Celsius.
The report warned that human activ-
ity has already caused about 1 degree
of warming and that we need to dras-
tically cut emissions—45 percent by
2030 and 100 percent by 2050—to stay
below 1.5 degrees.
The EPA is the strongest institution
we have in the United States to combat
climate change in terms of technical
expertise and legal authority. Unfortu-
nately, I fear that, if the EPA remains
under the leadership of Andrew Wheel-
er, it will continue dismantling critical
regulations and rolling back previous
efforts to address climate change.
Andrew Wheeler is a former coal and
fossil fuel lobbyist. Despite a duty to
serve the public’s interest, he has in-
stead worked to push a counter-
productive agenda of deregulation at
the EPA.
During Mr. Wheeler’s EPA tenure,
the Trump administration has aggres-
sively moved to undermine numerous
greenhouse gas emission regulations.
This includes President Obama’s land-
mark Clean Power Plan, performance
standards for new power plants, and
methane emission standards for the oil
and gas industry.
I am most concerned that Andrew
Wheeler is overseeing the Trump ad-
ministration’s efforts to roll back our
national program for motor vehicle
emission standards, an issue that I
have worked on for decades.
Under the current program, fuel
economy standards for new cars and
SUVs are set to exceed 50 miles per gal-
lon by 2025. To date, these standards
have saved 550 million barrels of oil, $65
billion in fuel costs for American fami-
lies, and 250 million metric tons of car-
bon dioxide.
The success of these standards
comes, in part, from the fact that they
have been implemented as a single, co-
ordinated national program under the
authority of the EPA, the Department
of Transportation, and the State of
California.
The Department of Transportation
implements the Ten-in-Ten Fuel Econ-
omy Act, which was signed into law in
2007 following a bipartisan legislative
effort over the course of many years. I
was proud to work together with our
former colleague Olympia Snowe of
Maine and many others from both par-
ties to strengthen the Corporate Aver-
age Fuel Economy standards for the
first time in three decades.
This law requires fuel economy
standards to increase by at least 10
miles per gallon by 2020. Beyond 2020,
the law requires standards to be set at
the maximum feasible level based on
available technology, which the admin-
istration is trying to avoid doing for
2022–2026.
For its part, the EPA implements
complementary vehicle emission stand-
ards under the Clean Air Act. That law
also recognizes California’s long-
standing authority to regulate its own
air pollution and allows other States to
choose to follow California’s standards
in lieu of Federal requirements, as 13
States have now done.
Today these standards are collec-
tively implemented as a single na-
tional program under a 2012 agreement
between the Department of Transpor-
tation, the EPA, and the State of Cali-
fornia that applies through model year
2025.
Unfortunately, the Trump adminis-
tration is working to tear up that
agreement and weaken Federal stand-
ards starting in 2022. Last week, the ad-
ministration announced it would refuse
to negotiate with California to salvage
this program. Instead of seeking con-
sensus, the EPA, overseen by Mr.
Wheeler, is proposing to challenge Cali-
fornia’s longstanding authority. These
actions are unjustified and will only
create chaos and uncertainty for the
automobile market.
Under Mr. Wheeler’s watch, the
Trump administration has also contin-
ued to roll back or undermine many
other important EPA environmental
health and safety regulations.
From attempts to undermine effec-
tive Mercury and Air Toxics Standards,
to evading the EPA’s commitments to
set safe drinking water standards, to
failing to fully implement the Toxic
Substances Control Act, it is clear that
Mr. Wheeler will only continue his ef-
forts to dismantle the EPA from with-
in.
I was a proud supporter of the bipar-
tisan Frank R. Lautenberg Chemical
Safety for the 21st Century Act, which
passed in 2016. This bill amends and up-
dates the Toxic Substances Control
Act, which is the Nation’s primary
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE6.001 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1567
February 28, 2019
chemicals management law. Thousands
of Californians rely on it to safeguard
against exposure to toxic chemicals we
encounter every day.
EPA is charged with protecting all
Americans from undue and harmful ex-
posure to existing and newly intro-
duced chemicals. However, under the
Trump administration, the EPA’s safe-
ty reviews of toxic substances has fall-
en far short of the intent of this sweep-
ing, bipartisan toxic chemical reform
legislation.
One example of a chemical that I am
very concerned about is asbestos. As a
result of the administration’s lack of
action, my colleagues in the Senate
and I introduced legislation in 2017
that would have amended the Toxic
Substances Control Act to require the
EPA to identify and assess all forms of
asbestos and ultimately ban this
known carcinogen.
This bill was named after Alan
Reinstein, who passed away in 2006 at
the age of 66 from mesothelioma, a dis-
ease caused by exposure to asbestos.
Delays in banning asbestos have meant
that as many as 15,000 Americans die
each year from exposure.
During Wheeler’s tenure, the EPA
has resisted calls to eliminate exemp-
tions for asbestos in the current Chem-
ical Data Reporting rule, a reporting
requirement under the Toxic Sub-
stances Control Act, to comply with its
mandate to prevent unreasonable risks
to health and the environment pre-
sented by asbestos.
Despite knowing the health risks for
decades, asbestos is still used in a wide
variety of construction materials that
the public unwittingly comes into con-
tact with every day.
Andrew Wheeler’s tenure at the EPA,
both as Deputy Administrator for the
EPA and as Acting Administrator, has
shown a clear disregard for the EPA’s
mission to protect the public and the
environment. I urge all of my col-
leagues to oppose his confirmation.
Thank you.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oklahoma.
Mr. INHOFE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent to be recognized for
such time as I shall consume as the
final speaker before the vote on the
nomination.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. INHOFE. Thank you very much,
Madam President.
Madam President, we are going to
vote in just a few minutes to confirm
Andrew Wheeler to be Administrator of
the Environmental Protection Agency.
There is no one better to serve in this
role, and I would know. Andrew worked
for me for 14 years in both my personal
office as well as in my capacity as
chairman of the Environment and Pub-
lic Works Committee.
He was with the committee back
when President Trump nominated An-
drew as Deputy Administrator. I said:
There is no one more qualified. There
is no one more qualified anywhere in
America to handle this job than An-
drew Wheeler.
He has been Acting Administrator for
the last 7 months. Let’s keep in mind
that he was the most qualified person 7
months ago, and now he has had 7
months on the job, and he has done a
really great job. He has been the Act-
ing Administrator.
It didn’t really start when he came
on board with any of the governmental
Agencies. He has always been con-
cerned about nature and the environ-
ment. The guy was an Eagle Scout.
In fact, I remember the discussions of
people who were with him when he was
actually climbing Mount Kilimanjaro.
It was with a group of people who were
interested in nature and the environ-
ment. This came early on with him. So
he has the ability to lead the Agency.
I have always enjoyed following his
career. After earning a law degree at
Washington University in St. Louis, he
joined the EPA as a special assistant in
the Agency’s Pollution Prevention and
Toxics Office in 1991. I am talking
about 30 years ago. This guy has been
there for a long time. For all practical
purposes, he has grown up in that par-
ticular discipline.
He was an EPA employee for 4 years,
transitioning to the George H. W. Bush
administration and then the Clinton
administration after that, where he
earned three Bronze Medals for com-
mendable service along the way.
By the way, I doubt if there are too
many people in this Chamber who
know what that is. So I am going to
read it to you.
The Bronze Medal is given for ‘‘sig-
nificant service or achievements in
support of the Agency’s mission or for
demonstration of outstanding accom-
plishments in supervision and leader-
ship.’’
That is Andrew Wheeler. He received
three of those.
I know you have heard a lot of people
opposing him. Regretfully, there are a
lot of people opposed simply for the
reason that this is a nominee of the
President. We went through this with
Mr. Kavanaugh. We heard all of these
things, and people now look back, and
many of them regret that they said the
things that they said.
It is awfully hard to be critical of An-
drew because he is such a nice guy.
He left the Agency. He brought the
sense of service and leadership with
him to the U.S. Senate, where I had a
front-row seat because he worked for
me for 14 years.
He just did really tremendous work.
There were never any complaints about
him. He knew what he was doing.
Again, with a 31-year background,
there is nothing that he doesn’t know
about the mission.
Andrew started in my personal office
as chief counsel and transitioned to
staff director for a Senate sub-
committee. I was a subcommittee
chairman at the time on the sub-
committee called the Clean Air, Cli-
mate Change, Wetlands, and Nuclear
Safety Subcommittee. He was the one
who did all the work, and I took the
credit, but it worked.
In 2003, when I became the chairman
of the Environment and Public Works
Committee, Andrew became our chief
counsel. Over the next 6 years, he
would eventually become staff director
and we worked closely together on
highway bills, energy bills, the Diesel
Emissions Reduction Act, and the
Clear Skies Act.
I can remember when this was taking
place because someone who was a very
close friend of mine and is no longer
here, Barbara Boxer from California,
worked together on these things. It
was really kind of funny. Philosophi-
cally, we were opposed to each other as
much as two people could be, but we
accomplished everything. We accom-
plished the things that other people
were not able to accomplish.
It is only natural that the President
would nominate Andrew to be the Dep-
uty Director at that time of the EPA.
That was last April. He was confirmed
in a bipartisan vote.
I will always remember that he gave
a speech over at the EPA. It was kind
of a welcome speech at that time. That
was the day that he was confirmed as
Deputy Director of the EPA. I think
every single employee was in there,
really, to kind of pay homage to him.
It is a big deal. Here is a guy who start-
ed 30 years ago at the bottom. He is
just a normal person in the bureauc-
racy, and all of a sudden—not all of a
sudden, it took him almost 30 years to
do it—he climbs up to become Deputy
Director. So he was really a model. He
was a model to those 200 or 300 people.
Andrew didn’t even know this as he
was making his initial speech, but I
watched the looks on their faces, and
the model that he was for them was
that there is room at the top. Here is a
guy who climbed all the way up, and he
reached the top.
He knows what it takes to ensure
that our environment is cared for with-
in the laws passed by Congress. He will
ensure that all stakeholders are heard,
and he will provide certainty and sta-
bility for the regulated community.
That is a switch.
One of the reasons I ran for Congress
in the first place many years ago was
the fact that I was a builder and devel-
oper and I was overregulated. I know
what it is like firsthand. He will be a
good steward of the environment with-
out punishing our States, without pun-
ishing our farmers, and without pun-
ishing our job creators just for the
sake of it. Those days are behind us.
Andrew has worked on these issues
for his entire 28-year career, and I am
honored that he chose to spend half of
his 14 years working for me. So I have
directly benefited from his service. The
U.S. Senate has benefited from his
leadership, and now America will ben-
efit as well.
Let’s vote Andrew in and put him to
work.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE6.005 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1568 February 28, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, all postcloture time
is expired.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Wheeler nomi-
nation?
Mr. INHOFE. I ask for the yeas and
nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Arizona (Ms. SINEMA) is
necessarily absent.
The result was announced—yeas 52,
nays 47, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 33 Ex.]
YEAS—52
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—47
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—1
Sinema
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
YOUNG). Under the previous order, the
motion to reconsider is considered
made and laid upon the table, and the
President will be immediately notified
of the Senate’s action.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will re-
sume consideration of the following
nomination, which the clerk will re-
port.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
John L. Ryder, of Tennessee, to be a
Member of the Board of Directors of
the Tennessee Valley Authority for a
term expiring May 18, 2021.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
(The remarks of Mr. GRASSLEY per-
taining to the introduction of S. 617 are
printed in today’s RECORD under
‘‘Statements on Introduced Bills and
Joint Resolutions.’’)
Mr. GRASSLEY. I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Tennessee.
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, in
a few minutes, we will be voting on the
President’s nomination of John Ryder,
of Memphis, to be a member of the
Board of the Tennessee Valley Author-
ity.
To those of us in the seven State re-
gion that the TVA serves, it is a very
important institution. Its job is to pro-
vide large amounts of reliable, low-cost
electricity, which is the basis for how
we live and how we work. It has a lot
to do with our ability to attract jobs.
Its job is to provide that energy in a
clean way so we can see our mountains
and so we meet the emissions stand-
ards in our metropolitan areas that
allow us to attract and grow more jobs.
The TVA is fulfilling its mission very
well. It is heading toward a position in
which it will be about 40-percent nu-
clear in its production of electricity,
about 20 percent in natural gas, and
about 20 percent in coal or a little less
than that. It will have pollution con-
trol equipment on all of its coal plants.
Most of the rest is hydroelectric power,
and a little bit is renewable. In short,
it has one of the cleanest portfolios in
the country, and it is continuing to do
that and is producing a lot of low-cost,
reliable electricity.
We are very fortunate to be in a re-
gion in which, as we look down the
road 5, 10, or 15 years, we will be able
to say to people who are thinking of
moving themselves to Tennessee or
moving their businesses to Tennessee
or growing them there that they will
be able to get a lot of reliable, low-cost
electricity—all that they need. In addi-
tion to that, they will be able to see
the Smoky Mountains because the air
is a lot cleaner now that they have
such a clean portfolio.
So John Ryder’s appointment is a
very important appointment, and he is
a well-qualified man for that position.
He is one of Tennessee’s best known
lawyers and has been for a long time.
Since the late 1980s, he has been listed
as one of Tennessee’s best lawyers. He
is well respected by everyone who
knows him.
Senator Corker and I recommended
him to President Trump, and we know
him well. Senator BLACKBURN, who is
Senator Corker’s successor, has a high
regard for John Ryder. All of us appre-
ciate his willingness to serve, and we
look forward to the voice vote we are
going to have in a few minutes that
will place him on TVA’s Board. The
Board has just selected a new chief ex-
ecutive officer. TVA is the largest pub-
lic utility in the United States, per-
haps in the world. It is an important
assignment, and it is one I am de-
lighted to recommend him for.
There is one other thing, but I will
not dwell on this because I spoke on
this Monday night. Unfortunately, Mr.
Ryder has been on the Senate’s cal-
endar for 9 months. He was nominated
by President Trump a year ago. The
problem has not been with Mr. Ryder
because, as I said, President Trump
nominated him after he was thor-
oughly vetted by the FBI. The Senate’s
Environment and Public Works Com-
mittee considered him, had a hearing,
and reported him unanimously to the
floor. Yet, for 9 months, he waited
there.
One reason is, the Democrats have
consistently obstructed the ability of
Senator MCCONNELL and the Repub-
lican majority to help President Trump
form his government. The Democrats
have required 128 times that Senator
MCCONNELL, the majority leader, file
cloture motions to cut off debate to ad-
vance a nomination like Mr. Ryder’s.
Now, this is not a Cabinet position.
This is not a lifetime judge. This is the
part-time Board of an important insti-
tution. He is one of 1,200 Presidential
nominees that any President has who
is subject to confirmation by advice
and consent. It is the kind of nomina-
tion by which, if a committee unani-
mously reports it to the Senate, we
will normally approve it by voice vote.
Yet, on this vote, Senator MCCONNELL
was forced to file cloture a week ago.
Then we had to wait an intervening
day. Only then could we come to this
vote.
This is not the way the Senate is sup-
posed to work, and this obstruction has
to stop. Senator BLUNT and Senator
LANKFORD have introduced a resolu-
tion, which has been reported to the
Senate by the rules committee, that
would cause us to adopt a rule very
much like the one we adopted in 2013,
when I worked with a large number of
Democrats and Republicans for the sole
purpose of making it easier for Presi-
dent Obama—and his successors—to
promptly confirm the men and women
whom he chose to form a government.
It received 78 votes. What we did at
that time was simply say: You still
keep the cloture motion, and you still
wait an intervening day if you need it,
but we reduce the postcloture time—
not for Supreme Court Justices, not for
circuit judges—simply for sub-Cabinet
members and for district judges. We
would reduce sub-Cabinet members to 8
hours and district judges to 2 hours.
On Monday night, I invited my
Democratic friends to work with me in
2019 the way I worked with them in
2013. In a bipartisan way, let’s make
sure the Senate can do what it has his-
torically done—to have promptly con-
sidered and voted up or down, with 51
votes, the nominees of any President of
the United States for the 1,200 posi-
tions that form the government.
There have been some conversations.
I hope Senator BLUNT and Senator
LANKFORD will continue to have those
conversations with the Democratic
Members, but there are nine Demo-
cratic Senators, by my count, who are
seeking to be the next President of the
United States. I hope they can look 20
months down the road and realize that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:29 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28FE6.021 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1569
February 28, 2019
just one Republican Senator could do
to them, if one of them were to become
President, what the Democrats have
done to President Trump. It would be
very difficult for the next Democratic
President, if there were to be one, to
form a government. We don’t want that
to happen. That diminishes the advice
and consent role of the Senate. It fills
up the government with appointees
who are acting and whom we don’t
know, and they are not really account-
able to us. That is not the way this
place is supposed to work.
So I renew my invitation to my
Democratic friends to work with me
the way a number of us worked with
them in 2011, in 2012, and in 2013. Let’s
change the rules in the right way. Let’s
basically adopt virtually the same rule
we adopted in 2013 and allow this Presi-
dent and any President to get prompt
consideration and up-or-down votes of
their nominees.
I congratulate Mr. Ryder on his con-
firmation. I am grateful for his willing-
ness to serve, and I am sorry he had to
wait so long for the opportunity. The
people of Tennessee and the seven
State region will be much better off for
his service within this important insti-
tution.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the confirmation of John
Ryder, as a member of the Board of Di-
rectors of the Tennessee Valley Au-
thority, occur at this time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Ryder nomina-
tion?
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motion to re-
consider is considered made and laid
upon the table, and the President will
be immediately notified of the Senate’s
action.
The Senator from Tennessee.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session for a
period of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak for up to 10
minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Tennessee.
f
DECLARATION OF NATIONAL
EMERGENCY
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President,
President Trump has been in Vietnam
this week, meeting with the North Ko-
rean leader, Kim Jong Un. I applaud
the President for his efforts to improve
the U.S. relationship with North
Korea.
There is not a more difficult rela-
tionship anywhere in the world at this
time than that relationship. But I am
glad he chose not to seek a deal just for
the sake of a deal.
As he returns from his summit with
the North Korean leader and turns his
attention back home, I want to make a
respectful suggestion, and that is this:
that President Trump ask his lawyers
to take a second look at existing fund-
ing authorities that the President has
to consider construction of the 234
miles of border wall that do not require
a formal declaration of a national
emergency.
I support what the President wants
to do on border security, but I do not
support the way he has been advised to
do it. It is unnecessary and unwise to
turn a border crisis into a constitu-
tional crisis about separation of powers
when the President already has con-
gressional funding authority to build
the 234 miles of border wall that he re-
quested in his January 6 letter to the
Senate.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent to include in the RECORD following
my remarks the text of the President’s
January 6 letter to the Senate Appro-
priations Committee.
Mr. President, there has never been
an instance in which a President of the
United States has asked for funding,
Congress has refused it, and the Presi-
dent has then used the National Emer-
gency Act to justify spending the
money anyway.
If President Trump can build a wall
when Congress has refused to provide
the funding, then the next President
can declare a national emergency and
tear the wall down or declare climate
change an emergency and stop oil ex-
ports and offshore drilling. There is no
limit to the imagination of what the
next leftwing President could do to
harm our country with this precedent.
After an American revolution against
a King, our Founders chose not to cre-
ate a Chief Executive who could tax
the people and spend their money any
way he chose. The Constitution gave
that responsibility exclusively to a
Congress elected by the people, and
every one of us U.S. Senators has
taken an oath to support that Con-
stitution.
Separation of powers is a crucial con-
stitutional imperative that goes to the
very heart of our freedom.
I don’t know how the late Justice
Antonin Scalia would have decided a
case on this matter, but I do know
what he said about separation of pow-
ers, and this was what Justice Scalia
said:
Every tin horn dictator in the world today
. . . has a Bill of Rights. That’s not what
makes us free. . . . What has made us free is
our Constitution. . . . The word ‘‘constitu-
tion’’ . . . means structure. That’s why . . .
the framers debated not the Bill of Rights
. . . but rather the structure of the federal
government. The genius of the American
constitutional system is the dispersal of
power. Once power is centralized in one per-
son, or one part [of our government], a Bill
of Rights is just words on paper.
That was Justice Scalia.
The President can avoid this dan-
gerous precedent completely. He can
use the congressional funding author-
ity he already has to build the 234
miles of wall that he asked Congress to
approve in the January 6 letter that I
submitted for the RECORD.
Here is how this would work. On Jan-
uary 6 of this year—last month—in his
letter to the Senate Appropriations
Committee, the President requested
$5.7 billion to build 234 miles of new
physical barrier on the southern bor-
der.
Then, on February 14, a couple of
weeks ago, Congress passed the Home-
land Security appropriations bill,
which provided $1.375 billion to build 55
miles that the President had asked for.
On February 15, the day he signed the
Homeland Security appropriations bill,
President Trump announced that he
would use two additional sources of
funds that had already been approved
by Congress, which could be used to
fund the border wall.
The first was $601 million from the
Treasury Forfeiture Fund. The second
was up to $2.5 billion from the Depart-
ment of Defense accounts to support
counterdrug activities and to block
drug-smuggling corridors across inter-
national boundaries.
The President is authorized to do
this because of a provision in law that
allows him to transfer up to $4 billion
among the accounts of the Department
of Defense. That is $4 billion in a De-
partment of Defense budget of about
$600 billion.
These three sources of funding that I
just mentioned add up to about $4.5 bil-
lion or $1.2 billion less than the $5.7 bil-
lion that the President requested in his
January 6 letter.
So where does he get the rest of the
money? He can get it by transferring
$3.7 billion instead of $2.5 billion from
the Department of Defense accounts to
support counterdrug activities. Then
the President would be able to build
the 234 miles of wall he requested on
January 6, and he would not need to de-
clare a national emergency.
To be specific, this means the Presi-
dent would use $1.375 billion from the
Homeland Security appropriations bill
plus $601 million from the Treasury
Forfeiture Fund plus $3.7 billion from
the Department of Defense accounts to
support counterdrug activities, which
would add up to equal his full $5.7 bil-
lion request to build 234 miles of border
wall.
If my analysis is incorrect, I hope
that the President’s lawyers will tell
me.
Using funds already approved by Con-
gress avoids the constitutional crisis of
separation of powers. Using funds al-
ready approved by Congress avoids es-
tablishing a dangerous precedent,
which could be misused by subsequent
Presidents. Using funds already ap-
proved by Congress avoids taking
money from military construction
projects specifically approved by Con-
gress for such activities as military
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28FE6.024 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1570 February 28, 2019
barracks and hospitals. And using
funds already approved by Congress
avoids months or years of litigation,
which could make it unlikely that the
full 234 miles are ever built.
It may be a couple of weeks before
the Senate votes on a resolution re-
garding the national emergency dec-
laration, so we don’t know yet exactly
what we will be voting on. There is
time for the President’s lawyers to
take another look and determine
whether we can both build the 234
miles of border wall that the President
has asked for and avoid this dangerous
precedent. Then the Senate could both
support the President’s border request
and be faithful to our oath to support a
Constitution that creates separation of
powers as a crucial check on Executive
power that goes to the very heart of
our freedom.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESI-
DENT, OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT
AND BUDGET,
Washington, DC, January 6, 2019.
Hon. RICHARD SHELBY,
Chairman, Committee on Appropriations,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: The President con-
tinues to stress the need to pass legislation
that will both reopen the Federal Govern-
ment and address the security and humani-
tarian crisis at our Nation’s Southwest bor-
der. The Administration has previously
transmitted budget proposals that would
support his ongoing commitment to dramati-
cally reduce the entry of illegal immigrants,
criminals, and drugs; keep out terrorists,
public safety threats, and those otherwise in-
admissible under U.S. law; and ensure that
those who do enter without legal permission
can be promptly and safely returned home.
Appropriations bills for fiscal year (FY)
2019 that have already been considered by
the current and previous Congresses are in-
adequate to fully address these critical
issues. Any agreement for the current year
should satisfy the following priorities:
—Border Wall, Customs and Border Protec-
tion (CBP): The President requests $5.7 bil-
lion for construction of a steel barrier for
the Southwest border. Central to any strat-
egy to achieve operational control along the
southern border is physical infrastructure to
provide requisite impedance and denial. In
short, a physical barrier—wall—creates an
enduring capability that helps field per-
sonnel stop, slow down and/or contain illegal
entries. In concert with the U.S. Army Corps
of Engineers, CBP has increased its capacity
to execute these funds. The Administration’s
full request would fund construction of a
total of approximately 234 miles of new phys-
ical barrier and fully fund the top 10 prior-
ities in CBP’s Border Security Improvement
Plan. This would require an increase of $4.1
billion over the FY 2019 funding level in the
Senate version of the bill.
—Immigration Judge Teams—Executive
Office for Immigration Review (EOIR): The
President requests at least $563 million for 75
additional Immigration Judges and support
staff to reduce the backlog of pending immi-
gration cases. The Administration appre-
ciates that the Senate’s FY 2019 bill provides
this level of funding, and looks forward to
working with the Congress on further in-
creases in this area to facilitate an expan-
sion of in-country processing of asylum
claims.
—Law Enforcement Personnel, Border Pa-
trol Agent Hiring, CBP: The President re-
quests $211 million to hire 750 additional Bor-
der Patrol Agents in support of his promise
to keep our borders safe and secure. While
the Senate’s FY 2019 bill supports some Bor-
der Patrol Agent hiring, fulfilling this re-
quest requires an increase of $100 million
over the FY 2019 funding level in the Senate
version of the bill.
—Law Enforcement Personnel, Immigra-
tion and Customs Enforcement (ICE): The
President requests $571 million for 2,000 addi-
tional law enforcement personnel, as well as
support staff, who enforce our U.S. immigra-
tion laws and help address gang violence,
smuggling and trafficking, and the spread of
drugs in our communities. This would re-
quire an increase of $571 million over the FY
2019 funding level in the Senate version of
the bill.
—Detention Beds, ICE: The President re-
quests $4.2 billion to support 52,000 detention
beds. Given that in recent months, the num-
ber of people attempting to cross the border
illegally has risen to 2,000 per day, providing
additional resources for detention and trans-
portation is essential. This would require an
increase of $798 million over the FY 2019
funding level in the Senate version of the
bill.
—Humanitarian Needs: The President re-
quests an additional $800 million to address
urgent humanitarian needs. This includes
additional funding for enhanced medical sup-
port, transportation, consumable supplies
appropriate for the population, and addi-
tional temporary facilities for processing
and short-term custody of this vulnerable
population, which are necessary to ensure
the well-being of those taken into custody.
—Counter-narcotics/weapons Technology:
Beyond these specific budgetary requests,
the Administration looks forward to working
with Congress to provide resources in other
areas to address the unprecedented chal-
lenges we face along the Southwest border.
Specifically, $675 million would provide Non-
Intrusive Inspection (NII) technology at in-
bound lanes at U.S. Southwest Border Land
Ports of Entry (LPOE) would allow CBP to
deter and detect more contraband, including
narcotics, weapons, and other materials that
pose nuclear and radiological threats. This
would require an increase of $631 million
over the FY 2019 funding level in the Senate
version of the bill.
In addition, to address the humanitarian
crisis of unaccompanied alien children
(UACs), Democrats have proposed in-country
asylum processing for Central American Mi-
nors. This would require a statutory change,
along with reallocation of State Department
funds to establish in-country processing ca-
pacities at Northern Triangle consulates and
embassies. Furthermore, for the new proce-
dure to achieve the desired humanitarian re-
sult, a further corresponding statutory
change would be required to ensure that
those who circumvent the process and come
to the United States without authorization
can be promptly returned home. Without the
latter change, in-country processing will not
reduce the unauthorized flow or successfully
mitigate the humanitarian crisis.’’
These upfront investments in physical bar-
riers and technology, as well as legislation
to close loopholes in our immigration sys-
tem, will reduce illegal immigration, the
flow of illicit drugs entering our country and
reduce the long term costs for border and im-
migration enforcement activities.
The Administration looks forward to ad-
vancing these critical priorities as part of
legislation to reopen the Government.
Sincerely,
RUSSELL T. VOUGHT,
Acting Director.
Mr. ALEXANDER. I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 15.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion
to proceed.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Allison Jones Rushing, of North Caro-
lina, to be United States Circuit Judge
for the Fourth Circuit.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Allison Jones Rushing, of North
Carolina, to be United States Circuit Judge
for the Fourth Circuit.
Mitch McConnell, David Perdue, Mike
Crapo, Johnny Isakson, John Cornyn,
Pat Roberts, James M. Inhofe, Thom
Tillis, Roger F. Wicker, Lindsey Gra-
ham, Roy Blunt, John Thune, John
Boozman, John Barrasso, James E.
Risch, Richard Burr, John Hoeven.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 17.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Chad A. Readler, of Ohio, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Cir-
cuit.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:41 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28FE6.025 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1571
February 28, 2019
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs
clerk to read the motion.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in ac-
cordance with the provisions of rule
XXII of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, do hereby move to bring to a close
debate on the nomination of Chad A.
Readler, of Ohio, to be United States
Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit.
Mitch McConnell, David Perdue, Roy
Blunt, John Cornyn, Joni Ernst,
Lindsey Graham, John Boozman, Mike
Rounds, Thom Tillis, Steve Daines,
James E. Risch, John Hoeven, Mike
Crapo, Shelley Moore Capito, John
Thune, Pat Roberts, Jerry Moran.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 18.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Eric E. Murphy, of Ohio, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Cir-
cuit.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Eric E. Murphy, of Ohio, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the Sixth
Circuit.
Mitch McConnell, David Perdue, Roy
Blunt, John Cornyn, Joni Ernst,
Lindsey Graham, John Boozman, Mike
Rounds, Thom Tillis, Steve Daines,
James E. Risch, John Hoeven, Mike
Crapo, Shelley Moore Capito, John
Thune, Pat Roberts, Jerry Moran.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 11.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
John Fleming, of Louisiana, to be As-
sistant Secretary of Commerce for Eco-
nomic Development.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in ac-
cordance with the provisions of rule
XXII of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, do hereby move to bring to a close
debate on the nomination of John
Fleming, of Louisiana, to be Assistant
Secretary of Commerce for Economic
Development.
Mitch McConnell, Steve Daines, John
Thune, John Cornyn, James M. Inhofe,
Pat Roberts, Mike Crapo, Chuck Grass-
ley, Richard Burr, John Barrasso,
Jerry Moran, Roy Blunt, Shelley
Moore Capito, John Boozman, Johnny
Isakson, Thom Tillis, John Hoeven.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the man-
datory quorum calls with respect to
the cloture motions be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
APPROPRIATIONS
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, just a
couple of short weeks ago, we finally
finished the fiscal year 2019 appropria-
tions bills, and I greatly appreciate
those who worked with us to get that
done.
I want to talk today about the need
to reach a new 2-year budget deal. We
have to do that so the Appropriations
Committee could then begin to work in
earnest on the fiscal year 2020 bills.
We have shown that we can move the
appropriations bills quickly, but we
have to have the budget deal. In fact,
unless we will get a budget deal, se-
questration returns in fiscal year 2020.
That would mean steep cuts in pro-
grams that invest in America and sup-
port working families.
It means we would have to make cuts
in our defense programs for the next
fiscal year—cuts of $71 billion. This is
real money. There would be a 10-per-
cent cut in funding to support our
troops and to invest in military readi-
ness.
It would also require that we cut $55
billion for nondefense programs in the
next fiscal year. That is a 9-percent
cut. The reality is, it means less in-
vestment in infrastructure, education,
housing, or agricultural programs. It
means less money for veterans’
healthcare, protecting our environ-
ment, or combating the opioid epi-
demic.
These cuts are not just hypothetical
numbers on a piece of paper. They af-
fect real people and real families. They
affect people in my State. They affect
the people in the State of the distin-
guished Presiding Officer. They affect
people in the 50 States represented by
all 100 of us.
Of course, the worst part about that
is the cuts will come at the same time
we are facing significant increases in
important programs that we have no
control over.
For example, we have to fund the de-
cennial census. The Constitution re-
quires us to have this census, and we
have to fund it by $4 billion if we are
going to follow what the Constitution
of the United States requires us to do
in conducting the 2020 census.
We have all talked about veterans’
healthcare. We have had a significant
increase in the healthcare costs for
veterans, and we have to have signifi-
cant increases in the budget if we are
going to adequately fund their health.
The VA MISSION Act, which pro-
vides additional private care options
for veterans, becomes effective in June
of this year. That is going to cost at
least an additional $3 billion, and esti-
mates could climb significantly higher.
That is on top of the $3 billion increase
for VA medical care that we have al-
ready enabled through advance appro-
priations.
Then we are going to need an addi-
tional $1 billion to ensure that an esti-
mated 5 million people who receive af-
fordable housing assistance can stay in
their homes. In addition to these in-
creased costs, we expect to lose nearly
$4 billion in receipts and cost savings
in other programs compared to this
year.
This may sound like just a whole lot
of numbers. It is more than that. It
means we have $15 billion right off the
bat that we must account for above
this year’s levels. Of course, I am sure
there will be more increases that we
will have to address.
As vice chairman of the Appropria-
tions Committee, I know how hard
Chairman SHELBY and I worked with
Republicans and Democrats to get
through the bills we had this past year.
We got them done, but it was not easy
staying within levels.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:29 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28FE6.029 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1572 February 28, 2019
We have to have a 2-year budget deal.
We have to negotiate it now. If we wait
until the very last second to pass these
bills, it will cost the taxpayers a lot
more money because the Departments
cannot plan. We are not going to bury
our heads in the sand and pretend it is
going to fix itself.
Of course, again, in the Appropria-
tions Committee, we try to work in a
bipartisan way. But we cannot respon-
sibly do our job in the absence of cap
levels that allow us to meet the needs
of the American people.
Again, this is not just an accounting
issue. This is the security and the well-
being of the greatest Nation on Earth.
It is not rhetoric; it is reality.
The budget deal has to be based on
parity if we are going to pass it. It has
to have equal treatment for defense
and nondefense programs, as we have
had in the past.
We have to invest on both sides of
the ledger if we are going to create a
strong national defense, a strong econ-
omy, and a healthy citizenry of the
United States.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent to have printed in the RECORD a
letter to all Senators that was received
yesterday from over 300 retired admi-
rals and generals who agree with this
premise.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
MISSION: READINESS,
Washington, DC, February 27, 2019.
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS: We write as retired
admirals and generals, and members of the
national security organization Mission:
Readiness, to urge you to support programs
that help America’s children grow into
healthy, educated, citizen-ready adults Par-
ticularly, we respectfully request that you
reevaluate spending caps mandated by the
Budget Control Act of 2011 (BCA) and provide
balanced investments in both defense and
non-defense discretionary (NDD) programs.
As Members of Mission: Readiness, we rec-
ognize the fact that the strength of our mili-
tary—and our Nation—is dependent on the
strength of our people. We are deeply con-
cerned that 71 percent of young Americans
ages 17 to 24 cannot qualify for military serv-
ice because they are too poorly educated,
medically or physically unfit, or have a dis-
qualifying record of crime or drug abuse. The
implications of this recruitment crisis were
underscored last year, when the Army fell
short of its 2018 recruiting goal by 6,500 sol-
diers. Further, in 2018 the Army missed its
end strength goal for the active duty compo-
nent by almost 7,500 soldiers, and the Army
National Guard and Army Reserve missed
their end strength goals by 8,000 and 9,000
soldiers, respectively. The shortage of quali-
fied young people who are willing to serve
will continue to erode the strength of our
military, unless we address the root causes
now.
NDD programs play a variety of roles in
supporting and enhancing our national secu-
rity by contributing directly to the health,
education, and development of our youngest
generation. These crucial NDD programs in-
clude:
Child Care and Development-Block Grants
(CCDBG), which help low-income families af-
ford child care. Research shows that access
to quality child care has significant positive
impacts on children’s social, cognitive, and
physical development.
Head Start and Early Head Start, which
help children from low-income families ac-
cess early learning opportunities and become
prepared for kindergarten. Studies have
found that the Head Start participants gain
long-term educational benefits, including in-
creased rates of high school graduation.
The sequestration cuts mandated by the
BCA pose a direct threat to the effectiveness
of these and other key NDD programs. With-
out a new budget agreement from Congress,
NDD funding will be cut by $55 billion com-
pared to Fiscal Year 2019. These cuts would
severely undermine the ability of programs
like CCDBG, Head Start, and Early Head
Start to serve children and put them on the
path toward productive citizenship.
Last year, Congress worked in a bipartisan
fashion to pass a two-year budget agreement
that avoided sequestration cuts, provided
key new investments for important pro-
grams, and did so in a balanced manner that
strengthened both defense and NDD activi-
ties. We strongly urge you to follow this ex-
ample for the coming fiscal years and avoid
the drastic cuts of sequestration, while
maintaining a balanced approach to setting
discretionary budget levels.
Providing for the common defense is one of
the most fundamental and important con-
stitutional duties of Congress. By providing
balanced investments across both defense
and non-defense discretionary programs,
Congress will continue to ensure our na-
tional security, both now and for generations
to come.
Mr. LEAHY. These admirals and gen-
erals, many of whom I know and a lot
of whom I do not, have been here with
Republican and Democratic adminis-
trations, but they are all people who
have served our Nation and care about
our Nation. They are part of a coali-
tion called Mission: Readiness, Council
for a Strong America. They call on
Congress to negotiate balanced invest-
ments in both defense and nondefense
programs.
They wrote: ‘‘As members of Mission:
Readiness, we recognize the fact that
the strength of our military—and our
Nation—is dependent on the strength
of our people.’’
We have certainly seen this. You can
go back to the time of World War II,
when Harry Truman found that we
could not find the people we needed in
our military because of things like
malnutrition or a lack of education; we
needed to improve the nutrition pro-
grams in our schools. This is not rhet-
oric; it is reality.
These admirals and generals want a
strong United States of America, just
as I do and just as every single Member
of this body—of either party—wants.
If the press reports are accurate, the
President is planning to send up a
budget on March 11 that not only fails
to provide a constructive path forward,
but it is going to be dead on arrival. If
press reports are accurate, the Presi-
dent will, yet again, propose deep cuts
to nondefense programs, even though
Congress has rejected President
Trump’s cuts for the last 2 fiscal years.
Every Republican and every Democrat
knows that you have to have a balance
between defense and nondefense pro-
grams.
President Trump also proposes large
increases for defense programs, paid for
using a budget gimmick that his own
Acting Chief of Staff, Mick Mulvaney,
would rail against when he was in Con-
gress. He says he will move large por-
tions of the defense base budget into
the Overseas Contingency Operation,
or OCO, account so that it will not
count against the budget caps. Mick
Mulvaney and most Republicans and
Democrats have said we cannot do this.
It is not a recipe for success.
OCO is meant for costs associated
with military operations in Afghani-
stan, Iraq, and Syria. It is there to ad-
dress crises overseas. It supports our
men and women deployed and in
harm’s way.
The OCO account should not be used
as a slush fund to pay for the everyday
operations of the Department of De-
fense or to avoid a real debate on the
budget caps.
To suggest we should move billions
in the base defense budget into OCO at
a time when the President is actively
reducing our troop presence overseas
shows what a disingenuous move it is.
I went back in my notes, and I found
a letter written by then-Congressman
Mick Mulvaney—now the acting Chief
of Staff for President Trump. He wrote
this in March of 2014. It is strikingly
relevant today, 5 years later. Then-
Congressman Mulvaney wrote a letter
signed by numerous Members. He op-
posed a $10 billion increase in OCO,
calling it is a ‘‘misuse’’ of funds and an
attempt to ‘‘circumvent the caps’’ for
things unrelated to overseas combat at
a time when war operations were
‘‘winding down.’’ He opposed the gim-
mick. He argued for greater trans-
parency and discipline in the budget
process.
He said he would not want any Presi-
dent—well, of course, in that case, it
was President Obama—to have this
power. Now he is Acting Chief of Staff
of another President, and we are told
the President may propose an increase
of $105 billion, more than doubling OCO
funding, as we are withdrawing troops.
That is not the way forward.
Let’s have an honest conversation,
Republicans and Democrats together,
about our needs as a nation. We have
to do the hard work to set new caps. It
is not easy. Every one of us will have
to cast difficult votes. Well, so what?
We are elected to a 6-year term. There
is not a single Member of this body
who, at one time or another during
their campaigns, did not say something
to the effect of ‘‘I am willing to cast
tough votes.’’
Well, let us have it, this onerous con-
versation. Let us do the hard work to
set new caps. Let us cast those difficult
votes. Let us show the people who
elected us they did the right thing. Let
us invest in the programs. Let us
strengthen our military, grow our
economy, improve our infrastructure,
and build the future of this country we
love. Let us not use a budget gimmick
to frustrate that debate. Trust me, the
American people will see through that
kind of a gimmick.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:29 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28FE6.036 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1573
February 28, 2019
I am ready to have those conversa-
tions. I want to move forward with the
fiscal year 2020 appropriations bills.
Let’s get the work done the American
people sent us here to do. If we have to
stay a few evenings and if we have to
stay a few weekends, let’s do it. It is
for the greatest Nation on Earth. Let’s
do it. I urge leadership on both sides of
the aisle, in both Chambers of Con-
gress, to begin these negotiations now.
Then we have to take up, with ur-
gency, a disaster package. In the last 2
years, we have had the deadliest dis-
aster seasons in recent memory—Hur-
ricanes Michael, Florence, Irma, and
Maria, the California wildfires, vol-
canic eruptions in Hawaii, and ty-
phoons along the Pacific coast. These
communities, States, and territories
need our help.
When Tropical Storm Irene hit
Vermont in 2011, I found out firsthand
how devastating natural disasters can
be. Roads were washed away, towns and
villages were cut off from vital serv-
ices, and people’s homes were de-
stroyed.
The day after Irene, I went around
the State of Vermont with our Gov-
ernor and with the head of our Na-
tional Guard in a helicopter, landing in
small towns. Many times the only way
you could get into these towns was by
helicopter because roads were gone and
the bridges were gone.
You would see bridges, like a child’s
toy, twisted and a mile from where it
was supposed to be. A farmhouse that
had been on the north side of the river
was now upside down on the south side
of the river. We were in the middle of
the State, and we knew it was critical.
The Federal Government provided as-
sistance to help recovery because we
are part of the United States of Amer-
ica.
The people of Puerto Rico and others
that have been so badly damaged, these
are Americans. We should stand to-
gether to help them. I am sorry we
were not able to reach agreement to in-
clude a disaster package in the fiscal
year 2019 minibus we passed just 2
weeks ago. We were so close to an
agreement on a package—so very close,
Republicans and Democrats alike. It
would have addressed the needs of all
impacted communities.
It broke down because the President
insisted we eliminate disaster assist-
ance for Puerto Rico. I guess he
thought tossing rolls of paper towels
for the people is good enough. Puerto
Rico is part of the United States. It is
not, as the White House described it,
an island surrounded by water, I guess,
as compared to those other islands. It
is a part of the United States. These
are American people. They have served
in our military. They help us in our
medical facilities. They are Americans,
and they cannot be left out.
Hurricanes Maria and Irma—they
had two hurricanes—devastated Puerto
Rico. They destroyed the island’s
homes and infrastructure. They caused
the deaths of an estimated 2,975 people.
It was one of the deadliest hurricanes
our country has ever seen, certainly in
my lifetime.
Now, we provided Puerto Rico assist-
ance in past disaster bills, but they
have so many unaddressed needs that
have to be met. Many people, even
after the hurricane, are still living in
temporary housing. Roads, bridges, and
communities still need to be rebuilt.
One of the largest infrastructure
projects to be undertaken on the island
is the rebuilding of Puerto Rico’s en-
ergy grid, which needs more assistance.
Most importantly, in the absence of
supplemental assistance, we estimate
that 140,000 Puerto Ricans, U.S. citi-
zens, are going to lose nutrition assist-
ance at the end of March.
We are the United States of Amer-
ica—United States of America—and
this is the U.S. Senate. We are sup-
posed to take care of all our citizens
when they have crises. We do not pick
and choose based on with whom we are
politically aligned.
I voted for disaster relief for States
that were predominantly Republican
and other States that were predomi-
nantly Democratic, but I don’t look at
it like that. I look at the fact that they
are part of the United States of Amer-
ica, and they had a disaster. They
should be helped.
Last month, the House passed H.R.
268, a comprehensive disaster package
that provided over $14 billion to help
all States and territories impacted by
recent disasters to help them recover
and rebuild. I worked closely with the
House on this bill. I believe it will ad-
dress the needs of all disaster-impacted
communities.
On Tuesday, Senators PERDUE and
JONES and others, working very hard,
introduced a similar but not identical
bill. I am taking these bills with me
this weekend. I am going to review
them carefully. I thank the bipartisan
group of Senators—Senators PERDUE
and JONES and others—for bringing the
issue back to the forefront of the Sen-
ate. I am certainly committed to work-
ing with my good friend Chairman
SHELBY. I also worked with Repub-
licans and Democrats in the House Ap-
propriations Committee. I want a pack-
age that can pass both Chambers in ad-
dressing the needs of all States and ter-
ritories hit by recent disasters.
I certainly urge the majority leader,
Senator MCCONNELL, to commit to
bringing this to the floor as soon as
possible. With that, I see other Sen-
ators on the floor.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Ohio.
REMEMBERING OTTO WARMBIER
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, in the
context of the ongoing negotiations
with North Korea, there has been a lot
of discussion today in the media about
Otto Warmbier.
Otto Warmbier was a young man
from my hometown of Cincinnati, OH.
This is an emotional issue for me be-
cause, through the process of trying to
bring Otto home, I got to know his
family very well.
He was a young man with a lot of
promise, 22 years old, and a college stu-
dent at the University of Virginia. He
had gone as a tourist to North Korea.
He was pulled out of the line at the air-
port.
Here he was, a kindhearted college
kid, found himself a prisoner in North
Korea. He was there for about 18
months. His detainment and his sen-
tence were appalling; unacceptable by
any standards. At some point soon
after being sentenced to 15 years of
hard labor, from what we know, Otto
suffered a severe brain injury. What
happened? We may never know the de-
tails, but we do know one thing, and
that is he was severely mistreated.
Who did the North Korean Govern-
ment tell about the fact that he had
this brain damage? No one. Unbeliev-
ably, for the next 15 months of his life,
they kept this a secret. They denied
him access to the best medical care he
deserved, which of course we would
have provided.
I was in communication with the
North Korean Government during this
time through their offices at the
United Nations in New York. They
didn’t even tell us about the terrible
mistreatment he had suffered and the
condition he was in. They refused re-
peated requests for consular access
that normally would have been pro-
vided to someone who has been de-
tained, regardless of their health situa-
tion. This included denying requests, of
course, from me, from others in this
body and other bodies of Congress but
also from the Obama administration,
the Trump administration, the Red
Cross, also from the Government of
Sweden, which typically acts for us in
North Korea as a consular service. I
say that because while I support en-
gagement with North Korea—in fact, in
my experience with Otto Warmbier, it
makes me even more convinced we
need to have communication because
we had no good lines of communica-
tion.
I support the ongoing talks with
North Korea, specifically about
denuclearization. I want to make clear
that we can never forget about Otto.
His treatment at the hands of his cap-
tors was unforgivable, and it tells us a
lot about the nature of the regime. We
can’t be naive about what they did to
Otto, about the brutal nature of the re-
gime that would do this to an Amer-
ican citizen.
Of course, it is not just about Otto or
other visitors. It is about how the peo-
ple of North Korea are treated, many of
whom also have had their human
rights violated. No one should have to
go through what the Warmbier family
has gone through. They have been in-
credibly strong, by the way, through
this whole ordeal. I watched them
channel their grief into something con-
structive, exposing some of the human
rights abuses in North Korea, as an ex-
ample.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:44 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28FE6.038 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1574 February 28, 2019
Throughout this ordeal, I have stood
with Fred and Cindy and their entire
family. I will continue to, but I also
want to say today, as we discuss these
broader issues with North Korea, let’s
keep Otto Warmbier at the front of our
minds. Let’s be sure he is high on our
agenda and in our consciousness as we
deal with North Korea and, again, un-
derstanding, because of our experience
with Otto, the brutal nature of this re-
gime.
CHINA INVESTIGATION
Mr. President, I will now talk about
the Permanent Subcommittee on In-
vestigations’ hearing we had today.
I am here to talk about China and
the impact it is having on the U.S. edu-
cation system. I chair the Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations,
which is a subcommittee of the Home-
land Security and Government Affairs
Committee. My colleague TOM CARPER,
on the other side of the aisle, is the
ranking member. We worked together
on bipartisan—I believe you would say
nonpartisan investigations.
We had success working on the opioid
crisis in coming up with legislation to
stop fentanyl from coming through the
mail, the deadliest of all the drugs. We
also had success in pushing back
against human trafficking, leading to
actually shutting down the website
that trafficked more women and chil-
dren than any other one,
backpage.com.
Today we looked at something that
is also very important for our country;
that is, understanding better how these
Confucius Institutes work. We issued a
bipartisan report today talking about
how there is a lack of transparency in
how American colleges and universities
manage their Confucius Institutes.
These are located at more than 100 col-
leges and universities around the coun-
try. These institutions in America
have received more than $150 million in
support from the Government of China
for these Confucius Institutes since
2006.
Confucius Institutes are enterprises
that engage in the teaching of Chinese
culture and language, and they are at
universities and colleges around the
world. These Confucius Institutes are
designed, funded, and primarily staffed
by the Chinese Government. The Chi-
nese Government bills them as an op-
portunity for cultural exchange, and
the funding comes from them. It is an
appealing prospect for many U.S.
schools trying to meet their demand
for language instruction, but we need
to be careful.
There needs to be more transparency
in how these institutes operate in the
United States, and there needs to be
more reciprocity so the United States
can also provide its cultural institu-
tions in China. That is not happening
now because China has systematically
shut down comparable U.S. State De-
partment public diplomacy efforts on
college campuses in China.
Let me be clear. I do support cultural
exchange—we all should; it is a good
thing—with China and with the inter-
national community more broadly, but
there needs to be reciprocity, and there
needs to be appropriate engagement
without, in this case, the Chinese Gov-
ernment determining what is said and
what is done on U.S. campuses.
The law must be followed. That is
why transparency is so important.
This morning we held a hearing fol-
lowing an 8-month investigation into
this issue. Based on our findings, let
me focus on these two issues of trans-
parency and reciprocity—transparency
in how colleges and universities man-
age the institutes which are controlled,
funded, and mostly staffed by the Chi-
nese Government and the lack of reci-
procity in how China does not permit
U.S. State Department programming
in China.
Our report details how China, known
for its one-sided dealings in trade—not
having a level playing field in trade—
also does not have a level playing field
with regard to these cultural changes.
Our report documents how U.S. offi-
cials had expressed concerns about Chi-
na’s influence through its Confucius In-
stitutes. Recently, the FBI’s Assistant
Director for Counterintelligence testi-
fied before the Senate Judiciary Com-
mittee that the Confucius Institutes
are ‘‘not strictly a cultural institute’’
and that ‘‘they are ultimately beholden
to the Chinese government.’’ The State
Department has labeled Confucius In-
stitutes ‘‘China’s most prominent soft
power platform.’’
Higher education groups have also
expressed concern. The American
Council of Education, the National As-
sociation of Scholars, and the Amer-
ican Association of University Profes-
sors have all recommended that U.S.
schools fundamentally change how
they manage Confucius Institutes or
consider shutting them down.
Other foreign governments have al-
ready acted. For example, the UK Con-
servative Party Commission on Human
Rights called for the suspension of fur-
ther agreements until it can complete
a more comprehensive review of poten-
tial threats to academic freedom at the
Confucius Institutes in the United
Kingdom.
The Canadian Province of New
Brunswick recently announced that it
would cease its Confucius Institute op-
erations, citing academic freedom con-
cerns and that the program provides a
‘‘one-dimensional’’ view of China. Fi-
nally, an Australian State, New South
Wales, is currently reviewing the Con-
fucius Institute program, citing that it
exposes children to propaganda.
These concerns are well-founded.
Past statements by Chinese officials
make clear the purpose of Confucius
Institutes. For example, in 2011, a
former member of the Chinese Govern-
ment explained:
The Confucius Institute is an appealing
brand for expanding our culture abroad. It
has made an important contribution toward
improving our soft power. The ‘‘Confucius’’
brand has a natural attractiveness. Using
the excuse of teaching Chinese language, ev-
erything looks reasonable and logical.
The Director General of Confucius In-
stitute Headquarters has also com-
mented on how the program controls
messaging about controversial topics.
She said in 2014:
Every mainland China teacher we send . . .
will say Taiwan belongs to China. We should
have one China. No hesitation.
So with regard to issues like Taiwan,
Tibet, and Tiananmen Square, the Con-
fucius Institutes stay away from those
issues that are considered controver-
sial.
We know that Confucius Institutes
exist as one part of China’s broader,
long-term strategy, but China has in-
vested heavily in them, giving about
$150 million to U.S. schools just in the
last decade. China’s other long-term
initiatives include its Made in China
2025 plan, which is a push to lead the
world in certain advanced technology
manufacturing. The Thousand Talents
Program is another state-run initiative
designed to recruit Chinese researchers
in the United States to return to China
for significant financial gain, bringing
with them the research knowledge
gained at U.S. universities and compa-
nies. We plan on continuing to examine
the U.S. Government’s responses to
these issues as well.
Confucius Institutes, by the way, do
not stop at colleges and universities
alone. China has also opened more than
500 Confucius Classrooms programs at
U.S. K–12 schools. In fact, the Confu-
cius Classroom program is a priority
for the Chinese Government. A docu-
ment obtained by the subcommittee
during our investigation details a plan
to expand Confucius Classrooms by
seeking ‘‘top-down policy support from
the state government, legislative and
educational institutions, with par-
ticular emphasis on access to the sup-
port from school district superintend-
ents and principals.’’
Over the last 8 months, we inter-
viewed U.S. school officials, teachers,
and Confucius Institute instructors. We
also reviewed tens of thousands of
pages of contracts, emails, financial
records, and other internal documents
obtained from more than 100 U.S.
schools that were either active or re-
cently closed Confucius Institutes.
Since our investigation started, more
than 10 U.S. schools announced they
would be closing their Confucius Insti-
tutes. We found that Chinese funding
for Confucius Institutes comes with
strings attached—strings that can
compromise academic freedom. The
Chinese Government vets and approves
all Chinese directors and teachers,
events, research proposals, and speak-
ers at U.S. Confucius Institutes. Chi-
nese teachers sign contracts pledging
with the Chinese Government that
they will follow Chinese law and ‘‘con-
scientiously safeguard China’s national
interests.’’
Some schools actually contractually
agreed that both Chinese and U.S. law
will apply at Confucius Institutes in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:44 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28FE6.039 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1575
February 28, 2019
the United States on their school cam-
puses. Think about that. American uni-
versities are agreeing to comply with
Chinese law on their campuses. This
application of Chinese law at these
schools can result, of course, in export-
ing China’s censorship of political de-
bate and prevent discussion of politi-
cally sensitive topics.
As such, numerous U.S. school offi-
cials told the subcommittee that Con-
fucius Institutes were not the place to
discuss topics like the independence of
Taiwan, Tibet, or the Tiananmen
Square massacre. Put simply, as one
U.S. school administrator told us:
‘‘You know what you’re getting when
something is funded by the Chinese
government.’’
Investigators from the Government
Accountability Office also spoke with
U.S. officials, who acknowledge that
hosting the Confucius Institute could
limit events or activities critical of
China, not just at the Confucius Insti-
tute but also elsewhere on campus.
In response to the growing popularity
of Confucius Institutes, the United
States initiated its own public diplo-
macy program in China through the
State Department. The Chinese Gov-
ernment effectively shut it down. Since
2010, the State Department has pro-
vided $5.1 million in grant funding for
29 American Cultural Centers in China.
Through this program, a U.S. school
would partner with a Chinese school to
set up a cultural center, which would
enable Chinese students to better un-
derstand our country, our culture.
The Chinese Government stifled the
program from the start. Seven of the 29
American Cultural Centers never even
opened. Of those that did open, they
needed permission from the Chinese
partner schools, sometimes including
local Chinese Communist Party offi-
cials, just to hold events. Eventually,
because of the obstacles, the State De-
partment stopped funding the program
altogether. There are four programs re-
maining. They are all going to be
phased out entirely by this summer.
We heard some very interesting testi-
mony today from the State Depart-
ment—testimony that details the aca-
demic environment in China that has
made it impossible for us to have the
kind of freedom they enjoy over here.
The State Department testimony
aligns with the findings of our inves-
tigation.
For example, while the State Depart-
ment conducts various public diplo-
macy programs in China, the Chinese
Government has increasingly impeded
access to some segments of Chinese so-
ciety, including Chinese schools and
universities. All Chinese institutions,
including universities, have a foreign
affairs officer or a ‘‘gatekeeper’’ that is
an internal governmental office that
manages contact between the non-Chi-
nese entities and the institution. Any
Chinese institutions that wish to inter-
act with foreign government officials
must obtain approval first from this
gatekeeper.
The State Department even told us
that the Fulbright Program, a pres-
tigious and longstanding student ex-
change program, is impeded as Chinese
authorities have prevented Chinese
alumni of the Fulbright Program from
forming a Fulbright Association, a
standard practice in other countries.
We even heard directly from an Amer-
ican educator who was detained by the
Chinese police and questioned exten-
sively about her involvement with a
State Department grant. While the De-
partment of State said they conveyed
to the Chinese Government that it ex-
pects reciprocal access for U.S. dip-
lomats in our programs, it is not hap-
pening. Obviously, more needs to be
done.
While the State Department is most-
ly known for its overseas diplomatic
efforts, it also has oversight respon-
sibilities right here in the United
States with regard to these Confucius
Institutes. The State Department con-
ducts field site reviews to ensure that
foreign nationals who come to the
United States on these Exchange Vis-
itor Programs have visas that are ap-
propriate and that they are here for
the stated reason.
There are roughly 100 Confucius In-
stitutes at colleges and universities in
America, yet the State Department has
conducted field visits only to two of
them. At those two, they found serious
problems. At the Confucius Institute,
the State Department revoked more
than 30 visas for Chinese visitors who
were supposed to be working at the
university that sponsored their visa
but were actually teaching in the K–12
environment. They also discovered evi-
dence of ‘‘fraudulent paperwork and
coaching’’ that was a ‘‘deliberate at-
tempt to deceive’’ investigators, ac-
cording to the State Department.
The Chinese director coached the
Chinese teachers to tell the State De-
partment they were working on re-
search programs that they really
weren’t working on at the university’s
campus.
State also told us it does not collect
the visa information specifically re-
lated to the Confucius Institute, so we
don’t know how many Confucius Insti-
tute teachers there are or where they
are. Again, they visited only 2 schools
out of 100, and in those they found seri-
ous problems with regard to the State
Department’s responsibilities on visas.
Our investigation also identified fail-
ures at the Department of Education
that have contributed to a lack of
transparency and oversight at schools
that take money from foreign govern-
ments. If a U.S. school receives more
than $250,000 from a single foreign
source in 1 year, it is required by law
to report that data to the Department
of Education, which, in turn, publishes
it on its website. The Department of
Education, however, has not issued any
guidance on foreign gift reporting for
14 years, the same year that China
opened its first Confucius Institute,
and our investigation was able to find
that 70 percent of the colleges and uni-
versities that should have reported re-
ceiving funds for Confucius Institutes
from China did not; 70 percent are out
of compliance. When a school fails to
report a foreign gift, the Department of
Justice can force the school to comply,
but only at the request of the Sec-
retary of Education. The Department
of Education has never referred this
type of case to them—never.
We received two important commit-
ments at the hearing this morning. One
is the Department of Education has
committed to issuing new guidance to
the more than 3,000 schools it oversees.
This guidance is important to ensure
that schools know that they are obli-
gated to report receiving these foreign
government funding sources. They also
agreed to step up their enforcement on
the law on reporting foreign govern-
ment funds from Confucius Institutes.
The State Department committed
this morning to do more to ensure
visas are being properly used at Confu-
cius Institutes around the country.
Again, they conducted only two site re-
views. They have to do more, and they
said they will. We are going to follow
up on that.
As with all of our investigations, we
are developing legislation aimed at ad-
dressing the problems identified here
today. I want to call attention, as I
conclude, to a news report that came
out just a couple of days ago. The Chi-
nese Communist Party’s central com-
mittee and the Cabinet published a
document stating that the Confucius
Institutes will remain ‘‘a key govern-
ment policy.’’ Specifically, the news
report plans to ‘‘optimize’’ the spread
of Confucius Institutes. While it is un-
clear what ‘‘optimize’’ means at this
point, any legislation must try to an-
ticipate the potential rebranding of
Confucius Institutes or other efforts
that may seek to avoid the trans-
parency, disclosure, and reciprocity
that is needed if these programs are to
continue on our campuses.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader.
TRIBUTE TO BRUCE KING
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I
know my good friend from Georgia has
to get somewhere, and I have to get
somewhere. I will be very brief.
I want to take a moment to pay trib-
ute. We have staffers here who are just
unsung heroes. They work day in and
day out. Because of their diligent
work, the world and the country is a
better place.
One of these people who works in
quiet dignity and gets so much done
and is so well respected is Bruce King.
He has been indispensable at my office,
and today, this afternoon, it is my un-
fortunate duty to say farewell to
Bruce.
He has worked in the Senate in some
capacity since 1984. He has worked for
Judiciary, Senator Lautenberg, the
Budget Committee, and as the senior
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:44 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28FE6.047 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1576 February 28, 2019
counsel for multiple Democratic lead-
ers on the Federal budget, stretching
from Leader Daschle to Leader Reid to
me. In that short time, Bruce wasn’t
short of legislative achievement, from
negotiating the balanced budget agree-
ment of 1997 to blocking the privatiza-
tion of Social Security in 2006, from
shepherding health reform through the
Senate to passing the financial rescue
bill after the crisis in 2008.
One of our most distinguished Sen-
ators would be proud of that record.
Their name would be in lights. Bruce
did all of that and much more in his, as
I said, quiet, steadfast, brilliant dig-
nity.
I have never sat on the Budget or Ap-
propriations Committees, so when I be-
came leader, having his experience and
wisdom was incredible. I have met no
one who could take these complex
issues and put them in terms that even
someone like myself could understand,
not being an expert on those things. He
was able to understand the big picture
and never get caught in the minutia,
although he knew the minutia ex-
tremely well.
When you ask Bruce’s opinion on a
matter, he presents it so succinctly
and persuasively that you know it is
the right answer in a matter of min-
utes, until he decides to play devil’s ad-
vocate against his first opinion and
convinces you of the opposite because
he is one of those staffers who has
never had an ax to grind. He said: Let
my Senators know both sides, and let
them decide.
But we knew both sides so well and
so lucidly because of Bruce’s ability to
take these issues and help us under-
stand them.
He can juggle so many variables in
his head at once. He can weigh the pros
and cons. He has an instinctive knowl-
edge of how to deal with the tradeoffs,
and he can keep it all in a simple way.
He is a modest man. He has sat at the
same desk in the Capitol for 14 years.
Every day, he brings his lunch—peanut
butter and jelly sandwiches—and he
leaves the office at almost the same
time every night to have dinner at
home with Janis, his beloved wife.
Senators get the spotlight and the
credit when our initiatives succeed, but
so many initiatives would never have
succeeded without Bruce King. Bruce,
through the years, deserves an ocean of
credit for his work. He would never
claim a drop of it because he is a hum-
ble man.
For all his expertise, he is humble,
kindhearted, and thoughtful. Everyone
likes him. In all the years he has
worked here, I never heard a single per-
son say a single bad thing about him.
That is a pretty good tribute in a place
like the Senate.
Bruce’s departure will be a loss to his
friends and colleagues and to the Sen-
ate as a whole and, of course, to my of-
fice.
There is only one bad thing I can say
about him. He switched his allegiance
from the New York Mets to the Nation-
als. The good news is that he will be
able to catch some more games with
Janis, his son Aaron, and his daughter
Liana.
Bruce, you are a blessing to our of-
fice, to the Senate, and to the country.
We wish you the best.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Georgia.
Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, to the
Democratic leader and Bruce, who is on
the floor, congratulations on behalf of
all the Republicans in the room.
Come down to Atlanta and watch the
Braves play the Mets. We would be
happy to have you anytime. Thank you
for your time here.
DISASTER RELIEF
Mr. President, I will be very brief.
Two things happen at this time of day
every day in the Senate and only two.
The first is that the last person having
their say finally gets up and says it,
which means that you all have to lis-
ten to me for a minute. When the last
person speaks, they don’t tell you any-
thing new. They tell you what every-
body else said in a different way. You
get to hear a small speech about that.
The other thing that happens is that
SHELDON WHITEHOUSE comes to the
floor and talks about global warming.
That happens every day. SHELDON
hasn’t been down here. I don’t know if
he is sick. I don’t know where he is. I
am going to replace SHELDON for a
minute.
Every day goes by, and we ought to
talk about climate change and things
like that. I am going to talk about dis-
aster relief, which ties right into cli-
mate change. I am not a global warm-
ing guy, except to say I think it is
going on. It has been going on since the
planet was created. It will be going on
long since we are gone. How tough it is
depends on our dealing with it—how we
sequester carbon, how we manage car-
bon, and how we have businesses and
industries find new ways to fuel their
industries and fuel their mechanisms,
and things like that.
Tell SHELDON when you see him that
I came down to talk about how we do
need to address these things. It is all of
our responsibility. We can address it in
a positive way, just like we did in the
Montreal Protocol, where 25 years ago
we got rid of fluorocarbons that were
drilling a hole in the atmosphere and
causing us to have terrible cancer of
the skin.
Tell SHELDON I have listened to him.
I heard some of his great speeches.
Mine is not nearly as close to how good
his are. I wanted to make sure a day
didn’t go by without our saying what
SHELDON says.
I want to talk about the disaster bill
that Senator LEAHY, only a few min-
utes ago on the floor, talked about, and
I want to talk about the urgent job we
need to do in the Senate.
We had terrible disasters in the
South and Southeast 3 years ago. We
had hurricanes, floods, and tornadoes.
Billions of dollars were lost in South
Carolina, North Carolina, Georgia,
Florida, Tennessee, and other loca-
tions. We failed to meet the disaster
demands that we have to help those
farmers and ag producers and business
and industries to get back on their
feet.
We now have a dire crisis. We have an
emergency in the Southeast. It is time
we got the disaster bill that we have
been trying to pass for a year passed.
We had it as a rider twice. We had it as
a rider on the bill that was going to
end the shutdown. At the last minute,
it got negotiated out of the picture,
not because it was a bad bill but be-
cause nobody would leave it in there
and it did free up some money.
We have until March 15 to get it
done. If we don’t, there are going to be
farmers in most of the Southeast who
are going out of business. Industries
that this Nation depends on will be ter-
rible. You will pay way too much for
your food. I don’t know about you, but
if you don’t have nutrition to go with
the energy you need, you don’t have
anything.
I am here to plead with every Demo-
crat and every Republican that when
we get the bill to the floor—and it will
be some time before March 15—to sup-
port the disaster relief bill for the
Southeastern United States and for
Puerto Rico. The Democrats wanted so
badly to add Puerto Rico to it, and the
President signed off on that part. So
we don’t have a problem with the exec-
utive branch. I ask you to support all
of the other provisions in it to see that
those who were so badly damaged get
their relief.
Let me tell you what that relief is. I
am not talking about a handout. As an
example, I am talking about the pecan
industry that is housed in my State of
Georgia. It is a tremendous industry in
Asia. It is a tremendous export in the
United States, with a tremendous bal-
ance of payments which contribute to
our country. Well, 70 percent was wiped
out. It takes 15 to 20 years to replace a
pecan orchard. They have to start
growth from a seedling to be a full, ma-
turing tree to produce the crops to get
to the marketplace.
Some of our crops are annual crops.
A lot of them are long-term longevity
crops. It is very important that we get
them back on their feet. We will re-
claim our place in the marketplace,
but if we don’t, somebody will take it
away from us. Maybe it is Egypt,
maybe it is India, or maybe it is some-
body else.
I am down here to say that climate
does change and we can do something
about it by addressing carbon. And the
economy changes. We can do some-
thing about it by helping industries.
When disasters come, if they are not
responded to quickly and resolutely,
they end up causing big losses to every-
body in business, in productivity, and
in our industries.
I want to ask everybody on the floor
to please join me—hopefully, before the
15th or at least by the 14th of March—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:44 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28FE6.049 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1577
February 28, 2019
to support the disaster bill that passed.
Senator SHELBY, Senator LEAHY, my-
self, Senator PERDUE, and Senator
RUBIO, and many others worked very
hard on this to bring it together to get
the pieces that were missing in place.
I want to thank, particularly, Sen-
ator SHELBY and Senator LEAHY for the
time they and their staff have given us
in the last couple of weeks to try to re-
cover from the vote 2 weeks ago, when
we lost what we thought was a solution
to this problem.
Mr. President, I appreciate the time
on the floor.
I yield to the distinguished Senator
from Delaware.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Delaware.
Mr. COONS. Mr. President, I want to
recognize the wisdom and insight from
my friend and colleague from the great
State of Georgia. We have unmet dis-
aster needs in this country. I look for-
ward to working with him to achieve
the relief of the disaster impacts on the
Southeastern United States and other
States.
CLIMATE CHANGE
Mr. COONS. Mr. President, I come to
the floor today to talk about climate
change—to talk about something that
is a pressing and real problem that af-
fects everyone in this country, and, in
fact, in our world. It is a challenge that
we can’t afford to ignore any longer be-
cause the health of our families, our
economy, our environment, and even
our national security, quite literally,
depend on our ability to address it and
address it promptly.
After a year of recordbreaking ex-
treme weather in 2018—when we saw
rising average temperatures fuel Cali-
fornia’s deadliest wildfire season on
record, when Florida was faced with
the strongest hurricane ever to reach
that State’s panhandle, and when farm-
ers in Delaware and across the country
faced challenges due to severe flooding
and drought—it is clear that we can’t
afford to sit back and do nothing about
climate change while the American
people pay the price.
The costs of our inaction are real—
real in human suffering, real in dis-
aster recovery spending, real in lost
economic opportunity, and real in the
burden borne by our Armed Forces
around the world.
Yes, there is a clear link between cli-
mate change and national security.
The Pentagon has consistently pointed
to climate change as a real national se-
curity threat that will make the mili-
tary’s job around the world harder. Na-
tional security leaders from across ad-
ministrations, both Republican and
Democratic, have warned that climate
change acts as a ‘‘threat multiplier,’’
increasing global instability and weak-
ening fragile States as climate change
leads to more extreme weather events
and scarcer food and water resources.
In many ways, these findings echo
themes about climate change that we
already know—that it is already hap-
pening, that it continues to get worse,
that it is going to cost us dearly, and
that we can do something about it. It
is that last point that I want to focus
on. We can do something to stop the
disastrous impacts of climate change,
so long as we recognize it and work to-
gether in a bipartisan way to develop,
take up, debate, and pass meaningful
legislation that can make a difference.
Democrats have a broad range of bold
and new policy proposals and of tested
and fully developed policy proposals to
address climate change. Many of them
are bipartisan.
I wanted to come to the floor today
to talk through 4 different bills that I
have cosponsored—some that are rel-
atively new and some considered across
several Congresses—that are positive,
constructive steps forward we can take
to address climate change.
The first, and probably my oldest bill
in this field, is called the MLP Parity
Act—a catchy name, I know. It has five
Republican colleagues who have co-
sponsored it now over three Con-
gresses. This bill expands to renewable
forms of energy, to carbon capture and
sequestration, and to renewable and so-
called clean energy a popular and long-
established tax tool for financing en-
ergy projects that the oil and gas and
pipeline sectors have enjoyed for dec-
ades. It would level the playing field. It
would stop picking winners and losers
in terms of energy tax policy. It would
be, literally, an ‘‘all of the above’’ en-
ergy financing strategy. If enacted, it
would be the first permanent change
for the financing of clean energy
projects in the U.S. Tax Code—poten-
tially, worth billions of new private in-
vestment in renewable forms of energy.
It is also cosponsored by the Repub-
lican chair of the Energy Committee,
Senator MURKOWSKI, the Republican
chair of the Banking Committee, Sen-
ator CRAPO, and three other colleagues
from across the country. We have five
Democrats and five Republicans. It has
had a hearing in front of the Energy
Committee and a hearing in front of
the Finance Committee in previous
Congresses. This is the sort of solid,
scored bipartisan bill that would be a
meaningful step forward in addressing
climate change.
Senator LINDSEY GRAHAM and I have
introduced the IMPACT for Energy Act
to create a private foundation to sup-
port cutting-edge energy research and
technology commercialization. Why
would we do this? What am I talking
about?
Well, a guy named Bill Gates, one of
the greatest inventors and innovators
in American history, wants to deploy
private investments and foundation in-
vestments alongside the Department of
Energy, in partnership with a lot of
other individuals, to significantly ac-
celerate the cutting-edge research
being done at our National Labora-
tories through the Department of En-
ergy.
This is a tool that several other Fed-
eral Agencies already have. It is a so-
called private foundation that allows
them to marry up private sector dol-
lars—foundation dollars—with Federal
dollars to leverage greater impact.
This private foundation can go out and
raise that additional money and add it
to the energy R&D already being fund-
ed by the Federal Government.
I also want to applaud the hard and
bipartisan work of my colleagues, led
by Senators MURKOWSKI and CANTWELL
on the Energy Committee, on a com-
prehensive energy bill with a wide
range of policy ideas that can move us
forward. It has several components
that I contributed and that would help
to address climate change. I very much
hope that in this Congress we can fi-
nally take up this bipartisan bill and
see it signed into law.
Last, but in some ways most impor-
tantly, I want to mention a bill I of-
fered at the end of the last Congress
with my friend and former colleague,
the Senator from Arizona, Jeff Flake.
Despite our very different ideological,
cultural and contextual backgrounds—
we are from different States, from dif-
ferent faiths, and from different per-
spectives on the role of government
and society; he is a real conservative,
and I am a progressive Democratic—we
still managed to come together and in-
troduce a bill that addresses the cost of
ignoring climate change and the im-
pact it will have on the people in our
home States.
We offered the Energy Innovation
and Carbon Dividend Act. It is a com-
monsense bill to achieve significant
and sustained emissions reductions and
to help to mitigate the worse impacts
of climate change. Our bill would ac-
complish this by using a free-market
approach to pricing carbon pollution
that would spur economic growth and
put money back in the pockets of
American taxpayers. Similar legisla-
tion has been introduced in the House
of Representatives by a bipartisan coa-
lition. I look forward to reintroducing
this bill in this Congress.
The Energy Innovation and Carbon
Dividend Act should be the centerpiece
of a robust, bipartisan climate agenda
because it aggressively tackles emis-
sions while optimizing economic
growth and income for working fami-
lies. We estimate that our bill would
reduce emissions by 90 percent by 2050,
while creating as many as 2 million net
new jobs in the next decade.
I believe this is an efficient way to
use market forces to address the very
real problem of climate change while
creating jobs and opportunities for
American workers. Frankly, an out-
right ban on nonrenewable sources
would be inefficient and disruptive to
workers from all sectors, but, in par-
ticular, across the building trades and
other vital sectors of employment. In
contrast, sending a strong market sig-
nal in favor of lower carbon or carbon-
neutral energy would spur investment
and growth in these technologies by
the private sector and lead us toward a
lower carbon future through competi-
tion.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:44 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28FE6.051 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1578 February 28, 2019
We don’t need to choose between
clean energy and economic growth or
between combating climate change and
creating jobs. These two goals are not
permanently and mutually exclusive.
They can go hand in hand if we craft
the right policies. Still, we cannot
move abruptly away from an economy
that relies heavily on fossil fuels with-
out having a real and coordinated plan
for the very people—the millions of
Americans—whose jobs will ultimately
be impacted by that transition.
Fortunately, a gradual transition to
a clean energy future can also be an ef-
fective job creator. In 2017, the renew-
able energy and energy efficiency sec-
tors alone employed 2.8 million Ameri-
cans. If we place a price on carbon and
then let the market work, we will cre-
ate jobs across a wide range of indus-
tries, occupations, and geographies.
As we work to deal with the effects of
climate change by moving to a cleaner
energy and infrastructure economy—an
economy that is more resilient—we
will need to rely on workers who are
already in place in many of these in-
dustries. We will need building trades
professionals to construct and main-
tain our new resilient and clean energy
infrastructure. We will need manufac-
turing workers to build these more en-
ergy-efficient products. We will also
need scientists and engineers to help
research, develop, design, and deploy
these new technologies. These workers
bring real experience and skills to the
table, and we must ensure that these
skills translate into new, good jobs and
that the workers in these new jobs are
able to organize for fair competition,
for fair compensation, and for fair
work conditions.
We can’t tackle climate change
alone. The United States is the largest
historic emitter of carbon dioxide, but
our emissions have been declining in
recent years. Meanwhile, China has
whirred past us, and China and India
and other countries are rapidly catch-
ing up in their carbon emissions. We
need an approach that incentivizes
these countries to reduce their emis-
sions as well. The United States is a
world leader in science and technology
and innovation. We need to develop and
advance new technologies—carbon-neu-
tral technologies like small, modular
nuclear reactors and carbon capture
and sequestration—that we can export.
Then we need to find ways to encour-
age countries like China and India to
modernize and industrialize while also
reducing their emissions.
There is good work taking place in
this area, and there are good solutions
we can act on together. We need to re-
duce greenhouse gas emissions in a se-
rious, thorough, deliberate, and
thoughtful way. We need to be prepared
to adapt to the ongoing impacts of cli-
mate change. We need to make sure
American workers and families aren’t
left behind or are burdened by Federal
climate policy.
This administration, unfortunately,
strikes me as taking us backward. We
are voting on an EPA Administrator in
this Chamber who is failing to take ac-
tion on climate, even on action that is
widely supported by industry. Our
President just proposed a National Se-
curity Council initiative to counter the
consensus around climate change and
refute the idea that greenhouse gases
are harmful to the environment. I
shouldn’t even need to say this, but
that just isn’t how science works.
That is why, here in the Senate, we
need to take the opportunity to lead
and to have voices from both parties in
Congress and in this country who want
to take bold steps to address the cli-
mate. The hard part is going to be
squaring these big, bold ideas with po-
litical reality. That is hard, but there
are ways we can do it. Instead of being
silent, we should bring this conversa-
tion to the forefront. Instead of debat-
ing whether climate change is real, we
should be passing bipartisan bills, like
the ones I have mentioned today, that
can meaningfully address climate
change and improve our economy.
Climate change is a serious threat to
our economy, to our security, and to
our way of life. We need leadership
from all parts of our society and gov-
ernment to tackle it, and we must do
our part in the Senate. I look forward
to having conversations across the
aisle, to working together, to identi-
fying real solutions to the challenges
before us, and to creating new opportu-
nities for America’s workers.
I thank the Presiding Officer.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
WOMEN’S HEALTHCARE
Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, I
have often said healthcare is not polit-
ical. It is personal, and there is no part
of healthcare that is more personal
than the decision if, when, and under
what circumstances to have a child and
who decides the medical course of ac-
tion in a serious medical crisis.
These decisions need to be made by
women, their families, and their doc-
tors. They should not be made by poli-
ticians who are more focused on their
own political advantage rather than
medical tragedies facing pregnant
women at the end of pregnancy who
want desperately to have a child.
Our Republican friends know very
well that nobody—and I mean nobody—
in this Chamber supports infanticide.
No one. In fact, in 2002, Congress voted
unanimously—100 Members, including
myself—to reaffirm that it is illegal,
period. Suggesting otherwise is insult-
ing and, frankly, disgusting, and it is
beneath the dignity of the U.S. Senate.
How dare the majority pretend to
care about the health of women and
children. If the Republican majority
cares about the health of moms and
their babies, why are you continuing to
try to take their healthcare away? The
President and the Republican majority
have tried again and again and again to
repeal the Affordable Care Act.
Let me remind you that before the
Affordable Care Act, insurance compa-
nies could, and most of the time did,
refuse to cover maternity care as basic
healthcare for women, leaving parents
with bills of tens of thousands of dol-
lars for an uncomplicated birth.
As a member of the Senate Finance
Committee, I was proud to author the
provision requiring maternity care in
the Affordable Care Act. I remember
the debate. I remember a very specific
debate with a former colleague from
Arizona, and I remember Republican
efforts to strip that provision to cover
maternity care from the Affordable
Care Act. Fortunately, they were not
successful. Now the administration is
legalizing and offering junk insurance
plans that treat being a woman as a
preexisting condition again.
One study found that none—none—of
the newly approved plans cover mater-
nity care. Maternity care is not a frill.
It is basic healthcare for women, and if
we are seeing more and more of these
healthcare plans being put on the mar-
ket, where women assume they are
going to be covered and once again will
not be, that is outrageous.
Why aren’t we passing a bill to guar-
antee that prenatal care and maternity
care are covered for moms and babies
as essential healthcare in every insur-
ance plan? I assure you, this medical
care is essential, and until parts of the
Affordable Care Act began to be
unwound by the administration, it was
viewed as essential care for every
woman.
How dare you pretend to care about
the health of women and children while
voting to dramatically slash Medicaid
and healthcare for low-income working
families. When you gut Medicaid, you
are keeping moms and babies from get-
ting the healthcare they need. In fact,
Medicaid provided prenatal care and
maternity care for 43 percent of Amer-
ican moms and babies born in 2016—43
percent. Why aren’t we voting to
strengthen Medicaid? Why aren’t we
voting to strengthen Medicaid
healthcare for moms and babies? Why
isn’t that being brought to the floor?
A few years ago, the Senate Finance
Committee reported out a bill that I
led with Senator GRASSLEY called the
Quality Care for Moms and Babies Act.
This bill would create a set of maternal
and infant quality care standards in
the Children’s Health Insurance Pro-
gram and Medicaid. The goal is simple:
improving maternal and infant health
outcomes. Shouldn’t we all want to do
that?
Let me be clear. We have no uniform
quality standards right now across the
country for almost half of the births
that occur every year. The Quality
Care for Moms and Babies Act will help
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:44 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28FE6.053 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1579
February 28, 2019
make sure every mom—every mom—
gets the best pregnancy care possible
and every baby gets a healthy start.
Why isn’t that a top priority for action
in the U.S. Senate, to protect the
health of moms and babies?
Let’s also be clear. We have a real
healthcare crisis that we need to ad-
dress in this country. In most of the
world, fewer and fewer women are
dying from child birth but not in the
United States. In fact, our maternal
mortality rate is climbing. More
women are dying, and our infant mor-
tality rate ranks a shameful 32 out of
35 of the world’s wealthiest nations.
The United States of America is 32 out
of 35 countries—wealthiest countries in
the world—in the number of infants
that are dying in birth. That is some-
thing we need to have a sense of ur-
gency to act on.
There are a lot of things on
healthcare. There are a lot of things to
improve outcomes for children and
moms and give them a healthy start
and a healthy life that we should be
doing right now, as well as stopping
the administration from undermining
basic healthcare for women and chil-
dren. It is time to stop the cynical po-
litical stunts and start protecting—
really protecting—the health of moms
and babies.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, I am
glad to join Senator STABENOW, who
was on the floor just now, to respond to
the shameful lies and gross exaggera-
tions that have been claimed by some
on the other side of the aisle.
Earlier this week, we voted on legis-
lation that some of my colleagues
claimed was needed to outlaw infan-
ticide—the killing of babies. How ab-
surd. It is, and has always been, illegal
to kill any human, including infants.
So what was in that legislation we
voted on earlier this week? To honestly
discuss the bill, we need to have a fac-
tually and medically accurate con-
versation about abortion.
A healthy fetus becomes potentially
able to live outside the womb at about
24 weeks of pregnancy. Very few abor-
tions occur after that—less than 1 per-
cent—and generally are performed ei-
ther because the fetus has a fatal con-
dition or the pregnant woman’s life or
health is at severe risk. These are
heartbreaking situations involving
very wanted pregnancies—hardly the
time for the heavy hand of government
to reach into our wombs.
Under this bill, doctors will be re-
quired to resuscitate infants born with
fatal conditions, even if the parents did
not want these measures that could
prolong their infant’s suffering and in-
stead wanted to spend the limited time
they had with their baby comforting
their child and holding them close.
How dare anyone pretend to know
what care is best for these families in-
stead of trusting them and their doc-
tors to decide. How dare Congress
interject itself into a decision we have
no business deciding for others. Yet
this is exactly what this bill would
have done.
I encourage my colleagues to read
stories from women who have been
speaking up about their experiences
with abortion later in pregnancy.
These stories are usually found on the
internet as well as in the national
press, as more women feel under attack
and are coming forward to tell their
stories. Perhaps, in hearing from these
women, my colleagues will realize
what these women need is compassion,
not condemnation.
Stories like that of Dana Weinstein,
who bravely told her story to CNN.
Years ago, Dana and her husband
learned at 31 weeks that their daugh-
ter’s brain had a severe defect. Doctors
told the couple their daughter would
not be able to suck or swallow and
would most likely suffer from uncon-
trollable seizures upon birth. They
heard what a resuscitation order would
entail. They listened to what an exist-
ence, short-lived or otherwise, would
look like. They were briefed on hospice
care.
After the diagnosis, the kicks in
Dana’s belly, which had given her so
much joy, became unbearable. She
feared her daughter was seizing and
may be suffering. Ultimately, Dana and
her husband decided to get an abortion.
For this baby they loved, it felt like—
in their words—‘‘a more peaceful path
for her passing.’’
These are the stories. Compassion
and understanding are what is needed
in these instances, but instead of com-
passion, what my colleagues have of-
fered this week is inflammatory polit-
ical rhetoric and shaming and intimi-
dating women and their providers who
care for them in an attempt to score
partisan points.
President Trump—never missing an
opportunity to score partisan points—
weighed in on Twitter claiming that
Senate Democrats ‘‘don’t mind exe-
cuting babies after birth.’’
Today former Governor Scott Walker
said to a crowd at the Conservative Po-
litical Action Conference that ‘‘people
are taking already-born babies from
the hospital and aborting them
there’’—a comment that doesn’t even
make sense.
Republican National Committee
chair, Ronna McDaniel, chimed in at
the same conference, calling the choice
that women like Dana make murder.
These charges are false, incendiary,
and this sort of language is intended to
incite the Republican Party’s base. It
emboldens violence against abortion
providers—violence which nearly dou-
bled from 33 reported death threats or
threats of harm in 2016 to 62 in 2017, ac-
cording to the National Abortion Fed-
eration.
The hard truth is, the Republican
Party hurts women. One of the ways
they are doing this is by working as
hard as they can to set up barriers or
to eliminate entirely safe and legal
abortions wherever they can.
They demonize women who face the
heartbreaking situation of needing an
abortion later in pregnancy, oftentimes
for medical reasons.
They want to cut off crucial
healthcare dollars to providers who
even discuss abortion with patients.
This is a gag rule that this administra-
tion is seeking to impose.
They create loopholes to allow busi-
nesses to exclude coverage for contra-
ception for workers, and to make sure
that these and all of their other efforts
stick, they pack the Federal courts
with a line of aggressively anti-choice
judges to uphold Federal Agency ac-
tions and State laws restricting abor-
tion access.
Doing the bidding of these rightwing
ideologue supporters like the Fed-
eralist Society and the Heritage Foun-
dation, Donald Trump has sent us judi-
cial nominee after nominee with
records of attacking a woman’s right
to choose as laid out in the Supreme
Court’s opinion in Roe v. Wade and re-
stated in Planned Parenthood v. Casey.
These nominees come before the Sen-
ate Judiciary Committee, on which I
serve, and parrot the line provided for
them by the Trump administration.
When asked if they will respect prece-
dent and uphold Roe v. Wade, they say
they will ‘‘follow the law.’’ Then, when
they get confirmed, they are in a posi-
tion, with their lifetime appointments,
to do exactly the opposite.
The prime and most dangerous exam-
ple of this kind of bait and switch is
Brett Kavanaugh—a notoriously right-
wing political lawyer appointed by
George W. Bush to the second highest
court in the United States—the Court
of Appeals for the DC Circuit.
Kavanaugh was not even on Donald
Trump’s original so-called short list of
possible Supreme Court nominees—not
the list released before the 2016 elec-
tion and not the first list released
thereafter. No, Kavanaugh only found a
place on that list after he wrote a
harsh dissent in a case involving a
young refugee’s right to an abortion.
A minor, then 17 years old, was being
kept in the custody of the Department
of Health and Human Services because
she had entered the United States
without documentation. Where she was
held in Texas, in order to access abor-
tion services, a minor must have paren-
tal consent or receive permission from
the judge. This is called a judicial by-
pass—to proceed without that parental
consent.
In this case, called Garza v. Hargan,
the young woman did go through the
process of going to court and receiving
a judicial bypass. She had people will-
ing and able to transport her and to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:44 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28FE6.054 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1580 February 28, 2019
pay for the health services she needed,
but the radical Trump appointee in
charge, well known for his anti-abor-
tion views, decided it would be in her
best interest to find adult sponsors for
her first, presumably to help her make
a decision, but the Texas court had al-
ready decided she could make her own
decision, and she did.
She challenged the Trump appointee
and his Agency, and ultimately a ma-
jority of the DC Circuit agreed with
her that she had the legal right to an
abortion and the Federal Government
could not delay any further.
Brett Kavanaugh, sitting on that cir-
cuit, disagreed and wrote a dissent,
which must have captured the atten-
tion of those in charge of Donald
Trump’s Supreme Court short list be-
cause not long after his name appeared
on that list.
What did he write to earn his place
on the list and eventually a nomina-
tion to the U.S. Supreme Court? He
wrote a dissenting opinion that falsely
characterized the Garza case as one
about parental consent, which we know
was not so because a judicial bypass
was already in place.
He wrote the dissent using the code
words of the extreme anti-choice and
anti-women wing of the Republican
Party. He accused the majority on that
court of creating ‘‘a new right for un-
lawful immigrant minors in U.S. gov-
ernment detention to obtain imme-
diate abortion on demand.’’ He was
wrong. There was no new right being
created.
He falsely claimed that by permit-
ting the abortion ‘‘[t]he majority’s de-
cision represents a radical extension of
the Supreme Court’s abortion jurispru-
dence.’’ He was wrong again. The ma-
jority decision was correct under Roe
v. Wade.
He wrote it was not an undue burden
for this young woman to be prevented
from getting an abortion until a spon-
sor family could be found for her. This
was not even a legal argument, but he
based his dissent on it. That is the dis-
sent that moved Brett Kavanaugh to
the head of the line on the short list
for a nomination to the U.S. Supreme
Court, where he sits.
So when he came to the Judiciary
Committee for a hearing, some Sen-
ators—myself included—were rightly
skeptical that he would respect prece-
dent if confirmed. At his hearing,
Ranking Member DIANNE FEINSTEIN
asked Judge Kavanaugh about Roe v.
Wade and its status as settled prece-
dent. He testified that Roe was ‘‘set-
tled as a precedent of the Supreme
Court, entitled to respect under prin-
ciples of stare decisis.’’
He further went on: ‘‘Planned Par-
enthood v. Casey reaffirms Roe and did
so by considering the stare decisis fac-
tors. So Casey now becomes a prece-
dent on precedent.’’
It sure sounds like someone who will
apply the precedents of Roe and Casey
and others who rely on them, doesn’t
it? That is not so.
The very first opportunity he got,
Brett Kavanaugh, as Supreme Court
Justice, voted against following prece-
dent. Not 4 months after his confirma-
tion, Justice Kavanaugh voted in the
minority in a Supreme Court case
called June Medical Services v. Gee to
allow a restrictive, anti-abortion law
in Louisiana to take effect.
This law would have so restricted ac-
cess to abortion that only one provider
would have been left in the entire
State of Louisiana of 4.7 million peo-
ple. Even Chief Justice Roberts voted
with the majority to block the law.
That is because it was clear from re-
cent precedent in Whole Woman’s
Health v. Hellerstedt that such restric-
tions don’t meet constitutional stand-
ards.
Justice Kavanaugh’s cavalier atti-
tude to the burden that he would put
on a woman’s ability to exercise their
constitutional right is no surprise. His
callous disregard for the way unwanted
pregnancies can change the lives of
women and children is not unexpected,
and his willingness to hew to the party
line of his supporters and ignore the as-
surances he gave the Senate is simply
par for the course with Trump judicial
nominees. This is what they do. It is an
abuse of power, and women across the
country are paying for it.
Why do my colleagues across the
aisle use this Chamber, time and again,
to bring forward political shams that
shame and retraumatize women who
face profoundly heartbreaking situa-
tions? The will of over half of this
country is 67 percent of Americans sup-
port Roe v. Wade and access to safe and
legal abortion. Sixty-seven percent of
Americans support a woman’s right to
choose.
How is it that Republicans continue
to bring forward bill after bill and
amendment after amendment that goes
against a constitutionally protected
right of women—of women? This is why
I say Republicans hurt women.
I am proud of the vote I cast in oppo-
sition to the sham bill we voted on this
week. My vote was rooted in fact and
understanding about what an abortion
in later pregnancy actually means. It
was rooted in the understanding that
when faced with these difficult situa-
tions, these decisions are best left to a
woman and her doctor. These decisions
should not rest with the U.S. Senate.
My vote was cast with a clear under-
standing that if unchecked or unchal-
lenged, this administration and this
Senate will continue to assault a wom-
an’s right to choose and chip away at it
bit by bit, where it will end up being a
nullity, and that is what they want.
I will continue to stand in opposition
to attacks that seek to limit the per-
sonal freedom of women across the
country and what would be more of a
personal freedom for a woman than to
exercise control over her own body?
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk pro-
ceeded to call the roll.
Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
CONFIRMATION OF ANDREW WHEELER
Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, I rise
today to discuss why I voted in opposi-
tion to the confirmation of Andrew
Wheeler for the position of Adminis-
trator of the Environmental Protection
Agency.
Clean air and clean water are not
only vital to our public health; they
are at the very heart of our economy.
Nowhere is that more apparent than in
my home State of Michigan, where we
are blessed to be surrounded by the
Great Lakes, a source of drinking
water for more than 40 million people
and the lifeblood of our State’s multi-
billion-dollar fishing, shipping, and
tourism industries. That is why I spent
my entire career in public service
fighting to protect our environment.
In the Michigan State Senate, I
worked to ban oil drilling under the
Great Lakes to preserve our most pre-
cious source of drinking water. When I
represented the city of Detroit in the
House of Representatives, I fought to
end harmful air pollution coming from
piles of petcoke that left homes coated
in dust while being breathed into the
lungs of residents.
In my first term in Congress, I sup-
ported landmark climate change legis-
lation that sought to drastically re-
duce deadly greenhouse gas emissions
that are continuing to warm our planet
at an unsustainable rate. In the U.S.
Senate, I led the charge to protect the
Great Lakes from pipeline spills and
pressured industry to cut down their
deadly sulfur-dioxide emissions that
give Michigan communities some of
the highest rates of asthma anywhere
in the country.
I have championed these vital efforts
because protecting our environment in
Michigan is in the best interest of ev-
eryone, and I will never let up on that
fight. There is so much more work to
do and even more pressing challenges
ahead of us. We cannot afford to turn
back the clock on clean energy innova-
tion or refuse to address climate
change, and that is, unfortunately,
what we can expect from the EPA now
that Andrew Wheeler has been con-
firmed. His entire career has been de-
voted to undermining public health and
environmental protections.
As Acting EPA Administrator, he is
personally responsible for the most sig-
nificant efforts to roll back our Na-
tion’s bedrock environmental laws in
the Agency’s history. He oversaw the
proposed rollback of Clean Water Act
protections that safeguard drinking
water for tens of millions of people. He
is leading efforts to weaken standards
on the largest sources of greenhouse
gases and to reduce protections against
climate change. When he was a Senate
staffer, he drafted the so-called ‘‘Clear
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:44 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28FE6.056 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1581
February 28, 2019
Skies Act,’’ which was directly in-
tended to undermine the Clean Air Act.
As a lobbyist for Murray Energy,
Wheeler represented a company that
didn’t just knowingly violate environ-
mental laws but consistently put its
own employees’ safety at risk by un-
dermining basic protections for coal
miners. He has even undermined the
widely supported mercury and air
toxics standards. These commonsense
standards would have protected people,
particularly children, from a well-
known neurotoxin that impairs fetal
brain development and reduces chil-
dren’s ability to learn.
Every single one of these actions has
a direct bearing on human lives and
has put people at risk. In Michigan we
have witnessed firsthand the visceral
and painful human costs when public
leaders fail to keep our drinking water
and our air quality safe. Just ask the
people of Flint whom they would want
to have in charge of protecting their
drinking water. I can tell you it cer-
tainly is not Andrew Wheeler. The city,
the State, and the EPA all contributed
to the crisis that poisoned thousands of
children through lead exposure, and
now those children will suffer lasting
consequences for the rest of their lives.
While I am proud that the Senate
was able to come together to provide
initial Federal funding to help Flint re-
place its lead pipes, the community
needs continued support going forward.
I am committed to doing everything in
my power to ensure that the people of
Flint are made whole, and that in-
cluded my opposing this nomination.
We cannot allow the failures of leader-
ship that led to Flint’s devastating cri-
sis ever be repeated again.
The people of Michigan and of every
State deserve to know that their air is
safe to breathe and their water is safe
to drink. Yet communities across my
State and around the country are fac-
ing another emerging drinking water
crisis. This time it is from toxic
fluorinated chemicals, known as PFAS,
that are currently unregulated by the
EPA. Rigorous testing has found that 1
out of every 10 water systems in my
State has unacceptable high rates of
PFAS chemicals. Families across the
State have been exposed to these dan-
gerous chemicals that have been linked
to cancer, thyroid and heart problems,
and even autoimmune issues. But
under Wheeler’s leadership, the EPA
has failed to take aggressive action to
list PFAS chemicals as hazardous
waste and to establish strong and forc-
ible limits to protect drinking water
and to limit exposure to these toxic
substances.
While I work to bring Senate action
to this issue through legislation and
hearings, the Wheeler-led EPA thinks
action can wait. Michigan families cer-
tainly deserve better. My constituents
are understandably concerned about
their drinking water, and they are
rightfully skeptical about who will be
at the helm of the Agency charged with
keeping water safe.
Since Wheeler has failed to exercise
the leadership needed to address the
environmental concerns we face on a
national level, it is clear that he is
completely unprepared to lead the
Agency charged with tackling the glob-
al crisis of climate change. We must
confront climate change. I have been
advocating for action since before I ran
for Congress. It is an issue impacting
our economy, our health, our safety,
and our national security. I am com-
mitted to continuing to work with my
colleagues to find innovative and
achievable solutions to address climate
change, but we also need a leader at
the EPA who can find commonsense
ways to address this very serious
threat, to protect our environment,
and to ensure that our country can re-
main economically competitive. We
need a leader who will fight to protect
the people and the interests of my
State. Given his abysmal record, it is
clear that Andrew Wheeler isn’t the
right person for the job, and that is
why I voted against his confirmation.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk pro-
ceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
TRIBUTE TO JEAN POLLARD
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, as
you know, I try to come down to the
floor every week to talk about someone
in my State who is making a big dif-
ference in Alaska, a big difference in
their country, and a big difference in
what I believe is the best State in this
country. That is just my opinion. I am
sure the Presiding Officer thinks his
State is the best in the country, but
that is why we are all here in the Sen-
ate.
Of course, Alaska is beautiful, par-
ticularly now as the snow is on the
ground and the Sun is out. It is back
out and high in the sky. It is also near-
ly time for the Iditarod—the last great
race—something, I am sure, Senator
MURKOWSKI and I will be talking about
on the floor in the coming weeks. It
kicks off this weekend.
We know it is a beautiful and amaz-
ing State, but what really makes Alas-
ka such a great place are the people—
the people who work tirelessly for
causes they believe in.
Many people don’t know this, but
Alaska is also incredibly diverse. In
fact, Anchorage—my hometown and
the State’s largest city—is home to the
country’s three most diverse census
tracks, racially and in terms of nation-
alities. By the way, the fourth is
Queens, NY.
I will just give you an example. Last
week, we had this great event called
Bridge Builders. It was in Anchorage.
There were all of these different ethnic
communities in Anchorage coming to-
gether. I spent a lot of time there on
Saturday.
We are very proud of our diversity.
We are proud that more than 100 lan-
guages are spoken in our schools.
Think about that if you want to talk
about diversity. We are proud of the
foods and the cultural events. We are
proud of the unique tapestry that
makes up Alaska.
We are very proud of our history, and
we are also blessed to have people who
work diligently for all of us to keep
history alive. I can think of no better
way to cap off Black History Month
than to recognize someone who, for
years, has been fiercely determined to
unearth a very important part of Alas-
ka’s history—actually, a very impor-
tant part of America’s history—one
that transpired in my State but that
greatly influenced our Nation during a
very critical time.
I want to introduce you to Ms. Jean
Pollard. She is our Alaskan of the
Week. Jean has brought back the story
of the African-American Army Engi-
neers of the 93rd, 95th, and 97th regi-
ments who were in the U.S. Army dur-
ing World War II and stationed in Alas-
ka during World War II.
More than 3,000 of these brave sol-
diers were integral in Alaska in build-
ing what we call the Alcan Highway—
the Alaska-Canada Highway—one of
the 20th century’s greatest engineering
feats.
Let me tell you about Ms. Pollard.
Now a retired schoolteacher, she grew
up in Georgia. When she was a teen-
ager, her father, who was in the Army,
got transferred to Alaska. Like all
Alaskan students—like our good stu-
dents, our pages in the Senate—she
took a class on her State’s history—
Alaska history—in high school.
During the class, she learned about
how the Army built the Alcan Highway
in 1942 to help defend Alaska and
America from invasion by Japan. A lot
of people don’t know this. Yes, Alaska
was invaded and occupied by the Japa-
nese military during World War II in
the Aleutian Islands. I am going to
talk about that a little bit more.
She learned about this in high
school. It was a good story, but the
most important element she was
taught in high school was actually left
out. The highway was only able to be
finished because of the more than 3,000
African-American soldiers who built it.
So after getting a master’s degree in
education and a minor in history and
after being a teacher for decades, Ms.
Pollard only learned the entire story
herself when she was sitting home one
Friday night watching a PBS documen-
tary about the building of this incred-
ible highway.
What did she learn? Again, let’s go
back in time. It is March 1942, 3
months after the Japanese attacked
Pearl Harbor. As the war effort was
heating up, construction began on a
1,700-mile-long vital link connecting
the great State of Alaska—it wasn’t a
State then; it was a territory—to the
lower 48 for the war effort.
Soon a massive mobilization fol-
lowed—about 10,000 Army troops. Huge
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:44 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28FE6.058 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1582 February 28, 2019
trucks, civil engineers, food, tents, you
name it, were deployed to start build-
ing this road.
Then, in June 1942, the Japanese in-
vaded Attu and Kiska Islands in the
Aleutian Islands chain of Alaska, add-
ing a new sense of urgency to the com-
pletion of the road.
These soldiers worked day and
night—200 bridges, 800 culverts,
through some of the most rugged ter-
rain on planet Earth, mountains, riv-
ers, no rest, hard, backbreaking work—
and they were able to complete this
1,700-mile road that still exists today—
some of you may have driven it—in less
than a year.
When the road was being built, the
military was still segregated, and Afri-
can Americans in the Army—much like
in the rest of the country—were treat-
ed as second-class citizens. They were
assigned to the toughest jobs on this
project, using the worst equipment. In
the summer, it was full of mosquitoes,
black flies, mud, and swamps.
Winter comes early in Alaska. Ac-
cording to the historian, Lael Morgan,
the winter of 1942 was considered one of
the worst winters on record since 1906
in terms of how cold it was—and, trust
me, it gets cold in Alaska—and how
much snow there was.
The Black troops were required to
build winter barracks for the White
soldiers, while the African-American
troops lived in tents. When the snow
fell, they couldn’t get supplies, and
some nearly starved to death, Lael
wrote. It is reported that some even
succumbed to injuries due to the cold—
fatalities due to the cold.
They did so much of the hard work.
However, the contribution of these
great African-American soldiers and
heroes were completely almost
scrubbed from all of the history books.
Nobody that Ms. Pollard spoke to—so-
cial studies teachers or history profes-
sors—knew anything about this his-
tory.
In Ms. Pollard’s words: ‘‘They stole
that history.’’ The history books
wouldn’t write it. It was wrong, and
she knew she had to make it right so
she went to work.
As a teacher herself and a lifelong
learner, she knew that bringing the
story to the school system was key to
keeping our history alive—accurate
history. Eventually, she called the his-
torian I spoke about, Lael Morgan—a
former Alaskan who was then living in
Maine and happened to be featured in
that documentary that Ms. Pollard
watched on that Friday evening.
Lael decided to help in a big way. In-
credibly, a year later, she sold her
house in Maine and headed up the
Alcan Highway to Alaska. Together,
and with the help of a team of others
Ms. Pollard recruited, they amassed
enough material to give to the school
system to set the history right.
Now schools across Alaska are put-
ting this story—this real story—into
their curriculum, and now she is trying
to get it required as part of a course
that the university students in Alaska
who are studying education have to
take.
She and her team put calls out across
the internet for anyone who was in-
volved in or had a relative involved in
building the highway. She was able to
track down three members of the Afri-
can-American Army Engineers who
were still alive. She flew to interview
one of the soldiers who was 100 years
old. Another one, who lives in Lou-
isiana, traveled to Alaska in 2017 for
the 75th anniversary of the highway’s
completion.
Recently, Ms. Pollard mentioned the
names of the soldiers she spoke to back
then. There was a soldier from Vir-
ginia, SGT Reginald Beverly, who, un-
fortunately, has now passed away. The
soldier in Louisiana who came to Alas-
ka in 2017 is Private Leonard Larkins.
He has 10 children. The Alaska High-
way Project will be bringing him and
his three sons back to Alaska on Au-
gust 3 to help him celebrate his 99th
birthday.
I am in the process of drafting a Sen-
ate resolution to recognize all of the
members of the African-American
Army Engineers who helped build the
Alcan Highway, which was so critical
to protecting our Nation and Alaska.
Ms. Pollard describes herself as
feisty. Others might describe her as
fiercely determined. When the Alaska
State Legislature, at her urging,
passed a resolution commemorating
these African-American soldiers who
built one of the greatest engineering
highways in the world, she was sitting
behind some of the State legislators.
She heard one whisper to another:
Have you met this Jean Pollard?
The other said: Yes, she calls me sev-
eral times a day about this bill.
Julie and I were just with Ms. Pol-
lard this past weekend, as I mentioned,
at the Bridge Builder event in Anchor-
age—my wife Julie and I. She is very
passionate, very persuasive, and we are
very proud of her.
Ms. Pollard and the team that cre-
ated the Alaska Highway Memorial
Project are on another mission to erect
a memorial in a park in Anchorage.
They have the design, and they cer-
tainly have the will with her driving it,
and I have no doubt they will get it
done to memorialize this great engi-
neering feat by American heroes who
were not treated well by their country.
Like the story of how Ms. Pollard
brought important history back to our
State, the story of building the Alcan
and of the civil rights in the military
also has an uplifting message.
On October 25, 1942, less than 8
months after they started, two sol-
diers, one African American and one
White, shook hands after completing
this highway. Six years later, Presi-
dent Harry S. Truman ordered the
Army desegregated, 16 years before the
passage of the Civil Rights Act. Many
historians now cite the work and the
experience on this Alcan Highway
project, and the African-American sol-
diers and White soldiers working to-
gether on a really difficult challenge,
as also helping make that possible—
civil rights, 16 years later.
The Federal Highway Administration
calls the Alcan Highway the road to
civil rights. Isn’t that a great depic-
tion?
So, Ms. Pollard, thank you and your
team for bringing that history back to
us. I am proud to have talked a little
bit about that important history for
Alaska and America on the floor of the
U.S. Senate. Congratulations for being
our Alaskan of the Week.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. SUL-
LIVAN). The majority leader.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of Cal-
endar Nos. 81 through 86 and all nomi-
nations placed on the Secretary’s desk;
that the nominations be confirmed, the
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table with no
intervening action or debate; that no
further motions be in order; that any
statements related to the nominations
be printed in the RECORD; that the
President be immediately notified of
the Senate’s action, and the Senate
then resume legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The nominations considered and con-
firmed are as follows:
IN THE ARMY
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Army to the grade
indicated while assigned to a position of im-
portance and responsibility under title 10,
U.S.C., section 601:
To be general
Lt. Gen. Michael X. Garrett
IN THE AIR FORCE
The following named Air National Guard of
the United States officer for appointment in
the Reserve of the Air Force to the grade in-
dicated under title 10, U.S.C., sections 12203
and 12212:
To be brigadier general
Col. Timothy J. Donnellan
The following named Air National Guard of
the United States officer for appointment in
the Reserve of the Air Force to the grade in-
dicated under title 10, U.S.C., sections 12203
and 12212:
To be brigadier general
Col. Stephen J. Mallette
IN THE NAVY
The following named officers for appoint-
ment in the United States Navy to the grade
indicated under title 10, U.S.C., section 624:
To be rear admiral (lower half)
Capt. Scott M. Brown
Capt. Casey J. Moton
Capt. Stephen R. Tedford
Capt. Eric H. Verhage
The following named officers for appoint-
ment in the United States Navy to the grade
indicated under title 10, U.S.C., section 624:
To be rear admiral (lower half)
Capt. Jeffrey T. Anderson
Capt. Stephen D. Barnett
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:44 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28FE6.067 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1583
February 28, 2019
Capt. Michael W. Baze
Capt. Richard T. Brophy, Jr.
Capt. Anthony C. Carullo
Capt. Robert B. Chadwick, II
Capt. Jeffrey J. Czerewko
Capt. Michael P. Donnelly
Capt. Christopher M. Engdahl
Capt. Robert M. Gaucher
Capt. Daniel P. Martin
Capt. John V. Menoni
Capt. Curt A. Renshaw
Capt. Scott F. Robertson
Capt. Milton J. Sands, III
Capt. Paul C. Spedero, Jr.
Capt. Christopher J. Sweeney
Capt. Jeromy B. Williams
IN THE AIR FORCE
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Air Force to the
grade indicated while assigned to a position
of importance and responsibility under title
10, U.S.C., section 601:
To be lieutenant general
Lt. Gen. VeraLinn Jamieson
NOMINATIONS PLACED ON THE SECRETARY’S
DESK
IN THE AIR FORCE
PN268 AIR FORCE nomination of Jason D.
Hoskins, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
January 24, 2019.
PN269 AIR FORCE nominations (2) begin-
ning NANCY E. COSTA, and ending ALEX-
ANDER O. KIRKPATRICK, which nomina-
tions were received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the Congressional Record of Janu-
ary 24, 2019.
PN270 AIR FORCE nomination of
Saiprasad M. Zemse, which was received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record of January 24, 2019.
PN271 AIR FORCE nominations (125) begin-
ning JEFFREY WAYNE AKIN, and ending
STEVEN S. ZASUETA, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of January 24, 2019.
PN272 AIR FORCE nominations (2) begin-
ning DAVID C. SALISBURY, and ending
ROBERT L. WILKIE, JR., which nomina-
tions were received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the Congressional Record of Janu-
ary 24, 2019.
PN273 AIR FORCE nominations (8) begin-
ning CRAIG K. ABEE, and ending CAROL A.
YEAGER, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record of January 24, 2019.
PN274 AIR FORCE nominations (4) begin-
ning MICHAEL J. CHUNG, and ending
BRADLEY J. PIERSON, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of January 24, 2019.
PN275 AIR FORCE nomination of Robert T.
Hines, Jr., which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
January 24, 2019.
PN276 AIR FORCE nominations (12) begin-
ning MARC A. BANJAK, and ending JEN-
NIFER C. WHITKO, which nominations were
received by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of January 24, 2019.
PN277 AIR FORCE nominations (12) begin-
ning DENNIS M. BRITTEN, and ending
KRISTEN MARIE WYRICK, which nomina-
tions were received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the Congressional Record of Janu-
ary 24, 2019.
PN278 AIR FORCE nominations (4) begin-
ning JASON G. ARNOLD, and ending
CARRIE A. SCHMID, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of January 24, 2019.
PN279 AIR FORCE nominations (12) begin-
ning DAVID P. BAILEY, and ending AMY S.
SWETS, which nominations were received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record of January 24, 2019.
PN280 AIR FORCE nominations (2) begin-
ning KIMBERLY J. KLOEBER, and ending
MARSHA L. SCHUMAN, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of January 24, 2019.
PN281 AIR FORCE nomination of Joyce C.
Beaty, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Jan-
uary 24, 2019.
PN282 AIR FORCE nominations (5) begin-
ning TIMOTHY S. MCCARTY, and ending
TERESA M. STARKS, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of January 24, 2019.
PN283 AIR FORCE nominations (5) begin-
ning JENNIFER J. ARCHER, and ending
LAWRENCE D. PEAVLER, which nomina-
tions were received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the Congressional Record of Janu-
ary 24, 2019.
PN284 AIR FORCE nominations (61) begin-
ning ANDREW T. ALLEN, and ending ASSY
YACOUB, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record of January 24, 2019.
PN285 AIR FORCE nominations (15) begin-
ning ELHAM BARANI, and ending BRAN-
DON H. WILLIAMS, which nominations were
received by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of January 24, 2019.
PN286 AIR FORCE nominations (121) begin-
ning HOMAYOUN R. AHMADIAN, and end-
ing JOE X. ZHANG, which nominations were
received by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of January 24, 2019.
PN287 AIR FORCE nominations (25) begin-
ning FRANCIS E. BECKER, and ending
BRENT J. WINWARD, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of January 24, 2019.
PN289 AIR FORCE nominations (45) begin-
ning MARGARET E. ABBOTT, and ending
JEFFREY C. YEE, which nominations were
received by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of January 24, 2019.
PN290 AIR FORCE nominations (252) begin-
ning JOSEPH L. ABRAMS, and ending
ALYSSA R. ZUEHL, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of January 24, 2019.
PN342 AIR FORCE nomination of Kath-
erine R. Morganti, which was received by the
Senate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of January 24, 2019.
PN379 AIR FORCE nominations (6) begin-
ning PATRICK N. WESTMORELAND, and
ending AARON J. LIPPY, which nomina-
tions were received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the Congressional Record of Feb-
ruary 6, 2019.
PN394 AIR FORCE nomination of Tolulope
O. A. Aduroja, which was received by the
Senate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of February 12, 2019.
PN395 AIR FORCE nomination of Erick L.
Jackson, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
February 12, 2019.
IN THE ARMY
PN291 ARMY nomination of James B.
Flowers, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
January 24, 2019.
PN292 ARMY nomination of Dylan T.
Randazzo, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
January 24, 2019.
PN293 ARMY nomination of Jerry D. Hall-
man, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Jan-
uary 24, 2019.
PN294 ARMY nomination of Christopher P.
Moellering, which was received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of January 24, 2019.
PN295 ARMY nomination of Joubert N.
Paulino, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
January 24, 2019.
PN296 ARMY nomination of Saw K. San,
which was received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the Congressional Record of Janu-
ary 24, 2019.
PN297 ARMY nominations (2) beginning
REBECCA J. QUACKENBUSH, and ending
DAVID A. WATKINS, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of January 24, 2019.
PN298 ARMY nomination of Stacie L.
Kervin, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
January 24, 2019.
PN299 ARMY nomination of Brian R.
Kossler, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
January 24, 2019.
PN300 ARMY nomination of Katherine A.
O’Brien, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
January 24, 2019.
PN301 ARMY nomination of Jessica N.
Peralesludemann, which was received by the
Senate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of January 24, 2019.
PN302 ARMY nomination of Julia C. Phil-
lips, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Jan-
uary 24, 2019.
PN303 ARMY nomination of Alain M.
Alexandre, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
efarmary 24, 2019.
PN304 ARMY nomination of Taliat A.
Animashaun, which was received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of January 24, 2019.
PN307 ARMY nomination of G010349, which
was received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of January 24, 2019.
PN308 ARMY nomination of Jordanna M.
Hostler, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
January 24, 2019.
PN309 ARMY nomination of Elizabeth N.
Strickland, which was received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of January 24, 2019.
PN310 ARMY nomination of Shawn M. T.
May, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Jan-
uary 24, 2019.
PN311 ARMY nomination of Kyle A. Zahn,
which was received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the Congressional Record of Janu-
ary 24, 2019.
PN396 ARMY nomination of Joseph J.
Fantony, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
February 12, 2019.
PN397 ARMY nomination of Chariti D.
Paden, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Feb-
ruary 12, 2019.
PN398 ARMY nomination of Donald W.
Rakes, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Feb-
ruary 12, 2019.
PN399 ARMY nominations (7) beginning
RONNIE S. BARNES, and ending FRANCIS
R. MONTGOMERY, which nominations were
received by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of February 12, 2019.
PN401 ARMY nomination of Charles A.
Riley, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Feb-
ruary 12, 2019.
PN402 ARMY nomination of Richard S.
McNutt, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
February 12, 2019.
PN403 ARMY nomination of Lloyd V.
Lozada, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
February 12, 2019.
PN404 ARMY nominations (18) beginning
JULIO ACOSTA, and ending APRIL L.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:44 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE6.009 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1584 February 28, 2019
SAPP, which nominations were received by,
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record of February 12, 2019.
IN THE MARINE CORPS
PN317 MARINE CORPS nomination of
Matthew T. Coughlin, which was received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record of January 24, 2019.
PN318 MARINE CORPS nomination of
Bethanne Canero, which was received by the
Senate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of January 24, 2019.
PN320 MARINE CORPS nominations (5) be-
ginning KEVIN T. BROWNLEE, and ending
DANIEL L. YOUMANS, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of January 24, 2019.
PN321 MARINE CORPS nominations (2) be-
ginning KEVIN F. CHAMPAIGNE, and end-
ing JOHN C. JOHNSON, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of January 24, 2019.
PN322 MARINE CORPS nominations (3) be-
ginning AARON J. GRIFFUS, and ending
JEREMIAH J. ZEISZLER, which nomina-
tions were received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the Congressional Record of Janu-
ary 24, 2019.
PN325 MARINE CORPS nominations (4) be-
ginning DANIEL H. CUSINATO, and ending
EDUARDO QUIROZ, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of January 24, 2019.
PN329 MARINE CORPS nominations (5) be-
ginning ARMANDO A. FREIRE, and ending
ANDREW J. SHRIVER, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of January 24, 2019.
PN330 MARINE CORPS nomination of Ste-
phen R. Byrnes, which was received by the
Senate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of January 24, 2019.
PN331 MARINE CORPS nominations (2) be-
ginning HERMAN E. HOLLEY, and ending
BRIAN E. KELLY, which nominations were
received by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of January 24, 2019.
PN332 MARINE CORPS nominations (2) be-
ginning DARREN M. GALLAGHER, and end-
ing AUSTIN E. WREN, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of January 24, 2019.
PN333 MARINE CORPS nominations (799)
beginning ALEXANDER N. ABATE, and end-
ing JOSEPH A. ZUKOWSKI, JR., which
nominations were received by tbe Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Jan-
uary 24, 2019.
PN334 MARINE CORPS nominations (14)
beginning GERMAN ALICEALAPUERTA,
and ending LYDIA A. SIMONS, which nomi-
nations were received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the Congressional Record of Janu-
ary 24, 2019.
PN335 MARINE CORPS nominations (106)
beginning ERIC J. ADAMS, and ending
WAYNE R. ZUBER, which nominations were
received by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of January 24, 2019.
PN336 MARINE CORPS nomination of Jo-
seph W. Crandall, which was received by the
Senate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of January 24, 2019.
PN338 MARINE CORPS nominations (2) be-
ginning AARON S. ELLIS, and ending CUR-
TIS B. MILLER, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of January 24, 2019.
PN339 MARINE CORPS nomination of Jus-
tin D. Mosley, which was received by the
Senate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of January 24, 2019.
PN341 MARINE CORPS nominations (3) be-
ginning ANDRES J. AGRAMONTE, and end-
ing ROSS A. HRYNEWYCH, which nomina-
tions were received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the Congressional Record of Janu-
ary 24, 2019.
PN386 MARINE CORPS nominations (2) be-
ginning BETHANY S. PETERSON, and end-
ing JON T. PETERSON, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of February 6, 2019.
IN THE NAVY
PN312 NAVY nomination of Jessica M. P.
Miller, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Jan-
uary 24, 2019.
PN313 NAVY nomination of Rosemary M.
Hardesty, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
January 24, 2019.
PN314 NAVY nomination of Brett T. Thom-
as, which was received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the Congressional Record of Janu-
ary 24, 2019.
PN385 NAVY nominations (46) beginning
SCOTT A. ADAMS, and ending BRET A.
YOUNT, which nominations were received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record of February 6, 2019.
PN405 NAVY nominations (14) beginning
PETER D. ALLEN, and ending ROBERT D.
WILLIAMS, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of February 12, 2019.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ate will now resume legislative session.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT AND
TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, the
White House recently unveiled the
Women’s Global Development and
Prosperity Initiative, W-GDP, an inter-
agency plan to increase women’s global
labor force participation and advance-
ment in the workplace, improve access
of women entrepreneurs to market op-
portunities, and remove barriers to
economic growth for women.
I support the initiative, although not
based on the erroneous claim of some
in the White House that it is the first
women’s initiative ever launched by
the United States. On the contrary, I
and many other Members of Congress
and previous administrations have sup-
ported such efforts for many years.
However, there is still a lot of work to
be done, and I hope W-GDP builds on
those efforts.
Too many of this administration’s
actions have fallen far short of the
President’s rhetoric or have been the
antithesis of what he promised, so
while I am ready to do what is nec-
essary to support W-GDP, I worry that
this initiative may be part of the same
story. From human trafficking at the
southern border, to processing asylum
applicants, to combating HIV/AIDS,
this administration purports to be seri-
ous about addressing global problems
while implementing policies or pro-
posing budgets that bear no resem-
blance to effective solutions and in
many cases would make the situation
worse.
For example, while the objectives of
W-GDP are laudable, it is being imple-
mented by the same White House that
sought to cut the budget for the De-
partment of State and foreign assist-
ance programs by roughly 30 percent in
fiscal years 2018 and 2019, cuts that
would have decimated funding for pro-
grams that address the needs of the
world’s poorest people, for water and
sanitation, maternal and child health,
education and employment opportuni-
ties, to stave off poverty and disease
that disproportionately afflict women
and girls. In fact, the President’s budg-
et did not include a single dollar for W-
GDP.
This administration has also waged
war on reproductive health, reportedly
directing the omission of reporting on
reproductive rights in the State De-
partment’s annual Country Reports on
Human Rights, and one of President
Trump’s first acts after his inaugura-
tion was to reinstate the Global Gag
Rule. In fact, egged on by extremists in
his administration, he expanded it to
condition funding for every nongovern-
mental organization, NGO, imple-
menting any health programs for the
United States overseas, even if their
programs have nothing to do with re-
productive health. In other words, if an
NGO spends millions of dollars in India
to combat HIV/AIDS, but spends $1 of
its own private funds—not U.S. tax-
payer funds—to provide counseling on
abortion, it is ineligible for any U.S.
Government funding for either purpose.
Such a policy would be unlawful in our
own country.
So while I support W-GDP, I caution
all those who defend women’s rights
and support economic opportunities for
women to not be distracted by one ini-
tiative this administration launched on
the backs of the Congress’s rejection of
President Trump’s budget and to call
on the White House to adopt a more
consistent, comprehensive approach to
supporting women around the world.
With that in mind, I hope the White
House will speak out forcefully and
consistently about the institutional-
ized and systemic persecution and dis-
crimination of women in Saudi Arabia
and other countries whose autocratic
and corrupt governments this White
House has embraced. If the White
House expects to be taken seriously
about women’s empowerment, it can-
not remain silent about governments
whose laws and policies treat women as
property and that imprison women’s
rights activists.
This is not the only area in which the
administration is purporting to sup-
port vulnerable populations while its
short-sighted policies are having the
opposite effect.
In a November 30, 2018, op-ed in the
Washington Post, Ivanka Trump an-
nounced that the administration had
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:44 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE6.009 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1585
February 28, 2019
decided to limit the number of waivers
for assistance for countries that are
identified in the State Department’s
annual Trafficking in Persons Report
as failing to meet minimum standards
for combating human trafficking. She
also noted the administration’s pledge
of $45 million to a fund to end modern
slavery, funds that, as is true for W-
GDP, the President did not include in
his budget and from an account the
White House proposed to cut.
I agree with the goal of holding gov-
ernments accountable for failing to
meet minimum standards for pre-
venting trafficking in persons, but in-
formed people know that cutting fund-
ing for health, education, environ-
mental conservation, counterterror-
ism, and governance programs does
nothing to prevent human trafficking,
while it undercuts our ability to make
progress on other issues of national in-
terest.
Yet that is exactly what the adminis-
tration has done. By belatedly ap-
proaching human trafficking as if
nothing else matters and limiting use
of the waiver authority Congress pro-
vided, administration officials have
spent months tying themselves in
knots over which programs to continue
and which to suspend. The result is
that implementing partners are run-
ning out of money, services are not
being delivered, and important pro-
grams are shutting down.
The Trump administration needs to
stop governing by sound bite. If the
White House is serious about address-
ing human trafficking and other com-
plex challenges, it should work with
Congress to secure the necessary fund-
ing and apply the law in a common
sense manner that is consistent with
our national interests.
f
EGYPT
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I want to
briefly discuss the situation in Egypt,
a country where unchecked repression
has come to define the government of
President el-Sisi.
The 2011 Egyptian revolution brought
hope of a democratic future for the
country, but it has failed to mate-
rialize, subverted by aspiring auto-
crats. After winning historic demo-
cratic elections in 2012, the Morsi gov-
ernment sought to consolidate its con-
trol, issuing a declaration to provide
the President with sweeping authori-
ties and eliminating checks on Execu-
tive power. The response was another
popular uprising and a military coup
led by then-Defense Minister Abdel
Fattah el-Sisi.
Although cheered by some who favor
President el-Sisi’s crackdown on the
leaders of the Muslim Brotherhood and
anyone suspected of being affiliated
with it, his Presidency has become a
model for autocratic rule. His police
have arrested human rights lawyers,
journalists, civil society activists, and
opposition politicians. Anyone who
criticizes the regime or calls for a more
democratic system is threatened, ar-
rested, and accused of ‘‘terrorism’’ or
some other vague crime against the
state. Once detained, they have been
subjected to physical and psychological
abuse while they wait for months or
more often years before being sub-
jected to sham trials that make a
mockery of due process.
Earlier this month, President el-
Sisi’s government took another step to
consolidate his rule. Egypt’s
rubberstamp Parliament approved con-
stitutional amendments that would en-
able el-Sisi to remain in power until
2034, 12 years beyond the end of his sec-
ond and final term. Other amendments
would enable el-Sisi to tighten his con-
trol of the judiciary, create a second
Parliamentary chamber dominated by
Presidential appointees, and expand
the authority of the military to codify
its role in civilian political life. Egypt
today is a civilian government in name
only. The military, led by el-Sisi, effec-
tively wields total control.
In 2011, we all hoped the Egyptian
people had a brighter, albeit chal-
lenging, political future ahead of them,
but 7 years after the overthrow of
Hosni Mubarak, the el-Sisi government
is erasing any remaining hope for de-
mocracy in the country. The calls of
those who flooded the streets under
Mubarak and Morsi for greater polit-
ical freedom and civil liberties, less
corruption, and more accountability
are treated not as visions for Egypt’s
future, but as threats to el-Sisi him-
self.
Regrettably, it seems that the only
constant in U.S.-Egyptian relations
over the last several decades, besides
Egyptian Government repression and
billions of dollars in U.S. military aid,
is the reticence with which successive
U.S. administrations have confronted
this issue. There always seems to be an
excuse for why now is not the time to
insist on meaningful progress to ad-
vance democracy and human rights by
our ally Egypt. If not now, when? What
line would the Egyptian government
have to cross for the Congress and the
administration to recognize the threat
that a brutal military dictatorship
poses to stability in Egypt, and to our
long-term interests in the region?
Every U.S. administration has en-
gaged, in varying degrees, in quiet di-
plomacy to address human rights
abuses and corruption overseas and
issued public statements or withheld
foreign aid to encourage progress. Di-
plomacy, if backed up with con-
sequences, can achieve results, but suc-
cessive Egyptian Governments have
gambled that, at the end of the day, we
will look the other way in the mis-
taken belief that doing so serves U.S.
security interests, and by and large,
that has been the case.
It is interesting to compare the
Trump administration’s selective con-
demnation of government repression in
other countries, where the number of
political prisoners is a fraction of those
in Egypt, to President Trump’s pro-
nouncement that President el-Sisi as a
‘‘great guy.’’ What a sad commentary
on what this country purports to stand
for.
We must acknowledge what history
has repeatedly shown, that upholding
our values is the best way to protect
our interests. That does not mean cut-
ting off all aid and walking away from
Egypt. That kind of reactionary ap-
proach is equally short-sighted. What
it does mean is that we need a more
principled, measured, and consistent
policy and make clear that our aid is
not a blank check—that Egypt’s lead-
ers are not above the law; that freedom
of expression is universal; that due
process is a right; that torture, cruel
and inhuman treatment are forbidden
under international law; and that gov-
ernments should be accountable to
their people.
At a time when President el-Sisi is
seeking to manipulate the legislative
process to cement his hold on power for
life, senior officials at the White
House, the State Department, and the
Pentagon need to stand up for what is
first and foremost in our national in-
terest: the principles that define us as
Americans.
I hope all Senators will join me in en-
couraging the Trump administration to
learn from the mistakes of its prede-
cessors and realign our policy toward
Egypt with our values.
f
OPIOID CRISIS
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, this
morning, the Senate Appropriations
Subcommittee on Labor, Health, and
Human Services and Related Agencies
held a hearing on the opioid epidemic
and how States are responding to the
crisis. I was pleased Beth Tanzman, the
executive director of Vermont’s Blue-
print for Health, agreed to be a witness
at today’s hearing to share the innova-
tive approaches Vermont has taken to
combat opioid use disorders. Ms.
Tanzman has also served as Vermont’s
deputy commissioner for mental health
and also directed adult mental health
services for Vermont’s Department of
Mental Health.
While certainly not spared from the
opioid epidemic, Vermont is ahead of
much of the country in many ways:
Our State openly identified the prob-
lem, and our former Governor, Peter
Shumlin, dedicated his entire State of
the State address in 2014 to construc-
tively seek ways to not just help ad-
dicts get clean, but to halt this scourge
in its tracks. Public health leaders, ad-
diction specialists, doctors, and State
leaders came together and imple-
mented a system to integrate sub-
stance abuse treatment with primary
healthcare.
Ms. Tanzman’s testimony focused on
the system developed through this col-
laboration, known as the Hub and
Spoke Model. The plan helps support
those in recovery with nine regional
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:44 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28FE6.061 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1586 February 28, 2019
hubs, offering daily medication as-
sisted treatment for those with com-
plex addictions, and spokes, where pa-
tients receive follow-up care, coun-
seling, and general wellness services.
This framework has allowed Vermont
to virtually eliminate wait times for
treatment, which can be enormous bar-
riers for individuals needing help.
Every State in the Nation has seen
the impacts of opioid abuse. Ms.
Tanzman’s testimony was informative
and offers an important perspective for
other States struggling with treating
addiction. I ask unanimous consent to
that her testimony from the Appro-
priations Committee hearing this
morning be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
DEPARTMENT OF VERMONT HEALTH
ACCESS, VERMONT BLUEPRINT FOR
HEALTH
TESTIMONY TO THE U.S. SENATE APPROPRIA-
TIONS SUBCOMMITTEE ON LABOR, HEALTH
AND HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDUCATION RE-
GARDING THE OPIOID EPIDEMIC—FEBRUARY
28, 2019
BETH TANZMAN, MSW, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR,
VERMONT BLUEPRINT FOR HEALTH, DEPART-
MENT OF VERMONT HEALTH ACCESS
Chairman Blunt, Ranking Member Murray,
and Senator Leahy and staff thank-you for
the opportunity to outline what we are
learning in Vermont about addressing the
opioid epidemic.
Vermont is here before you because we
have successfully scaled treatment avail-
ability for Opioid Use Disorder statewide.
Through our Hub and Spoke program we are
currently treating over 8,000 Vermonters
(1.6% of the adult population) with Medica-
tion Assisted Treatment (MAT). Vermont
treats a higher percentage of people with
Opioid Use Disorder than any other state in
the nation.
We provide Medication Assisted Treatment
in primary care offices (Spokes) and in spe-
cialty addictions treatment programs
(Hubs). Through a Health Home Medicaid
plan we’ve built a programmatic framework
that links primary care (Spokes) and addic-
tions treatment programs (Hubs). Patients
can move between Hubs and Spokes based on
their needs. Clinical expertise is shared
across primary care and substance abuse
treatment providers.
There are strong signals that the Hub and
Spoke program is facilitating positive out-
comes. Vermont has the lowest opioid over-
dose death rate in New England. Vermonters
receiving Medication Assisted Treatment
have lower rates of: incarceration, hos-
pitalizations, and emergency department use
than do Vermonters with Opioid Use Dis-
order who receive care as usual. Our system
of deploying teams of nurses and counselors
to primary care Spokes—2 FTE for every 100
Medicaid Members—combined with a strong
back-up from Hub programs has dramati-
cally increased the number of primary care
providers offering Medication Assisted
Treatment in Vermont.
What we’re learning may be helpful to oth-
ers and a few conclusions stand out.
Medication Assisted Treatment, the com-
bination of medications and counseling, is
the most effective treatment for opioid use
disorder and as such, it should be consist-
ently available as the standard of care for
this condition.
Insurance should pay for Medication As-
sisted Treatment. In Vermont we developed
a Medicaid Health Home State Plan Amend-
ment under the authority of section 2703 of
the Affordable Care Act to create the Hub
and Spoke Program. There are other ap-
proaches to using Medicaid that states can
employ including: 1115 B Substance Use
Waivers, State Plan Amendments, including
MAT in managed care organization con-
tracts, and increasing reimbursement rates
for targeted services. Commercial payers
should also participate: in Vermont two of
our major commercial plans are piloting
payments for Hub and Spoke Services.
The health system—especially primary
care—has a key role in treating opioid addic-
tion. The addictions treatment system can-
not do this alone; there is simply not enough
treatment capacity to meet the need brought
on by this epidemic. The participation of pri-
mary care can effect greater integration of
care, especially by coordinating pharma-
cological treatments with counseling, reha-
bilitation, and recovery supports.
The barriers to primary care participation
in MAT (not enough provider time, patient
complexity, difficulty integrating counseling
supports) can be addressed by adding nursing
and counseling resources to the primary care
prescribing teams, as we did in Vermont.
Treatment is one element of a comprehen-
sive response to the opioid epidemic. Other
elements include prevention—reducing peo-
ples’ exposure to opioids in the first place,
harm reduction such as wide availability of
the overdose reversal medication Narcan to
help prevent overdose deaths, and recovery
supports—including vocational services to
help people in recovery participate fully in
our communities.
Leadership focus matters. I have had the
honor of serving under two consecutive Gov-
ernors, Democratic and Republican, who
have both provided leadership and resources
to address the opioid epidemic in Vermont.
In closing, we have made much progress in
Vermont, much of it with the support of our
federal partners. Yet while we have some of
the best access to treatment in the nation,
we have not solved this problem. Every week
two Vermonters die from a drug overdose.
Tragically we’ve also experienced high num-
bers of children under the age of five, who
come into state custody due to this crisis.
We must learn how to do better by our fami-
lies and communities.
Thank you.
(At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
following statement was ordered to be
printed in the RECORD,)
f
VOTE EXPLANATION
∑ Ms. SINEMA. Mr. President, I was
necessarily absent but, had I been
present, would have voted ‘‘yes’’ on
rollcall vote 31, the confirmation of Mi-
chael J. Desmond to be Chief Counsel
for the Internal Revenue Service and
an Assistant General Counsel in the
Department of the Treasury.
I was necessarily absent but, had I
been present, would have voted ‘‘no’’
on rollcall vote 32, the motion to in-
voke cloture on the nomination of An-
drew Wheeler, of Virginia, to be Ad-
ministrator of the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency.
I was necessarily absent but, had I
been present, would have voted ‘‘no’’
on rollcall vote 33, the confirmation of
Andrew Wheeler, of Virginia, to be Ad-
ministrator of the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency.∑
SENATE COMMITTEE ON THE
BUDGET RULES OF PROCEDURE
Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, the Com-
mittee on the Budget has adopted rules
governing its procedures for the 116th
Congress. Pursuant to rule XXVI, para-
graph 2, of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, on behalf of myself and Sen-
ator SANDERS, I ask unanimous consent
that a copy of the Committee rules be
printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET U.S. SENATE
RULES FOR THE 116TH CONGRESS
RULES OF PROCEDURE
I. MEETINGS
(1) The committee shall hold its regular
meeting on the first Thursday of each
month. Additional meetings may be called
by the chair as the chair deems necessary to
expedite committee business.
(2) Each meeting of the committee, includ-
ing meetings to conduct hearings, shall be
open to the public, except that a portion or
portions of any such meeting may be closed
to the public if the committee determines by
record vote in open session of a majority of
the members of the committee present that
the matters to be discussed or the testimony
to be taken at such portion or portions—
(a) will disclose matters necessary to be
kept secret in the interests of national de-
fense or the confidential conduct of the for-
eign relations of the United States;
(b) will relate solely to matters of the com-
mittee staff personnel or internal staff man-
agement or procedure;
(c) will tend to charge an individual with
crime or misconduct, to disgrace or injure
the professional standing of an individual, or
otherwise to expose an individual to public
contempt or obloquy, or will represent a
clearly unwarranted invasion of the privacy
of an individual;
(d) will disclose the identity of any in-
former or law enforcement agent or will dis-
close any information relating to the inves-
tigation or prosecution of a criminal offense
that is required to be kept secret in the in-
terests of effective law enforcement; or
(e) will disclose information relating to the
trade secrets or financial or commercial in-
formation pertaining specifically to a given
person if—
(i) an act of Congress requires the informa-
tion to be kept confidential by Government
officers and employees; or
(ii) the information has been obtained by
the Government on a confidential basis,
other than through an application by such
person for a specific Government financial or
other benefit, and is required to be kept se-
cret in order to prevent undue injury to the
competitive position of such person.
(f) may divulge matters required to be kept
confidential under other provisions of law or
Government regulations.
(3) Notice of, and the agenda for, any busi-
ness meeting or markup shall be provided to
each member and made available to the pub-
lic at least 72 hours prior to such meeting or
markup.
II. CONSIDERATION OF BUDGET RESOLU-
TIONS
(1) If the chair of the committee makes
proposed legislative text of a concurrent res-
olution on the budget available to all com-
mittee members by 12:00 p.m., five days prior
to the start of a meeting or markup to con-
sider the resolution, during that meeting or
markup:
(a) it shall not be in order to consider a
first degree amendment unless the amend-
ment has been submitted to the chief clerk
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:44 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28FE6.060 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1587
February 28, 2019
by 5:00 p.m. two days prior to the start of the
meeting or markup, except that an amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute offered by
the chair of the committee shall not be re-
quired to be filed in advance, and
(b) it shall not be in order to consider a
second degree amendment unless the amend-
ment has been submitted to the chief clerk
by 5:00 p.m. on the day prior to the start of
the meeting or markup, and
(c) it shall not be in order to consider a
side-by-side amendment unless the amend-
ment has been submitted to the chief clerk
by 5:00 p.m. on the day prior to the start of
the meeting or markup, and the amendment
is filed in relation to a particular first de-
gree amendment that is considered by the
committee.
(2) During consideration of a concurrent
resolution on the budget, it shall not be in
order to consider an amendment that would
have no force or effect if adopted.
III. ORDER OF RECOGNITION
Those members who are present at the
start of any meeting of the committee in-
cluding meetings to conduct hearings, shall
be recognized in order of seniority based on
time served as a member of the committee.
Any members arriving after the start of the
meeting shall be recognized, in order of ap-
pearance, after the most junior member.
IV. QUORUMS AND VOTING
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and
(3) of this section, a quorum for the trans-
action of committee business shall consist of
not less than one-third of the membership of
the entire committee: Provided, that proxies
shall not be counted in making a quorum.
(2) A majority of the committee shall con-
stitute a quorum for reporting budget resolu-
tions, legislative measures or recommenda-
tions: Provided, that proxies shall not be
counted in making a quorum.
(3) For the purpose of taking sworn or
unsworn testimony, a quorum of the com-
mittee shall consist of one Senator.
(4)(a) The committee may poll—
(i) internal committee matters including
those concerning the committee’s staff,
records, and budget;
(ii) steps in an investigation, including
issuance of subpoenas, applications for im-
munity orders, and requests for documents
from agencies; and
(iii) other committee business that the
committee has designated for polling at a
meeting, except that the committee may not
vote by poll on reporting to the Senate any
measure, matter, or recommendation, and
may not vote by poll on closing a meeting or
hearing to the public.
(b) To conduct a poll, the chair shall cir-
culate polling sheets to each member speci-
fying the matter being polled and the time
limit for completion of the poll. If any mem-
ber requests, the matter shall be held for a
meeting rather than being polled. The chief
clerk shall keep a record of polls; if the com-
mittee determines by record vote in open
session of a majority of the members of the
committee present that the polled matter is
one of those enumerated in rule I(2)(a)–(e),
then the record of the poll shall be confiden-
tial. Any member may move at the com-
mittee meeting following a poll for a vote on
the polled decision.
V. PROXIES
When a record vote is taken in the com-
mittee on any bill, resolution, amendment,
or any other question, a quorum being
present, a member who is unable to attend
the meeting may vote by proxy if the absent
member has been informed of the matter on
which the vote is being recorded and has af-
firmatively requested to be so recorded; ex-
cept that no member may vote by proxy dur-
ing the deliberations on Budget Resolutions
unless a member is experiencing a health
issue and the chair and ranking member
agree to allow that member to vote by proxy
on amendments to a Budget Resolution.
VI. HEARINGS AND HEARING PROCEDURES
(1) The committee shall make public an-
nouncement of the date, place, time, and
subject matter of any hearing to be con-
ducted on any measure or matter at least 1
week in advance of such hearing, unless the
chair and ranking member determine that
there is good cause to begin such hearing at
an earlier date.
(2) At least 24 hours prior to the scheduled
start time of the hearing, a witness appear-
ing before the committee shall file a written
statement of proposed testimony with the
chief clerk who is responsible for circulating
the proposed testimony to all members at
the same time. The requirement that a wit-
ness submit testimony 24 hours prior to a
hearing may be waived by the chair and the
ranking member, following their determina-
tion that there is good cause for the failure
of compliance.
VII. COMMITTEE REPORTS
(1) When the committee has ordered a
measure or recommendation reported, fol-
lowing final action, the report thereon shall
be filed in the Senate at the earliest prac-
ticable time.
(2) A member of the committee, who gives
notice of an intention to file supplemental,
minority, or additional views at the time of
final committee approval of a measure or
matter, shall be entitled to not less than 3
calendar days in which to file such views, in
writing, with the chief clerk of the com-
mittee. Such views shall then be included in
the committee report and printed in the
same volume, as a part thereof, and their in-
clusions shall be noted on the cover of the
report. In the absence of timely notice, the
committee report may be filed and printed
immediately without such views.
VIII. USE OF DISPLAY MATERIALS IN COM-
MITTEE
Committee members may use the elec-
tronic display system provided in the com-
mittee hearing room or physical graphic dis-
plays during any meetings or hearings of the
committee. Physical graphic displays are
limited to the following:
Charts, photographs, or renderings:
Size: no larger than 36 inches by 48 inches.
Where: on an easel stand next to the mem-
ber’s seat or at the rear of the committee
room.
When: only at the time the member is
speaking.
Number: no more than two may be dis-
played at a time.
IX. CONFIRMATION STANDARDS AND PRO-
CEDURES
(1) Standards. In considering a nomination,
the committee shall inquire into the nomi-
nee’s experience, qualifications, suitability,
and integrity to serve in the position to
which he or she has been nominated. The
committee shall recommend confirmation if
it finds that the nominee has the necessary
integrity and is affirmatively qualified by
reason of training, education, or experience
to carry out the functions of the office to
which he or she was nominated.
(2) Information Concerning the Nominee.
Each nominee shall submit the following in-
formation to the chief clerk, who will dis-
tribute to the chairman and ranking member
at the same time:
(a) A detailed biographical resume which
contains information concerning education,
employment, and background which gen-
erally relates to the position to which the in-
dividual is nominated, and which is to be
made public;
(b) Information concerning financial and
other background of the nominee which is to
be made public; provided, that financial in-
formation that does not relate to the nomi-
nee’s qualifications to hold the position to
which the individual is nominated, tax re-
turns or reports prepared by federal agencies
that may be submitted by the nominee shall,
after review by the chair, ranking member,
or any other member of the committee upon
request, be maintained in a manner to en-
sure confidentiality; and,
(c) Copies of other relevant documents and
responses to questions as the committee may
so request, such as responses to questions
concerning the policies and programs the
nominee intends to pursue upon taking of-
fice.
(3) Report on the Nominee. After a review
of all information pertinent to the nomina-
tion, a confidential report on the nominee
may be prepared by the committee staff for
the chair, the ranking member and, upon re-
quest, for any other member of the com-
mittee. The report shall summarize the steps
taken and the results of the committee in-
quiry, including any unresolved matters that
have been raised during the course of the in-
quiry.
(4) Hearings. The committee shall conduct
a hearing during which the nominee shall be
called to testify under oath on all matters
relating to his or her suitability for office,
including the policies and programs which he
or she would pursue while in that position.
No hearing or meeting to consider the con-
firmation shall be held until at least 72 hours
after the following events have occurred: the
nominee has responded to the requirements
set forth in subsection (2), and, if a report de-
scribed in subsection (3) has been prepared, it
has been presented to the chairman and
ranking member, and is available to other
members of the committee, upon request.
f
SENATE SUBCOMMITTEE ON FED-
ERAL SPENDING OVERSIGHT
AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
RULES OF PROCEDURE
Mr. JOHNSON. Mr. President, Senate
Standing Rule XXVI requires each
committee to adopt rules to govern the
procedure of the committee and to pub-
lish those rules in the CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD not later than March 1 of the
first year of each Congress. On Feb-
ruary 25, 2019, a majority of the mem-
bers of the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs’
Subcommittee on Federal Spending
Oversight and Emergency Management
adopted subcommittee rules of proce-
dure.
Consistent with Standing Rule XXVI,
today I ask unanimous consent that a
copy of the Rules of Procedure of the
Subcommittee on Federal Spending
Oversight and Emergency Management
be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
116TH CONGRESS—RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR
THE SENATE SUBCOMMITTEE ON FEDERAL
SPENDING OVERSIGHT AND EMERGENCY MAN-
AGEMENT OF THE COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND
SECURITY AND GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS AS
ADOPTED
[February 28, 2019]
1. Subcommittee rules. The Subcommittee
shall be governed, where applicable, by the
rules of the full Committee on Homeland Se-
curity and Government Affairs and the
Standing Rules of the Senate.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:44 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE6.020 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1588 February 28, 2019
2. Quorums.
A. Transaction of routine business. One-
third of the membership of the Sub-
committee shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of routine business, provided
that one Member of the Minority is present.
For the purpose of this paragraph, the term
‘‘routine business’’ includes the convening of
a meeting and the consideration of any busi-
ness of the Subcommittee other than report-
ing to the full Committee on Homeland Se-
curity and Government Affairs any meas-
ures, matters, or recommendations.
B. Taking testimony. One Member of the
Subcommittee shall constitute a quorum for
taking sworn or unsworn testimony.
C. Proxies prohibited in establishment of
quorum. Proxies shall not be considered for
the establishment of a quorum.
3. Subcommittee subpoenas. The Chairman
of the Subcommittee, with the approval of
the Ranking Minority Member of the Sub-
committee, is authorized to subpoena the at-
tendance of witnesses or the production of
memoranda, documents, records, or any
other materials at a hearing, provided that
the Chairman may subpoena attendance or
production without the approval of the
Ranking Minority Member where the Chair-
man or a staff officer designated by him/her
has not received notification from the Rank-
ing Minority Member or a staff officer des-
ignated by him/her of disapproval of the sub-
poena within 48 hours, excluding Saturdays
and Sundays and legal holidays in which the
Senate is not in session, of being notified of
the subpoena. If a subpoena is disapproved by
the Ranking Minority Member as provided
herein, the subpoena may be authorized by
vote of the Members of the Subcommittee.
Immediately upon authorization of the
issuance of a subpoena under these rules, a
written notice of intent to issue the sub-
poena shall be provided to the Chairman and
Ranking Minority Member of the full Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
ment Affairs, or staff officers designated by
them, by the Subcommittee Chairman or a
staff officer designated by him/her, and no
subpoena shall be issued for at least 48 hours,
excluding Saturdays and Sundays, from de-
livery to the appropriate offices, unless the
Chairman and Ranking Minority Member of
the full Committee on Homeland Security
and Government Affairs waive the 48–hour
waiting period or unless the Subcommittee
Chairman certifies in writing to the Chair-
man and Ranking Minority Member of the
full Committee that, in his or her opinion, it
is necessary to issue a subpoena imme-
diately.
When the Subcommittee or its Chairman
authorizes subpoenas, subpoenas may be
issued upon the signature of the Chairman or
any other Member of the Subcommittee des-
ignated by the Chairman.
f
SENATE PERMANENT SUB-
COMMITTEE ON INVESTIGATIONS
RULES OF PROCEDURE
Mr. JOHNSON. Mr. President, Senate
Standing Rule XXVI requires each
committee to adopt rules to govern the
procedure of the committee and to pub-
lish those rules in the CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD not later than March 1 of the
first year of each Congress. On Feb-
ruary 25, 2019, a majority of the mem-
bers of the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs’
Permanent Subcommittee on Inves-
tigations adopted subcommittee rules
of procedure.
Consistent with Standing Rule XXVI,
today I ask unanimous consent that a
copy of the Rules of Procedure of the
Permanent Subcommittee on Inves-
tigations be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
116TH CONGRESS—RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR
THE SENATE PERMANENT SUBCOMMITTEE ON
INVESTIGATIONS OF THE COMMITTEE HOME-
LAND SECURITY AND GOVERNMENTAL AF-
FAIRS AS ADOPTED
[February 28, 2019]
1. No public hearing connected with an in-
vestigation may be held without the ap-
proval of either the Chairman and the Rank-
ing Minority Member or a Majority of the
Members of the Subcommittee. In all cases,
notification to all Subcommittee Members of
the intent to hold hearings must be given at
least 7 days in advance to the date of the
hearing. The Ranking Minority Member
should be kept fully apprised of preliminary
inquiries, investigations, and hearings. Pre-
liminary inquiries may be initiated by the
Subcommittee Majority staff upon the ap-
proval of the Chairman and notice of such
approval to the Ranking Minority Member,
Minority Staff Director, or the Minority
Chief Counsel. Preliminary inquiries may be
undertaken by the Minority staff upon the
approval of the Ranking Minority Member
and notice of such approval to the Chairman,
Staff Director, or Chief Counsel. Investiga-
tions may be undertaken upon the approval
of the Chairman and the Ranking Minority
Member with notice of such approval to all
Members of the Subcommittee.
No public hearing shall be held if the Mi-
nority Members of the Subcommittee unani-
mously object, unless the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs (the ‘‘Committee’’) approves of such
public hearing by a majority vote.
Senate Rules will govern all closed ses-
sions convened by the Subcommittee (Rule
XXVI, Sec. 5(b), Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate).
2. Subpoenas for witnesses, as well as docu-
ments and records, may be authorized and
issued by the Chairman, or any other Mem-
ber of the Subcommittee designated by him
or her, with notice to the Ranking Minority
Member. A written notice of intent to issue
a subpoena shall be provided to the Chair-
man and Ranking Minority Member of the
Committee, or staff officers designated by
them, by the Chairman or a staff officer des-
ignated by him or her, immediately upon
such authorization, and no subpoena shall be
issued for at least 48 hours, excluding Satur-
days and Sundays, from delivery to the ap-
propriate offices, unless the Chairman and
Ranking Minority Member of the Committee
waive the 48 hour waiting period or unless
the Chairman certifies in writing to the
Chairman and Ranking Minority Member of
the Committee that, in his or her opinion, it
is necessary to issue a subpoena imme-
diately.
3. The Chairman shall have the authority
to call meetings of the Subcommittee. This
authority may be delegated by the Chairman
to any other Member of the Subcommittee
when necessary.
4. If at least three Members of the Sub-
committee desire the Chairman to call a spe-
cial meeting, they may file, in the office of
the Subcommittee, a written request there-
for, addressed to the Chairman. Immediately
thereafter, the clerk of the Subcommittee
shall notify the Chairman of such request. If,
within 3 calendar days after the filing of
such request, the Chairman fails to call the
requested special meeting, which is to be
held within 7 calendar days after the filing of
such request, a majority of the Sub-
committee Members may file in the office of
the Subcommittee their written notice that
a special Subcommittee meeting will be
held, specifying the date and hour thereof,
and the Subcommittee shall meet on that
date and hour. Immediately upon the filing
of such notice, the Subcommittee clerk shall
notify all Subcommittee Members that such
special meeting will be held and inform them
of its date and hour. If the Chairman is not
present at any regular, additional or special
meeting, the Ranking Majority Member
present shall preside.
5. For public or executive sessions, one
Member of the Subcommittee shall con-
stitute a quorum for the administering of
oaths and the taking of testimony in any
given case or subject matter.
One-third of the Members of the Sub-
committee shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of Subcommittee business other
than the administering of oaths and the tak-
ing of testimony, provided that at least one
member of the minority is present.
6. All witnesses at public or executive
hearings who testify to matters of fact shall
be sworn.
7. If, during public or executive sessions, a
witness, his or her counsel, or any spectator
conducts himself or herself in such a manner
as to prevent, impede, disrupt, obstruct, or
interfere with the orderly administration of
such hearing, the Chairman or presiding
Member of the Subcommittee present during
such hearing may request the Sergeant at
Arms of the Senate, his or her representa-
tive, or any law enforcement official to eject
said person from the hearing room.
8. Counsel retained by any witness and ac-
companying such witness shall be permitted
to be present during the testimony of such
witness at any public or executive hearing
and to advise such witness while he or she is
testifying of his or her legal rights; provided,
however, that in the case of any witness who
is an officer or employee of the government,
or of a corporation or association, the Chair-
man may rule that representation by counsel
from the government, corporation, or asso-
ciation, or by counsel representing another
witness, creates a conflict of interest, and
that the witness may only be represented
during interrogation by Subcommittee staff
or during testimony before the Sub-
committee by personal counsel not from the
government, corporation, or association, or
by personal counsel not representing another
witness. This rule shall not be construed to
excuse a witness from testifying in the event
his or her counsel is ejected for conducting
himself or herself in such a manner so as to
prevent, impede, disrupt, obstruct, or inter-
fere with the orderly administration of the
hearings; nor shall this rule be construed as
authorizing counsel to coach the witness or
answer for the witness. The failure of any
witness to secure counsel shall not excuse
such witness from complying with a sub-
poena or deposition notice.
9. Depositions
9.1 Notice. Notices for the taking of deposi-
tions in an investigation authorized by the
Subcommittee shall be authorized and issued
by the Chairman. The Chairman of the Com-
mittee and the Ranking Minority Member of
the Subcommittee shall be kept fully ap-
prised of the authorization for the taking of
depositions. Such notices shall specify a
time and place of examination, and the name
of the Subcommittee Member or Members or
staff officer or officers who will take the dep-
osition. The deposition shall be in private.
The Subcommittee shall not initiate proce-
dures leading to criminal or civil enforce-
ment proceedings for a witness’s failure to
appear unless the deposition notice was ac-
companied by a Subcommittee subpoena.
9.2 Counsel. Witnesses may be accompanied
at a deposition by counsel to advise them of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:44 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE6.016 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1589
February 28, 2019
their legal rights, subject to the provisions
of Rule 8.
9.3 Procedure. Witnesses shall be examined
upon oath administered by an individual au-
thorized by local law to administer oaths.
Questions shall be propounded orally by Sub-
committee Members or staff. Objections by
the witness as to the form of questions shall
be noted for the record. If a witness objects
to a question and refuses to testify on the
basis of relevance or privilege, the Sub-
committee Members or staff may proceed
with the deposition, or may, at that time or
at a subsequent time, seek a ruling by tele-
phone or otherwise on the objection from the
Chairman or such Subcommittee Member as
designated by him or her. If the Chairman or
designated Member overrules the objection,
he or she may refer the matter to the Sub-
committee or he or she may order and direct
the witness to answer the question, but the
Subcommittee shall not initiate procedures
leading to civil or criminal enforcement un-
less the witness refuses to testify after he or
she has been ordered and directed to answer
by the Chairman or designated Member.
9.4 Filing. The Subcommittee staff shall
see that the testimony is transcribed or elec-
tronically recorded. If it is transcribed, the
witness shall be furnished with a copy for re-
view pursuant to the provisions of Rule 12.
The individual administering the oath shall
certify on the transcript that the witness
was duly sworn in his or her presence, the
transcriber shall certify that the transcript
is a true record of the testimony, and the
transcript shall then be filed with the Sub-
committee clerk. Subcommittee staff may
stipulate with the witness to changes in this
procedure; deviations from this procedure
which do not substantially impair the reli-
ability of the record shall not relieve the
witness from his or her obligation to testify
truthfully.
10. Any witness desiring to read a prepared
or written statement in executive or public
hearings shall file a copy of such statement
with the Chairman, Staff Director, or Chief
Counsel 48 hours in advance of the hearings
at which the statement is to be presented
unless the Chairman and the Ranking Minor-
ity Member waive this requirement. The
Subcommittee shall determine whether such
statement may be read or placed in the
record of the hearing.
11. A witness may request, on grounds of
distraction, harassment, personal safety, or
physical discomfort, that during testimony,
television, motion picture, and other cam-
eras and lights, shall not be directed at him
or her. Such requests shall be ruled on by the
Subcommittee Members present at the hear-
ing.
12. An accurate stenographic record shall
be kept of the testimony of all witnesses in
executive and public hearings. The record of
his or her own testimony, whether in public
or executive session, shall be made available
for inspection by witness or his or her coun-
sel under Subcommittee supervision; a copy
of any testimony given in public session or
that part of the testimony given by the wit-
ness in executive session and subsequently
quoted or made part of the record in a public
session shall be made available to any wit-
ness at his or her expense if he or she so re-
quests.
13. Interrogation of witnesses at Sub-
committee hearings shall be conducted on
behalf of the Subcommittee by Sub-
committee Members and authorized Sub-
committee staff personnel only.
14. Any person who is the subject of an in-
vestigation in public hearings may submit to
the Chairman questions in writing for the
cross-examination of other witnesses called
by the Subcommittee. With the consent of a
majority of the Members of the Sub-
committee present and voting, these ques-
tions, or paraphrased versions of them, shall
be put to the witness by the Chairman, by a
Member of the Subcommittee, or by counsel
of the Subcommittee.
15. Any person whose name is mentioned or
who is specifically identified, and who be-
lieves that testimony or other evidence pre-
sented at a public hearing, or comment made
by a Subcommittee Member or counsel,
tends to defame him or her or otherwise ad-
versely affect his or her reputation, may (a)
request to appear personally before the Sub-
committee to testify in his or her own be-
half, or, in the alternative, (b) file a sworn
statement of facts relevant to the testimony
or other evidence or comment complained of.
Such request and such statement shall be
submitted to the Subcommittee for its con-
sideration and action.
If a person requests to appear personally
before the Subcommittee pursuant to alter-
native (a) referred to herein, said request
shall be considered untimely if it is not re-
ceived by the Chairman, Staff Director, or
Chief Counsel in writing on or before thirty
(30) days subsequent to the day on which said
person’s name was mentioned or he or she
was otherwise specifically identified during a
public hearing held before the Sub-
committee, unless the Chairman and the
Ranking Minority Member waive this re-
quirement.
If a person requests to file his or her sworn
statement pursuant to alternative (b) re-
ferred to herein, the Subcommittee may con-
dition the filing of said sworn statement
upon said person agreeing to appear person-
ally before the Subcommittee and to testify
concerning the matters contained in his or
her sworn statement, as well as any other
matters related to the subject of the inves-
tigation before the Subcommittee.
16. All testimony taken in executive ses-
sion shall be kept secret and will not be re-
leased for public information without the ap-
proval of a majority of the Members of the
Subcommittee.
17. No Subcommittee report shall be re-
leased to the public unless approved by a ma-
jority of the Subcommittee and after no less
than 10 days’ notice and opportunity for
comment by the Members of the Sub-
committee unless the need for such notice
and opportunity to comment has been
waived in writing by a majority of the Mi-
nority Members of the Subcommittee.
18. The Ranking Minority Member may se-
lect for appointment to the Subcommittee
staff a Chief Counsel for the Minority and
such other professional staff and clerical as-
sistants as he or she deems advisable. The
total compensation allocated to such Minor-
ity staff shall be not less than one-third the
total amount allocated for all Subcommittee
staff salaries during any given year. The Mi-
nority staff shall work under the direction
and supervision of the Ranking Minority
Member. The Minority Staff Director and
the Minority Chief Counsel shall be kept
fully informed as to preliminary inquiries,
investigations, and hearings, and shall have
access to all material in the files of the Sub-
committee.
19. When it is determined by the Chairman
and Ranking Minority Member, or by a ma-
jority of the Subcommittee, that there is
reasonable cause to believe that a violation
of law may have occurred, the Chairman and
Ranking Minority Member by letter, or the
Subcommittee by resolution, are authorized
to report such violation to the proper State,
local and/or Federal authorities. Such letter
or report may recite the basis for the deter-
mination of reasonable cause. This rule is
not authority for release of documents or
testimony.
SENATE SUBCOMMITTEE ON REGU-
LATORY AFFAIRS AND FEDERAL
MANAGEMENT RULES OF PROCE-
DURE
Mr. JOHNSON. Mr. President, Senate
Standing Rule XXVI requires each
committee to adopt rules to govern the
procedure of the committee and to pub-
lish those rules in the CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD not later than March 1 of the
first year of each Congress. On Feb-
ruary 27, 2019, a majority of the mem-
bers of the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs’
Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs
and Federal Management adopted sub-
committee rules of procedure.
Consistent with Standing Rule XXVI,
today I ask unanimous consent that a
copy of the rules of procedure of the
Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs
and Federal Management be printed in
the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
RULES OF PROCEDURE OF THE COMMITTEE ON
HOMELAND SECURITY AND GOVERNMENTAL
AFFAIRS SUBCOMMITTEE ON REGULATORY
AFFAIRS AND FEDERAL MANAGEMENT
(1) SUBCOMITTEE RULES. The Sub-
committee shall be governed, where applica-
ble, by the rules of the Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs and
the Standing Rules of the Senate.
(2) QUORUMS. For public or executive ses-
sions, one Member of the Subcommittee
shall constitute a quorum for the admin-
istering of oaths and the taking of testimony
in any given case or subject matter. One-
third of the Members of the Subcommittee
shall constitute a quorum for the trans-
action of business other than the admin-
istering of oaths and the taking of testi-
mony, provided that one Member of the mi-
nority is present. Proxies shall not be con-
sidered for the establishment of a quorum.
(3) TAKING TESTIMONY. All witnesses at
public or executive hearings who testify to
matters of fact shall be sworn.
(4) SUBCOMMITTEE SUBPEONAS. Sub-
poenas for witnesses, as well as documents
and records, may be authorized and issued by
the Chairman, or any other Member of the
Subcommittee designated by him or her,
with the approval of the Ranking Minority
Member of the Subcommittee, provided that
the Chairman may subpoena attendance or
production without the approval of the
Ranking Minority Member where the Chair-
man or a staff officer designated by him/her
has not received notification from the Rank-
ing Minority Member or a staff officer des-
ignated by him/her of disapproval of the sub-
poena within 24 hours excluding Saturdays
and Sundays, of being notified of the sub-
poena. If the subpoena is disapproved by the
Ranking Minority Member as provided here-
in, the subpoena may be authorized by a vote
of the Members of the Subcommittee.
A written notice of intent to issue a sub-
poena shall be provided to the Chairman and
Ranking Minority Member of the full Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs, or staff officers designated
by them, by the Subcommittee Chairman, or
a staff officer designated by him or her, im-
mediately upon such authorization, and no
subpoena shall be issued for at least 48 hours,
excluding Saturdays and Sundays, from de-
livery to appropriate offices, unless the
Chairman and Ranking Minority Member
waive the 48 hour waiting period or unless
the Subcommittee Chairman certifies in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:44 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE6.018 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1590 February 28, 2019
writing to the Chairman and Ranking Minor-
ity Member that, in his or her opinion, it is
necessary to issue the subpoena imme-
diately.
f
BAHRAIN
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, February
marks the anniversary of the massive,
peaceful protests against Bahrain’s re-
pressive regime in 2011. Bahraini citi-
zens, men and women of all ages and
backgrounds, demanded more account-
ability from their leaders and more
agency in their lives.
Instead of sitting down with the
protestors as leaders in Oregon or
Washington, DC, often do, Bahrain’s
rulers unleashed the country’s security
forces on them. I am afraid that it has
now become a rather sad tradition of
mine to remind the Senate of these
events, and so before February gives
way to March, I just wanted to offer a
few words on why this issue continues
to resonate.
Bahrain held elections in November
2018, but they were hardly on the level.
‘‘The Economist’’ termed them ‘‘un-
fair.’’ The head of Human Rights First
called them ‘‘fake elections.’’ The
Project on Middle East Democracy and
Americans for Democracy & Human
Rights in Bahrain said they were a
‘‘sham.’’ The list goes on.
This should come as no surprise to
anybody paying attention to develop-
ment in Bahrain because the regime
banned opposition parties from partici-
pating altogether. That is not exactly
a recipe for a free, fair, or legitimate
outcome.
Indeed, the regime has spent the past
couple years detaining, intimidating,
and silencing the political opposition.
But don’t take my word for it, that’s
how Amnesty International character-
ized the situation before the November
elections.
The repression extends far beyond
the ballot box. Human rights advocates
say the regime has arbitrarily stripped
hundreds of individuals of their citizen-
ship in the past few years.
Human Right Watch indicates that
the regime closed the last remaining
independent newspaper in 2017. Free-
dom House says the regime continues
to bully journalists and to persecute
those who are critical of the regime.
Bahrain is a longtime U.S. ally in a
tumultuous region. My intent with
these annual statements is neither to
insult the Kingdom nor to demand the
administration cut ties.
No, the point of these statements is
to make it clear that I believe the
United States should always promote
basic rights and values and further,
that I believe the United States must—
must—hold its friends and partners to
a higher moral standard.
I was concerned that the previous ad-
ministration did not do more to push
Bahrain’s rulers on this point, but I am
deeply disappointed that the Trump ad-
ministration seems hell-bent on setting
a new low.
The President himself has made clear
that he views the world through a
transactional lens and is willing to
overlook rights violations in the name
of arms sales or greater defense co-
operation.
So it is hardly surprising to read that
Trump administration officials fail to
raise human rights concerns with their
Bahraini counterparts.
This must change. I hope it will
change. And I hope that the influx of
new members of Congress following the
2018 midterm elections will cause it to
change.
Today I renew my call on Bahrain’s
monarchy to stop brutally repressing
peaceful protest, to release political
prisoners like Abdulhadi al-Khawaja
and Nabeel Rajab, and to offer Bah-
rainis a greater voice in their country’s
future.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO CHRIS CORREALE
∑ Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, today I
wish to recognize the service and
achievements of Ms. Chris Correale, di-
rector of harbor development for the
Maryland Port Administration, upon
her retirement.
Chris Correale is the ultimate exam-
ple of a public servant whose expertise
and efforts while unknown to the ma-
jority of Maryland’s residents, have
been critical to Maryland’s economy
and environment.
An expert in U.S. Army Corps of En-
gineers processes, Chris has spent more
than 25 years crafting and imple-
menting innovative and collaborative
Federal and State beneficial reuse
projects that kept the Port of Balti-
more’s shipping channels open and im-
proved the environment in the Chesa-
peake Bay. From dredging, construc-
tion, beach replenishment, habitat res-
toration, and permitting, Chris has
been the visionary behind the develop-
ment of projects that have signifi-
cantly improved the infrastructure, en-
vironment, business climate, regional
partnerships, and economic develop-
ment opportunities throughout the
State of Maryland.
At the Maryland Port Administra-
tion, Chris ensured the Port of Balti-
more’s channels are in top condition
for maritime traffic serving the port.
She oversaw the planning and policy of
what to do with the dredged material,
she secured State and Federal funding
for the port, and she coordinated
multi-agency management of the
port’s aids to navigation systems.
Prior to joining the Maryland Port
Administration, Chris had a distin-
guished career as the chief of the oper-
ations division of the U.S. Army Corps’
Baltimore District. By overseeing the
Baltimore District’s navigation pro-
gram, Chris was instrumental in the
operations, maintenance, protection,
and restoration of Maryland’s ports,
military installations, levees, Federal
channels, island habitats, and res-
ervoirs.
Chris’s retirement is a loss for the
State of Maryland. Her vision, exper-
tise, and extraordinary social skills
have enabled her to successfully navi-
gate the Federal, State, and local
forces to bring so many critical
projects to fruition. She has signifi-
cantly improved the infrastructure, en-
vironment, and business climate
throughout the State of Maryland, and
she will be missed. Therefore, it is my
honor to recognize the contributions of
Ms. Chris Correale to the State of
Maryland and thank her for her years
of valuable service.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO PATRICK
ARMSTRONG, JR.
∑ Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this
week I have the honor of recognizing
Patrick Armstrong, Jr., of Heart Butte,
for his dedication to Glacier County.
A member of the Blackfeet Nation,
Mr. Armstrong was born and raised in
Browning, MT, where he attended
Browning Public School Systems, K–12.
He has been an educator at Browning
Elementary for 5 years, where he cur-
rently teaches fourth grade. Patrick
and his wife, Anna, have three chil-
dren.
Mr. Armstrong has always been ac-
tively involved in sports and has been
officiating for 20 years. Since then,
Patrick has been heavily involved in
officiating high school basketball. He
was recently nominated as this year’s
boys basketball official of the year by
the National Federation of High School
Association, Montana High School As-
sociation, and the Montana Officials
Association. To be nominated for this
award, you must exemplify upstanding
character. Mr Armstrong is a promi-
nent mentor in his community. He is a
humble man who knows the value of a
strong community.
I congratulate Patrick on his role in
bringing together and growing the
Browning community.∑
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 10:01 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the House has passed the
following bill, in which it requests the
concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 8. An act to require a background
check for every firearm sale.
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST TIME
The following bills were read the first
time:
H.R. 8. An act to require a background
check for every firearm sale.
S. 617. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to extend certain expiring
provisions, to provide disaster tax relief, and
for other purposes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:44 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE6.023 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1591
February 28, 2019
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–412. A communication from the Admin-
istrator, Agricultural Marketing Service,
Department of Agriculture, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘National Bioengineered Food Disclosure
Standard’’ (AMS–TM–17–0050) received
durning adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Feb-
ruary 22, 2019; to the Committee on Agri-
culture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–413. A communication from the Under
Secretary of Defense (Acquisition and
Sustainment), transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report entitled ‘‘Report to Congress on
Corrosion Policy and Oversight Budget Ma-
terials for Fiscal Year 2020’’; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
EC–414. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary of Defense (Sustainment),
transmitting, pursuant to law, a notice of
additional time required to complete a re-
port relative to the ongoing use of open burn
pits and the feasibility of phasing out the
use of open burn pits by using technology in-
cinerators; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
EC–415. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary of Defense (Manpower and Re-
serve Affairs) performing the duties of the
Under Secretary of Defense (Personnel and
Readiness), transmitting, pursuant to law, a
notice of additional time required to com-
plete the annual report on defense manpower
requirements; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
EC–416. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary of Defense (Special Operations
and Low Intensity Conflict), transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report relative to the re-
port on activities of the National Guard
Counterdrug Schools for fiscal year 2018; to
the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–417. A communication from the Assist-
ant Director, Senior Executive Management
Office, Department of Defense, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report relative to a va-
cancy in the position of Assistant Secretary
of Defense (Readiness), Department of De-
fense, received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on February 25, 2019; to the
Committee on Armed Services.
EC–418. A communication from the Assist-
ant Director, Senior Executive Management
Office, Department of Defense, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report relative to a va-
cancy in the position of Assistant Secretary
of Defense (Health Affairs), Department of
Defense, received in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on February 25, 2019; to
the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–419. A communication from the Alter-
nate Federal Register Liaison Officer, Office
of the Secretary, Department of Defense,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Establishment of TRICARE
Select and Other TRICARE Reforms’’
(RIN0720–AB70) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on February 25, 2019;
to the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–420. A communication from the Presi-
dent of the United States, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, a report relative to the con-
tinuation of the national emergency with re-
spect to Libya declared in Executive Order
13566; to the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–421. A communication from the General
Counsel, Department of Housing and Urban
Development, transmitting, pursuant to law,
eight (8) reports relative to vacancies in the
Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment, received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on February 22, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
EC–422. A communication from the Sec-
retary, Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Adjustments to Civil
Monetary Penalty Amounts’’ (Rel. No. 33–
10604) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on February 26, 2019; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
EC–423. A communication from the Presi-
dent of the United States, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, a report relative to the des-
ignation for Overseas Contingency Oper-
ations/Global War on Terrorism all funding
(including rescissions) so designated by the
Congress, pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985, for the enclosed list of
accounts; to the Committee on the Budget.
EC–424. A communication from the Presi-
dent of the United States, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, a report relative to the des-
ignation as an emergency requirement all
funding so designated by the Congress in the
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2019, pur-
suant to section 251 (b) (2) (A) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985, for the accounts referenced in
section 7058 (d); to the Committee on the
Budget.
EC–425. A communication from the Chief of
the Publications and Regulations Branch, In-
ternal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Section 199A Deter-
mination of W–2 Wages’’ (Rev. Proc. 2019–11)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on February 26, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
EC–426. A communication from the Chief of
the Publications and Regulations Branch, In-
ternal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Rulings and Deter-
mination Letters’’ (Rev. Proc. 2019–5) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on February 26, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
EC–427. A communication from the Chief of
the Publications and Regulations Branch, In-
ternal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Section 199A Trade
or Business Safe Harbor: Rental Real Es-
tate’’ (Notice 2019–07) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on February
26, 2019; to the Committee on Finance.
EC–428. A communication from the Chief of
the Publications and Regulations Branch, In-
ternal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Revenue Procedure
Providing Safe Harbor Method of Accounting
for Determining Depreciation Deductions for
Certain Passenger Automobiles’’ (Rev. Proc.
2019–13) received in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on February 26, 2019; to
the Committee on Finance.
EC–429. A communication from the Chief of
the Publications and Regulations Branch, In-
ternal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Regulations Re-
garding the Transition Tax Under Section
965 and Related Provisions’’ (RIN1545–BO51)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on February 26, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
EC–430. A communication from the Chief of
the Publications and Regulations Branch, In-
ternal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Centralized Part-
nership Audit Regime’’ (RIN1545–BO03 and
RIN1545–BO04) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on February 26, 2019;
to the Committee on Finance.
EC–431. A communication from the Deputy
Director of Regulations and Policy Manage-
ment Staff, Food and Drug Administration,
Department of Health and Human Services,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘List of Bulk Drug Sub-
stances That Can Be Used To Compound
Drug Products In Accordance With Section
503A of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cos-
metic Act’’ ((21 CFR Part 216) (Docket No.
FDA–2016–N–3464)) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on February 25,
2019; to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
EC–432. A communication from the Senior
Procurement Executive, Office of Acquisi-
tion Policy, General Services Administra-
tion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘General Services Ad-
ministration Acquisition Regulation
(GSAR); Construction Contract Administra-
tion’’ ((RIN3090–AJ63) (48 CFR Parts 501, 511,
517, 532, 536, 543, 546, and 552)) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Feb-
ruary 25, 2019; to the Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs.
EC–433. A communication from the Direc-
tor, Administrative Office of the United
States Courts, transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report relative to applications for de-
layed-notice search warrants and extensions
during fiscal year 2017; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
EC–434. A communication from the Direc-
tor, Administrative Office of the United
States Courts, transmitting, pursuant to
law, two reports entitled ‘‘2018 Annual Re-
port of the Director of the Administrative
Office of the United States Courts’’ and ‘‘Ju-
dicial Business of the United States Courts’’,
and their accompanying Uniform Resource
Locators (URLs); to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
EC–435. A communication from the Chief
Counsel for Regulation, Office of the Sec-
retary, Department of Commerce, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Public Information, Freedom of In-
formation Act and Privacy Act Regulations’’
(RIN0605–AA45) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on February 25, 2019;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
EC–436. A communication from the Admin-
istrator, Agricultural Marketing Service,
Department of Agriculture, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘National Organic Program; Amendments to
the National List of Allowed and Prohibited
Substances (Crops, Livestock, and Han-
dling)’’ ((RIN0581–AD60) (Docket No. AMS–
NOP–14–0079; NOP–14–05)) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Feb-
ruary 27, 2019; to the Committee on Agri-
culture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–437. A communication from the Admin-
istrator, Agricultural Marketing Service,
Department of Agriculture, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Removal of United States Grade Stand-
ards’’ ((7 CFR Part 51) (Docket No. AMS–SC–
18–0081; SC–19–326)) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on February 27,
2019; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry.
EC–438. A communication from the Admin-
istrator, Agricultural Marketing Service,
Department of Agriculture, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Raisins Produced From Grapes Grown in
California; Increased Assessment Rate’’ ((7
CFR Part 989) (Docket No. AMS–SC–18–0069;
SC–18–989–1 FR)) received in the Office of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:44 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE6.028 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1592 February 28, 2019
President of the Senate on February 27, 2019;
to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry.
EC–439. A communication from the Admin-
istrator, Agricultural Marketing Service,
Department of Agriculture, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Oranges, Grapefruit, Tangerines, and
Pummelos Grown in Florida; Decreased As-
sessment Rate’’ ((7 CFR Part 905) (Docket
No. AMS–SC–18–0065; SC–18–905–4 FR)) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on February 27, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and For-
estry.
EC–440. A communication from the Admin-
istrator, Agricultural Marketing Service,
Department of Agriculture, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Olives Grown in California; Establish Pro-
cedures To Meet Via Electronic Communica-
tions’’ ((7 CFR Part 932) (Docket No. AMS–
SC–18–0061; SC–18–932–1 FR)) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Feb-
ruary 27, 2019; to the Committee on Agri-
culture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–441. A communication from the Admin-
istrator, Agricultural Marketing Service,
Department of Agriculture, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Removal of Specific Fee Reference’’ ((7 CFR
Part 800) (Docket No. AMS–FGIS–18–0063))
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on February 27, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and For-
estry.
EC–442. A communication from the Admin-
istrator, Agricultural Marketing Service,
Department of Agriculture, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Irish Potatoes Grown in Southeastern
States; Termination of Marketing Order 953’’
((7 CFR Part 953) (Docket No. AMS–SC–18–
0037; SC–18–935–1 FR)) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on February
27, 2019; to the Committee on Agriculture,
Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–443. A communication from the Admin-
istrator, Agricultural Marketing Service,
Department of Agriculture, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Honey Packers and Importers Research,
Promotion, Consumer Education, and Indus-
try Information Order; Change in Member-
ship’’ ((7 CFR Part 1212) (Docket No. AMS–
SC–18–0016)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on February 27, 2019;
to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry.
EC–444. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary of Defense (Special Oper-
ations/Low Intensity Conflict), transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Report to
Congress on Procedures for Status Review of
Detainees outside the United States’’; to the
Committees on Armed Services; and the Ju-
diciary.
EC–445. A communication from the Acting
Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for
Industrial Policy (Acquisition and
Sustainment), transmitting, pursuant to
law, a notice of additional time required to
complete a report relative to the relocation
of steam turbine production from Nimitz-
class and Ford-class aircraft carriers and
Virginia-class and Columbia-class sub-
marines; to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices.
EC–446. A communication from the Under
Secretary of Defense (Acquisition and
Sustainment), transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report entitled ‘‘Annual National De-
fense Stockpile Operations and Planning Re-
port’’; to the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–447. A communication from the Under
Secretary of Defense (Acquisition and
Sustainment), transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report entitled ‘‘Defense Production
Act Fund Annual Report For Fiscal Year
2018’’; to the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–448. A communication from the Chief
Counsel, Federal Emergency Management
Agency, Department of Homeland Security,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Suspension of Community
Eligibility; Mississippi: Aberdeen, City of,
Monroe County’’ ((44 CFR Part 64) (Docket
No. FEMA–2018–0002)) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on February
27, 2019; to the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–449. A communication from the Prin-
cipal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Fish
and Wildlife and Parks, National Park Serv-
ice, Department of the Interior, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Civil Penalties Inflation Adjust-
ments’’ (RIN1024–AE56) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on February
26, 2019; to the Committee on Indian Affairs.
EC–450. A communication from the Staff
Director of the United States Commission on
Civil Rights, transmitting, pursuant to law,
a report relative to the United States Com-
mission on Civil Rights renewing the charter
of its federal advisory committees; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
EC–451. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Alabama; Re-
gional Haze Progress Report’’ (FRL No. 9990–
31–Region 4) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on February 27, 2019;
to the Committee on Environment and Pub-
lic Works.
EC–452. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Massachusetts;
Air Emissions Inventory, Emissions State-
ments, Source Registration, and Emergency
Episode Planning Provisions’’ (FRL No. 9989–
90–Region 1) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on February 27, 2019;
to the Committee on Environment and Pub-
lic Works.
EC–453. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval of Operating Permits Pro-
gram; Kansas; Reporting Emission Data,
Emission Fees and Process Information’’
(FRL No. 9989–43–Region 7) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Feb-
ruary 27, 2019; to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works.
EC–454. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Commonwealth of Pennsylvania; Al-
legheny County Health Department, With-
drawal of Section 112(1) Delegation Author-
ity for the Chemical Accident Prevention
Regulations’’ (FRL No. 9990–12–Region 3) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on February 27, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–455. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Emissions Monitoring Provisions in
State Implementation Plans Required Under
the NOX’’ (FRL No. 9990–33–OAR) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
February 27, 2019; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
EC–456. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Massachusetts: Final Approval of
State Underground Storage Tank Program
Revisions, Codification, and Incorporation
by Reference’’ (FRL No. 9989–82–Region 1) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on February 27, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–457. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘National Emission Standards for Haz-
ardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of
Large Appliances; Printing, Coating, and
Dyeing of Fabrics and Other Textiles; and
Surface Coating of Metal Furniture Residual
Risk and Technology Reviews’’ (FRL No.
9988–80–OAR) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on February 27, 2019;
to the Committee on Environment and Pub-
lic Works.
EC–458. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Review of the Primary National Am-
bient Air Quality Standards for Sulfur Ox-
ides’’ (FRL No. 9990–28–OAR) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Feb-
ruary 27, 2019; to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works.
EC–459. A communication from the Assist-
ant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to the
Case-Zablocki Act, 1 U.S.C. 112b, as amended,
the report of the texts and background state-
ments of international agreements, other
than treaties (List 2019–0011 - 2019–0012); to
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
EC–460. A communication from the Pro-
gram Specialist, Office of Regulation Policy
and Management, Department of Veterans
Affairs, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Prohibition of In-
terment of Memorialization of Persons Who
Have Been Convicted of Federal or State
Capital Crimes or Certain Sex Offenses’’
(RIN2900–AQ36) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on February 27, 2019;
to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
EC–461. A communication from the Attor-
ney Advisor, Pipeline and Hazardous Mate-
rials Safety Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Hazardous
Materials: Revisions to Hazardous Materials
Grant Requirements (FAST Act)’’ (RIN2137–
AF19) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on February 26, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
f
EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF
COMMITTEES
The following executive reports of
nominations were submitted:
By Mr. GRAHAM for the Committee on the
Judiciary.
Neomi J. Rao, of the District of Columbia,
to be United States Circuit Judge for the
District of Columbia Circuit.
Drew H. Wrigley, of North Dakota, to be
United States Attorney for the District of
North Dakota for the term of four years.
Aditya Bamzai, of Virginia, to be a Mem-
ber of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Over-
sight Board for the remainder of the term ex-
piring January 29, 2020.
Travis LeBlanc, of Maryland, to be a Mem-
ber of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Over-
sight Board for a term expiring January 29,
2022.
By Mr. BURR for the Select Committee on
Intelligence.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 20:59 May 07, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\FEBRUARY\S28FE9.REC S28FE9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1593
February 28, 2019
William R. Evanina, of Pennsylvania, to be
Director of the National Counterintelligence
and Security Center.
(Nominations without an asterisk
were reported with the recommenda-
tion that they be confirmed.)
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. REED (for himself, Ms. COL-
LINS, Mr. WARNER, Mr. KENNEDY, and
Mr. JONES):
S. 592. A bill to amend the Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934 to promote trans-
parency in the oversight of cybersecurity
risks at publicly traded companies; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
By Ms. HARRIS (for herself, Ms. BALD-
WIN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER,
Mr. BROWN, Mr. CARDIN, Mr. CARPER,
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Ms. DUCKWORTH,
Mr. DURBIN, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Ms. HAS-
SAN, Ms. HIRONO, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. MENENDEZ,
Mr. MERKLEY, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr.
MURPHY, Mr. REED, Ms. ROSEN, Ms.
SMITH, Ms. WARREN, and Mr. WYDEN):
S. 593. A bill to amend the Religious Free-
dom Restoration Act of 1993 to protect civil
rights and otherwise prevent meaningful
harm to third parties, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself and Mr.
DURBIN):
S. 594. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to preserve access to re-
habilitation innovation centers under the
Medicare program; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself, Mr. CAR-
PER, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. COONS, Mrs.
BLACKBURN, Mr. HEINRICH, Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI, and Ms. KLOBUCHAR):
S. 595. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for the co-
ordination of programs to prevent and treat
obesity, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself and
Mr. CARPER):
S. 596. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for direct
payment to physician assistants under the
Medicare program for certain services fur-
nished by such physician assistants; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Mr.
WYDEN, Mr. MERKLEY, Ms. WARREN,
Ms. HARRIS, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr.
SANDERS, and Mr. BENNET):
S. 597. A bill to amend the Controlled Sub-
stances Act to provide for a new rule regard-
ing the application of the Act to marihuana,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Mr. PETERS (for himself and Mr.
RUBIO):
S. 598. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to increase certain funeral ben-
efits for veterans, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. COTTON (for himself, Mrs.
BLACKBURN, Mr. CRAMER, Mr. GRASS-
LEY, and Mr. TILLIS):
S. 599. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act with respect to aliens
associated with criminal gangs, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mr. HOEVEN (for himself, Mr. BEN-
NET, Mr. DAINES, Ms. SMITH, Mr.
ROUNDS, Mr. CRAPO, Mr. RISCH, Mr.
JONES, Ms. ERNST, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH,
and Mr. TESTER):
S. 600. A bill to require the Secretary of
Transportation to establish a working group
to study regulatory and legislative improve-
ments for the livestock, insect, and agricul-
tural commodities transport industries, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. BRAUN (for himself and Mr.
SCOTT of Florida):
S. 601. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit former Members and
elected officers of Congress from lobbying
Congress at any time after leaving office; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Mr.
COONS):
S. 602. A bill to address state-sponsored
cyber activities against the United States,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Foreign Relations.
By Mr. ROUNDS (for himself, Mr.
JONES, Mr. TILLIS, and Ms. SINEMA):
S. 603. A bill to amend the Financial Sta-
bility Act of 2010 to require the Financial
Stability Oversight Council to consider al-
ternative approaches before determining
that a U.S. nonbank financial company shall
be supervised by the Board of Governors of
the Federal Reserve System, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. THUNE (for himself, Mr.
BROWN, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. BARRASSO,
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Ms.
CANTWELL, Ms. COLLINS, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Mr. CRAPO, Mr. CRUZ, Ms.
ERNST, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. HOEVEN, Mr.
ISAKSON, Mr. KING, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
Mr. LEAHY, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr.
PORTMAN, Mr. REED, Mr. SCHATZ,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. TILLIS, Mr.
TOOMEY, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE, Mr. WICKER, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH,
Mr. MURPHY, Mr. PETERS, Mr. RISCH,
and Mr. LEE):
S. 604. A bill to limit the authority of
States to tax certain income of employees
for employment duties performed in other
States; to the Committee on Finance.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and
Mr. SULLIVAN):
S. 605. A bill to assist States in carrying
out projects to expand the child care work-
force and child care facilities in the States,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself,
Mr. BOOZMAN, Mr. SULLIVAN, Ms.
HIRONO, and Mr. BROWN):
S. 606. A bill to improve oversight and
evaluation of the mental health and suicide
prevention media outreach campaigns of the
Department of Veterans Affairs, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself, Mr.
GARDNER, and Ms. MURKOWSKI):
S. 607. A bill to amend the Department of
Energy Organization Act to address insuffi-
cient compensation of employees and other
personnel of the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Ms. WARREN, Mr. REED,
Mr. BROWN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Ms.
HIRONO, and Mr. MARKEY):
S. 608. A bill to provide that chapter 1 of
title 9 of the United States Code, relating to
the enforcement of arbitration agreements,
shall not apply to enrollment agreements
made between students and certain institu-
tions of higher education, and to prohibit
limitations on the ability of students to pur-
sue claims against certain institutions of
higher education; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Ms.
WARREN):
S. 609. A bill to prohibit States from sus-
pending, revoking, or denying State-issued
professional licenses or issuing penalties due
to student default; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself,
Mr. MARKEY, Mr. SCHATZ, Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. BROWN, Ms.
SMITH, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. UDALL, Mr.
VAN HOLLEN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr.
HEINRICH, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. WYDEN,
Mr. MERKLEY, Ms. HIRONO, Mr.
CASEY, Mr. KAINE, Ms. WARREN, Mr.
BOOKER, Mr. REED, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. MENEN-
DEZ, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mrs. MURRAY,
Ms. DUCKWORTH, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. SANDERS,
Ms. ROSEN, and Mr. PETERS):
S. 610. A bill to amend title 9 of the United
States Code with respect to arbitration; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. SANDERS (for himself and Mr.
MERKLEY):
S. 611. A bill to provide adequate funding
for water and sewer infrastructure, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself and Mr.
RUBIO):
S. 612. A bill to require a joint resolution
of approval for the entry into effect of a ci-
vilian nuclear cooperation agreement with
Saudi Arabia, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mrs. HYDE-SMITH:
S. 613. A bill to amend the Animal Health
Protection Act to provide chronic wasting
disease support for States and coordinated
response efforts, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry.
By Mr. ENZI:
S. 614. A bill to direct the Secretary of the
Interior to reissue a final rule relating to re-
moving the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem
population of grizzly bears from the Federal
list of endangered and threatened wildlife; to
the Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
By Mr. PORTMAN:
S. 615. A bill to free States to spend gas
taxes on their transportation priorities, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works.
By Mrs. SHAHEEN:
S. 616. A bill to impose user fees on manu-
facturers and importers of electronic nico-
tine delivery systems; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself and
Mr. WYDEN):
S. 617. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to extend certain expiring
provisions, to provide disaster tax relief, and
for other purposes; read the first time.
By Mr. COONS (for himself, Mr. CAS-
SIDY, Mr. BARRASSO, and Mr. BEN-
NET):
S. 618. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to encourage Medicare
beneficiaries to voluntarily adopt advance
directives guiding the medical care they re-
ceive; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. TESTER (for himself and Mr.
MORAN):
S. 619. A bill to amend the Federal Home
Loan Bank Act to provide investment au-
thority to support rural infrastructure devel-
opment, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself, Mr.
LEAHY, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. DURBIN,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE6.032 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1594 February 28, 2019
Mr. MERKLEY, Ms. HIRONO, and Mr.
MARKEY):
S. 620. A bill to amend title 9, United
States Code, with respect to arbitration; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Mr. BROWN, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. JONES, Ms. HIRONO,
Mr. BENNET, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. WYDEN,
Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Ms. HARRIS, Mr.
CARDIN, Ms. SMITH, and Mr. MURPHY):
S. 621. A bill to amend the National Voter
Registration Act of 1993 to require each
State to implement a process under which
individuals who are 16 years of age may
apply to register to vote in elections for Fed-
eral office in the State, to direct the Elec-
tion Assistance Commission to make grants
to States to increase the involvement of mi-
nors in public election activities, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Rules
and Administration.
By Mr. JONES (for himself, Ms. COL-
LINS, Mr. COONS, Ms. WARREN, Mr.
WYDEN, Mr. INHOFE, Mr. MERKLEY,
Mr. CASEY, Mr. CRAPO, Mr. TESTER,
Ms. HARRIS, Mr. HOEVEN, Mrs. MUR-
RAY, Mr. LEAHY, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH,
Ms. DUCKWORTH, Ms. BALDWIN, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Ms.
STABENOW, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. MENEN-
DEZ, Mr. BOOZMAN, Mr. CRAMER, Mr.
BENNET, Mr. RUBIO, Mr. RISCH, Mrs.
BLACKBURN, and Mr. MANCHIN):
S. 622. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to repeal the requirement for
reduction of survivor annuities under the
Survivor Benefit Plan by veterans’ depend-
ency and indemnity compensation, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
By Mr. PAUL:
S. 623. A bill to provide guidance and prior-
ities for Federal Government obligations in
the event that the debt limit is reached and
to provide a limited and temporary author-
ity to exceed the debt limit for priority obli-
gations; to the Committee on Finance.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. COONS, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Mr. DURBIN, Ms. HIRONO, Mr.
KING, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. MENENDEZ,
Mr. MERKLEY, Ms. SMITH, Mr.
TESTER, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, and Mr.
WYDEN):
S. 624. A bill to amend the Help America
Vote Act of 2002 to require States to provide
for same day registration; to the Committee
on Rules and Administration.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Ms. HIRONO, Mr. KING,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Ms. SMITH, and Mr.
WYDEN):
S. 625. A bill to direct the Election Assist-
ance Commission to carry out a pilot pro-
gram under which the Commission shall pro-
vide funds to local educational agencies for
initiatives to provide voter registration in-
formation to secondary school students in
the 12th grade; to the Committee on Rules
and Administration.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself and Mr.
LEE):
S. 626. A bill to repeal debt collection
amendments made by the Bipartisan Budget
Act of 2015, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mrs. MURRAY (for herself, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
CARDIN, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms.
HIRONO, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. LEAHY,
Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. SANDERS, Ms.
WARREN, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. BROWN, and
Mrs. FEINSTEIN):
S. 627. A bill to promote the economic se-
curity and safety of survivors of domestic vi-
olence, dating violence, sexual assault, or
stalking, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. KING (for himself and Ms. COL-
LINS):
S. 628. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to include biomass heating
appliances for tax credits available for en-
ergy-efficient building property and energy
property; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mrs.
MURRAY, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, and Mr.
BROWN):
S. 629. A bill to require the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to review the processes and
requirements of the Department of Veterans
Affairs for scheduling appointments for
health care and conducting consultations
under the laws administered by the Sec-
retary, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. BROWN:
S. 630. A bill to amend the Consumer Fi-
nancial Protection Act of 2010 with respect
to arbitration; to the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. CARPER (for himself, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. BENNET, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. CARDIN, Mr. COONS, Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr.
DURBIN, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms. HAR-
RIS, Ms. HASSAN, Ms. HIRONO, Mr.
KAINE, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. LEAHY,
Mr. MARKEY, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. MUR-
PHY, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. SANDERS, Mr.
SCHATZ, Mr. SCHUMER, Ms. SMITH, Mr.
VAN HOLLEN, Mr. WARNER, and Ms.
WARREN):
S. 631. A bill to provide for the admission
of the State of Washington, D.C. into the
Union; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. LANKFORD (for himself and
Mr. COONS):
S. 632. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to repeal the inclusion of
certain fringe benefit expenses for which a
deduction is disallowed in unrelated business
taxable income; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. MORAN (for himself, Mr. ROB-
ERTS, Mr. ROUNDS, Ms. ROSEN, Mr.
WICKER, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, and Mr.
TILLIS):
S. 633. A bill to award a Congressional Gold
Medal to the members of the Women’s Army
Corps who were assigned to the 6888th Cen-
tral Postal Directory Battalion, known as
the ″Six Triple Eight″; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. CRUZ (for himself, Mr. SCOTT of
South Carolina, Mr. ALEXANDER, Ms.
ERNST, Mr. COTTON, and Mr. TOOMEY):
S. 634. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to establish tax credits to
encourage individual and corporate tax-
payers to contribute to scholarships for stu-
dents through eligible scholarship-granting
organizations and eligible workforce train-
ing organizations, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. LEAHY (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. WARNER, Ms.
HIRONO, and Mr. COONS):
S. 635. A bill to restore statutory rights to
the people of the United States from forced
arbitration; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
DURBIN, Mr. RUBIO, Mr. LEAHY, and
Mr. BOOKER):
S. 636. A bill to designate Venezuela under
section 244 of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act to permit nationals of Venezuela to
be eligible for temporary protected status
under such section; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself,
Mr. MERKLEY, Ms. HARRIS, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mr. SCHATZ, and Mr. SAND-
ERS):
S. 637. A bill to prohibit price gouging in
the sale of drugs; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. CARPER (for himself, Mrs. CAP-
ITO, Mr. PETERS, Mr. TILLIS, Ms. STA-
BENOW, Mr. RUBIO, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr.
GARDNER, Mr. REED, Ms. MURKOWSKI,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. BURR, Mr. BEN-
NET, Mr. MANCHIN, Mr. SCHUMER, Mr.
UDALL, Mr. HEINRICH, Ms. HASSAN,
Mrs. GILLIBRAND, and Ms. BALDWIN):
S. 638. A bill to require the Administrator
of the Environmental Protection Agency to
designate per- and polyfluoroalkyl sub-
stances as hazardous substances under the
Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, Liability Act of 1980, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
By Mr. CARPER (for himself, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. COONS,
Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. JONES, Mr.
SCHATZ, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. SCHUMER,
Mr. BENNET, Mr. REED, Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN, Ms. STABENOW, Mr. MURPHY, Mr.
MANCHIN, Mr. HEINRICH, Ms. BALDWIN,
Mr. BROWN, Mrs. MURRAY, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. WARNER, Mr. LEAHY, Ms.
ROSEN, Ms. SMITH, Mr. WYDEN, Mrs.
SHAHEEN, Ms. HIRONO, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. DURBIN, Ms. HASSAN,
Mr. CASEY, Mr. PETERS, Mr. MENEN-
DEZ, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Mr. SAND-
ERS, Mr. KAINE, Mr. TESTER, Ms. HAR-
RIS, Ms. CANTWELL, Ms. SINEMA, Ms.
WARREN, Mr. KING, and Mr. UDALL):
S.J. Res. 9. A joint resolution calling on
the United States and Congress to take im-
mediate action to address the challenge of
climate change; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Ms. COL-
LINS, Mrs. SHAHEEN, and Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI):
S.J. Res. 10. A joint resolution relating to
a national emergency declared by the Presi-
dent on February 15, 2019; to the Committee
on Armed Services.
By Mr. MERKLEY:
S.J. Res. 11. A joint resolution to prohibit
the unauthorized use of United States Armed
Forces in hostilities with respect to Ven-
ezuela; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr.
PORTMAN):
S. Res. 85. A resolution recognizing the
100th anniversary of the founding of
Easterseals, a leading advocate and service
provider for children and adults with disabil-
ities, including veterans and older adults,
and their caregivers and families; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BLUNT:
S. Res. 86. A resolution providing for mem-
bers on the part of the Senate of the Joint
Committee on Printing and the Joint Com-
mittee of Congress on the Library; consid-
ered and agreed to.
By Mr. BLUNT (for himself and Ms.
KLOBUCHAR):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE6.035 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1595
February 28, 2019
S. Res. 87. A resolution authorizing the
printing of a collection of the rules of the
committees of the Senate; considered and
agreed to.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Mr.
REED, Mr. BRAUN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr.
DURBIN, Mr. CARPER, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
Ms. HASSAN, and Mr. WICKER):
S. Res. 88. A resolution designating March
1, 2019, as ‘‘Read Across America Day’’; con-
sidered and agreed to.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Ms.
DUCKWORTH):
S. Res. 89. A resolution expressing the con-
dolences of the Senate and honoring the
memory of the victims of the mass shooting
in Aurora, Illinois, on February 15, 2019; con-
sidered and agreed to.
By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mr. BAR-
RASSO, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. MARKEY,
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. COONS, Ms.
STABENOW, Mr. BOOKER, and Ms. WAR-
REN):
S. Res. 90. A resolution designating Feb-
ruary 28, 2019, as ‘‘Rare Disease Day’’; con-
sidered and agreed to.
By Mr. COONS (for himself and Mr.
PORTMAN):
S. Res. 91. A resolution designating March
3, 2019, as ‘‘World Wildlife Day’’; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BLUNT (for himself and Ms.
KLOBUCHAR):
S. Con. Res. 6. A concurrent resolution au-
thorizing the printing of a commemorative
document in memory of the late President of
the United States, George Herbert Walker
Bush; considered and agreed to.
By Mr. BLUNT (for himself and Ms.
KLOBUCHAR):
S. Con. Res. 7. A concurrent resolution au-
thorizing the printing of the 26th edition of
the pocket version of the Constitution of the
United States; considered and agreed to.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 72
At the request of Mr. SCHATZ, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 72, a bill to suspend the enforce-
ment of certain civil liabilities of Fed-
eral employees and contractors during
a lapse in appropriations, and for other
purposes.
S. 261
At the request of Mr. HEINRICH, the
names of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the Senator from
North Carolina (Mr. TILLIS), the Sen-
ator from Michigan (Mr. PETERS) and
the Senator from Colorado (Mr. GARD-
NER) were added as cosponsors of S. 261,
a bill to extend the authorization of ap-
propriations for allocation to carry out
approved wetlands conservation
projects under the North American
Wetlands Conservation Act through fis-
cal year 2024, and for other purposes.
S. 285
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
BRAUN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
285, a bill to require U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement to take into
custody certain aliens who have been
charged in the United States with a
crime that resulted in the death or se-
rious bodily injury of another person,
and for other purposes.
S. 286
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
names of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. LEAHY) and the Senator from
Delaware (Mr. COONS) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 286, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to
provide for the coverage of marriage
and family therapist services and men-
tal health counselor services under
part B of the Medicare program, and
for other purposes.
S. 296
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 296, a bill to amend XVIII
of the Social Security Act to ensure
more timely access to home health
services for Medicare beneficiaries
under the Medicare program.
S. 316
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 316, a bill to establish the Sac-
ramento-San Joaquin Delta National
Heritage Area.
S. 349
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 349, a bill to require the
Secretary of Transportation to request
nominations for, and make determina-
tions regarding, roads to be designated
under the national scenic byways pro-
gram, and for other purposes.
S. 362
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
names of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) and the Senator
from Missouri (Mr. HAWLEY) were
added as cosponsors of S. 362, a bill to
amend the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 to reform taxation of alcoholic
beverages.
S. 385
At the request of Ms. HARRIS, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Mr.
DURBIN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
385, a bill to amend the Fair Labor
Standards Act of 1938 to provide in-
creased labor law protections for agri-
cultural workers, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 500
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mr. MANCHIN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 500, a bill to amend title
54, United States Code, to establish,
fund, and provide for the use of
amounts in a National Park Service
Legacy Restoration Fund to address
the maintenance backlog of the Na-
tional Park Service, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 507
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 507, a bill to amend the National
Voter Registration Act of 1993 to clar-
ify that a State may not use an indi-
vidual’s failure to vote as the basis for
initiating the procedures provided
under such Act for the removal of the
individual from the official list of reg-
istered voters in the State on the
grounds that the individual has
changed residence, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 514
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 514, a bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to improve the benefits
and services provided by the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs to women vet-
erans, and for other purposes.
S. 530
At the request of Mr. SCHATZ, the
names of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN), the Senator from
Maryland (Mr. CARDIN) and the Senator
from Connecticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL)
were added as cosponsors of S. 530, a
bill to establish the Federal Labor-
Management Partnership Council.
S. 578
At the request of Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
the name of the Senator from New
York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 578, a bill to amend
title II of the Social Security Act to
eliminate the five month waiting pe-
riod for disability insurance benefits
under such title for individuals with
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
S. 579
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 579, a bill to provide grants to eli-
gible local educational agencies to help
public schools reduce class size in the
early elementary grades, and for other
purposes.
S.J. RES. 3
At the request of Mrs. HYDE-SMITH,
the name of the Senator from Wyoming
(Mr. ENZI) was added as a cosponsor of
S.J. Res. 3, a joint resolution proposing
an amendment to the Constitution of
the United States relative to balancing
the budget.
S. CON. RES. 5
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
names of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN), the Senator from
Montana (Mr. TESTER), the Senator
from North Carolina (Mr. BURR) and
the Senator from Wisconsin (Mr. JOHN-
SON) were added as cosponsors of S.
Con. Res. 5, a concurrent resolution
supporting the Local Radio Freedom
Act.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. REED (for himself, Ms.
COLLINS, Mr. WARNER, Mr. KEN-
NEDY, and Mr. JONES):
S. 592. A bill to amend the Securities
and Exchange Act of 1934 to promote
transparency in the oversight of cyber-
security risks at publicly traded com-
panies; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE6.037 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1596 February 28, 2019
Mr. REED. Mr. President, today I am
reintroducing the Cybersecurity Dis-
closure Act along with two members of
the Select Committee on Intelligence,
Senator COLLINS, and the ranking
member, Senator WARNER, in addition
to Senator KENNEDY and Senator
JONES, who also serve with me on the
Senate Banking Committee. In re-
sponse to data breaches of various com-
panies that exposed the personal infor-
mation of millions of customers, our
legislation asks each publicly traded
company to include—in Securities and
Exchange Commission, SEC, disclo-
sures to investors—information on
whether any member of the board of di-
rectors is a cybersecurity expert, and if
not, why having this expertise on the
board of directors is not necessary be-
cause of other cybersecurity steps
taken by the publicly traded company.
To be clear, the legislation does not re-
quire companies to take any actions
other than to provide this disclosure to
its investors.
In Deloitte’s 11th Global Risk Man-
agement Survey of financial services
institutions, published last month,
‘‘sixty-seven percent of respondents
named cybersecurity as one of the
three risks that would increase the
most in importance for their business
over the next two years, far more than
for any other risk. Yet, only about one-
half of the respondents felt their insti-
tutions were extremely or very effec-
tive in managing this risk.’’ According
to the 2018–2019 National Association of
Corporate Directors Public Company
Governance Survey, only 52 percent of
directors ‘‘are confident that they suf-
ficiently understand cyber risks to pro-
vide effective cyber-risk oversight,’’
and 58 percent ‘‘believe their boards
collectively know enough about cyber
risk to provide effective oversight.’’ In-
deed, Yahoo, in its 2016 annual report,
disclosed, ‘‘the Independent Committee
found that failures in communication,
management, inquiry and internal re-
porting contributed to the lack of prop-
er comprehension and handling of the
2014 Security Incident. The Inde-
pendent Committee also found that the
Audit and Finance Committee and the
full board were not adequately in-
formed of the full severity, risks, and
potential impacts of the 2014 Security
Incident and related matters.’’ The 2014
Security Incident here refers to the
fact that ‘‘a copy of certain user ac-
count information for approximately
500 million user accounts was stolen
from Yahoo’s network in late 2014.’’
This is particularly troubling given
that data breaches expose more and
more records containing personally
identifiable information. Indeed, ac-
cording to the Identity Theft Resource
Center, the number of these types of
records exposed by data breaches in the
business industry grew from 181,630,520
in 2017 to 415,233,143 in 2018 and in the
medical and healthcare industry from
5,302,846 in 2017 to 9,927,798 last year.
Across all industries, the number of
records containing personally identifi-
able information exposed by data
breaches rose 126 percent, from
197,612,748 in 2017 to 446,515,334 in 2018.
Investors and customers deserve a
clear understanding of whether pub-
licly traded companies are prioritizing
cybersecurity and have the capacity to
protect investors and customers from
cyber related attacks. Our legislation
aims to provide a better understanding
of these issues through improved SEC
disclosure.
In testimony given to the Senate
Banking Committee last June, Harvard
Law Professor John Coates, who also
practiced securities law as a partner at
Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, ex-
pressed support for our legislation by
stating that ‘‘[the Cybersecurity Dis-
closure Act] is well designed. It does
not attempt to second-guess SEC guid-
ance and rules regarding disclosures
generally, or even as to cyber-risk
overall. The bill simply asks publicly
traded companies to disclose whether a
cybersecurity expert is on the board of
directors, and if not, why one is not
necessary. To be clear, the bill does not
require every publicly traded company
to have a cybersecurity expert on its
board. Publicly traded companies will
still decide for themselves how to tai-
lor their resources to their cybersecu-
rity needs and disclose what they have
decided. Some companies may choose
to hire outside cyber consultants.
Some may choose to boost cybersecu-
rity expertise on staff. And some may
decide to have a cybersecurity expert
on the board of directors. The disclo-
sure required would typically amount
to a sentence or two.’’
While this legislation is a matter for
consideration by the Banking Com-
mittee, of which I am a member, this
bill is also informed by my service on
the Armed Services Committee and the
Select Committee on Intelligence.
Through this Banking-Armed Services-
Intelligence perspective, I see that our
economic security is indeed a matter of
our national security, and this is par-
ticularly the case as our economy be-
comes ever more dependent on tech-
nology and the internet.
Indeed, General Darren W. McDew,
the former commander of U.S. Trans-
portation Command, which is charged
with moving our military assets to
meet our national security objectives
in partnership with the private sector,
offered several sobering assessments
during an April 10, 2018 hearing before
the Senate Armed Services Committee.
He stated that ‘‘cyber is the number
one threat to U.S. Transportation
Command, but I believe it is the num-
ber one threat to the nation . . . in our
headquarters, cyber is the com-
mander’s business, but not everywhere
across our country is cyber a CEO’s
business . . . in our cyber roundtables,
which is one of the things we are doing
to raise our level of awareness, some of
the CEO’s chief security officers cannot
even get to the see the board, they can-
not even . . . see the CEO. So that is a
problem.’’
In my view, this is a real problem be-
cause, if we are attacked, the first
strike will likely not be a physical one
against the military but a cyber strike
against the infrastructure of move-
ment, logistics, and other critical as-
sets in the civilian space.
With growing cyber threats, we all
need to be more proactive in ensuring
our Nation’s cybersecurity before there
are additional serious breaches. This
legislation seeks to take one step to-
wards that goal by encouraging pub-
licly traded companies to be more
transparent to their investors and cus-
tomers on whether and how their
boards of directors and senior manage-
ment are prioritizing cybersecurity.
I thank the bill’s supporters, includ-
ing the North American Securities Ad-
ministrators Association, the Council
of Institutional Investors, the National
Association of State Treasurers, the
California Public Employees’ Retire-
ment System, the Bipartisan Policy
Center, MIT Professor Simon Johnson,
Columbia Law Professor Jack Coffee,
Harvard Law Professor John Coates,
K&L Gates LLP, and the Consumer
Federation of America, and I urge my
colleagues to join Senator COLLINS,
Senator WARNER, Senator KENNEDY,
Senator JONES, and me in supporting
this legislation.
By Mr. THUNE (for himself, Mr.
BROWN, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. BAR-
RASSO, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
BOOKER, Ms. CANTWELL, Ms.
COLLINS, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
Mr. CRAPO, Mr. CRUZ, Ms.
ERNST, Ms. HASSAN, Mr.
HOEVEN, Mr. ISAKSON, Mr. KING,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. LEAHY,
Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. PORTMAN,
Mr. REED, Mr. SCHATZ, Mrs.
SHAHEEN, Mr. TILLIS, Mr.
TOOMEY, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Mr. WICKER, Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH, Mr. MURPHY, Mr.
PETERS, Mr. RISCH, and Mr.
LEE):
S. 604. A bill to limit the authority of
States to tax certain income of em-
ployees for employment duties per-
formed in other States; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 604
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Mobile
Workforce State Income Tax Simplification
Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. LIMITATIONS ON STATE WITHHOLDING
AND TAXATION OF EMPLOYEE IN-
COME.
(a) IN GENERAL.—No part of the wages or
other remuneration earned by an employee
who performs employment duties in more
than one State shall be subject to income
tax in any State other than—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE6.041 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1597
February 28, 2019
(1) the State of the employee’s residence;
and
(2) the State within which the employee is
present and performing employment duties
for more than 30 days during the calendar
year in which the wages or other remunera-
tion is earned.
(b) WAGES OR OTHER REMUNERATION.—
Wages or other remuneration earned in any
calendar year shall not be subject to State
income tax withholding and reporting re-
quirements unless the employee is subject to
income tax in such State under subsection
(a). Income tax withholding and reporting re-
quirements under subsection (a)(2) shall
apply to wages or other remuneration earned
as of the commencement date of employ-
ment duties in the State during the calendar
year.
(c) OPERATING RULES.—For purposes of de-
termining penalties related to an employer’s
State income tax withholding and reporting
requirements—
(1) an employer may rely on an employee’s
annual determination of the time expected
to be spent by such employee in the States
in which the employee will perform duties
absent—
(A) the employer’s actual knowledge of
fraud by the employee in making the deter-
mination; or
(B) collusion between the employer and the
employee to evade tax;
(2) except as provided in paragraph (3), if
records are maintained by an employer in
the regular course of business that record
the location of an employee, such records
shall not preclude an employer’s ability to
rely on an employee’s determination under
paragraph (1); and
(3) notwithstanding paragraph (2), if an
employer, at its sole discretion, maintains a
time and attendance system that tracks
where the employee performs duties on a
daily basis, data from the time and attend-
ance system shall be used instead of the em-
ployee’s determination under paragraph (1).
(d) DEFINITIONS AND SPECIAL RULES.—For
purposes of this Act:
(1) DAY.—
(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B),
an employee is considered present and per-
forming employment duties within a State
for a day if the employee performs more of
the employee’s employment duties within
such State than in any other State during a
day.
(B) If an employee performs employment
duties in a resident State and in only one
nonresident State during one day, such em-
ployee shall be considered to have performed
more of the employee’s employment duties
in the nonresident State than in the resident
State for such day.
(C) For purposes of this paragraph, the por-
tion of the day during which the employee is
in transit shall not be considered in deter-
mining the location of an employee’s per-
formance of employment duties.
(2) EMPLOYEE.—The term ‘‘employee’’ has
the same meaning given to it by the State in
which the employment duties are performed,
except that the term ‘‘employee’’ shall not
include a professional athlete, professional
entertainer, qualified production employee,
or certain public figures.
(3) PROFESSIONAL ATHLETE.—The term
‘‘professional athlete’’ means a person who
performs services in a professional athletic
event, provided that the wages or other re-
muneration are paid to such person for per-
forming services in his or her capacity as a
professional athlete.
(4) PROFESSIONAL ENTERTAINER.—The term
‘‘professional entertainer’’ means a person of
prominence who performs services in the
professional performing arts for wages or
other remuneration on a per-event basis,
provided that the wages or other remunera-
tion are paid to such person for performing
services in his or her capacity as a profes-
sional entertainer.
(5) QUALIFIED PRODUCTION EMPLOYEE.—The
term ‘‘qualified production employee’’ means
a person who performs production services of
any nature directly in connection with a
State qualified, certified or approved film,
television or other commercial video produc-
tion for wages or other remuneration, pro-
vided that the wages or other remuneration
paid to such person are qualified production
costs or expenditures under such State’s
qualified, certified or approved film incen-
tive program, and that such wages or other
remuneration must be subject to with-
holding under such film incentive program
as a condition to treating such wages or
other remuneration as a qualified production
cost or expenditure.
(6) CERTAIN PUBLIC FIGURES.—The term
‘‘certain public figures’’ means persons of
prominence who perform services for wages
or other remuneration on a per-event basis,
provided that the wages or other remunera-
tion are paid to such person for services pro-
vided at a discrete event, in the nature of a
speech, public appearance, or similar event.
(7) EMPLOYER.—The term ‘‘employer’’ has
the meaning given such term in section
3401(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
(26 U.S.C. 3401(d)), unless such term is de-
fined by the State in which the employee’s
employment duties are performed, in which
case the State’s definition shall prevail.
(8) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means any of
the several States.
(9) TIME AND ATTENDANCE SYSTEM.—The
term ‘‘time and attendance system’’ means a
system in which—
(A) the employee is required on a contem-
poraneous basis to record his work location
for every day worked outside of the State in
which the employee’s employment duties are
primarily performed; and
(B) the system is designed to allow the em-
ployer to allocate the employee’s wages for
income tax purposes among all States in
which the employee performs employment
duties for such employer.
(10) WAGES OR OTHER REMUNERATION.—The
term ‘‘wages or other remuneration’’ may be
limited by the State in which the employ-
ment duties are performed.
SEC. 3. EFFECTIVE DATE; APPLICABILITY.
(a) EFFECTIVE DATE.—This Act shall take
effect on January 1 of the second calendar
year that begins after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act.
(b) APPLICABILITY.—This Act shall not
apply to any tax obligation that accrues be-
fore the effective date of this Act.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Ms. WARREN, Mr.
REED, Mr. BROWN, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Ms. HIRONO, and
Mr. MARKEY):
S. 608. A bill to provide that chapter
1 of title 9 of the United States Code,
relating to the enforcement of arbitra-
tion agreements, shall not apply to en-
rollment agreements made between
students and certain institutions of
higher education, and to prohibit limi-
tations on the ability of students to
pursue claims against certain institu-
tions of higher education; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 608
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Court Legal
Access and Student Support (CLASS) Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. INAPPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER 1 OF
TITLE 9, UNITED STATES CODE, TO
ENROLLMENT AGREEMENTS MADE
BETWEEN STUDENTS AND CERTAIN
INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDU-
CATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 1 of title 9 of the
United States Code (relating to the enforce-
ment of arbitration agreements) shall not
apply to an enrollment agreement made be-
tween a student and an institution of higher
education.
(b) DEFINITION.—In this section, the term
‘‘institution of higher education’’ has the
meaning given such term in section 102 of
the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
1002).
SEC. 3. PROHIBITION ON LIMITATIONS ON ABIL-
ITY OF STUDENTS TO PURSUE
CLAIMS AGAINST CERTAIN INSTITU-
TIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION.
Section 487(a) of the Higher Education Act
of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1094(a)) is amended by add-
ing at the end the following:
‘‘(30) The institution will not require any
student to agree to, and will not enforce, any
limitation or restriction (including a limita-
tion or restriction on any available choice of
applicable law, a jury trial, or venue) on the
ability of a student to pursue a claim, indi-
vidually or with others, against an institu-
tion in court.’’.
SEC. 4. EFFECTIVE DATE.
This Act and the amendments made by
this Act shall take effect 1 year after the
date of enactment of this Act.
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself
and Mr. WYDEN):
S. 617. A bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to extend certain
expiring provisions, to provide disaster
tax relief, and for other purposes; read
the first time.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, be-
fore the Presidents Day recess, I an-
nounced that I would introduce legisla-
tion if the tax extenders weren’t in-
cluded in the legislation that we passed
at that time that would keep govern-
ment open.
Today I am following through on
that promise with a bill that I am in-
troducing with Finance Committee
ranking member Senator WYDEN of Or-
egon.
It is fitting that I am taking this
step in the same month as Groundhog
Day, as the subject of my remarks is
something that Congress has had to
deal with too many times already.
Next to me is a depiction from the
movie ‘‘Groundhog Day,’’ which is
about a man named Phil who must re-
live the same day over and over until
he gets everything right. While we still
need to break the cycle of repetitive
short-term extensions, the right thing
to do right now is to extend these al-
ready-expired provisions for 2018 and
2019.
As I have said before, the tax extend-
ers are a collection of temporary tax
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE6.042 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1598 February 28, 2019
incentives that have required extension
on a very regular basis in order to keep
them available to the taxpayers. Cur-
rently, there are 26 provisions. At one
time there were as many as 50-some.
We have done away with some of them
and made some of those laws perma-
nent, but these 26 provisions expired at
the end of 2017. They need to be ex-
tended, as well as three others that ex-
pired at the end of last year.
Today we are in the middle of filing
season for 2018 tax returns, and tax-
payers affected by these expired provi-
sions need a resolution so that they
can file. I want to stress that I want to
find a long-term resolution so that we
don’t have to have temporary tax pol-
icy, but it is critical we make it clear
to the taxpayers that these provisions
are available for the 2018 filing season
and extending them for this year will
give us room to take a needed long-
term view of this temporary tax policy.
Many of the tax extenders are in-
tended to be incentives, and to be suc-
cessful, then, these incentives need to
be in effect before decisions can be
made. That is why we should provide
extensions for at least 2 years, to maxi-
mize that incentive effect. But it is
also important that we extend these
provisions for 2018, even though the
year has obviously already ended. We
have developed a very bad policy and a
very bad habit of extending these tax
provisions year after year, and people
and businesses have come to expect
that the extension will happen.
As a result, decisions were made by
various businesses in 2018 based upon
the expectation of extension, and that
is a reasonable expectation because we
have done it over decades. In other
words, people did what we wanted them
to do in their business decisions when
these provisions were created. We
should not retroactively punish these
businesspeople for Congress’s inaction.
Today, a diverse group of organiza-
tions, including the National Biodiesel
Board, the American Trucking Associa-
tions, and the National Corn Growers
Association, among others, sent a let-
ter to congressional leaders requesting
that the expired provisions be extended
through 2019 as quickly as possible. I
want to quote a few sentences from
that letter:
Providing taxpayers with a predictable
planning outlook as it pertains to tax rules
is conducive to increased private sector in-
vestment and economic activity. Accord-
ingly, we respectfully ask that you act to
retroactively extend these expired tax provi-
sions through 2019 on the first appropriate
legislative vehicle.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the complete letter be print-
ed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the material was
ordered to be printed in the RECORD, as fol-
lows:
February 28, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the U.S. House,
Washington, DC.
Hon. KEVIN MCCARTHY,
U.S. House Republican Leader,
Washington, DC.
Hon. MITCH MCCONNELL,
U.S. Senate Majority Leader,
Washington, DC.
Hon. CHARLES SCHUMER,
U.S. Senate Democratic Leader,
Washington, DC.
Hon. RICHARD NEAL,
Chairman, U.S. House Committee on Ways and
Means,
Washington, DC.
Hon. KEVIN BRADY,
Ranking Republican Member, U.S. House Com-
mittee on Ways and Means,
Washington, DC.
Hon. CHARLES GRASSLEY,
Chairman, U.S. Senate Finance Committee,
Washington, DC.
Hon. RON WYDEN,
Ranking Democratic Member, U.S. Senate Fi-
nance Committee,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SPEAKER PELOSI, REPUBLICAN LEADER
MCCARTHY, MAJORITY LEADER MCCONNELL,
DEMOCRATIC LEADER SCHUMER, CHAIRMAN
NEAL, RANKING MEMBER BRADY, CHAIRMAN
GRASSLEY AND RANKING MEMBER WYDEN: The
following organizations, representing diverse
business, energy, transportation, real estate
and agriculture sectors, are writing to you
regarding the pressing need to address the
expired tax provisions (‘‘tax extenders’’). We
respectfully ask that at a minimum, the
House and Senate retroactively extend these
provisions through 2019 promptly in order to
minimize potentially severe disruptions to
the recently opened tax filing season.
These temporary tax provisions have re-
mained lapsed since the end of 2017. This has
created confusion for the numerous industry
sectors that utilize these tax incentives and
has threatened thousands of jobs in the U.S.
economy. The continued uncertainty with
regard to eventual congressional action on
tax extenders is undermining the effective-
ness of these incentives and stands as a need-
less barrier to additional job creation and
economic growth in the private sector.
Providing taxpayers with a predictable
planning outlook as it pertains to tax rules
is conducive to increased private sector in-
vestment and economic activity. Accord-
ingly, we respectfully ask that you act to
retroactively extend these expired tax provi-
sions through 2019 on the first appropriate
legislative vehicle.
We sincerely appreciate your attention to
this matter, and stand ready to work with
you to achieve this important objective.
Sincerely,
Advanced Biofuels Association; Advanced
Biofuels Business Council; Air Conditioning
Contractors of America (ACCA); Air-Condi-
tioning, Heating, and Refrigeration Insti-
tute; Algae Biomass Organization;
Alliantgroup; American Biogas Council;
American Council of Engineering Companies;
American Council On Renewable Energy
(ACORE); American Horse Council; Amer-
ican Public Gas Association; American Pub-
lic Transportation Association; American
Short Line and Regional Railroad Associa-
tion; American Soybean Association; Amer-
ican Trucking Associations; American Vet-
erinary Medical Association; Association of
American Railroads; Biomass Power Associa-
tion; Biotechnology Innovation Organiza-
tion; Business Council for Sustainable En-
ergy; CCIM Institute; Citizens for Respon-
sible Energy Solutions; Coalition for Energy
Efficient Jobs & Investment; Coalition for
Renewable Natural Gas (RNG Coalition);
Community Transportation Association of
America; Copper Development Association;
Directors Guild of America; E2 (Environ-
mental Entrepreneurs); Education Theatre
Association EDTA; Electric Drive Transpor-
tation Association; Energy Recovery Coun-
cil; Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Associa-
tion; Growth Energy; and Hearth, Patio &
Barbecue Association.
Independent Electrical Contractors; Inde-
pendent Film and Television Alliance; Inde-
pendent Fuel Terminal Operators Associa-
tion; Institute of Real Estate Management®;
NAESCO (National Association of Energy
Service Companies); National Association of
Home Builders; NAHB; National Association
of REALTORS®; National Association of
State Energy Officials (NASEO); National
Association of Truckstop Operators; Na-
tional Biodiesel Board; National Corn Grow-
ers Association; National Council of Farmer
Cooperatives; National Employment Oppor-
tunity Network (NEON); National Hydro-
power Association; National Lumber and
Building Material Dealers Association; Na-
tional Propane Gas Association; National
Railroad Construction and Maintenance As-
sociation; National Real Estate Investors As-
sociation; National Renderers Association;
National Thoroughbred Racing Association;
NEFI; NGVAmerica; Pellet Fuels Institute;
Renewable Fuels Association; South West
Transit Association; The American Society
of Cost Segregation Professionals; The Rail-
way Engineering-Maintenance Suppliers As-
sociation (REMSA); The Sheet Metal and Air
Conditioning Contractors National Associa-
tion (SMACNA); Tile Roofing Industry Alli-
ance; U.S. Canola Association.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, an-
other very important point I want to
make has to do with the question
about whether an extender package
should be offset or not. Around here,
the word ‘‘offset’’ means if you have
tax provisions that might lose revenue,
then do you have other revenue coming
in to take its place? The House has de-
cided that is what you should do—pay
as you go, or PAYGO, as they might
call it. It is a rule of the House.
I have a long record of promoting
budget responsibility, and I am as con-
cerned about the deficit and debt as
anyone. However, we also have bipar-
tisan precedent for treating the exten-
sion of temporary tax policy, like these
extenders, just as we treat the exten-
sion of annual spending policy. In nei-
ther case do we need offset for such ex-
tensions. In other words, it is all right
to spend more money or continue to
spend the same amount of money after
a program has expired, and you don’t
have to offset it when you have tax law
that has been on the books for a couple
of decades, and it is sunset. Why should
you have to sunset that? There are a
few people around here who think it is
all right to spend money without off-
sets, but it is wrong to do tax policy
unless you have offsets.
There are a few specific items in this
legislation that I want to take time to
mention. Significant work has already
been done to provide long-term solu-
tions on two extenders—the short line
railroad tax credit and the biodiesel
tax credit.
The bill I am introducing extends
those credits at their current levels for
2018 and 2019. I want my colleagues to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:59 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28FE6.040 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1599
February 28, 2019
know that I still remain committed to
enacting the compromises that several
of our colleagues and I worked with the
stakeholders to achieve.
The bill also includes an extension of
a proposal adopted last Congress that
would extend the 7.5-percent floor for
itemized deductions of medical ex-
penses. Without this provision, the
floor on deductions will be 10 percent
for 2019. This means that without this
provision, individuals with chronic ill-
nesses and high medical expenses
would have to pay more for healthcare
before that excess can be deducted in
the expenses on their 2019 tax returns.
This proposal is a very important pri-
ority for one of our best colleagues,
Senator COLLINS. She deserves a lot of
credit for getting what has turned into
a bipartisan proposal to help many
Americans facing catastrophic medical
expenses.
Finally, the legislation includes pro-
visions to assist Americans who have
been affected by natural disasters in
2018. This package includes proposals
that we have adopted in prior years to
help Americans recover from natural
disasters across our country. For ex-
ample, the package would allow in-
creased access to retirement funds and
relax restrictions around charitable
giving. I am sure everyone here would
like to help people affected by these
natural disasters as soon as we are able
to.
I don’t want my comments today to
imply that each tax extender should be
permanently extended, but the right
thing to do now is to provide exten-
sions for at least 2018 and 2019. In the
long term, Congress needs to decide if
these provisions should be allowed to
expire or if they should be phased out
or if they should be made permanent as
current tax policy or modified in some
way beyond expiring, phasing out, or
being made permanent.
Those decisions need to be made after
we resolve the short-term crisis caused
by the current lapse. These provisions
have support of Members on both sides
of the aisle. For people who think that
things around here get done only with
Republicans fighting Democrats or vice
versa, these provisions have wide bipar-
tisan support.
There is a solid foundation for a long-
term package consisting of many of
these provisions in one form or an-
other. We need to get past today so
that we can chart the course for a reli-
able future for the tax extenders and
give business some certainty.
Just as Phil wants to stop living the
same day over and over again, I think
all of us want to break the cycle of
short-term extensions of, in many
cases, very popular tax policy. The leg-
islation I introduce today with the
ranking member, Senator WYDEN of Or-
egon, is a critical first step toward
helping taxpayers complete their 2018
returns and helping us begin work on a
long-term solution to temporary tax
policy.
I have asked our majority leader to
rule XIV this bill onto the calendar,
and I urge the House to send us a tax
bill to address the extenders without
further delay.
Just this morning, I had discussions
with Iowa Congressmen of both polit-
ical parties about this issue to contact
the leadership of the House and the
leadership of the Ways and Means Com-
mittee on the importance of moving
legislation since the Constitution
doesn’t allow the Senate to move tax
legislation in the first place.
By Mr. CARPER (for himself,
Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. PETERS, Mr.
TILLIS, Ms. STABENOW, Mr.
RUBIO, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. GARD-
NER, Mr. REED, Ms. MURKOWSKI,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. BURR, Mr.
BENNET, Mr. MANCHIN, Mr.
SCHUMER, Mr. UDALL, Mr. HEIN-
RICH, Ms. HASSAN, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, and Ms. BALDWIN):
S. 638. A bill to require the Adminis-
trator of the Environmental Protection
Agency to designate per- and
polyfluoroalkyl substances as haz-
ardous substances under the Com-
prehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, Liability Act of 1980,
and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public
Works.
Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, during
the debate on the nomination of An-
drew Wheeler to be Administrator of
the Environmental Protection Agency
I came to the floor to express concerns
on a number of issues, including EPA’s
regulation of per- and poly-fluorinated
alkyl substances—PFAS.
PFAS are a class of man-made
chemicals developed in the 1940s. PFAS
can be found across industries in many
products, including food packaging,
nonstick pans, clothing, furniture, and
firefighting foam used by the military.
These chemicals have a long and tragic
history—suffice it to say that their
widespread use resulted too many
Americans without access to safe
drinking water.
This very issue is a matter of some
controversy as EPA has failed to pro-
vide meaningful and swift action on
these chemicals under this administra-
tion. That is why I am here today to
introduce a bipartisan bill to designate
PFAS chemicals as hazardous sub-
stances under the Federal superfund
law. The Carper-Capito-Peters-Tillis-
Stabenow-Rubio-Merkley-Gardner-
Reed-Murkowski-Shaheen-Burr-Ben-
net-Manchin bill will force EPA to
begin the rulemaking process to pro-
tecting Americans from overexposure
to these harmful chemicals and hold
polluters accountable. It is very simi-
lar to legislation that has already been
introduced in the House of Representa-
tives by Congresswoman DEBBIE DIN-
GELL.
In his confirmation hearing, Andrew
Wheeler said, and I quote:
It is these Americans that President
Trump and his Administration are focused
on, Americans without access to safe drink-
ing water or Americans living on or near
hazardous sites, often unaware of the health
risks they and their families face. Many of
these sites have languished for years, even
decades. How can these Americans prosper if
they cannot live, learn, or work in healthy
environments? The answer is simple. They
cannot. President Trump understands this
and that is why he is focused on putting
Americans first.
One would think those words might
mean that there could be some com-
mon ground at least on addressing
PFAS. After all, who wouldn’t agree
that we should be acting with urgency
to address contamination from these
hazardous chemicals?
According to one 2017 study, drinking
water supplies for 6 million U.S. resi-
dents have exceeded the EPA’s lifetime
health advisory for these chemicals.
Another 2018 study performed by the
Environmental Working Group reports
that up to 110 million Americans could
have PFAS-contaminated water.
In 2016, the Department of Defense
announced that it was assessing the
risk of groundwater contamination
from firefighting foam at dozens of fire
and crash testing sites across the coun-
try. It is likely that they are all con-
taminated.
Just last year, the town of Blades in
my home State of Delaware alerted its
1,250 residents, as well as businesses
and schools that use public water, to
stop using public water for drinking an
cooking because PFAS chemicals were
present at nearly twice the Federal
health advisory level. Reportedly, 36 of
67 sampled groundwater wells on Dover
Air Force Base showed dangerously
high levels of PFOA and PFOS. And it
is not just Delaware—contamination is
widespread, in red States and blue
States, in small water systems and
large ones, on military sites and in res-
idential areas, from Maine to Alaska.
It is essential that we legislate to re-
quire EPA to designate PFOA and
PFOS as ‘‘hazardous substances,’’
which means that polluters could be
held responsible for cleaning it up
under the superfund law. In its re-
cently released PFAS Action Plan,
EPA has said again that it would issue
this proposal in the future but did not
indicate how long it will take to com-
plete. Unfortunately, it has no sense of
urgency to address these emerging con-
taminants and to protect American’s
from harmful levels of contamination.
EPA had an opportunity to take ac-
tion to address PFAS chemicals in a
real and comprehensive way; however,
time and again, it has failed to move in
an expeditious and meaningful way.
That is why this bill is so important.
Designating these chemicals as haz-
ardous substances will, at a minimum,
start the process to getting these con-
taminated sites cleaned up. This not
the silver bullet to the broader con-
tamination problems, but it is a start.
By Mr. CARPER (for himself, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mr. MARKEY, Mr.
COONS, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr.
JONES, Mr. SCHATZ, Mr. BOOK-
ER, Mr. SCHUMER, Mr. BENNET,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28FE6.042 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1600 February 28, 2019
Mr. REED, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Ms.
STABENOW, Mr. MURPHY, Mr.
MANCHIN, Mr. HEINRICH, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. BROWN, Mrs.
MURRAY, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. CARDIN,
Mr. WARNER, Mr. LEAHY, Ms.
ROSEN, Ms. SMITH, Mr. WYDEN,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Ms. HIRONO, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. DURBIN, Ms.
HASSAN, Mr. CASEY, Mr.
PETERS, Mr. MENENDEZ, Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO, Mr. SANDERS,
Mr. KAINE, Mr. TESTER, Ms.
HARRIS, Ms. CANTWELL, Ms.
SINEMA, Ms. WARREN, Mr. KING,
and Mr. UDALL):
S.J. Res. 9. A joint resolution calling
on the United States and Congress to
take immediate action to address the
challenge of climate change; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I am
joined this morning by a group of my
Democratic colleagues to talk about
the greatest threat facing our country
and our planet—climate change. De-
spite the gravity and scale of the prob-
lem, at no time in the past 5 years have
Republicans brought even a single bill
to the floor to meaningfully address
climate change. They brought CRAs to
the floor to repeal critical environ-
mental protections that limited the
emission of greenhouse gases like
methane. They brought legislation to
open up more Federal lands to oil drill-
ing, but they haven’t brought forward a
single meaningful bill to address cli-
mate change.
Ironically, the first bill Leader
MCCONNELL would bring to the floor on
climate change is a bill that he and his
party intend to vote against. What a ri-
diculous sham; what a pathetic polit-
ical stunt. It would be a stunt on its
own from a leader who just a month
ago claimed he didn’t bring sham bills
to the floor, but it is an even greater
stunt because they have nothing posi-
tive to say about dealing with this cli-
mate crisis.
So today, Democrats will be intro-
ducing a resolution to steer the direc-
tion of this conversation about climate
change back in the right direction—all
47 Democrats, every single one.
We are introducing a resolution that
affirms three simple things: First, cli-
mate change is real; second, climate
change is changed by human activity;
and third, Congress must act imme-
diately to address this problem. These
are three simple things—three things
that the vast majority of the American
people agree with. Two are plain facts,
and the third is just a statement that
Congress should take action in light of
those two facts.
Our resolution does not prescribe
what action we should take. It doesn’t
say that someone has to be for this so-
lution or that solution. It simply
states that climate change is hap-
pening, and we ought to do something
about it. It is like saying that opioid
abuse is a problem, and we should do
something. Surely every Senator
agrees with that.
In an ideal world, every single Repub-
lican Senator would sign on to our cli-
mate change resolution because there
should be nothing controversial about
it at all. But because one political
party in America largely denies the
science or, as I am sure my colleague
from Rhode Island will address, is so in
the pocket of Big Oil that it refuses to
admit the severity of it, I suspect
many of our Republican colleagues will
not sign on, and what a shame—what a
shame—that would be. At least the
American people will know which of
their Senators denies the over-
whelming consensus of the scientific
community.
So if and when Leader MCCONNELL
moves to proceed to the Green New
Deal, Democrats will demand a vote on
our resolution, and we will see if Lead-
er MCCONNELL is so eager to take that
vote.
Again, I have asked him every day; I
asked him earlier this morning: Leader
MCCONNELL, do you believe climate
change is real? Leader MCCONNELL, do
you believe it is caused by human ac-
tivity? And, Leader MCCONNELL, do you
believe Congress has to act to deal with
climate change? We have simply heard
silence from the leader and from just
about every other Republican so far.
So we are going to push this resolu-
tion, and we hope the American people
will let their Senators who are not on
this resolution know that they should
be on it. It is the first step to moving
something in a positive direction be-
cause we intend to go on offense on cli-
mate.
By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Ms.
COLLINS, Mrs. SHAHEEN, and Ms.
MURKOWSKI):
S.J. Res. 10. A joint resolution relat-
ing to a national emergency declared
by the President on February 15, 2019;
to the Committee on Armed Services.
Mr. UDALL. Thank you for the rec-
ognition, Madam President.
Today I rise to call on this body to
defend the Constitution, to protect the
separation of powers, and to safeguard
Congress’s role as a coequal branch of
government.
Today I am introducing a bipartisan
resolution with my Senate colleagues
to terminate the President’s declara-
tion of a national emergency to build
his border wall.
My partners in this effort include
Senator COLLINS, who is with me
today. She will be here momentarily.
Also partners are Senator MURKOWSKI
and Senator SHAHEEN.
I just want to say to Senator COLLINS
that I commend her on her principled
stance and on standing up for the Con-
stitution.
The vote we will take on this resolu-
tion is historic. This is no longer about
the President’s wall. This is not about
party. This is not about protecting the
very heart of our American system.
This is about protecting the very heart
of our American system of governance.
Congress—and only Congress—holds
the power of the purse. Article I, sec-
tion 9 of the Constitution clearly
states: ‘‘No Money shall be drawn from
the Treasury, but in Consequence of
Appropriations made by Law.’’ The
Constitution is absolutely clear.
Congress’s power to make spending
decisions is very clear. There is no am-
biguity. Deciding how to spend public
funds is among our most fundamental
powers and responsibilities under the
Constitution. The Founders gave this
power to the legislative body, not the
executive, to ensure there is a broad
support for how public funds are spent.
Consequential and far-reaching deci-
sions about spending taxpayer money
are not left to one person, not even the
President.
This body has rejected the Presi-
dent’s request to give him $5.7 billion
for his wall along the southern border
with Mexico. On February 14, not 2
weeks ago, we passed the Consolidated
Appropriations Act of 2019 by a vote of
83 to 16. That compromise bill did not
include the $5.7 billion the President
wanted to build his wall.
Whether you believe Congress should
fund the President’s wall is not at
issue. This is a question about the
strength of the rule of law in this coun-
try and about the separation of powers,
which forms the foundation of our
American government.
The President’s declaration of a na-
tional emergency is an end-run around
Congress’s power to appropriate—plain
and simple. To quote Senator COLLINS,
the President is ‘‘usurping congres-
sional authority.’’
We are the representatives of the
people. The people do not want to
spend $5.7 billion on the President’s
wall, and we must protect their will.
Let’s be clear. This emergency dec-
laration has serious implications for
States all across the country. To build
this wall, the White House will raid $3.6
billion from the Department of De-
fense’s military construction budget
and $2.5 billion from that Department’s
drug interdiction program, but the
White House apparently failed to real-
ize there are only about $80 million in
the drug interdiction account. So we
should be prepared for a raid on other
accounts or taking even more from
military construction funding.
These are military construction
funds that Congress already has appro-
priated for specific projects necessary
to support the national security prior-
ities of the United States. I am privi-
leged to serve on the Appropriations
Committee. I understand the hard and
careful work that goes into these fund-
ing decisions.
From my home State of New Mexico,
Congress allocated some $85 million to
construct a formal training unit at
Holloman Air Force Base in the south-
central part of New Mexico for un-
manned aerial vehicles. This invest-
ment in technology tracks terrorists
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE6.046 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1601
February 28, 2019
and protects our national security. We
allocated $40 million to the White
Sands Missile Range to build an infor-
mation systems facility badly needed
for next-generation research and devel-
opment activities at the range. Both of
these projects were vetted over several
years and deemed important to our na-
tional security.
New Mexico is not alone. Many
States’ military bases and regional
economies will be impacted. Colorado,
for example, is at risk of losing almost
$100 million for construction projects
at Fort Carson near Colorado Springs.
Ohio risks $61 million for the first in-
stallment for building at the National
Air and Space Intelligence Center at
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.
Military construction projects total-
ing $210 million are at risk in Florida,
$520 million in Texas, $81 million in
Utah, and the list goes on and on.
Projects in every corner of the country
will be impacted.
According to the 1976 Senate report
from the National Emergencies Act,
the President’s emergency power may
‘‘be utilized only when actual emer-
gencies exist.’’ As a border Senator, I
am here to tell you that there is no ac-
tual national security emergency at
our southern border necessitating a
massive wall along the southern bor-
der, as this body has already deter-
mined. This is a matter where the
President and Congress have disagreed
and the President is trying to overrule
Congress by fiat.
A bipartisan group of 58 former na-
tional security officials are sounding
the alarm. They write: ‘‘Under no plau-
sible assessment of the evidence is
there a national emergency today that
entitles the president to tap into funds
appropriated for other purposes to
build a wall at the southern border.’’
The evidence speaks for itself. The
number of border apprehensions has de-
creased dramatically. Since the early
2000s, southern border apprehensions
have dropped 81 percent. The number of
apprehensions at the end of fiscal year
2017 was the lowest it has been since
1971—a 46-year low. We have the lowest
number of undocumented immigrants
in our country that we have had in
over a decade.
The Pew Research Center estimated
recently that the total number of un-
documented immigrants residing in the
United States is far less than since
2004. That is a 14-year low. And more
people emigrate to Mexico from the
United States than immigrate from
Mexico to here. That is right. We have
a negative net migration rate with
Mexico.
I am one of the four States that bor-
der Mexico—one of the four States that
will be the most directly affected by a
wall. I know for an absolute fact that
there is no national security emer-
gency along my State’s border with
Mexico. It is quite the opposite.
New Mexico’s border communities
are thriving. International commerce
is thriving. Our multicultural commu-
nities are thriving. Crime rates are
low.
A wall like the President wants
would be disastrous for a State like
New Mexico. It will seize away private
property and carve up family ranches,
farms, and homesteads. It will harm
the beautiful but fragile environment
there on the border.
Again, whether you support the
President’s wall is not at issue on this
vote. As Senator TILLIS put it in an op-
ed in the Washington Post, ‘‘I support
President Trump’s vision on border se-
curity. But I would vote against the
emergency.’’
Another Senate Republican Senator
recently said, ‘‘Congress has been
ceding far too much power to the exec-
utive branch for decades. We should use
this moment as an opportunity to start
taking power back.’’
Over 20 former Republican Senators
and Representatives were compelled to
pen a letter opposing the emergency
declaration. They state: ‘‘It has always
been a Republican fundamental prin-
ciple that no matter how strong our
policy preferences, no matter how deep
our loyalties to presidents and party
leaders, in order to remain a constitu-
tional republic we must act within the
borders of the Constitution.’’
The time to act is now. Litigation
has been filed, but Congress should re-
solve the issue of our own constitu-
tional authority and not wait for the
courts.
Let me repeat. The vote we will take
will be historic. It is imperative that
all of us—Republican and Democrat—
protect and defend our Constitution
and that we protect and defend the
checks and balances that unequivo-
cally place the power of the purse with
Congress and that we affirm our pow-
ers—powers that are separate from the
President’s.
Our oath is to uphold the Constitu-
tion, and the Constitution is clear. The
Constitution does not empower the
President to raid money by decree just
because Congress has already said no.
I will vote to terminate the Presi-
dent’s declaration of the national
emergency to build his wall, and I will
urge everyone in this Chamber to pro-
tect our constitutional prerogative and
to do so as well.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise
today to speak on the resolution that I
am joining Senator UDALL in intro-
ducing. It would reverse the Presi-
dent’s ill-advised decision to declare a
national emergency and commandeer
funding provided for other purposes by
Congress and instead redirect it to con-
struct a wall on our southern border.
I thank Senator UDALL for his leader-
ship and also recognize the support we
have received from our cosponsors,
Senator MURKOWSKI and Senator SHA-
HEEN.
Let me be clear. The question before
us is not whether to support or oppose
the wall. It is not whether to support
or oppose President Trump. Rather, it
is this: Do we want the executive
branch now or in the future to hold a
power that the Founders deliberately
entrusted to Congress?
It has been said that Congress’s most
precious power is the power of the
purse set out in plain language in arti-
cle I, section 9 of our Constitution. It
reads as follows: ‘‘No money shall be
drawn from the Treasury but in con-
sequence of Appropriations made by
law.’’
Alexander Hamilton, in Federalist 72,
made clear the Founders’ view that
only the legislative branch commands
this power, not the judiciary and not
the executive. James Madison, in Fed-
eralist 58, called the power of the purse
‘‘the most complete and effectual
weapon with which any constitution
can arm the [ . . . ] representatives of
the people.’’
Congress’s power was jealously
guarded in the early days of our Repub-
lic. No less an authority on our con-
stitutional framework than Supreme
Court Justice Joseph Story, in his fa-
mous ‘‘Commentaries,’’ explained that
‘‘[i]f it were otherwise, the executive
would possess an unbounded power over
the public purse of the nation, and
might apply all its monied resources at
his pleasure.’’
Throughout our history, the courts
have consistently held that ‘‘only Con-
gress is empowered by the Constitution
to adopt laws directing monies to be
spent from the U.S. treasury.’’
I strongly support protecting the in-
stitutional prerogatives of the U.S.
Senate and the system of checks and
balances that is central to the struc-
ture of our government.
I support funding for better border
security, including physical barriers
where they make sense. I understand
the President is disappointed that the
funding he requested did not pass, but
the failure of Congress to pass funding
in the amount the President prefers
cannot become an excuse for the Presi-
dent to usurp the powers of the legisla-
tive branch.
This is not the first time I have made
this argument against Executive over-
reach. In 2015, I authored the Immigra-
tion Rule of Law Act, legislation that
would have provided a statutory basis
for the Dreamer population, while roll-
ing back President Obama’s 2014 Execu-
tive orders expanding that program.
As I explained at the time, even
though I supported comprehensive im-
migration reform and was disappointed
that it had not passed, I rejected the
notion that its failure could serve as
the justification for President Obama
to implement by Executive fiat that
which Congress had refused to pass, re-
gardless of the wisdom of Congress’s
decision.
I would now like to turn to a discus-
sion of the National Emergencies Act.
This act was passed in 1976 to stand-
ardize the process by which the Presi-
dent can invoke national emergency
powers and Congress can terminate the
declaration through a joint resolution
such as the one we are introducing
today.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28FE6.045 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1602 February 28, 2019
The act is procedural in nature. It
lays out the process the President
must follow to declare a national emer-
gency but does not provide the Presi-
dent with any additional powers. In-
stead, it requires the President to
specify where, in existing law, he has
been granted the authority for the
powers he intends to exercise.
By itself, the National Emergencies
Act does not give the President the
power to repurpose billions of dollars
to build a wall. The President must
look elsewhere for that authority.
In his declaration, the President
cites the authority provided by title 10,
section 2808 of the U.S. Code, which re-
lates to ‘‘Construction authority in the
event of a declaration of war or na-
tional emergency.’’ But that authoriza-
tion applies only to ‘‘military con-
struction projects’’ that are ‘‘necessary
to support [the] use of the armed
forces.’’ I do not believe this provision
can be fairly read to bootstrap the
presence of troops along the southern
border into the authority to build a
wall as a military construction project.
The question isn’t whether the Presi-
dent can act in an emergency but
whether he can do so in a manner that
would undermine the congressional
power of the purse.
Here, I think we need a better under-
standing of what should qualify as an
emergency. One place we could turn is
to a five-part test originally developed
by the Office of Management and Budg-
et in 1991, under former President
George Herbert Walker Bush, to deter-
mine whether requested funding mer-
ited an ‘‘emergency spending’’ designa-
tion under our budget rules.
Under that test, a spending request
was designated as an ‘‘emergency’’
only if all five of the following condi-
tions were met:
First, expenditures had to be nec-
essary; second, the need had to be sud-
den, coming into being quickly, not
building up over time; third, the need
had to be urgent; fourth, the need had
to be unforeseen; and fifth, the need
could not be permanent.
I raise this test only by way of anal-
ogy, but it is fair to say that whether
or not you agree with the President
that more should be done to secure the
southern border—and I do agree with
the President’s goal—his decision to
fund a border wall through a national
emergency declaration would not pass
this five-part test.
The President’s declaration also has
practical implications for the military
construction appropriations process, as
my colleague has pointed out.
Last year, in testimony before the
Appropriations Committee, the Depart-
ment of Defense said that the Presi-
dent’s budget request for military con-
struction funding was crucial to sup-
port our national defense, including
construction projects to improve mili-
tary readiness and increase the
lethality of the force. This includes
missile defense, improved facilities in
Europe to deter Russian aggression,
and infrastructure to operationalize
the F–35 stealth fighter.
This also included several important
efforts at the Portsmouth Naval Ship-
yard in Maine that are vital to the
Navy conducting timely maintenance
and refueling of our Nation’s sub-
marines. Shifting funding away from
these vital projects is shortsighted and
could have very real national security
implications.
We must defend Congress’s institu-
tional powers, as the Founders hoped
we would, even when doing so is incon-
venient or goes against the outcome we
might prefer.
The gridlock we have experienced on
difficult issues like border security and
immigration reform is not simply a
failure to get our work done but a re-
flection of the fact that we have yet to
reach a consensus.
The President’s emergency declara-
tion is ill-advised precisely because it
attempts to shortcut the process of
checks and balances by usurping
Congress’s authority. This resolution
blocks that overreach, and I hope, re-
gardless of our colleague’s position on
the construction of the border wall,
that we will join together to assert
Congress’s constitutional authority in
the appropriations process.
I urge our colleagues to support this
important resolution.
Mr. UDALL. Would the Senator
yield?
Ms. COLLINS. I would be happy to.
Mr. UDALL. I just want to say, be-
cause we have both been here for a bit
talking on the floor about this, I want
to thank Senator COLLINS for standing
up for principle. I want to thank her
for standing up for our Constitution. It
is a real honor to join her in this reso-
lution of disapproval.
I also, as she just did, thank the two
other Senators who are joining us, Sen-
ator MURKOWSKI and Senator SHAHEEN.
I thank the Senator very much.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I would
thank the Senator for his gracious
comments. As always, it has been a
great pleasure to work with him, and I
know he cares deeply about the con-
stitutional principle that brings us to
the floor today. Let us defend the Con-
stitution.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 85—RECOG-
NIZING THE 100TH ANNIVERSARY
OF THE FOUNDING OF
EASTERSEALS, A LEADING AD-
VOCATE AND SERVICE PROVIDER
FOR CHILDREN AND ADULTS
WITH DISABILITIES, INCLUDING
VETERANS AND OLDER ADULTS,
AND THEIR CAREGIVERS AND
FAMILIES
Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr.
PORTMAN) submitted the following res-
olution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 85
Whereas, on April 22, 1919, an organization
now known as Easterseals was formed to
highlight and address the health care and
service needs of children with disabilities;
Whereas, in 1945, Easterseals expanded its
mission by opening its programs and services
to returning veterans of World War II and
other adults with disabilities;
Whereas, since its inception, Easterseals
has strongly advocated for essential services
and support for individuals with disabilities
and diverse needs, including by authoring a
‘‘Bill of Rights’’ for children with disabilities
in 1931 that led to government-funded dis-
ability services and by increasing public
awareness and support through national
campaigns, including its successful ‘‘seals’’
campaign;
Whereas Easterseals has grown from hum-
ble beginnings in Elyria, Ohio, to become a
national network of leading nonprofit orga-
nizations in States across the country that
deliver high-quality, local services and sup-
port to help children and adults with disabil-
ities, including veterans and older adults,
live independently, achieve milestones, and
fully participate in their communities, and
to help caregivers and families of children
and adults with disabilities;
Whereas Easterseals partners with the
Federal Government, State and local govern-
ments, corporations, foundations, and other
entities to provide or connect individuals
with disabilities and their families with
early childhood education and intervention
services, employment assistance and place-
ment services, transportation solutions,
mental health services, respite services,
camping and recreation activities, and
caregiving and aging support; and
Whereas Easterseals continues the mission
and commitment to service envisioned by its
founder, Edgar Allen, a parent, businessman,
and Rotarian, who concluded, ‘‘Your life and
mine shall be valued not by what we take,
but by what we give.’’: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) commemorates April 22, 2019, as the
100th anniversary of the founding of
Easterseals; and
(2) recognizes Easterseals for—
(A) its impact during the past 100 years in
the lives of millions people in the United
States; and
(B) its commitment to expanding possibili-
ties for children and adults with disabilities,
including veterans and older adults, to en-
sure that all individuals can live, learn,
work, and play in their communities.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 86—PRO-
VIDING FOR MEMBERS ON THE
PART OF THE SENATE OF THE
JOINT COMMITTEE ON PRINTING
AND THE JOINT COMMITTEE OF
CONGRESS ON THE LIBRARY
Mr. BLUNT submitted the following
resolution; which was considered and
agreed to.:
S. RES. 86
Resolved, That the following named Mem-
bers be, and they are hereby, elected mem-
bers of the following joint committees of
Congress:
JOINT COMMITTEE ON PRINTING: Mr. Blunt,
Mr. Roberts, Mr. Wicker, Ms. Klobuchar, and
Mr. Udall.
JOINT COMMITTEE OF CONGRESS ON THE LI-
BRARY: Mr. Blunt, Mr. Roberts, Mr. Shelby,
Ms. Klobuchar, and Mr. Leahy.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28FE6.044 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1603
February 28, 2019
SENATE RESOLUTION 87—AUTHOR-
IZING THE PRINTING OF A COL-
LECTION OF THE RULES OF THE
COMMITTEES OF THE SENATE
Mr. BLUNT (for himself and Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 87
Resolved, That a collection of the rules of
the committees of the Senate, together with
related materials, be printed as a Senate
document, and that there be printed 250 addi-
tional copies of such document for the use of
the Committee on Rules and Administration.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 88—DESIG-
NATING MARCH 1, 2019, AS ‘‘READ
ACROSS AMERICA DAY’’
Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Mr. REED,
Mr. BRAUN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mrs. CAP-
ITO, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. DURBIN, Mr.
CARPER, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Ms. HASSAN,
and Mr. WICKER) submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was consid-
ered and agreed to:
S. RES. 88
Whereas reading is—
(1) a basic requirement for quality edu-
cation and professional success; and
(2) a source of pleasure throughout life;
Whereas the people of the United States
must be able to read if the United States is
to remain competitive in the global econ-
omy;
Whereas Congress has placed great empha-
sis on reading intervention and providing ad-
ditional resources for reading assistance, in-
cluding through—
(1) the programs authorized under the Ele-
mentary and Secondary Education Act of
1965 (20 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.); and
(2) annual appropriations for library and
literacy programs; and
Whereas more than 50 national organiza-
tions concerned about reading and education
have joined with the National Education As-
sociation to designate March 2, the anniver-
sary of the birth of Theodor Geisel (com-
monly known as ‘‘Dr. Seuss’’), as a day to
celebrate reading: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates March 1, 2019, as ‘‘Read
Across America Day’’;
(2) honors—
(A) all authors for their success in encour-
aging children to discover the joy of reading;
and
(B) the 22nd anniversary of Read Across
America Day; and
(3) encourages—
(A) parents, educators, and communities to
read with children for at least 30 minutes on
Read Across America Day and, in honor of
the commitment of the Senate to building a
country of readers, to promote—
(i) a love of reading; and
(ii) opportunities for all children to see
themselves reflected in literature; and
(B) the people of the United States to ob-
serve Read Across America Day with appro-
priate ceremonies and activities.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 89—EX-
PRESSING THE CONDOLENCES OF
THE SENATE AND HONORING
THE MEMORY OF THE VICTIMS
OF THE MASS SHOOTING IN AU-
RORA, ILLINOIS, ON FEBRUARY
15, 2019
Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Ms.
DUCKWORTH) submitted the following
resolution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 89
Whereas, on February 15, 2019, a gunman
opened fire at his coworkers in the Henry
Pratt Company warehouse in Aurora, Illi-
nois;
Whereas 5 innocent people were tragically
killed in this mass shooting, and others, in-
cluding officers of the Aurora Police Depart-
ment, were wounded;
Whereas the innocent employees who lost
their lives that day were—
(1) Russell Beyer, age 47, of Yorkville, Illi-
nois, a 25-year company employee, proud
union man and shop chairman, a loving fa-
ther of 2 children and a beloved son and
brother, and a ‘‘fun, loving gentle giant of a
guy,’’ who ‘‘would truly give you the shirt
off his back’’;
(2) Vicente Juarez, age 54, of Oswego, Illi-
nois, a 15-year company employee and union
man, a loving husband and father of 3 chil-
dren and grandfather of 8, who had a passion
for working on his 1969 Chevy Impala;
(3) Clayton ‘‘Clay’’ Parks, age 32, of Elgin,
Illinois, a 2014 graduate of the College of
Business at Northern Illinois University, a
loving husband and father to his 9-month-old
son, a leader and mentor, and an avid Chi-
cago sports fan with a contagious smile and
laugh, whose greatest joy was his family;
(4) Josh Pinkard, age 37, of Oswego, Illi-
nois, a plant manager for the company since
2018, and a loving husband and father of 3
children, whose heartbreaking final message
to his wife was, ‘‘I love you, I’ve been shot at
work’’; and
(5) Trevor Wehner, age 21, of Sheridan, Illi-
nois, a senior at Northern Illinois University
who was killed on the first day of an intern-
ship, a loving son, brother, and boyfriend,
and a high school and college baseball player
active in his community who ‘‘never met a
stranger’’ and ‘‘made friends with everyone
young and old’’;
Whereas officers from the Aurora Police
Department swiftly arrived at the shooting
scene within 4 minutes of the first 911 call;
Whereas the officers who arrived were fired
upon by the gunman almost immediately, 5
officers were wounded, and more officers
rushed in to take their place;
Whereas Aurora Police Chief Kristen
Ziman said that—
(1) ‘‘Every time an officer was shot, an-
other went in. No one retreated. They forged
ahead with shields and weapons as true war-
riors do and no one backed down until the
threat was eliminated.’’; and
(2) ‘‘The officers who were shot that day
put their own lives at risk to save others.
They are what it means to be a warrior.
Those who were in the gunfight and those
who stood ready to battle are just as worthy
of the term hero.’’;
Whereas the 6 officers wounded or injured
were—
(1) Officer Diego Avila, who has served
since 2016;
(2) Officer John Cebulski, who has served
since 1988;
(3) Officer Marco Gomez, who has served
since 2005;
(4) Officer Adam Miller, who has served
since 2015;
(5) Officer Reynaldo Rivera, who has served
since 1995; and
(6) Officer James Zegar, who has served
since 1993;
Whereas the Aurora Fire Department and a
broad array of municipal, county, State, and
Federal law enforcement and medical sup-
port agencies also responded to the emer-
gency promptly and assisted capably in the
initial crisis and the subsequent investiga-
tion;
Whereas the people of Illinois and the
United States are thankful to law enforce-
ment officers, firefighters, 911 emergency
dispatchers, and emergency medical teams
for their heroic response to the shooting;
Whereas the Aurora shooting that took the
lives of 2 members of the Northern Illinois
University community took place one day
after the February 14th anniversary of the
2008 mass shooting at Northern Illinois Uni-
versity that killed 5 students and wounded 17
others;
Whereas communities across Illinois, in-
cluding the city of Chicago, and across the
United States have suffered from the epi-
demic of gun violence in the United States;
Whereas the people of Aurora, Illinois,
have now joined the ever-growing list of
communities that have suffered from a mass
shooting; and
Whereas the Aurora community has come
together in support of the families and loved
ones of the victims and those injured by this
mass shooting and, will, in the words of Au-
rora Mayor Richard Irvin, ‘‘emerge as a
stronger city’’: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) expresses its sincere condolences to the
families, friends, and loved ones of those who
were killed in the tragic shooting on Feb-
ruary 15, 2019, in Aurora, Illinois: Russell
Beyer, Vicente Juarez, Clayton Parks, Josh
Pinkard, and Trevor Wehner;
(2) extends its support and prayers to those
who were wounded or injured and wishes
them a speedy recovery;
(3) commends the law enforcement officers,
emergency responders, and medical per-
sonnel who responded to the shooting with
professionalism, dedication, and bravery;
(4) expresses its support for the Aurora
community in this difficult time; and
(5) stands in solidarity with the victims of
senseless gun violence in communities across
the United States.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 90—DESIG-
NATING FEBRUARY 28, 2019, AS
‘‘RARE DISEASE DAY’’
Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mr. BAR-
RASSO, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. MARKEY,
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. COONS, Ms. STA-
BENOW, Mr. BOOKER, and Ms. WARREN)
submitted the following resolution;
which was considered and agreed to:
S. RES. 90
Whereas a rare disease or disorder is one
that affects a small number of patients,
which, in the United States, is considered to
be a population of fewer than 200,000 individ-
uals;
Whereas, as of the date of the adoption of
this resolution, more than 7,000 rare diseases
affect as many as 30,000,000 people in the
United States and their families;
Whereas children with rare diseases ac-
count for a significant portion of the popu-
lation affected by rare diseases in the United
States;
Whereas many rare diseases are serious
and life-threatening and lack effective treat-
ments;
Whereas, as a result of the Orphan Drug
Act (Public Law 97–414; 96 Stat. 2049), there
have been important advances made in the
research of, and treatment for, rare diseases;
Whereas the Food and Drug Administra-
tion has made great strides in gathering pa-
tient perspectives to inform the drug review
process as part of the Patient-Focused Drug
Development program, an initiative that was
reaffirmed under the FDA Reauthorization
Act of 2017 (Public Law 115–52; 131 Stat. 1005);
Whereas, although more than 750 orphan
indications for drugs and biological products
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE6.052 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1604 February 28, 2019
have been approved by the Food and Drug
Administration for the treatment of rare dis-
eases, millions of people in the United States
have a rare disease for which there is no ap-
proved treatment;
Whereas lack of access to effective treat-
ments and difficulty in obtaining reimburse-
ment for life-altering, and even life-saving,
treatments remain significant challenges for
people with rare diseases and their families;
Whereas rare diseases and conditions in-
clude McArdle disease, Ehlers-Danlos syn-
drome, acoustic neuroma, Paget disease,
Landau-Kleffner syndrome, necrotizing
fasciitis, mucopolysaccharidosis type I, Ras-
mussen encephalitis, Sanfilippo syndrome,
Prader-Willi syndrome, Wagner syndrome,
Barth syndrome, and many rare cancers;
Whereas people with rare diseases experi-
ence challenges that include—
(1) difficulty in obtaining accurate diag-
noses;
(2) limited treatment options; and
(3) difficulty finding physicians or treat-
ment centers with expertise in the rare dis-
ease affecting the individual;
Whereas the 115/th/ Congress passed a 10-
year extension of the Children’s Health In-
surance Program under title XXI of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397aa et seq.),
ensuring health insurance coverage for many
children with rare diseases;
Whereas both the Food and Drug Adminis-
tration and the National Institutes of Health
have established special offices to support
and facilitate rare disease research and
treatments;
Whereas the National Organization for
Rare Disorders (referred to in this preamble
as ‘‘NORD’’), a nonprofit organization estab-
lished in 1983 to provide services to, and ad-
vocate on behalf of, patients with rare dis-
eases, remains a critical public voice for peo-
ple with rare diseases;
Whereas 2019 marks the 36/th/ anniversary
of the enactment of the Orphan Drug Act
(Public Law 97–414; 96 Stat. 2049) and the es-
tablishment of NORD;
Whereas NORD sponsors Rare Disease Day
in the United States and partners with many
other major rare disease organizations to in-
crease public awareness of rare diseases;
Whereas Rare Disease Day is observed each
year on the last day of February;
Whereas Rare Disease Day is a global event
that—
(1) was first observed in the United States
on February 28, 2009; and
(2) was observed in more than 90 countries
in 2018; and
Whereas Rare Disease Day is expected to
be observed globally for years to come, pro-
viding hope and information for rare disease
patients around the world: Now, therefore,
be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates February 28, 2019, as ‘‘Rare
Disease Day’’;
(2) recognizes the importance of improving
awareness and encouraging accurate and
early diagnosis of rare diseases and dis-
orders; and
(3) supports a national and global commit-
ment to improving access to, and developing
new treatments, diagnostics, and cures for,
rare diseases and disorders.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 91—DESIG-
NATING MARCH 3, 2019, AS
‘‘WORLD WILDLIFE DAY’’
Mr. COONS (for himself and Mr.
PORTMAN) submitted the following res-
olution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 91
Whereas wildlife has provided numerous
economic, environmental, social, and cul-
tural benefits during the course of human
history and wildlife conservation will secure
those gifts for future generations;
Whereas plant and animal species play an
important role in the stability of diverse
ecosystems around the world and the con-
servation of that biodiversity is critical to
maintain the delicate balance of nature and
keep complex ecosystems thriving;
Whereas millions of individuals in the
United States strongly support the conserva-
tion of wildlife, both domestically and
abroad, and wish to ensure the survival of
species in the wild;
Whereas the trafficking of wildlife, includ-
ing timber and fish, comprises the fourth
largest global illegal trade after narcotics,
the counterfeiting of products and currency,
and human trafficking and has become a
major transnational organized crime with an
estimated worth of as much as $23,000,000,000
annually;
Whereas increased demand in Asia for
high-value illegal wildlife products, particu-
larly elephant ivory and rhinoceros horns,
has triggered substantial and rapid increases
in poaching of those species;
Whereas the trafficking of wildlife is a pri-
mary threat to many wildlife species, includ-
ing elephants, rhinoceroses, tigers,
pangolins, and sharks;
Whereas many different kinds of criminals,
including some terrorist entities and rogue
security personnel, often in collusion with
corrupt government officials, are involved in
wildlife poaching and the movement of ivory
and rhinoceros horns across Africa;
Whereas wildlife poaching presents signifi-
cant security and stability challenges for
military and police forces in African nations
that are often threatened by heavily armed
poachers and the criminal, extremist allies
of those poachers;
Whereas wildlife poaching negatively im-
pacts local communities that rely on natural
resources for economic development, includ-
ing through tourism;
Whereas assisting institutions in devel-
oping nations, including by providing mate-
rial, training, legal, and diplomatic support,
can reduce illegal wildlife trade;
Whereas wildlife provides a multitude of
benefits to all nations and wildlife crime has
wide-ranging economic, environmental, and
social impacts;
Whereas the African Elephant Status Re-
port 2016 issued by the International Union
for Conservation of Nature revealed that the
elephant population of Africa has recently
seen a dramatic decline, mainly due to
poaching, and the continental population is
now thought to be approximately 415,000;
Whereas, from 2007 to 2012, the number of
elephants killed in Kenya increased by more
than 800 percent, from 47 to 387 elephants
killed;
Whereas, between 2002 and 2013, as a result
of poaching, about 65 percent of the forest
elephant population in Central Africa was
killed and forest elephants lost 30 percent of
the geographical range of forest elephants,
placing forest elephants on track for extinc-
tion in the next decade;
Whereas fewer than 50,000 wild Asian ele-
phants remain and poaching of these popu-
lations is on the rise, with an average of 1
elephant poached every week in Burma, driv-
en by demand for elephant skin products;
Whereas the number of rhinoceroses killed
by poachers in South Africa—
(1) dramatically increased from 13 in 2007
to 1,215 in 2014, an increase of more than 9,000
percent; and
(2) was 769 in 2018;
Whereas—
(1) the 3 species of Asian rhinoceroses also
remain under constant threat of poaching;
and
(2) the total populations of Javan and Su-
matran rhinoceros number fewer than 100 in-
dividuals in the wild;
Whereas fewer than 4,000 tigers remain in
the wild throughout Asia;
Whereas pangolins are often referred to as
the most trafficked mammal in the world;
Whereas all 8 pangolin species spanning Af-
rica and Asia are faced with extinction be-
cause pangolin scales are sought after in the
practice of traditional Chinese medicine and
pangolin meat is considered a delicacy;
Whereas the oceans—
(1) cover 3⁄4 of the surface of the Earth;
(2) contain 97 percent of the water on the
Earth;
(3) represent 99 percent of the living space
on the earth by volume; and
(4) contain nearly 200,000 identified animal
species;
Whereas the global market value of marine
and coastal resources and industries is esti-
mated to be approximately $3,000,000,000,000
per year, representing about 5 percent of
global gross domestic product;
Whereas more than 3,000,000,000 people de-
pend on marine and coastal biodiversity for
their livelihoods;
Whereas an estimated 8,000,000 metric tons
of plastic enter the ocean every year, harm-
ing a wide range of wildlife species;
Whereas illegal, unreported, and unregu-
lated fishing (referred to in this preamble as
‘‘IUU fishing’’) represents a multibillion dol-
lar criminal industry that—
(1) undercuts the economic livelihoods of
legitimate fishermen;
(2) weakens marine animal populations;
(3) poses a threat to international security;
and
(4) threatens food security for communities
around the world;
Whereas overfishing—
(1) contributes to the rapid depletion of
many species of fish; and
(2) hinders efforts to save and restore glob-
al fisheries and the jobs relating to those
fisheries;
Whereas approximately 100,000,000 sharks
are killed annually, often targeted solely for
their fins, and unsustainable trade is the pri-
mary cause of serious population decline in
several shark species, including scalloped
hammerhead sharks, great hammerhead
sharks, and oceanic whitetip sharks;
Whereas the vaquita porpoise of Mexico,
with fewer than 14 individual porpoises re-
maining, is being driven to extinction;
Whereas penal and financial deterrents
can—
(1) improve the ability of governments to
reduce poaching, trafficking, and IUU fish-
ing; and
(2) enhance the capabilities of those gov-
ernments to manage their resources;
Whereas the United States is developing
and implementing measures to address the
criminal, financial, security, and environ-
mental aspects of wildlife trafficking;
Whereas Congress has allocated specific re-
sources to combat wildlife trafficking and
IUU fishing and address additional threats to
wildlife;
Whereas Congress passed the Eliminate,
Neutralize, and Disrupt Wildlife Trafficking
Act of 2016 (16 U.S.C. 7601 et seq.) to
strengthen the response of the United States
to the global wildlife trafficking crisis;
Whereas Congress passed the Save Our
Seas Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–265; 132 Stat.
3742)—
(1) to address land- and sea-based sources
of marine debris; and
(2) to promote international action to re-
duce the incidence of marine debris;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE6.055 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1605
February 28, 2019
Whereas, in December 2013, the United Na-
tions General Assembly proclaimed March 3
as World Wildlife Day to celebrate and raise
awareness of the wild fauna and flora around
the world;
Whereas March 3, 2019, represents the sixth
annual celebration of World Wildlife Day;
Whereas, in 2019, the theme of World Wild-
life Day is ‘‘Life below water: for people and
planet’’; and
Whereas, in 2019, World Wildlife Day com-
memorations will—
(1) raise awareness about the breathtaking
diversity of marine life;
(2) highlight the crucial importance of ma-
rine species to human development; and
(3) encourage future generations to con-
tinue efforts to protect marine ecosystems:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates March 3, 2019, as ‘‘World
Wildlife Day’’;
(2) supports raising awareness of the bene-
fits that wildlife provides to people and the
threats facing wildlife around the world;
(3) supports escalating the fight against
wildlife crime, including wildlife trafficking
and illegal, unreported, and unregulated fish-
ing;
(4) applauds the domestic and inter-
national efforts to escalate the fight against
wildlife crime;
(5) commends the efforts of the United
States to mobilize the entire Federal Gov-
ernment in a coordinated, efficient, and ef-
fective manner for dramatic progress in the
fight against wildlife crime; and
(6) encourages continued cooperation be-
tween the United States, international part-
ners, local communities, nonprofit organiza-
tions, private industry, and other partner or-
ganizations in an effort to conserve and cele-
brate wildlife, preserving this precious re-
source for future generations.
f
SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLU-
TION 6—AUTHORIZING THE
PRINTING OF A COMMEMORA-
TIVE DOCUMENT IN MEMORY OF
THE LATE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES, GEORGE HER-
BERT WALKER BUSH
Mr. BLUNT (for himself and Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR) submitted the following con-
current resolution; which was consid-
ered and agreed to:
S. CON. RES. 6
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Rep-
resentatives concurring),
SECTION 1. COMMEMORATIVE DOCUMENT AU-
THORIZED.
(a) IN GENERAL.—A commemorative docu-
ment in memory of the late President of the
United States, George Herbert Walker Bush,
shall be printed as a House document, with
illustrations and suitable binding, under the
direction of the Joint Committee on Print-
ing.
(b) CONTENTS.—The document shall consist
of the eulogies and encomiums for George
Herbert Walker Bush, as expressed in the
Senate and the House of Representatives, to-
gether with the texts of each of the fol-
lowing:
(1) The state funeral ceremony at the
United States Capitol Rotunda.
(2) The national funeral service held at the
Washington National Cathedral, Washington,
District of Columbia.
(3) The memorial service held at St. Mar-
tin’s Episcopal Church, Houston, Texas.
(4) The interment ceremony at the George
Herbert Walker Bush Presidential Library
Center, College Station, Texas.
SEC. 2. PRINTING OF DOCUMENT.
In addition to the usual number of copies
printed, there shall be printed the lesser of—
(1) 32,500 copies of the commemorative doc-
ument, of which 22,150 copies shall be for the
use of the House of Representatives and
10,350 copies shall be for the use of the Sen-
ate; or
(2) such number of copies of the commemo-
rative document that does not exceed a pro-
duction and printing cost of $1,000,000, with
distribution of the copies to be allocated in
the same proportion as described in para-
graph (1).
f
SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLU-
TION 7—AUTHORIZING THE
PRINTING OF THE 26TH EDITION
OF THE POCKET VERSION OF
THE CONSTITUTION OF THE
UNITED STATES
Mr. BLUNT (for himself and Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR) submitted the following con-
current resolution; which was consid-
ered and agreed to:
S. CON. RES. 7
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Rep-
resentatives concurring),
SECTION 1. POCKET VERSION OF THE CONSTITU-
TION OF THE UNITED STATES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The 26th edition of the
pocket version of the Constitution of the
United States shall be printed as a Senate
document under the direction of the Joint
Committee on Printing.
(b) ADDITIONAL COPIES.—In addition to the
usual number, there shall be printed the less-
er of—
(1) 480,500 copies of the document, of which
255,500 copies shall be for the use of the
House of Representatives, 200,000 copies shall
be for the use of the Senate, and 25,000 copies
shall be for the use of the Joint Committee
on Printing; or
(2) such number of copies of the document
as does not exceed a total production and
printing cost of $226,250, with distribution to
be allocated in the same proportion as de-
scribed in paragraph (1), except that in no
case shall the number of copies be less than
1 per Member of Congress.
(c) DISTRIBUTION.—The copies of the docu-
ment printed for the use of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Senate under subsection
(a) shall be distributed in accordance with—
(1) a distribution plan approved by the
chair and ranking minority member of the
Committee on House Administration of the
House of Representatives, in the case of the
copies printed for the use of the House of
Representatives; and
(2) a distribution plan approved by the
chair and ranking minority member of the
Committee on Rules and Administration of
the Senate, in the case of the copies printed
for the use of the Senate.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I have 7
requests for committees to meet during
today’s session of the Senate. They
have the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet ’during today’s ses-
sion of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE, NUTRITION, AND
FORESTRY
The Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Thursday, February 28, 2019, at 9:30
a.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES
The Committee on Armed Services is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Thursday, February
28, 2019, at 9:30 a.m., to conduct a hear-
ing.
COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND URBAN
AFFAIRS
The Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Thursday, February 28, 2019, at 10
a.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL
RESOURCES
The Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Thursday, February 28, 2019, at 10 a.m.,
to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY
The Committee on the Judiciary is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Thursday, February
28, 2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing
on the following nominations: Neomi J.
Rao, to be United States Circuit Judge
for the District of Columbia Circuit,
Joseph F. Bianco, of New York, and Mi-
chael H. Park, of New York, both to be
a United States Circuit Judge for the
Second Circuit, Greg Girard Guidry, to
be United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Louisiana, Michael
T. Liburdi, to be United States District
Judge for the District of Arizona, Peter
D. Welte, to be United States District
Judge for the District of North Dakota,
Aditya Bamzai, of Virginia, and Travis
LeBlanc, of Maryland, both to be a
Member of the Privacy and Civil Lib-
erties Oversight Board, and Drew H.
Wrigley, to be United States Attorney
for the District of North Dakota, De-
partment of Justice.
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
The Select Committee on Intel-
ligence is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Thursday,
February 28, 2019, at 2 p.m., to conduct
a closed briefing.
PERMANENT SUBCOMMITTEE ON INVESTIGATIONS
The Permanent Subcommittee on In-
vestigations of the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental
Affairs is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Thursday,
February 28, 2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct
a hearing entitled ‘‘China’s impact on
United States education system.’’
f
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mr. COONS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that Drew Story, a
science fellow in my office, be granted
floor privileges for the remainder of
the 116th Congress.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST TIME
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
understand that there are two bills at
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28FE6.056 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1606 February 28, 2019
the desk, and I ask for their first read-
ing en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the titles of the bills for
the first time en bloc.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 617) to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to extend certain expiring
provisions, to provide disaster tax relief, and
for other purposes.
A bill (H.R. 8) to require a background
check for every firearm sale.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I now ask for their
second reading, and I object to my own
request en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the bills will be
read for the second time on the next
legislative day.
f
HONORING THE 150TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE ESTABLISHMENT
OF LINDSBORG, KANSAS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Judi-
ciary Committee be discharged from
further consideration and the Senate
now proceed to S. Res. 43.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the resolution
by title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 43) honoring the 150th
anniversary of the establishment of
Lindsborg, Kansas.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged and the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the resolution be agreed
to, the preamble be agreed to, and the
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 43) was agreed
to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in the RECORD of February 5,
2019, under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
RESOLUTIONS SUBMITTED TODAY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate now proceed to the en bloc consid-
eration of the following Senate resolu-
tions which were submitted earlier
today: S. Res. 86, S. Res. 87, S. Res. 88,
S. Res. 89, and S. Res. 90.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolutions
en bloc.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the resolutions be agreed
to, the preambles, where applicable, be
agreed to, and that the motions to re-
consider be considered made and laid
upon the table, all en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolutions (S. Res. 86 and S.
Res. 87) were agreed to.
(The resolutions are printed in to-
day’s RECORD under ‘‘Submitted Reso-
lutions.’’)
The resolutions (S. Res. 88, S. Res. 89,
and S. Res. 90) were agreed to.
The preambles were agreed to.
(The resolutions, with their pre-
ambles, are printed in today’s RECORD
under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
AUTHORIZING THE PRINTING OF A
COMMEMORATIVE DOCUMENT IN
MEMORY OF THE LATE PRESI-
DENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
GEORGE HERBERT WALKER
BUSH
f
AUTHORIZING THE PRINTING OF
THE 26TH EDITION OF THE POCK-
ET VERSION OF THE CONSTITU-
TION OF THE UNITED STATES
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the en bloc consider-
ation of S. Con. Res. 6 and S. Con. Res.
7.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the concurrent resolu-
tions by title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A concurrent resolution (S. Con. Res. 6) au-
thorizing the printing of a commemorative
document in memory of the late President of
the United States, George Herbert Walker
Bush.
A concurrent resolution (S. Con. Res. 7) au-
thorizing the printing of the 26th edition of
the pocket version of the Constitution of the
United States.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the concurrent
resolutions en bloc.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the con-
current resolutions be agreed to and
the motions to reconsider be consid-
ered made and laid upon the table with
no intervening action or debate en
bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The concurrent resolutions (S. Con.
Res 6 and S. Con. Res. 7) were agreed to
en bloc.
(The concurrent resolutions are
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
PESTICIDE REGISTRATION IM-
PROVEMENT EXTENSION ACT OF
2018
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the chair
lay before the body a message to ac-
company S. 483.
The Presiding Officer laid before the
Senate the following message from the
House of Representatives:
Resolved, That the bill from the Senate (S.
483) entitled ‘‘An act to enact into law a bill
by reference’’, do pass with an amendment.
MOTION TO CONCUR
Mr. MCCONNELL. I move to concur
in the House amendment to S. 483.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The mo-
tion is pending.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I know of no fur-
ther debate on the bill, as amended.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
further debate?
Hearing none, the question is on
agreeing to the motion to concur in the
House amendment to S. 483?
The motion was agreed to.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the motion to reconsider
be considered made and laid upon the
table with no intervening action or de-
bate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDERS FOR MONDAY, MARCH 4,
2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 3 p.m., Monday, March 4;
further, that following the prayer and
pledge, the morning hour be deemed
expired, the Journal of proceedings be
approved to date, the time for the two
leaders be reserved for their use later
in the day, morning business be closed,
and the Senate proceed to executive
session and resume consideration of
the Rushing nomination; finally, that
notwithstanding the provisions of rule
XXII, the cloture motions filed during
today’s session of the Senate ripen at
5:30 p.m., Monday, March 4.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL MONDAY,
MARCH 4, 2019, AT 3 P.M.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 6:17 p.m., adjourned until Monday,
March 4, 2019, at 3 p.m.
f
CONFIRMATIONS
Executive nominations confirmed by
the Senate February 28, 2019:
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
ANDREW WHEELER, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE ADMINIS-
TRATOR OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY.
TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY
JOHN L. RYDER, OF TENNESSEE, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE TENNESSEE VALLEY
AUTHORITY FOR A TERM EXPIRING MAY 18, 2021.
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be general
LT. GEN. MICHAEL X. GARRETT
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED AIR NATIONAL GUARD OF THE
UNITED STATES OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT IN THE RE-
SERVE OF THE AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12212:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:24 Mar 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\RECORD19\FEBRUARY\S28FE9.REC S28FE9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1607
February 28, 2019
To be brigadier general
COL. TIMOTHY J. DONNELLAN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED AIR NATIONAL GUARD OF THE
UNITED STATES OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT IN THE RE-
SERVE OF THE AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12212:
To be brigadier general
COL. STEPHEN J. MALLETTE
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be rear admiral (lower half)
CAPT. SCOTT M. BROWN
CAPT. CASEY J. MOTON
CAPT. STEPHEN R. TEDFORD
CAPT. ERIC H. VERHAGE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be rear admiral (lower half)
CAPT. JEFFREY T. ANDERSON
CAPT. STEPHEN D. BARNETT
CAPT. MICHAEL W. BAZE
CAPT. RICHARD T. BROPHY, JR.
CAPT. ANTHONY C. CARULLO
CAPT. ROBERT B. CHADWICK II
CAPT. JEFFREY J. CZEREWKO
CAPT. MICHAEL P. DONNELLY
CAPT. CHRISTOPHER M. ENGDAHL
CAPT. ROBERT M. GAUCHER
CAPT. DANIEL P. MARTIN
CAPT. JOHN V. MENONI
CAPT. CURT A. RENSHAW
CAPT. SCOTT F. ROBERTSON
CAPT. MILTON J. SANDS III
CAPT. PAUL C. SPEDERO, JR.
CAPT. CHRISTOPHER J. SWEENEY
CAPT. JEROMY B. WILLIAMS
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDI-
CATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE
AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION
601:
To be lieutenant general
LT. GEN. VERALINN JAMIESON
AIR FORCE NOMINATION OF JASON D. HOSKINS, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COLONEL.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH NANCY E.
COSTA AND ENDING WITH ALEXANDER O. KIRKPATRICK,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
JANUARY 24, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATION OF SAIPRASAD M. ZEMSE, TO
BE MAJOR.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH JEFFREY
WAYNE AKIN AND ENDING WITH STEVEN S. ZASUETA,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
JANUARY 24, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH DAVID C.
SALISBURY AND ENDING WITH ROBERT L. WILKIE, JR.,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
JANUARY 24, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH CRAIG K.
ABEE AND ENDING WITH CAROL A. YEAGER, WHICH NOMI-
NATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON JANUARY
24, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH MICHAEL J.
CHUNG AND ENDING WITH BRADLEY J. PIERSON, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON JANUARY
24, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATION OF ROBERT T. HINES, JR., TO
BE LIEUTENANT COLONEL.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH MARC A.
BANJAK AND ENDING WITH JENNIFER C. WHITKO, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON JANUARY
24, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH DENNIS M.
BRITTEN AND ENDING WITH KRISTEN MARIE WYRICK,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
JANUARY 24, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH JASON G.
ARNOLD AND ENDING WITH CARRIE A. SCHMID, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON JANUARY
24, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH DAVID P.
BAILEY AND ENDING WITH AMY S. SWETS, WHICH NOMI-
NATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON JANUARY
24, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH KIMBERLY
J. KLOEBER AND ENDING WITH MARSHA L. SCHUMAN,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
JANUARY 24, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATION OF JOYCE C. BEATY, TO BE
COLONEL.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH TIMOTHY S.
MCCARTY AND ENDING WITH TERESA M. STARKS, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON JANUARY
24, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH JENNIFER
J. ARCHER AND ENDING WITH LAWRENCE D. PEAVLER,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
JANUARY 24, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH ANDREW T.
ALLEN AND ENDING WITH ASSY YACOUB, WHICH NOMI-
NATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON JANUARY
24, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH ELHAM
BARANI AND ENDING WITH BRANDON H. WILLIAMS,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
JANUARY 24, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH HOMAYOUN
R. AHMADIAN AND ENDING WITH JOE X. ZHANG, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON JANUARY
24, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH FRANCIS E.
BECKER AND ENDING WITH BRENT J. WINWARD, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON JANUARY
24, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH MARGARET
E. ABBOTT AND ENDING WITH JEFFREY C. YEE, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON JANUARY
24, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH JOSEPH L.
ABRAMS AND ENDING WITH ALYSSA R. ZUEHL, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON JANUARY
24, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATION OF KATHERINE R. MORGANTI,
TO BE COLONEL.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH PATRICK N.
WESTMORELAND AND ENDING WITH AARON J. LIPPY,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
FEBRUARY 6, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATION OF TOLULOPE O. A. ADUROJA,
TO BE LIEUTENANT COLONEL.
AIR FORCE NOMINATION OF ERICK L. JACKSON, TO BE
MAJOR.
IN THE ARMY
ARMY NOMINATION OF JAMES B. FLOWERS, TO BE
COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF DYLAN T. RANDAZZO, TO BE
COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF JERRY D. HALLMAN, TO BE
COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF CHRISTOPHER P. MOELLERING,
TO BE MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF JOUBERT N. PAULINO, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF SAW K. SAN, TO BE MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH REBECCA J.
QUACKENBUSH AND ENDING WITH DAVID A. WATKINS,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
JANUARY 24, 2019.
ARMY NOMINATION OF STACIE L. KERVIN, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF BRIAN R. KOSSLER, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF KATHERINE A. O’BRIEN, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF JESSICA N.
PERALESLUDEMANN, TO BE MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF JULIA C. PHILLIPS, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF ALAIN M. ALEXANDRE, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF TALIAT A. ANIMASHAUN, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF G010349, TO BE MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF JORDANNA M. HOSTLER, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF ELIZABETH N. STRICKLAND, TO
BE MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF SHAWN M. T. MAY, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF KYLE A. ZAHN, TO BE MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF JOSEPH J. FANTONY, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF CHARITI D. PADEN, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF DONALD W. RAKES, TO BE COLO-
NEL.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH RONNIE S.
BARNES AND ENDING WITH FRANCIS R. MONTGOMERY,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
FEBRUARY 12, 2019.
ARMY NOMINATION OF CHARLES A. RILEY, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF RICHARD S. MCNUTT, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF LLOYD V. LOZADA, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH JULIO ACOSTA
AND ENDING WITH APRIL L. SAPP, WHICH NOMINATIONS
WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON FEBRUARY 12, 2019.
IN THE MARINE CORPS
MARINE CORPS NOMINATION OF MATTHEW T. COUGH-
LIN, TO BE COLONEL.
MARINE CORPS NOMINATION OF BETHANNE CANERO,
TO BE LIEUTENANT COLONEL.
MARINE CORPS NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH KEVIN
T. BROWNLEE AND ENDING WITH DANIEL L. YOUMANS,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
JANUARY 24, 2019.
MARINE CORPS NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH KEVIN
F. CHAMPAIGNE AND ENDING WITH JOHN C. JOHNSON,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
JANUARY 24, 2019.
MARINE CORPS NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH AARON
J. GRIFFUS AND ENDING WITH JEREMIAH J. ZEISZLER,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
JANUARY 24, 2019.
MARINE CORPS NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH DAN-
IEL H. CUSINATO AND ENDING WITH EDUARDO QUIROZ,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
JANUARY 24, 2019.
MARINE CORPS NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH
ARMANDO A. FREIRE AND ENDING WITH ANDREW J.
SHRIVER, WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE
SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD ON JANUARY 24, 2019.
MARINE CORPS NOMINATION OF STEPHEN R. BYRNES,
TO BE LIEUTENANT COLONEL.
MARINE CORPS NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH HER-
MAN E. HOLLEY AND ENDING WITH BRIAN E. KELLY,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
JANUARY 24, 2019.
MARINE CORPS NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH
DARREN M. GALLAGHER AND ENDING WITH AUSTIN E.
WREN, WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE
SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD ON JANUARY 24, 2019.
MARINE CORPS NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH ALEX-
ANDER N. ABATE AND ENDING WITH JOSEPH A.
ZUKOWSKI, JR., WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED
BY THE SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD ON JANUARY 24, 2019 .
MARINE CORPS NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH GER-
MAN ALICEALAPUERTA AND ENDING WITH LYDIA A. SI-
MONS, WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE
SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD ON JANUARY 24, 2019.
MARINE CORPS NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH ERIC J.
ADAMS AND ENDING WITH WAYNE R. ZUBER, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON JANUARY
24, 2019.
MARINE CORPS NOMINATION OF JOSEPH W. CRANDALL,
TO BE COLONEL.
MARINE CORPS NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH AARON
S. ELLIS AND ENDING WITH CURTIS B. MILLER, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON JANUARY
24, 2019.
MARINE CORPS NOMINATION OF JUSTIN D. MOSLEY, TO
BE MAJOR.
MARINE CORPS NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH AN-
DRES J. AGRAMONTE AND ENDING WITH ROSS A.
HRYNEWYCH, WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY
THE SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD ON JANUARY 24, 2019.
MARINE CORPS NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH BETH-
ANY S. PETERSON AND ENDING WITH JON T. PETERSON,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
FEBRUARY 6, 2019.
IN THE NAVY
NAVY NOMINATION OF JESSICA M. P. MILLER, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER .
NAVY NOMINATION OF ROSEMARY M. HARDESTY, TO
BE LIEUTENANT COMMANDER .
NAVY NOMINATION OF BRETT T. THOMAS, TO BE LIEU-
TENANT COMMANDER.
NAVY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH SCOTT A. ADAMS
AND ENDING WITH BRET A. YOUNT, WHICH NOMINATIONS
WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON FEBRUARY 6, 2019.
NAVY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH PETER D. ALLEN
AND ENDING WITH ROBERT D. WILLIAMS, WHICH NOMI-
NATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON FEBRUARY
12, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:53 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A28FE6.002 S28FEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E227
February 28, 2019
RECOGNIZING DAVE SNUGGS OF
GREAT FALLS
HON. GREG GIANFORTE
OF MONTANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 28, 2019
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Dave Snuggs of Great Falls
who founded and leads My Neighbor in Need,
a nonprofit organization that helps provide re-
sources to people in need.
With the help of computer programmer Tom
Penwell, Dave created myneighborinneed.org,
a platform for people to anonymously request
help. The organization evaluates a request
and lists it on their website where members of
the community can volunteer to meet the
need.
My Neighbor in Need relies on the gen-
erosity of neighbors to fulfill essential needs,
including winter clothes, beds, furniture, car
and home repairs, help with utility bills, and
transit passes or bicycles for people to get to
and from work. The organization, which cele-
brates its seventh anniversary on March 20,
has helped fulfill nearly 13,000 individual re-
quests for help.
My Neighbor in Need has grown from a
one-man operation to a 501(c)(3) nonprofit or-
ganization operating in Montana and nine cit-
ies in Wisconsin.
In 2013, Dave launched a similar concept to
meet the needs of Montana students. My Stu-
dent in Need now operates in over 160
schools throughout Montana and has helped
fulfill over 2,800 requests from teachers on be-
half of their students.
‘‘I always have believed that people genu-
inely want to help their neighbors if they were
made aware of their needs,’’ Dave said. ‘‘My
Neighbor in Need and My Student in Need
truly represent the good in the communities
we serve.’’
Madam Speaker, for his dedication to our
communities and his innovative approach to
helping those in need, I recognize Dave
Snuggs for his spirit of Montana.
f
REMEMBERING THE KHOJALY
MASSACRE
HON. TIM RYAN
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 28, 2019
Mr. RYAN. Madam Speaker, I rise today in
remembrance of the Khojaly Massacre, and to
honor the victims of this horrendous act.
The appalling massacre perpetrated on the
innocent people of Khojaly in February 1992 is
no less shocking 27 years later. One of the
worst atrocities ever committed in the South
Caucasus, justice has still not been delivered
and 150 civilians are still missing.
As we demand respect for human rights and
democratic accountability within the inter-
national community, it is important that we
continue to remember what happened in
Khojaly and bring those responsible to ac-
count.
f
BIPARTISAN BACKGROUND
CHECKS ACT OF 2019
SPEECH OF
HON. ANNA G. ESHOO
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, February 27, 2019
The House in Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union had under
consideration the bill (H.R. 8) to require a
background check for every firearm sale.
Ms. ESHOO. Mr. Chair, I’m very proud to be
a cosponsor of H.R. 8, the Bipartisan Back-
ground Checks Act of 2019, the most signifi-
cant gun violence legislation to be considered
in the House in over a decade. H.R. 8
strengthens our current laws on background
checks by closing loopholes and ensuring that
dangerous people do not have the opportunity
to purchase a weapon. This legislation is crit-
ical and long overdue because 40 percent of
gun sales are made with no background check
at all.
Over 70 percent of Americans, including a
majority of gun owners, support universal
background checks. Why? Because they help
keep guns out of the hands of criminals. The
current system has already stopped three mil-
lion gun sales to convicted felons and others
who are prohibited by law from owning a fire-
arm. These checks do nothing to infringe upon
the right of law-abiding citizens to keep and
use firearms for recreation, subsistence, or
even self-defense, and importantly, the vast
majority of background checks are completed
within minutes.
When the Supreme Court first recognized
an individual’s right to carry a gun in the 2008
case District of Columbia v. Heller, it also ac-
knowledged that the Second Amendment does
not prevent Congress from imposing reason-
able restrictions on gun sales. The right of re-
sponsible citizens to keep and bear arms must
be carefully weighed against the right of all
Americans to live in a safe society, and I be-
lieve H.R. 8 strikes the right balance between
protecting the latter without infringing upon the
former.
For too long, unreasonable forces have pre-
vented serious consideration of virtually any
gun legislation, no matter how commonsense
it is. Ninety-six Americans are killed by a gun
every day, and we owe it to them, their fami-
lies, and the people of Newtown, Orlando, Las
Vegas, Parkland, and so many other commu-
nities to take meaningful action. Too many in-
nocent lives have been taken and the Amer-
ican people deserve so much better.
I wish to thank the thousands of devoted ac-
tivists, including Moms Demand Action, for
raising their voices across my Congressional
District and across our country to end gun vio-
lence in our nation.
RECOGNIZING MRS. WILLIE C.
WOODSON ON THE CELEBRATION
OF HER 100TH BIRTHDAY
HON. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 28, 2019
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Madam Speaker,
on Sunday, February 24, the People’s Mis-
sionary Baptist Church in Dallas, Texas will
celebrate Mrs. Willie C. Woodson on the occa-
sion of her 100th birthday.
Mrs. Woodson was born in Burneysville,
Oklahoma, on February 19, 1919—the third of
fourteen children. She and her older brother,
Thomas, were often tasked with caring for
their younger siblings on top of school work.
Shortly after starting the ninth grade at a local
high school in Ardmore, Oklahoma, Mrs.
Woodson’s family came under hard times that
left her without money to pay for books or
school lunches. She was left with no choice
but to forego her remaining years in school
and focus on her family, her community, and
her faith.
Upon her move to Dallas, Mrs. Woodson
joined the People’s Missionary Baptist Church
and has been a devout member ever since.
As one of the eldest active members of the
church and a known mentor to all, she is com-
monly referred to as ‘Mother Woodson’ by
family and friends alike. No matter how busy
she is, she always makes the time to attend
church every Sunday morning. She especially
loves to attend the service on the first Sunday
of the month because she enjoys sitting with
the church’s Mothers Board in their assigned
row, dressed in white.
Mrs. Woodson refuses to let the limitations
of old age stop her from a full schedule of ac-
tivities. She has many hobbies that fill her free
time, including reading, watching wrestling and
cheering on the local Dallas sports teams. She
also still prepares all of her meals and cleans
the house on her own.
Madam Speaker, I want to commend Mrs.
Willie C. Woodson for a life dedicated to her
family, friends and church and want to wish
her the happiest of birthdays. Congratulations
are in order for her and her family as they cel-
ebrate this extraordinary milestone.
f
HONORING KEVIN CORBETT
HON. H. MORGAN GRIFFITH
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 28, 2019
Mr. GRIFFITH. Madam Speaker, I rise In
honor of Kevin Corbett of Bristol, Virginia, who
passed away on February 15, 2019, at the
age of 63. Kevin was filled with devotion to the
people of the City of Bristol.
In Kevin’s younger years, he served his
country by enlisting in the United States Army.
As an Armor Crewman, he eventually rose to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:17 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K28FE8.001 E28FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E228 February 28, 2019
Staff Sergeant. He continued his service in
Bristol by joining its Police Department in
1982. When he retired in 2006, he was a De-
tective Lieutenant in the Criminal Investigation
Division.
Outside of his career, he remained a be-
loved and active presence in the Bristol com-
munity. I knew him for his work on the Ninth
District Republican Committee, where he was
the Bristol Unit Chairman and represented the
district on the State Central Committee. As a
member of St. Anne Catholic Church, he was
devoted to his God and his parish.
Kevin will be long remembered by many for
his kindnesses. Befitting a man who followed
a career path of service, he was always willing
to help others. His survivors include his two
children, Allison and Shawn, five grand-
children, and his sister, Jackie Collins. I offer
my condolences to them on the loss of this
fine man.
f
RECOGNIZING TWO MAINE CON-
STITUENTS, DR. MICHAEL TAY-
LOR AND WENDY TAYLOR
HON. CHELLIE PINGREE
OF MAINE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 28, 2019
Ms. PINGREE. Madam Speaker, I would
like to recognize two of my Maine constitu-
ents, Dr. Michael Taylor and Wendy Taylor,
whose shared vision, determination, and com-
mitment have changed and saved lives in
Northern Haiti and engaged countless Mainers
in support of better health and better lives.
Over seventy years ago, the founding docu-
ments of the World Health Association pro-
claimed that ‘‘The enjoyment of the highest at-
tainable standard of health is one of the fun-
damental rights of every human being without
distinction of race, religion, political belief, eco-
nomic or social condition.’’
Michael and Wendy Taylor have long be-
lieved in this right, and they recognized the
extraordinary need in Haiti. In establishing
Konbit Sante in 2001, they committed to sup-
porting the development of an improved health
care system to meet the needs of the Cap
Haitien community. Their vision was to ensure
maximum local direction and partnerships
within the existing system rather than the cre-
ation of a parallel system. And they knew that
it was important to not just improve access to
health care, but to improve the quality of that
care.
The beauty of this effort has been in the
Konbit—which, in Haitian Creole, loosely
translates to working together for a common
goal. Rather than providing short-term exper-
tise, Konbit Sante’s focus has been on
strengthening infrastructure, enhancing train-
ing, and ensuring necessary resources. Right
from the start, the Taylors recognized that
real, sustainable improvements in an under-
resourced health system required taking the
long view. This has not been fast nor always
easy, but this capacity building model—trust-
ing and supporting Haitians to serve Hai-
tians—has yielded extraordinary results.
Michael and Wendy have had successful
careers, raised children, enjoyed art and
music, nurtured deep and enduring friend-
ships, and travelled the world—always coming
back to coastal Maine. Along the way they
have invested their time, talents, and re-
sources in doing good, making lasting con-
tributions for the betterment of humankind and
inspiring so many others to join them.
Dr. Taylor is receiving the 2019 Presidential
Citation today from the American Academy of
Dermatologists in recognition of his extraor-
dinary contributions to the people of Haiti. His
wife and Konbit Sante cofounder, Wendy, will
be at his side. I want to congratulate them
both, as they make me proud to represent the
good people of Maine.
f
TERMINATION OF NATIONAL
EMERGENCY DECLARED BY THE
PRESIDENT ON FEBRUARY 15,
2019
SPEECH OF
HON. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, February 26, 2019
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, after
failing to get federal funding for his ineffective
and overpriced border wall, President Trump
has declared a national emergency at our
southern border to try and sidestep
Congress’s constitutional authority so he can
fulfill a campaign promise.
After the President shut down the govern-
ment for 35 days, my colleagues and I came
to an agreement that wisely invested in effec-
tive solutions to secure the border. Some of
these solutions included infrastructure im-
provements at ports of entry, the hiring of ad-
ditional immigration judges and technology en-
hancements to detect border crossings. Clear-
ly, with this national emergency declaration,
the president and his administration would
rather stick to a slogan than actually secure
the border.
The emergency declaration signed by the
president would rob taxpayer money from high
priority military construction projects, including
projects in the state of Texas, and instead re-
directs that funding towards his pet project.
This egregious misuse of taxpayer funds
leaves our country less safe by denying mili-
tary personal the essential training, readiness
and quality of life necessary for them to do
their job.
This unlawful action by the President cannot
be tolerated. I urge my colleagues to vote in
favor of this joint resolution of disapproval so
that we can do our solemn duty and uphold
the Constitution.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ERIC SWALWELL
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 28, 2019
Mr. SWALWELL of California. Madam
Speaker, I missed votes on Monday, February
25. Had I been present, I would have voted as
follows: Roll Call Vote Number 88 (Passage of
H.R. 539, the Innovators to Entrepreneurs
Act): YES; Roll Call Vote Number 89 (Pas-
sage of H.R. 328, the Recognizing Achieve-
ment in Classified School Employees Act):
YES.
HONORING THE CITY OF AURORA
AFRICAN AMERICAN ADVISORY
BOARD ANNUAL HERITAGE DIN-
NER AND OFFICER SKYY CALICE
AS THE 2019 AFRICAN-AMERICAN
LEADER OF THE YEAR
HON. BILL FOSTER
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 28, 2019
Mr. FOSTER. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Officer Skyy Calice as the recipi-
ent of the City of Aurora’s African American
Heritage Advisory Board’s 2019 African-Amer-
ican Leader of the Year award.
Officer Calice with the Aurora Police Depart-
ment has been a true star in our community.
As a Community Oriented Policing Officer, she
has used her perspective and experience to
launch numerous initiatives to make a dif-
ference. She established the Girls Run the
World mentoring program to help guide young
ladies in our local high schools to reach their
full potential. Programs like this have been
crucial to so many of our community members
and future leaders.
I would like to thank Officer Calice for her
honorable commitment to her community. I
would also like to express my support for the
City of Aurora’s African American Advisory
Board Annual Heritage Dinner. The commit-
ment of dedicated public servants like Officer
Calice is an inspiration to all of us.
f
IN MEMORY OF LOU WACKER
HON. H. MORGAN GRIFFITH
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 28, 2019
Mr. GRIFFITH. Madam Speaker, I rise in
memory of Lou Wacker, who died on February
15, 2019, at the age of 84. Mr. Wacker was
the celebrated football coach for 23 seasons
at my alma mater, Emory & Henry College,
where he compiled an impressive record and
shaped the lives of many young men. The
Richmond Times-Dispatch quoted him as say-
ing on his retirement, ‘‘To say that Emory &
Henry College and the football program have
been a big part of my life for 23 years would
be an understatement; it has been my life.’’
Coach Wacker was a native of Richmond
and excelled at football during his time at the
University of Richmond. Before his tenure at
Emory & Henry, he was a defensive coordi-
nator at Hampden-Sydney College. His arrival
at Emory & Henry in 1982 started an incred-
ible run for the Wasps. By the time he retired
in 2004, his teams had compiled a 164–76
record, including seventeen consecutive win-
ning seasons, a 37-game winning streak from
1991 to 1998, and eleven Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference Championships.
After retiring, Coach Wacker stayed close to
Emory. For his great success, he received
many honors, including induction into the
Emory & Henry College Hall of Fame and the
Virginia Sports Hall of Fame. The home
grandstand at Emory & Henry’s football sta-
dium also bears his name. The many players
and assistants he mentored over the years will
remember him for his skill as a coach and for
the impact he had on them.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:17 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A28FE8.003 E28FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E229
February 28, 2019
Coach Wacker’s survivors include his chil-
dren Bruce, Kristen, and Louis, and his grand-
children Anna Whitehead, Adele Kraus, and
Robin Kraus. I offer my condolences to them
on their loss.
f
SITES RESERVOIR PROJECT ACT
HON. JOHN GARAMENDI
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 28, 2019
Mr. GARAMENDI. Madam Speaker, today I
introduce the ‘‘Sites Reservoir Project Act,’’
which would provide federal support for the
1.8 million acre-feet Sites Reservoir and re-
lated water infrastructure in Colusa and Glenn
Counties.
Specifically, the ‘‘Sites Reservoir Project
Act’’ would direct the Bureau of Reclamation
to complete the feasibility study for the project
and, if deemed feasible, authorize federal
funding and technical support for its construc-
tion. The reservoir would be owned and oper-
ated by the Sites Joint Powers Authority, a re-
gional consortium of local water agencies and
counties formed in 2010.
Our state must make forward-looking invest-
ments to capture and store water during wet
years for use during drought. The Sites Res-
ervoir is one such critical infrastructure project
needed to meet California’s future water
needs, given climate change. The project is
essential to integrated water management in
the Sacramento Valley and would maximize
storage of excess Sacramento River flows
during winter storms for use later in the year.
The Sites Reservoir Project would increase
storage capacity north of the Sacramento-San
Joaquin Delta, improving resiliency in our
statewide water system, and helping to ad-
vance California’s renewable energy goals
with the pumped-storage component planned
for phase II of the project.
To date, more than $1.2 billion in public
funding has been committed to the Sites Res-
ervoir Project, including $816 million from Cali-
fornia’s State Water Bond (2014 Proposition 1)
and federal funding from the Bureau of Rec-
lamation for the feasibility study and related
work. In November 2018, the U.S. Department
of Agriculture committed $449 million in low-in-
terest financing from the Rural Development
Program, recognizing the project’s importance
to California’s farming communities.
Madam Speaker, I thank my colleague and
northern California neighbor Congressman
DOUG LAMALFA (R–CA) for his support as the
bill’s original cosponsor and for sponsoring
similar legislation in previous Congresses.
I look forward to working with all members
of the California delegation to advance this bi-
partisan bill and see this critical reservoir
project completed.
f
JEREMIAH G. HAMILTON
HON. JERROLD NADLER
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 28, 2019
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, as we cele-
brate Black History Month, I rise today to com-
memorate the life of Jeremiah G. Hamilton,
the first black millionaire in the United States,
whose story has been absent from the history
books. I have the honor of representing the
district in which Mr. Hamilton lived and
worked.
Born in the West Indies in 1807, Mr. Ham-
ilton made his way to New York in 1828 and
began amassing his fortune by selling stocks
to both black and white entrepreneurs. He was
touted as being astute in successfully pre-
dicting the markets and became a prominent
financier and businessman on Wall Street in
the pre-Civil War era.
Mr. Hamilton defied many conventions of his
time as he rose to the top of the business
world. He owned stock of railroad companies
on whose trains he was not legally allowed to
ride. He married a white woman named Eliza
Morris and had a close relationship with his
friend Benjamin Day, who was the publisher of
the Sun Newspaper. He took on titans of in-
dustry, including battling Cornelius Vanderbilt
over control of the Accessory Transit Com-
pany until he got a settlement. In fact, in
Vanderbilt’s obituary it is stated, ‘‘There was
only one man who ever fought the Com-
modore to the end, and that was Jeremiah
Hamilton . . . the Commodore respected
him.’’
However, Mr. Hamilton faced the horrors of
the rampant racism and violence against Afri-
can-Americans in the mid-19th century. In the
1830s, insurance companies blackballed him
and refused to underwrite his business ven-
tures. During the draft riots in 1863, white men
unsuccessfully sought to lynch Mr. Hamilton in
his own home.
Jeremiah G. Hamilton died in 1875, leaving
behind an estate of $2 million, which would be
around $45 million today.
It is vital that the history of America reflects
the lives of all Americans, and I am proud to
help share some of the lost history from the
10th Congressional District.
Madam Speaker, I ask all of my colleagues
to join me in recognizing not only the life of
Jeremiah G. Hamilton but the dedicated work
of both the Committee to Commemorate Jere-
miah G. Hamilton and historian Shane White
to create a permanent place in history for the
first African-American millionaire.
The Committee to Commemorate Jeremiah
G. Hamilton was established in February 2018
by community activists, including Dr. Sam D.
Albert, Hon. Louise Dankberg, Hon. Alan J.
Gerson, Gail Green, Barbara Guinan, Greg
Lambert, Esq., Christine Merritt, Hon. Daisy
Paez, Mark P. Thompson, Leona Zeplin and
the Committee’s Co-Chairs Dolores Leito and
Hon. Michelle D. Winfield.
f
CELEBRATING THE LIFE OF
BETTIE MAE FIKES
HON. TERRI A. SEWELL
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 28, 2019
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to honor the extraordinary life of
Ms. Bettie Mae Fikes, the ’’Voice of Selma.’’
At the age of 16, Ms. Fikes was one of the
singers of the Civil Rights Movement and a
member of the Students Nonviolent Coordi-
nating Committee (SNCC), which was the only
national civil rights organization led by young
people during the Movement. Ms. Fikes brave-
ly led marches with songs, registered voters,
boycotted buses, sat in at lunch-counters and
led walkouts at R.B. Hudson High School to
support the desegregation of the school.
From an early age, Ms. Fikes began singing
with her parents, both of whom were from
families of gospel singers and preachers. Ms.
Fikes was exposed to classic hymns and
songs and was encouraged to use her voice
to sing with her parents. At the tender age of
four, Ms. Fikes had her first big performance:
her first church solo. With that success, she
began to travel throughout the country with
her parents’ groups, the SB Gospel Singers
and the Pilgrim Four. However, when Ms.
Fikes’s mother passed away when she was 10
years old, she moved around from Michigan,
California, and finally to Selma, Alabama.
Ms. Fikes continued to be involved in sing-
ing in the church when she moved to Selma.
She used every opportunity she could to let
her voice be heard. It is no surprise, given her
background that she proved to be an emerg-
ing music leader when she joined SNCC at
age 16. The more she became involved with
SNCC, the more it became apparent that she
would go to jail.
The foot soldiers of the Civil Rights Move-
ment prepared themselves for the eventuality
that they would be arrested. If an officer an-
nounced that they were under arrest, they
knew to fall to their knees and to force the offi-
cers to carry them to the bus. However, when
the time came, Ms. Fikes and her friend Eve-
lyn Manns realized the police were using cat-
tle prods on the young men and women. Hop-
ing to avoid this pain, both women stood up
and loaded the bus to go to jail.
Ms. Fikes bounced between the county and
city jail, Camp Selma and Camp Camden. She
was brought before Judge Reynolds where
she was repeatedly asked who organized the
march. Judge Reynolds and others hoped that
the students would implicate Martin Luther
King, Jr. in hopes of building a case against
Dr. King for contributing to the delinquency of
minors. Instead, Ms. Fikes loudly declared:
‘‘Jesus lead me, and my mama feed me.’’ This
frustrated the judge and led to Ms. Fikes being
jailed for nearly three weeks.
Instead of being defeated, Ms. Fikes used
this time to organize other young people who
were also sent to jail.
‘‘I had been there so long I felt like a trustee
there,’’ she once said. With this new Trustee
status and the assistance of Reverend F.D.
Reese of Ebenezer Missionary Baptist Church
in Selma, Ms. Fikes was able to help others.
Ms. Fikes also bore witness to Bloody Sun-
day. That morning Ms. Fikes was a mes-
senger, carrying messages from Brown Chap-
el AME to the head of the line at the base of
the Edmund Pettus Bridge. She described the
experience later, saying, ’’You know how it
feels just before a storm—there was nobody
walking on the streets . . . it was such a still-
ness that you can’t explain.’’
As tensions rose, Ms. Fikes continued deliv-
ering messages back and forth, when, finally,
a half block from the church, she heard the
rumbling of Bloody Sunday: ‘‘Out of this still-
ness, this earthquake [sound], the ground it
just shifted . . . and when I looked up . . .
people were running everywhere.’’ Despite the
hate and the violence, Ms. Fikes saw the true
spirit of the foot soldiers of Selma.
After her time in Selma, Ms. Fikes went on
to become a very successful singer who has
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:17 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A28FE8.008 E28FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E230 February 28, 2019
graced the stages of Carnegie Hall and the Li-
brary of Congress, as well as the 2004 Demo-
cratic National Convention where she was in-
troduced by Maya Angelou. She has had the
opportunity to perform with Joe Turner,
Lightnin’ Hopkins, Albert King, James Brown,
Bob Dylan, and Mavis Staples, among others.
She continues to travel throughout the United
States and Canada to speak about diversity
and civil rights, because although we have
come a long way, there is always work to be
done to advance justice and equality.
On a personal note, I grew up in Selma
hearing the voice of Bettie Mae Fikes. Her
beautiful voice was the soundtrack of the his-
toric march from Selma to Montgomery. I am
so grateful that she faithfully returns on the pil-
grimage to Selma each year with Congress-
man JOHN LEWIS and the Faith and Politics In-
stitute to commemorate Bloody Sunday. Her
beautiful music continues to move us all as we
rededicate ourselves to the ideals of equality
and justice for all. I know that I would not be
Alabama’s first black Congresswoman today
had it not been for the bravery and sacrifice of
freedom fighters like Bettie Mae Fikes.
Madam Speaker, on behalf of the 7th Con-
gressional District and the State of Alabama,
I ask my colleagues to join me in celebrating
the activism and lasting contributions of Ms.
Bettie Mae Fikes. Through song, her melo-
dious voice was an inspiration for the Civil
Rights Movement that changed a nation. Her
work as an educator, her incredible voice and
her story will be remembered in Alabama for
many years to come.
f
TERMINATION OF NATIONAL
EMERGENCY DECLARED BY THE
PRESIDENT ON FEBRUARY 15,
2019
SPEECH OF
HON. MARCY KAPTUR
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, February 26, 2019
Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I rise to praise
this House for its swift passage of H.J. Res
46, a bipartisan bill to terminate President
Trump’s declaration of a Fake National Emer-
gency.
The President’s declaration is not only an
unconstitutional attempt to circumvent Con-
gress and the will of the people. It also shows
an unprecedented disregard for precedent, as
well as the values and institutions enshrined in
our Constitution.
To pay for his wall, President Trump will not
get the funds from Mexico as he promised but
from our troops, robbing $3.5 billion from the
Department of Defense, funds which were
passed to improve military family housing,
training facilities, security of overseas bases,
and much more.
Just in Ohio, over $90 million in military con-
struction investment is being placed at risk, in-
cluding $61,000,000 for Wright-Patterson Air
Force Base’s Intelligence Production Complex
and $7,400,000 for Camp Ravenna’s Auto-
mated Multipurpose Machine Gun Range.
Mr. Speaker, this declaration was not found-
ed in the security of our nation, but in deliv-
ering on an ill-advised campaign promise. We
cannot allow the President to ask those who
have sacrificed already to sacrifice even
more—especially for an expensive border wall
few think will even work. Now, it’s on the Sen-
ate to take up and pass this resolution without
delay.
f
RECOGNIZING MRS. INEZ DOROTHY
YOUNG GIBSON ON THE CELE-
BRATION OF HER 100TH BIRTH-
DAY
HON. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 28, 2019
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Madam Speaker,
I am excited to recognize Inez Dorothy Young
Gibson, a revered member of the Dallas,
Texas, community, who will celebrate her
100th birthday on this upcoming March 26th.
Mrs. Gibson was raised in Rockwall, Texas,
home of the Caddo Indians. Heavy racial and
residential segregation in the area prompted a
move to Dallas, Texas in 1936, for Mrs. Gib-
son and her family. She attended Burnett High
School, an all-African-American school in
Terrell, Texas, and graduated with honors.
Mrs. Gibson later became a Vocational
Nurse at the Methodist Hospital of Dallas,
where she served for an impressive 23 years.
She has also been heavily involved in commu-
nity engagement and social activism through-
out her life, specifically work to improve the
South Dallas/Fair Park area. Mrs. Gibson has
donated countless hours of her time to volun-
teer with the Warren Avenue Christian Church
and Dallas ISD’s Reading is Fundamental Pro-
gram, among others.
Mrs. Gibson married T.D. Gibson, Sr. on
August 19, 1943, and had four children:
Marilyn, T.D. Jr., Michael, and Charmin. She
is now the affectionate matriarch of 11 grand-
children and 17 great-grandchildren.
Madam Speaker, I wish to commend Mrs.
Inez Dorothy Young Gibson for a life dedi-
cated to her family, friends and the Dallas
community, and want to wish her a very happy
100th birthday. Congratulations are in order as
she celebrates this extraordinary milestone.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE SECURING
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SE-
CURITY FIREARMS ACT
HON. J. LUIS CORREA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 28, 2019
Mr. CORREA. Madam Speaker, regrettably,
there have been too many instances in which
Department of Homeland Security officers
have misplaced or lost their Department-
issued firearms due to a failure to properly se-
cure such sensitive assets.
In October 2017, the DHS Office of Inspec-
tor General found that 2,142 sensitive as-
sets—including 228 firearms and 1,889
badges—were misplaced between fiscal years
2014 and 2016. Most of these losses were
due to DHS personnel who did not properly
safeguard such sensitive assets. The Office of
Inspector General identified the lack of a De-
partment-wide firearm policy as a major rea-
son why sensitive assets were not secured.
Therefore, I am introducing the Securing
Department of Homeland Security Firearms
Act, which improves the accountability of
DHS-issued firearms and other sensitive as-
sets. Specifically, the bill directs DHS to de-
velop and distribute a Department-wide direc-
tive for achieving adequate security over fire-
arms and other sensitive assets. That directive
must include reporting and recordkeeping re-
quirements for lost assets. Additionally, the bill
requires that DHS provide officers with training
and guidance on how to follow safeguarding
requirements and how to properly report the
loss or theft of a firearm.
Due to its mission, DHS has a variety of
highly sensitive equipment. Failure to safe-
guard those assets can have grave con-
sequences for public safety and homeland se-
curity. This measure will foster greater ac-
countability and security within DHS.
f
HONORING LIEUTENANT ERIC JI-
MENEZ, U.S. NAVY, ON EIGHT
YEARS OF ACTIVE DUTY SERV-
ICE TO THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA
HON. KEVIN HERN
OF OKLAHOMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 28, 2019
Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma. Madam
Speaker, today I offer my heartfelt congratula-
tions to Lieutenant Eric Jimenez, a resident of
Tulsa, Oklahoma, on eight years of dedicated
active duty service to our Country in the
United States Navy.
Lt. Jimenez currently serves as an Oper-
ations Research Analyst in the Naval Service
Warfare Center in Bethesda, Maryland. He en-
tered the USN in 2011, and served in numer-
ous assignments and deployments throughout
his distinguished career.
Lt. Jimenez has shown not only outstanding
leadership, but uncommon technical skill. As a
Reactor Control Officer on the USS Santa Fe,
he managed a team of nine nuclear trained
electronics technicians charged with maintain-
ing nuclear reactor protection systems. He fur-
ther trained an underperforming division by im-
plementing a rigorous training and monitoring
program resulting in a two-letter grade im-
provement in all categories of the Operational
Reactor Safeguards Examination (ORSE). As
an Electrical Division Officer, Lt. Jimenez
maintained a 100 percent electrical safety
training performance and executed the ship’s
electrical safety program using the most up-to-
date instructions and notices. As Assistant
Weapons Officer, Lt. Jimenez led his team
through several weapons exercises, earning
the 2015 Commanders Submarines Squadron
SEVEN Battle Efficiency and the Submarine
Squadron Seven Weapons Excellence White
‘‘W’’ award.
Since November of 2016, Lt. Jimenez has
led four studies, valued at $3 million dollars, in
the development, analysis, and interpretation
of results of Defense Planning Scenarios de-
signed to inform and influence Navy senior ex-
ecutive leadership. He further served as a co-
chair on Technical Evaluation Boards, over-
viewing contract proposals worth an estimated
$1.5 million.
On behalf of Oklahoma’s First Congres-
sional District, I commend and congratulate
my constituent, Lieutenant Eric Jimenez, on
his devoted service to the United States of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:17 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A28FE8.011 E28FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E231
February 28, 2019
America. May we learn from this young man
the virtues of self-sacrifice and fidelity to our
beloved Nation.
f
HONORING DR. ADOLPHUS
HAILSTORK
HON. PAUL TONKO
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 28, 2019
Mr. TONKA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
celebrate the work of Dr. Adolphus Hailstork.
Dr. Hailstork is a leading composer and pro-
fessor who has dedicated his life to the study,
composition, and continuation of musical ex-
cellence. He has written numerous works for
chorus, chamber ensembles, piano, organ,
band and orchestra, which are performed and
celebrated around the world.
Born in Rochester, NY, but raised in Albany,
Dr. Hailstork’s remarkable musical career can
be traced back to his membership in the his-
toric Cathedral of All Saints Choir of Men and
Boys, the oldest continually performing en-
semble of its kind in the United States. His
membership in the Choir was the catalyst to
more than seventy years of creative expres-
sion and musical prowess.
Since his time with the Choir, he has pur-
sued a career in music with relentless dedica-
tion. During his years at Albany High School,
he began composing music regularly. He re-
ceived degrees from Howard University and
the Manhattan School of Music and studied in
France with famed composer and teacher
Nadia Boulanger before receiving his doc-
torate from Michigan State University in 1971.
What makes Dr. Hailstork truly admirable is
not only his aptitude in making music, but his
desire and skill in teaching it, passing on his
substantial knowledge to future musicians. He
has served as professor at Youngstown State
University in Ohio and at Norfolk State Univer-
sity in Virginia. Currently, he works as a pro-
fessor of music and Composer-in-Residence
at Old Dominion University in Norfolk.
One of the most incredible aspects of music
is its ability to connect individuals of all ages
and backgrounds. Dr. Hailstork’s work exem-
plifies this idea. He has studied, composed
and taught a vast range of musical styles and
genres, focusing on classical compositions
with a blend of African American and Euro-
pean traditions. His masterful compositions
have been performed by the New York Phil-
harmonic, Chicago Symphony, Los Angeles
Philharmonic and numerous other prestigious
orchestras.
This year marks the 60th anniversary of Dr.
Hailstork’s graduation from Albany High
School. Since his time in New York’s Capital
Region, he has left an imprint on the districts
culture and society that will not soon fade.
On behalf of the United States Congress, it
is my great honor and privilege to recognize
Dr. Hailstork’s accomplishments. I offer my
gratitude for his immeasurable dedication and
wish him continued success in the years to
come.
RECOGNIZING THE RAINWATER
FAMILY AND THEIR CONTRIBU-
TIONS TO THE CITY OF
CARROLLTON, TEXAS
HON. KENNY MARCHANT
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 28, 2019
Mr. MARCHANT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to celebrate trailblazers for equality like
the Rainwater Family of Carrollton, Texas dur-
ing this Black History Month. Over the last 100
years, each generation of the Rainwater family
has persistently worked to grow Carrollton,
Texas, into a diverse, inclusive, and loving
community.
Born on February 3, 1912, Annie Heads
Rainwater was the sixth child of Walter and
Nancy Heads. In 1932, Annie married Charlie
‘‘Wash’’ Rainwater, son of George W. Rain-
water and Delia Bush. Annie and Charlie had
eight children, two of which passed away as
infants. Annie and Charlie lived on the family
farm belonging to Annie’s grandparents—lo-
cated in present day Carrollton, Texas. Annie
was a homemaker and Charlie managed the
family farm. Together, they attended church
and spent time instilling Christian values of
charity, hard work, and friendship in their chil-
dren.
In 1962, Dallas’ school district desegrega-
tion plan was slowly being put into place. In
Carrollton, a then-rural school district to the
northwest, Annie Heads Rainwater’s six chil-
dren had no neighborhood high school. Under
segregation laws and as was customary, black
students were not allowed to attend the all-
white Carrollton High School just minutes
away from the Rainwater family farm. Black
students were bused 20 miles to all-black
Booker T. Washington High School in Dallas,
and later, 30 miles north to Denton’s all-black
Fred Moore High.
To Mrs. Rainwater, the school system had
failed her family. As a recent widow, Mrs.
Rainwater filed civil action in U.S. District
Court against Carrollton’s school district, de-
manding desegregation. Her younger daugh-
ters, Nancy and Betty, were named as plain-
tiffs in the case. Later that year, Judge Sarah
T. Hughes ordered Carrollton to integrate its
high school. In fall 1963, Mrs. Rainwater
watched as Nancy and other teenagers be-
came the first black students to attend all-
white R.L. Turner High School in Carrollton,
Texas. Annie Heads Rainwater lived until
1992. In 1994, the Carrollton-Farmers Branch
ISD recognized Annie for her bold persever-
ance against many odds by dedicating Annie
Heads Rainwater Elementary in her honor.
Today, Annie Heads Rainwater’s son, Rev.
Willie Rainwater, continues to carry the torch
for justice and freedom through his work at
Christ Community Connection. Willie and his
wife, Juanita, work diligently to provide schol-
arships to underprivileged students in
Carrollton-Farmers Branch ISD. Additionally,
Willie and Juanita started the Martin Luther
King, Jr. parade that celebrated its 25th anni-
versary last month.
Madam Speaker, I ask all of my colleagues
to join me in honoring the Rainwater Family
for their significant contributions to the
Carrollton, Texas community.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. LOIS FRANKEL
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 28, 2019
Ms. FRANKEL. Madam Speaker, on roll call
votes 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, and 95, I was not
present because I was unavoidably detained.
Had I been present, I would have voted
‘‘YEA,’’ ‘‘YEA,’’ ‘‘YEA,’’ ‘‘YEA,’’ ‘‘YEA,’’ and
‘‘YEA’’ respectively.
f
PASSING OF MRS. FANNIE MAE
EVANS CORBETT AND IN REC-
OGNITION OF HER MANY CON-
TRIBUTIONS TO EASTERN NORTH
CAROLINA
HON. G.K. BUTTERFIELD
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 28, 2019
Mr. BUTTERFIELD. Madam Speaker, I rise
in memory of a great woman and legend with-
in the Wilson, North Carolina community, Mrs.
Fannie Mae Evans Corbett. Mrs. Corbett
passed away on Tuesday, February 19, 2019.
She was 86 years old.
Born in Pitt County, North Carolina on May
23, 1932, Mrs. Corbett was the fourth of five
children born to Bessie Evans and Sylvester
Powell. Mrs. Corbett learned the meaning of
hard work at a young age, spending much of
her developmental years working in the cotton
and tobacco fields. In 1955, Mrs. Corbett
moved to Wilson, North Carolina, where she
married and raised her family. After becoming
a single mother of four children, Mrs. Corbett
set out to improve her economic outlook by re-
turning to school to earn her high school di-
ploma and an associate’s degree from Wilson
Community Technical Institute.
Mrs. Corbett’s influence in Wilson was
transformational. In 1968, Mrs. Corbett be-
came one of the key founders of the Wilson
Community Improvement Association (WCIA).
Mrs. Corbett led WCIA’s growth from a local
grassroots organization to a proactive move-
ment that was a model for community devel-
opment corporations across the country. Mrs.
Corbett’s indelible contributions to Wilson in-
clude coordinating voter registration drives
across East Wilson and engaging the youth in
educational and recreational programs. In
1973, under Mrs. Corbett’s leadership, WCIA
established the Wilson Senior Citizen Center,
which was the first nutritional feeding program
in Wilson County.
While championing the value of homeowner-
ship, Mrs. Corbett advocated for programs that
would make owning a home an attainable goal
even to those with modest means. In 1991,
WCIA received a $1.2 million grant from the
Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment (HUD) to build 68 homes for low- and
moderate-income people. Over 200 families
applied for residency in the subdivision,
Adventura East. After purchasing more land,
WCIA completed an additional 30 units.
Today, the Adventura East I & II subdivision is
home to 148 families. In 1993, with WCIA’s af-
fordable housing momentum building, the or-
ganization acquired Sunset Terrace, a 104-
unit housing complex. Two years later, WCIA
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:17 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A28FE8.015 E28FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E232 February 28, 2019
successfully purchased and restored Beacon
Pointe Apartments in Wilson. In 1997, WCIA
restored and renovated Mercy Hospital, which
was built in 1913 as one of three African
American hospitals in North Carolina.
Mrs. Corbett’s service to her community has
received national and international recognition
and awards, including the prestigious Nancy
Susan Reynolds award, the Citizen Award for
Outstanding Service to Citizens of Wilson, and
the Pioneering Award for Exemplary Service in
Community Economic Development. Mrs.
Corbett has also been featured in several pub-
lications and books, including ‘‘To Right These
Wrongs’’ and ‘‘Greater Freedom.’’
Mrs. Corbett leaves to cherish her memory,
four children, Barbara Claudette Blackston of
Wilson, North Carolina; Christopher Evans of
Apex, North Carolina; Donald Ray Evans of
Portsmouth, Virginia; and Alvin Quintin Corbett
of Eastampton, New Jersey; and a host of rel-
atives, friends, and loved ones.
Madam Speaker, as a devoted mother,
friend, and public servant, Mrs. Fannie Mae
Evans Corbett’s passing will surely be felt by
all whose lives she touched. She will forever
be missed, but never forgotten in the City of
Wilson and across the State of North Carolina.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. DARREN SOTO
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 28, 2019
Mr. SOTO. Madam Speaker, I had a family
health emergency that required my personal
attention at home and returned to Florida on
February 28, 2019. This family health emer-
gency resulted in me missing votes on H.R.
1112—Enhanced Background Checks Act.
Had I been present, I would have voted YES
on the Schneider, Jackson Lee Amendment,
YES on the Van Drew Cunningham Amend-
ment, NO on the Motion to Recommit H.R.
1112, and YES on final passage of H.R. 1112.
f
RECOGNIZING THE MEMORIAL TO
THE 1913 ITALIAN HALL DISASTER
HON. JACK BERGMAN
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 28, 2019
Mr. BERGMAN. Madam Speaker, it’s my
honor to recognize the dedication of the me-
morial to the Italian Hall disaster of 1913.
Through their work to make this monument a
reality, the village of Calumet and the Italian
Hall Memorial Park Committee have ensured
that the disaster and its victims are forever re-
membered by the people of Michigan.
For over 100 years, the area now known as
Calumet was the heart of Copper Country, at-
tracting thousands of Americans and immi-
grants from around the world, and producing
more mineral wealth than the California Gold
Rush. In response to long work days, low
wages, and harsh work conditions, the
Keweenaw chapters of the Western Federa-
tion of Miners voted to strike on July 23, 1913.
The strike would last nine months—and
though unsuccessful in achieving its goals in
the short term, it marked a turning point for
Copper Country and the rights of the miners
that called it home.
On Christmas Eve, 1913, hundreds of strik-
ing miners and their families gathered to cele-
brate the holiday on the second floor of Cal-
umet’s Italian Hall. However, a panic broke out
after someone falsely shouted ‘‘fire’’ in the
crowded hall. In the ensuing rush to escape
the building, seventy-three people, including
fifty-nine children, were killed. One hundred
and six years later, the village of Calumet
dedicated a new four-ton granite monument
inscribed with the names of those lost in the
Italian Hall disaster. The site of the Hall now
serves as a place for quiet reflection and re-
membrance of tragedy as well as the history
of the Upper Peninsula.
Madam Speaker, the Italian Hall disaster re-
mains fixed in the memories of Michiganders
more than one hundred years later. On behalf
of my constituents, I would like to thank the
Italian Hall Memorial Park Committee and the
village of Calumet for their work to ensure that
the tragedy and the lives lost there are never
forgotten.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. LOIS FRANKEL
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 28, 2019
Ms. FRANKEL. Madam Speaker, on roll call
vote 96, 97, 98, and 99, I was not present be-
cause I was unavoidably detained. Had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘NAY,’’ ‘‘YEA,’’
‘‘NAY,’’ and ‘‘YEA.’’
f
OBSERVING THE 27TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE KHOJALY MAS-
SACRE
HON. STEVE CHABOT
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 28, 2019
Mr. CHABOT. Madam Speaker, I rise in ob-
servance of the victims of the Khojaly Mas-
sacre, a barbarous atrocity committed against
innocent Azerbaijani civilians. Tuesday, Feb-
ruary 26, marked the 27th anniversary of this
bloody episode.
The story is all too tragic. Khojaly, in the re-
gion of Nagorno-Karabakh, was surrounded by
Armenian and Soviet troops in the fall of 1991.
After bombarding the city these troops at-
tacked on the night of February 25 and 26,
killing 600 innocent Azerbaijanis, including el-
derly people, women, and children. Hundreds
more were left severely disabled from the at-
tacks. Over fifty people were killed with wan-
ton brutality, many children lost parents, and
eight whole families were wiped out.
Human Rights Watch described these at-
tacks as a ‘‘massacre’’ and in a 1992 report
stated that the attacks by Armenian and So-
viet forces, ‘‘deliberately disregarded [the] cus-
tomary law restraint on attacks.’’ This mas-
sacre remains the darkest chapter in the Azer-
baijan-Armenian conflict.
Unfortunately, the dispute over Nagorno
Karabakh is still ongoing, despite the United
States and the international community not
recognizing the independent rule of the region
and supporting a negotiated settlement. I call
on all parties involved to find a peaceful reso-
lution to this decades old conflict.
I encourage my colleagues to join with me
and the Azerbaijani people as they remember
this tragedy.
f
IN MEMORY OF JUDGE KEVIN P.
MCMAHON
HON. JOE COURTNEY
OF CONNECTICUT
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 28, 2019
Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Speaker, I rise
with great sadness to honor the life of Con-
necticut Superior Court Judge Kevin P. McMa-
hon of Niantic, Connecticut who died too
young at the age of 68 on February 18, 2019.
Madam Speaker, when news of Kevin’s
passing became known all across the state,
there was an enormous outflowing of tributes
and praise for the man described as ‘‘The
People’s Judge’’ for his amazing service in the
criminal courts for over twenty-five years. He
presided over big cases and small cases with
great skill, displaying a warm and caring per-
sonality that balanced courtesy and adherence
to the law with compassion for all who ap-
peared before him. He had a sharp, delightful
sense of humor and the court staff in every re-
gion he sat were professionally loyal to him
because he treated them all with kindness and
respect. He believed strongly in sharing his
knowledge with his colleagues on the bench.
He was an instructor at the Connecticut
Judges’ Institute and fellow judges often
sought his advice on cases. Kevin was the
president, and lone member, of the Black
Point Judges Association, a position he was
honored to hold. His knowledge of the law, his
sense of humor, and, most importantly, his
sense of fairness governed his decisions and
made him a great judge.
Kevin was the past president of the New
London/Washington County Providence Col-
lege Alumni Club. He mentored students from
Providence College, many of whom shadowed
him during his time on the bench. The college
honored him by presenting him with the Faith-
ful Friar Award, and he was a season ticket
holder for Providence College Basketball for
many years.
Kevin spent summers at Black Point Beach
at his family’s summer home. Eventually, Patti
and he became year-round residents. He was
a member of the Black Point Association for
many years. Kevin loved being a part of the
beach community and over the years skillfully
captained an array of powerboats. He was an
avid reader and a serious student of history.
Kevin was a sports enthusiast, as a loyal fan
of the New York Giants, the Boston Red Sox,
Boston Celtics and had great admiration for
Tom Brady.
Kevin was also a devoted husband to the
love of his life Patti McMahon and they had
many happy years together at Black Point
Beach which they made their permanent
home. Patti is a highly skilled paralegal who
worked for one of the premier law firms in
Hartford—Riscassi and Davis—and their
shared experience in the legal profession
made them the perfect couple.
Mr. Speaker, I had known Kevin for many
years when we were interns at the Hartford
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:17 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A28FE8.019 E28FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E233
February 28, 2019
Superior Criminal Court back in the 1970s. I
knew from the first day we met that he was a
special person whose sharp mind, quick wit,
and infectious sense of humor stood out im-
mediately. He was born to be a judge and it
was wonderful to watch someone find the per-
fect spot on the bench to express his talents
to the fullest.
Mr. Speaker we live in a time when cheap
politics and cynical journalism constantly seek
to delegitimize the importance of a strong, re-
spected, independent judiciary. Kevin
McMahon’s life and record are the best rebut-
tal to this corrosive, dangerous trend. All who
came in contact with him could believe in the
honesty and goodness of our judicial system
by observing the grace and integrity of his
service. His example will be one for the ages.
Colleagues, please join me in expressing
the condolences of the chamber for his friends
and family—particularly his beloved wife Patti.
f
TRIBUTE TO HARVEY SCALES
HON. GWEN MOORE
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 28, 2019
Ms. MOORE. Madam Speaker, I rise to ex-
press my deepest condolences to Mrs.
Rochella Scales and her family on the loss of
Milwaukee’s ‘‘Godfather of Soul’’, Harvey
Scales. Harvey was born in Osceola, Arkan-
sas, on September 27, 1941, and passed
away on February 11, 2019. He was a loving
husband, father, grandfather, brother, relative
and friend to many here in Milwaukee and
around the world.
Harvey’s family moved to Milwaukee when
he was a young child where his father found
work at American Motors. He attended both
Roosevelt Junior High and North Division High
Schools. For over 60 years, Harvey Scales
has entertained us all beginning as a teen with
doo wop bands in the 50’s with such re-
nowned Milwaukee contemporaries as the late
Al Jarreau until he ultimately formed the band,
Harvey Scales and the Seven Sounds in
1961. Harvey Scales and the Seven Sounds’
first gig was at the Wisconsin State Fair. Har-
vey was able to perform in places in Mil-
waukee and Wisconsin where African Ameri-
cans were not allowed and sought to break
barriers through his music by playing at
venues that drew an integrated crowd.
He was signed at various record labels over
the years including the legendary soul labels
of Chess and Stax. Harvey was signed by Ca-
sablanca Records after co-writing the plat-
inum-selling song ‘‘Disco Lady’’ in 1976 for
Johnny Taylor. In fact, it would be the biggest
hit of Taylor’s career, and the first song cer-
tified as platinum by the Recording Industry
Association of America. Casablanca Records
released Harvey’s albums ‘‘Confidential Affair’’
in 1978 and ‘‘Hot Foot: A Funque Dizco
Opera’’ in 1979.
Harvey proved himself to be more than an
entertainer; he was also a person who en-
deavored to unite everyone through the love
of music. He was both a social and a fun per-
son to be around; he had friends throughout
the industry including MC Hammer and the
late Aretha Franklin to name but a few. Har-
vey continued to perform well into his 70s; in
fact, one of his last shows was at Summerfest
in 2017. The songs he wrote would be later
sampled and recorded by a new generation of
musicians including the Beastie Boys and
Pete Rock.
Harvey leaves family and friends to cherish
his memory including his wife Rochella
Scales; Children: Tonya Stoudermire, David
Vela, Daniel Vela, Dorothea Felder, Theresa
Sheppard, Rodney Sheppard, Cornell Scales,
Eric Scales, Harvey Scales, Jr., Jewel Henry,
Kim Brown, Michael Brown, Rochelle Brown,
Michelle Brown, and Bobby Brown; 40 grand-
children and a host of other relatives.
Harvey Scales, my friend and fellow Blue
Devil will be greatly missed because of the
positive impact he left on the lives of so many.
While his death leaves a huge void, he will be
remembered for his lifetime as a music artist
who continues to inspire future generations.
The legacy of his music continues with his
son, Harvey Scales, Jr., rapper JR Scalez who
collaborated with his father, as well as, the
many musicians who continue to both perform
and record his music.
Madam Speaker, Harvey Scales has posi-
tively impacted the 4th Congressional District,
the State of Wisconsin and the world. As fam-
ily and friends gather to remember and cele-
brate the life of this loving and remarkable
man; I applaud him and his legacy.
f
CONDOLENCES IN LOVING MEM-
ORY OF CHARLES NUNZIO
DELPIZZO
HON. MARCIA L. FUDGE
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 28, 2019
Ms. FUDGE. Madam Speaker, Charles
Nunzio DelPizzo was one whose life and serv-
ice enriched us and whose passing continues
to leave a void in the community. He is sorely
missed.
Mr. DelPizzo’s service in the United States
Army demonstrated his devotion to our nation.
We will be forever indebted to him and all the
brave men and women who have put their
lives on the line for our beloved country. It
gives me great pleasure to give him one final
salute.
Mr. DelPizzo modeled a life of love, sus-
taining a 63-year marriage to Palma Antonia
Santoro DelPizzo.
The pleasure of having known Charles
DelPizzo is carried in the hearts and minds of
his family and friends. Mr. DelPizzo’s memory
is forever cherished by his daughter Paula;
Son-in-law Andrew; Grandchildren Angela,
Melissa, and Andrew; great grandchildren An-
thony, Talia, and Larissa; and all who knew
and loved him.
I hope Paula continues to take comfort in
the memories she has made with her beloved
father. A person that departs from this earth
never truly leaves, for they are still alive in our
hearts and minds; through us, they live on.
May she continue to find solace in the mem-
ory of Charles DelPizzo’s love and the cele-
bration of his life.
On behalf of the constituents of Ohio’s Elev-
enth Congressional District, I extend sincere
condolences. May God bless and keep the
family.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:17 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A28FE8.024 E28FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D200
Thursday, February 28, 2019
Daily Digest
HIGHLIGHTS
Senate confirmed the nomination of Andrew Wheeler, of Virginia, to be
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S1555–S1607
Measures Introduced: Forty-seven bills and twelve
resolutions were introduced, as follows: S. 592–638,
S.J. Res. 9–11, S. Res. 85–91, and S. Con. Res. 6–7.
Pages S1593–95
Measures Passed:
Lindsborg, Kansas 150th Anniversary: Com-
mittee on the Judiciary was discharged from further
consideration of S. Res. 43, honoring the 150th an-
niversary of the establishment of Lindsborg, Kansas,
and the resolution was then agreed to. Page S1606
Joint Committees on Printing and the Library:
Senate agreed to S. Res. 86, providing for members
on the part of the Senate of the Joint Committee on
Printing and the Joint Committee of Congress on
the Library. Page S1606
Printing of Committee Rules: Senate agreed to S.
Res. 87, authorizing the printing of a collection of
the rules of the committees of the Senate. Page S1606
Read Across America Day: Senate agreed to S.
Res. 88, designating March 1, 2019, as ‘‘Read
Across America Day’’. Page S1606
Honoring the Memory of the Victims of the Au-
rora, Illinois Mass Shooting: Senate agreed to S.
Res. 89, expressing the condolences of the Senate
and honoring the memory of the victims of the mass
shooting in Aurora, Illinois, on February 15, 2019.
Page S1606
Rare Disease Day: Senate agreed to S. Res. 90,
designating February 28, 2019, as ‘‘Rare Disease
Day’’. Page S1606
George Herbert Walker Bush Commemorative
Document: Senate agreed to S. Con. Res. 6, author-
izing the printing of a commemorative document in
memory of the late President of the United States,
George Herbert Walker Bush. Page S1605
Pocket Version of the Constitution of the United
States: Senate agreed to S. Con. Res. 7, authorizing
the printing of the 26th edition of the pocket
version of the Constitution of the United States.
Page S1605
House Messages:
Pesticide Registration Improvement Extension
Act: Senate concurred in the amendment of the
House of Representatives to S. 483, to enact into
law a bill by reference. Page S1606
Rushing Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Allison Jones Rush-
ing, of North Carolina, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Fourth Circuit. Page S1570
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, and pursuant to the unanimous-consent
agreement of Thursday, February 28, 2019, a vote
on cloture will occur at 5:30 p.m. on Monday,
March 4, 2019. Page S1570
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S1570
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that at approximately 3 p.m., on Monday,
March 4, 2019, Senate resume consideration of the
nomination; and that notwithstanding the provisions
of Rule XXII, the cloture motions filed during the
session of Thursday, February 28, 2019 ripen at 5:30
p.m., on Monday, March 4, 2019. Page S1570
Readler Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Chad A. Readler, of
Ohio, to be United States Circuit Judge for the
Sixth Circuit. Pages S1570–71
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:50 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 5627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D28FE9.REC D28FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D201
February 28, 2019
of the nomination of Allison Jones Rushing, of
North Carolina, to be United States Circuit Judge
for the Fourth Circuit. Page S1571
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S1570
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S1570
Murphy Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Eric E. Murphy, of
Ohio, to be United States Circuit Judge for the
Sixth Circuit. Page S1571
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Chad A. Readler, of Ohio, to
be United States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit.
Page S1571
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S1571
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S1571
Fleming Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of John Fleming, of
Louisiana, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for
Economic Development. Page S1571
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Eric E. Murphy, of Ohio, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit.
Page S1571
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S1571
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S1571
Nominations Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nominations:
By 52 yeas to 47 nays (Vote No. EX. 33), An-
drew Wheeler, of Virginia, to be Administrator of
the Environmental Protection Agency. Pages S1555-68
John L. Ryder, of Tennessee, to be a Member of
the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Au-
thority for a term expiring May 18, 2021.
Pages S1568–69
3 Air Force nominations in the rank of general.
1 Army nomination in the rank of general.
22 Navy nominations in the rank of admiral.
Routine lists in the Air Force, Army, Marine
Corps, and Navy. Pages S1582–83, S1606–07
Messages from the House: Page S1590
Measures Read the First Time:
Pages S1590, S1605–06
Executive Communications: Pages S1591–92
Executive Reports of Committees: Pages S1592–93
Additional Cosponsors: Page S1595
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S1595–S1605
Additional Statements: Page S1590
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S1605
Privileges of the Floor: Page S1605
Record Votes: One record vote was taken today.
(Total—33) Page S1568
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 6:17 p.m., until 3 p.m. on Monday,
March 4, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S1606.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
AGRICULTURE IMPROVEMENT ACT
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry: Com-
mittee concluded a hearing to examine imple-
menting the Agriculture Improvement Act, after re-
ceiving testimony from Sonny Perdue, Secretary of
Agriculture.
OPIOID EPIDEMIC IN AMERICA
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Depart-
ments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and
Education, and Related Agencies concluded a hear-
ing to examine addressing the opioid epidemic in
America, focusing on prevention, treatment, and re-
covery at the state and local level, after receiving tes-
timony from Mark Stringer, Missouri Department of
Mental Health Director, Jefferson City; Beth
Tanzman, Department of Vermont Health Access
Blueprint for Health Executive Director, Waterbury;
Karen Cropsey, University of Alabama, Birmingham;
Charissa Fotinos, Health Care Authority, Olympia,
Washington; James Berry, West Virginia University,
Morgantown; and Daisy Pierce, Navigating Recov-
ery, Laconia, New Hampshire.
NUCLEAR POLICY AND POSTURE
Committee on Armed Services: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine nuclear policy and posture, after
receiving testimony from Madelyn R. Creedon,
former Principal Deputy Administrator, National
Nuclear Security Administration; Franklin C. Miller,
former Special Assistant to the President of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:50 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 5627 Sfmt 5627 E:\CR\FM\D28FE9.REC D28FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D202 February 28, 2019
United States, and former Senior Director for De-
fense Policy and Arms Control, National Security
Council Staff; and General C. Robert Kehler, USAF
(Ret.), former Commander, United States Strategic
Command, Department of Defense.
CAPITAL FORMATION AND CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine legisla-
tive proposals on capital formation and corporate
governance, after receiving testimony from Catherine
Mott, BlueTree Capital, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania;
Thomas Quaadman, U.S. Chamber of Commerce
Center for Capital Markets Competitiveness, Staten
Island, New York; and Heather Slavkin Corzo,
AFL–CIO, Bethesda, Maryland.
GLOBAL ENERGY MARKETS
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Committee
concluded a hearing to examine prospects for global
energy markets, focusing on the role of the United
States and perspectives from the International Energy
Agency, after receiving testimony from Fatih Birol,
International Energy Agency, Paris, France.
CHINA’S IMPACT ON U.S. EDUCATION
SYSTEM
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs: Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations
concluded a hearing to examine China’s impact on
the United States education system, including obser-
vations on Confucius Institutes in the United States
and U.S. universities in China, after receiving testi-
mony from Jason Bair, Acting Director, Inter-
national Affairs and Trade, Government Account-
ability Office; Walter Douglas, Deputy Assistant
Secretary, Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs,
and Jennifer Zimdahl Galt, Principal Deputy Assist-
ant Secretary, Bureau of Educational and Cultural
Affairs, both of the Department of State; and Gen-
eral Mitchell M. Zais, USA (Ret.), Deputy Secretary
of Education.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on the Judiciary: Committee ordered favor-
ably reported the nominations of Neomi J. Rao, to
be United States Circuit Judge for the District of
Columbia Circuit, Aditya Bamzai, of Virginia, and
Travis LeBlanc, of Maryland, both to be a Member
of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board,
and Drew H. Wrigley, to be United States Attorney
for the District of North Dakota, Department of Jus-
tice.
BUSINESS MEETING
Select Committee on Intelligence: Committee ordered fa-
vorably reported the nomination of William R.
Evanina, of Pennsylvania, to be Director of the Na-
tional Counterintelligence and Security Center, Of-
fice of the Director of National Intelligence.
INTELLIGENCE
Select Committee on Intelligence: Committee met in
closed session to receive a briefing on certain intel-
ligence matters from officials of the intelligence
community.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 64 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 1417–1480; and 12 resolutions, H.
Con. Res. 23; and H. Res. 157–167, were intro-
duced. Pages H2311–15
Additional Cosponsors: Page H2317
Reports Filed: There were no reports filed today.
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Judy Chu (CA) to act as
Speaker pro tempore for today. Page H2275
Journal: The House agreed to the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal by voice vote. Pages H2275, H2293
Enhanced Background Checks Act of 2019: The
House passed H.R. 1112, to amend chapter 44 of
title 18, United States Code, to strengthen the back-
ground check procedures to be followed before a
Federal firearms licensee may transfer a firearm to a
person who is not such a licensee, by a yea-and-nay
vote of 228 yeas to 198 nays, Roll No. 103.
Pages H2277–93
Rejected the Lesko motion to recommit the bill
to the Committee on the Judiciary with instructions
to report the same back to the House forthwith with
an amendment, by a yea-and-nay vote of 194 yeas to
232 yeas, Roll No. 102. Pages H2291–93
Pursuant to the Rule, an amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules
Committee Print 116–6 shall be considered as
adopted in the House and in the Committee of the
Whole, in lieu of the amendment in the nature of
a substitute recommended by the Committee on the
Judiciary now printed in the bill. Page H2284
Agreed to:
Levin (MI) amendment (No. 3 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–14) that requires GAO to submit
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:50 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 5627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D28FE9.REC D28FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D203
February 28, 2019
a report to the Committee on the Judiciary, US Sen-
ate, and the Committee on the Judiciary, House of
Representatives analyzing the extent to which the
new Section 922(t)(1)(B)(ii) of title 18, United States
Code, added by the bill prevents firearms from being
transferred to prohibited persons; Page H2287
Schneider amendment (No. 2 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–14) that requires the FBI to report on
the number of petitions it was not able to make a
determination on within the 10-day period (by a re-
corded vote of 282 ayes to 144 noes, Roll No. 100);
Pages H2285–87, H2289–90
Van Drew amendment (No. 5 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–14) that allows an FFL who has
contacted NICS, and who was not notified that the
transfer is legally permissible within 3 business days
of the initial date of contact, to rely on information
provided by NICS respecting a transfer for 25 days
after the transfer becomes legally permissible (by a
recorded vote of 234 ayes to 193 noes, Roll No.
101); and Pages H2288–89, H2290–91
Porter amendment (No. 4 printed in part B of H.
Rept. 116–14) that requires a report analyzing the
impact of this Act on the safety of victims of domes-
tic violence, domestic abuse, dating partner violence,
sexual assault, and stalking. Pages H2287–88
Withdrawn:
Rice (SC) amendment (No. 1 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–14) that was offered and subsequently
withdrawn that would have granted NICS examiners
access to the National Data Exchange (N-DEx) when
reviewing firearm transfers. Pages H2284–85
H. Res. 145, the rule providing for consideration
of the bills (H.R. 8) and (H.R. 1112) was agreed to
Tuesday, February 26th.
Meeting Hour: Agreed by unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it adjourn to meet
at 11:30 a.m. on Monday, March 4th and further,
when it adjourns on that day, it adjourn to meet at
12 noon on Tuesday, March 5th for Morning Hour
debate. Page H2310
Quorum Calls—Votes: Two recorded votes and two
yea-and-nay votes developed during the proceedings
of today and appear on pages H2289–90,
H2290–91, H2292–93, and H2293. There were no
quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 9 a.m. and ad-
journed at 1:37 p.m.
Committee Meetings
FEMALE VETERANS ACCESS TO VA
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Mili-
tary Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related
Agencies held a hearing entitled ‘‘Female Veterans
Access to VA’’. Testimony was heard from public
witnesses.
WE’LL ALWAYS HAVE PARIS: FILLING THE
LEADERSHIP VOID CAUSED BY FEDERAL
INACTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Environment and Climate Change held a hearing en-
titled ‘‘We’ll Always Have Paris: Filling the Leader-
ship Void Caused by Federal Inaction on Climate
Change’’. Testimony was heard from public wit-
nesses.
THE NATIONAL EMERGENCIES ACT OF 1976
Committee on the Judiciary: Subcommittee on Constitu-
tion, Civil Rights and Civil Liberties hearing enti-
tled ‘‘The National Emergencies Act of 1976’’. Tes-
timony was heard from public witnesses.
EFFECTS OF VACANCIES AT THE MERIT
SYSTEMS PROTECTION BOARD
Committee on Oversight and Reform: Subcommittee on
Government Operations held a hearing entitled ‘‘Ef-
fects of Vacancies at the Merit Systems Protection
Board’’. Testimony was heard from Valerie Brannon,
Legislative Attorney, Congressional Research Service,
Library of Congress; Mark Robbins, Acting Chair-
man, Merit Systems Protection Board; and public
witnesses.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR MONDAY,
MARCH 4, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Foreign Relations: to receive a closed brief-
ing on the status of the global Magnitsky investigation
related to the Khashoggi murder, 5 p.m., SVC–217.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:50 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 5627 Sfmt 5627 E:\CR\FM\D28FE9.REC D28FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D204 February 28, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
3 p.m., Monday, March 4
Senate Chamber
Program for Monday: Senate will resume consideration
of the nomination of Allison Jones Rushing, of North
Carolina, to be United States Circuit Judge for the
Fourth Circuit, and vote on the motion to invoke cloture
thereon at 5:30 p.m.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
11:30 a.m., Monday, March 4
House Chamber
Program for Monday: House will meet in Pro Forma
session at 11:30 a.m.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Bergman, Jack, Mich., E232
Butterfield, G.K., N.C., E231
Chabot, Steve, Ohio, E232
Correa, J. Luis, Calif., E230
Courtney, Joe, Conn., E232
Eshoo, Anna G., Calif., E227
Foster, Bill, Ill., E228
Frankel, Lois, Fla., E231, E232
Fudge, Marcia L., Ohio, E233
Garamendi, John, Calif., E229
Gianforte, Greg, Mont., E227
Griffith, H. Morgan, Va., E227, E228
Hern, Kevin, Okla., E230
Johnson, Eddie Bernice, Tex., E227, E228, E230
Kaptur, Marcy, Ohio, E230
Marchant, Kenny, Tex., E231
Moore, Gwen, Wisc., E233
Nadler, Jerrold, N.Y., E229
Pingree, Chellie, Me., E228
Ryan, Tim, Ohio, E227
Sewell, Terri A., Ala., E229
Soto, Darren, Fla., E232
Swalwell, Eric, Calif., E228
Tonko, Paul, N.Y., E231
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:50 Mar 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D28FE9.REC D28FEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
